20-05-2021||Business||Central Board of Direct Taxes extends ITR filing deadline till 30 September||Individual income taxpayers will now have time till September 30 to file their return for financial year 2020-21 (assessment year 2021-22) against the earlier deadline of July 31. A few other extensions were also announced by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Thursday in view of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The due date for filing the tax audit reports and transfer pricing certificates has been extended by a month till October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the due date is now January 31. Also, the deadline for issuing Form 16 by employers to employees has been extended by a month till July 15. Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of Direct Taxes Professionals Association (DTPA), welcomed the extensions even as he feels that the new deadlines need to be revisited. “For taxpayers, whose entire income tax liability is not discharged by TDS and advance tax and such shortfall is more than Rs 1 lakh, they should try to file their ITR within the original due date to avoid the charge of interest under Section 234A,” Shailesh Kumar, partner at Nangia & Co LLP, said. In a related development, taxpayers will not be able to avail e-filing services on the income tax portal between June 1 and June 6, as a new e-filing system is to be introduced on June 7 and the week prior to it will be used for migrating data from the legacy system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 338 points to close below 50,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 338 points on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid weak global cues. Slipping below the 50,000 mark, the 30-share BSE index ended 337.78 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 49,564.86. The broader NSE Nifty declined 124.10 points or 0.83 per cent to 14,906.05. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, M&M, IndusInd Bank, Titan, L&T and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities corrected for second consecutive day as selling pressure in financials, FMCG and metals dragged Nifty below 15,000 levels. "Further, weak global cues led by increasing apprehensions among investors post release of FOMC meeting minutes also weighed on sentiments, he stated. Metal stocks witnessed heavy selling pressure after China's move to curb commodity prices in the country, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Nikkei was in the positive terrain. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.15 per cent higher at USD 66.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Sensex opens over 150 points higher, turns red amid weak global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in opening trade on Thursday, but soon turned red tracking losses in index majors Axis Bank, TCS and Bajaj Finance amid negative global cues. The 30-share BSE index was trading 53.09 points or 0.11 per cent lower at 49,849.55, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 48.45 points or 0.32 per cent to 14,981.70. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, L&T, Asian Paints and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 290.69 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 49,902.64, and Nifty fell 77.95 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 15,030.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 697.75 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be flat for the day, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to him, a visible decline in daily caseload has offered comfort to investors, which indicates that earlier assumption of daily caseload in second wave peaking-out by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond 1QFY22. "Investors will continue to focus on the trajectory of daily caseload and vaccination ramp-up in the country in the near term," he said. In the US, equities corrected for the third consecutive day as the release of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) minutes showed debate emerging within the Federal Reserve over rising inflation. While FOMC had voted unanimously to maintain accommodative policy in April, minutes showed that some members were open at the possibility of discussion around when to taper USD 120 billion monthly bond buying, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Nikkei was trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.15 per cent higher at USD 66.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||China curbs crypto trading||China has banned financial institutions and payment companies from providing services related to cryptocurrency transactions, and warned investors against speculative crypto trading. It was China’s latest attempt to clamp down on what was a burgeoning digital trading market. Under the ban, such institutions, including banks and online payments channels, must not offer clients any service involving crypto currency, such as registration, trading, clearing and settlement, three industry bodies said in a joint statement on Tuesday. The RBI had done much the same in 2018 but its directive to banks was shot down by the Supreme Court last year. Since then, banks have stopped facilitating transactions between crypto exchanges and their customers with tacit approval from the RBI. The Centre must now decide whether to ban crypto trades altogether — a step that it has been mulling over for a very long time. No bar on individuals China has banned crypto exchanges and initial coin offerings but has not barred individuals from holding them. “Recently, crypto currency prices have skyrocketed and plummeted, and speculative trading of cryptocurrency has rebounded, seriously infringing on the safety of people’s property and disrupting the normal economic and financial order,” the industry bodies said. The institutions must not provide saving, trust or pledging services of cryptocurrency, nor issue financial product related to it, the statement also said. In 2017, China shut down its local cryptocurrency exchanges, smothering a speculative market that had accounted for 90 per cent of global bitcoin trading. In June 2019, the People’s Bank of China issued a statement saying it would block access to all domestic and foreign cryptocurrency exchanges and Initial Coin Offering websites, aiming to clamp down on all cryptocurrency trading with a ban on foreign exchanges. Bitcoin falls under $40,000 Bitcoin tumbled below the $40,000-mark on Wednesday to a 3-1/2 month low as selling in digital coins intensified after China’s ban. Bitcoin, the biggest and best-known cryptocurrency, had already been under pressure from a series of tweets from Tesla boss Elon Musk, but the news from China sent it as low as $36,250, a 15 per cent drop in the trading session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Govt orders WhatsApp to withdraw its controversial new privacy policy||The government has ordered WhatsApp to withdraw its controversial new privacy policy, saying the changes undermine the sacrosanct values of privacy, data security and harm rights and interests of Indian citizens. The ministry of electronics and IT shot off a letter to WhatsApp on May 18 on the issue, sources said and warned that necessary steps in accordance with law will be taken if a satisfactory response was not received within seven days. The ministry has taken a strong position on the matter, and made it clear that it is not just problematic but also “irresponsible” for the messaging platform to leverage its position to impose “unfair” terms and conditions on Indian users, when many depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life, according to the sources. A WhatsApp spokesperson said the company continues to engage with the government. “Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will have, to message a business on WhatsApp, in the future.” “No accounts were deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India lost functionality of WhatsApp either. “... we reaffirm what we said before that this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone... we’ll take every opportunity to explain how we protect people’s personal messages and private information,” the spokesperson added. In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the interests of Indian citizens, the government will consider various options available to it under the laws in India, the sources at the ministry said. Raj Ramachandran, partner at J Sagar Associates, said: “It remains to be seen how the directive will be responded to within the prescribed timeline, given the diametrically opposite position being taken by both sides on the revised policy and its compliance with applicable laws.” “The option apparently given to users in other jurisdictions to opt out of the revised policy will also need to be explained,” Ramachandran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||YouTube announces changes in its terms of services||Video sharing platform YouTube has announced changes in its terms of services, which confer the company the right to monetise all content on its platform by placing advertisements along its videos from channels that are not covered by its partner programme. From June onwards, content created by those who have not enrolled for the YouTube partner programme will also run advertisements curated by YouTube. The creators/uploaders will not earn any revenue from these promotions. Any individual who has more than 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 valid public watch hours in the last 12 months can participate in YouTube Partner Programme. “You grant YouTube the right to monetise your content on the service (and such monetisation may include displaying ads on or within content or charging users a fee for access). This agreement does not entitle you to any payments. Starting June 1, 2021, any payments you may be entitled to receive from YouTube under any other agreement between you and YouTube (including for example payments under YouTube Partner Programme, Channel memberships or Super Chat) will be treated as royalties. If required by law, Google will withhold taxes from such payments,” said the updated terms of service. This was already in effect in the US from November last year and will now be extended across other geographies effective from June. According to industry observers, the change in terms of service is motivated by the fast growing revenue channels from YouTube advertisements. For the March quarter of 2021, Alphabet, Google’s parent, earned a revenue of $6 billion from YouTube advertising, posting a year on year growth of 49 per cent. Google said that several global brands such as Calvin Klein, Taco Bell, Kellogg’s benefited from expanding their reach to a wider audience through YouTube. Philipp Schindler, senior vice president and chief business officer, Google explained to the analysts on what is driving such growth. “Historical approaches to reaching audiences through, lets just say, call it, linear TV don’t really work any more. Advertisers are using YouTube now to reach the audiences they can’t find anywhere else. And remember, more 18-to-49-year-olds are actually watching YouTube than all linear TV combined. And brands are also seeing more incremental reach on YouTube compared to TV,” said Schindler. YouTube's reach, industry observers said, cannot be overlooked by content creators. According to official figures, over 2 billion logged in users visit YouTube every month and every day people watch over a billion hours of video on the platform. The number of channels with more than one million subscribers has seen a year on year growth of more than 65 per cent and over past five years, the aggregate payout to partners who have monetised their content is over USD 2 billion. “Today there are two models in place – either the subscriber pays or the advertiser pays. It is inevitable that all platforms will follow one or the other and viewers and content creators have to accept that,” said a media and entertainment industry analyst requesting anonymity. Concerns Users of YouTube have expressed their concern on the updated terms of service on social platforms suggesting that this will make it difficult for small scale content creators unable to monetise their content, without reaching a certain scale. Users have also questioned the timing of the changes amid the Covid pandemic. Legal experts expressed concern over the lack of effective options for users of internet based services in the country on account of no law on data privacy law and inefficient implementation of IT Act. “There are gaps in legislation. Efforts are needed to address them,” said cybercrime and privacy lawyer Prashant Mali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Govt increases DAP fertilisers subsidy by 140 per cent||The government on Wednesday decided to increase the subsidy for di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilisers to Rs 1,200 per bag from Rs 500, an increase of 140 per cent. The move will increase the fertiliser subsidy outlay for the current financial year by Rs 14,775 crore to Rs 94,305 crore from a budgeted outlay of Rs 79,530 crore. “The price of fertilisers is increasing due to the rising prices of phosphoric acid, ammonia etc internationally. The PM stressed that farmers should get fertilisers at the old rates despite the international rise in prices,” a statement said after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the prices of fertilisers. “Thus, despite the rise in international market prices of DAP, it has been decided to continue selling it at the older price of Rs 1,200 and the central government has decided to bear all the burden of the price hike,” it said. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag on which the Centre was giving a subsidy of Rs 500 per bag. So the companies sold the fertilisers to farmers for Rs 1,200 per bag. Recently, the global prices of phosphoric acid and ammonia  used in DAP have risen up to 70 per cent. So, the actual price of a DAP bag is now Rs 2,400, which could be sold by fertiliser companies at Rs 1,900 after considering a subsidy of Rs 500. After Wednesday’s decision, farmers will continue to get a DAP bag for Rs 1,200. For the current fiscal, subsidies for P&K fertilisers have been kept unchanged. P&K fertilisers are decontrolled products. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers and the government gives them fixed subsidies each year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Suraksha, NBCC put in fresh bids for Jaypee||State-owned NBCC and the Suraksha group, which are in the fray to acquire Jaypee Infratech  through an insolvency resolution process, have submitted their revised bids and have also clarified issues raised by the financial creditors. The companies have also improved their offers, which were submitted to the committee of creditors on Tuesday. Construction firm NBCC submitted its bid just before midnight while Mumbai-based realty firm Suraksha submitted its resolution plan on Tuesday afternoon, sources said. A meeting of the CoC will be held on May 20 to discuss inter-alia the final resolution plan(s). The bids have been submitted by the parties under the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP). The sources said NBCC has offered an additional 200 acres, especially for assenting creditors, apart from the Yamuna Expressway road project that connects Noida and Agra in Uttar Pradesh. In the fourth round of bidding, Surakasha group has proposed to give 2,651 acres to lenders. Suraksha has earmarked 1,486 acres to dissenting lenders out of the total land parcels offered in the proposal. In the last meeting of the CoC held on Saturday, financial creditors, which include the representatives of lenders and homebuyers, discussed the two companies’ earlier bids and sought various clarifications. Whilevthe  Suraksha group will keep Yamuna Expressway with itself, NBCC will transfer over 80 per cent of stake in the road projects to banks and financial institutions.  Suraksha group has offered to complete pending works of around 20,000 housing units in 42 months. It has proposed a line of credit of Rs 3,000 crore as working capital for construction of projects. It is estimated that around Rs 6,000 crore will be required to complete all the stalled projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Adani Green Energy Ltd to acquire entire stake in SB Energy India||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) will acquire the entire stake in SB Energy India for $3.5 billion (Rs 25,500 crore) from SoftBank (SBG) and the Bharti group. The transaction marks the largest acquisition in the renewable energy sector in India. SB Energy India has a total renewable portfolio of 4,954 MW spread across four states. The transaction gives SB Energy an enterprise valuation of around $3.5 billion. The acquisition is expected to be completed by August this year. The company posted revenues of Rs 1,015 crore for the period ended March 31, 2021. AEGL said the acquisition will enable it to achieve the targeted renewable portfolio of 25 GW four years ahead of the expected timeline. The target portfolio consists of large scale utility assets with 84 per cent solar capacity (4,180MW), 9 per cent wind-solar hybrid capacity (450MW) and 7 per cent wind capacity (324MW). There is a 1,400MW operational solar power capacity and a further 3,554MW is under construction. All projects have 25-year power purchase agreements (PPAs) with sovereign rated counter-parties such as Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), NTPC and NHPC. “The renewable energy platform that we are building will lay the foundation for attracting several other global industries that are increasingly looking to reduce their carbon footprint,” said Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group. Shares of AEGL rose 3.78 per cent or Rs 45.35 to close at Rs 1,244.30 on the BSE following the announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||TCS CEO took home a pay package of Rs 20.36 crore in 2020-21||Tata Consultancy Services CEO and MD Rajesh Gopinathan took home a pay package of about Rs 20.36 crore in 2020-21, according to the company’s annual report. In 2019-20, Gopinathan had received a total remuneration of Rs 13.3 crore. According to TCS’ annual report for 2020-21, Gopinathan received Rs 1.27 crore in salary, Rs 2.09 crore in benefits, perquisites and allowances, and Rs 17 crore in commission. TCS chief operating officer N. Ganapathy Subramaniam drew a pay package of about Rs 16.1 crore in the last financial year. This includes Rs 1.21 crore in salary, Rs 1.88 crore in benefits, perquisites and allowances, and Rs 13 crore in commission. The increase in the managerial remuneration for the year was 55.22 per cent, the report said. “Increase in the managerial remuneration for FY2021 is not comparable with FY2020 owing to decrease in remuneration of 15 per cent in FY2020 in view of the economic conditions impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic wherein the directors had decided to moderate the executive remuneration for FY2020 to express solidarity and conserve resources,” it added. The average annual increase in salaries was 5.2 per cent in India. However, during the course of the year, the total increase is approximately 6.4 per cent, after accounting for promotions and other event-based compensation revisions. Employees outside India received a raise varying from 2-6 6 per cent, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Indian Oil Corporation net profit zooms to Rs 8,781.30 crore in March quarter||The net profit of the country’s biggest oil firm, Indian Oil Corporation, zoomed to Rs 8,781.30 crore in the March quarter compared with a loss of Rs 5,185.32 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago backed by an increase in refining margins as higher crude prices boosted the inventory value. A company reports inventory gains when raw material (crude) prices rise by the time oil is processed into fuel. Losses are booked when the reverse happens. Brent crude prices jumped about 23 per cent during the March quarter. IOC earned $10.6 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel compared with a negative gross refining margin (GRM), or loss, of $9.64 per barrel a year ago, IOC chairman S. M. Vaidya said in a conference call with reporters. Without the inventory gain, GRM for the January-March quarter stood at $2.51 per barrel. Vaidya said the company earned a record net profit of Rs 21,836 crore in the financial year ended March 31, 2021. The second wave of coronavirus infections has disrupted fuel demand but not to the extent seen in April-June last year, he said. “Demand hasn’t dropped to that extent,” he said, referring to the fuel demand falling by 49 per cent in April last year and by a fifth in the next month when the country was under a complete and stringent lockdown. This year, there is no nationwide lockdown and states have imposed less stringent curbs to check the spread of Covid-19. “Demand destruction is very much there but not to that extent,” he said adding petrol and diesel sales have fallen 15-20 per cent while jet fuel demand continues to be half of the pre-Covid levels. The fall in demand has prompted companies to reduce the refinery output. IOC ran its refineries at 49 per cent capacity in April last year and at 67 per cent in the following month before hitting a 90 per cent run-rate in June 2020. The average run for April-June was 69 per cent of the capacity and the throughput had hit 94 per cent in January-March this year. In April, it was 96.1 per cent and it is 84 per cent in May so far, he said. “We hope it continues at this level for some time,” the chairman said, adding, “It is difficult to state when demand will return to the normal levels.” IOC’s board of directors at its meeting held on Wednesday declared a final dividend of Rs 1.50 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||NCLT directs Dewan Housing Finance Ltd creditors to consider Kapil Wadhawan bid||The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal has directed the creditors of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd to consider the bid made by its disgraced owner Kapil Wadhawan, which they had cast aside in January when they decided to back the Ajay Piramal group's debt resolution offer. The development adds an interesting twist in the wrangle over the troubled mortgage financier that has been weighed down by outstanding debt of well over Rs 91,000 crore. Wadhawan, who is currently in jail on money laundering charges, had stirred controversy with a last-minute offer to pay the entire principal amount due to all creditors including the non-convertible debenture (NCD) and fixed deposit holders. He had argued that the Piramal offer of Rs 34,250 crore grossly undervalued DFHL and would entail considerable haircuts for all the creditors. The tribunal has asked the administrator of DHFL, R. Subramaniakumar, to convene a meeting of the committee of creditors (CoC) within the next 10 days and place Wadhawan’s plan before it. The matter will be heard again on May 31. However, it is learnt that the creditors may approach the appellate tribunal to challenge the NCLT order. The provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) have been designed to keep wilful defaulters and owners accused of financial shenanigans out of the bidding process. Any move to bring the Wadhawans back into DHFL could set the stage for other dispossessed owners to claw back control of their bankrupt companies. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had referred DHFL to the NCLT in November 2019 for insolvency proceedings. DHFL became the first finance company to be referred to the tribunal by the central bank using its special powers under Section 227 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Earlier, the DHFL board was superseded and Subramaniakumar appointed administrator. The bidding process for DHFL began in October 2020 and ended in December. The committee of creditors approved the resolution plan of Piramal Capital and Housing Finance with 94 per cent votes against a minimum of 66 per cent. The Piramal group will pay Rs 34,250 crore, which includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and deferred component through non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of Rs 19,550 crore. Piramal has received the approval of the RBI and the Competition Commission of India — though the NCLT is yet to approve the proposal. Wadhawan had moved the NCLT last year and had asked the tribunal to direct the administrator and the CoC to consider the financial package given by the former management of DHFL which he said was in line with the RBI’s circular. Wadhwan has offered to repay 100 per cent principal amount to all the creditors. He has proposed to make an upfront payment of Rs 9,000 crore and the rest of the sum in a staggered manner. In his proposal, he also offered to service Rs 31,000 crore debt in seven years at 8.5 per cent per annum. He said he would repay another Rs 12,000 crore within a period of seven years at 11.5 per cent per annum, following a one-year moratorium. DHFL will pay Rs 18,000 crore in five years at 11 per cent per annum, following a five-year moratorium. A sum of Rs 5,000 crore will be converted to equity, while Rs 16,158 crore will be converted into zero coupon bonds. In a previous plan, he had proposed to repay the lenders by selling assets. However, the lenders had rejected the offer citing lack of credibility and the valuations on assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
