21-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 976 points as financial stocks pump market mood||Equity benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 976 points on Friday, led by gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and SBI as steady earnings reported by key financial stocks lifted investor sentiment. The 30-share BSE index ended 975.62 points or 1.97 per cent higher at 50,540.48, and the broader NSE Nifty soared 269.25 points or 1.81 per cent to 15,175.30. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by SBI which zoomed after the lender posted robust quarterly earnings. The country's largest lender reported an 80 per cent surge in standalone net profit at Rs 6.450.75 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021, aided by decline in bad loans. IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC were also among the gainers. On the other hand, PowerGrid and Dr Reddy's were the laggards. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities recovered sharply mainly led by strong rebound in financials. "Steady earnings reported by BFSIs including SBI and emerging clarity about asset quality in the backdrop of receding daily caseload in second wave aided financials to rebound. Barring pharma, buying momentum was seen across all sectors," he said. Further, assumption of second wave of COVID-19 to peak by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond Q1 FY22, he noted, adding that a visible decline in daily caseload has offered comfort to investors. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Tokyo and Hong Kong closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.84 per cent higher at USD 65.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||RBI to transfer Rs 99,122 crores to Centre as surplus||The Reserve Bank on Friday approved the transfer of Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31. The decision to transfer the surplus to the central government was taken at the meeting of the Central Board of Directors of RBI. The meeting was held through video conferencing. The RBI Board, according to a release, also reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and recent policy measures taken by the Reserve Bank to mitigate the adverse impact of the second wave of COVID-19 on the economy. With the change in the Reserve Bank's accounting year to April-March (earlier July-June), the Board discussed the working of the RBI during the transition period of nine months (July 2020-March 2021). During the meeting, the board, headed by Governor Shaktikanta Das, "approved the Annual Report and accounts of the Reserve Bank for the transition period. "The Board also approved the transfer of Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31, 2021 (July 2020-March 2021), while deciding to maintain the Contingency Risk Buffer at 5.50 per cent." Deputy governors Mahesh Kumar Jain, Michael Debabrata Patra, M Rajeshwar Rao, T Rabi Sankar attended the meeting. Other directors of the Central Board, N Chandrasekaran, Satish K Marathe, S Gurumurthy, Revathy Iyer and Sachin Chaturvedi also attended the meeting. Debasish Panda Secretary, Department of Financial Services and Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs too attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in opening trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank, despite a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 408.56 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 49,973.42, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.35 points or 0.80 per cent to 15,025.40. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, PowerGrid was the sole loser. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 49,564.86, down 337.78 points or 0.68 per cent, and Nifty closed 124.10 points or 0.83 per cent lower at 14,906.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 71.04 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that benchmark indices witnessed sharp run-up this week despite selling pressure seen in the last two days as daily caseload in the second wave of COVID-19 continued to be below 3 lakh, which offered comfort and may result in lifting of ongoing state-level lockdowns sooner. Further, assumption of second wave of COVID-19 to peak-out by the end of May or mid of June holds true and the adverse impact of the second wave should not be felt beyond 1QFY22, he noted. In the US, stocks ended higher mainly on upbeat economic data, Modi said, adding that jobless benefit claims for last week fell to a pandemic low at 4.44 lakh. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Nikkei was trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 65.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||Covid: Court seeks information from companies on CSR spending||A court in the country has for the first time stepped into the raging debate over the extreme shortage of Covid-related supplies by seeking information from companies about how much money out of their CSR corpus they have spent to tide over the crisis. The Nagpur bench of the Mumbai high court on Wednesday entered a “motion on its own” to buttress two PIL applications seeking information from private and public sector companies on the amount of CSR funds spent on Covid equipment and supplies in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. The court expressed its dismay that the companies have been extremely tardy in providing the information in response to the PIL requests. “This court has already made an attempt to get detailed information about the availability of CSR funds with different private sector companies operating in Vidarbha region... But, the response that this court has received so far from different companies is not encouraging,’’ the division bench of Justice Sunil B. Shukre and Justice Avinash G. Gharote said. The court said the response of the private sector companies has been inadequate. While PSUs have been more forthcoming, some such as NTPC and Maharashtra State Power Generation Company have not provided the information. The court has now directed the divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati to gather the information from the companies in their respective areas. The commissioners have been told to make a request to the companies for the release of CSR funds which may be available upon such verification. The whole exercise must be done before the next date of hearing, the court said. Mucormycosis The court also expressed concern about the rising cases of mucormycosis — a Covid-related fungal disease, dubbed by some doctors as “a pandemic within a pandemic’’. It said there were about 26 companies in the country which make the drugs to treat mucormycosis. The Centre must regulate their production and distribution so that there was no shortage, while the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority should look into its pricing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Usha Martin Ltd posts Rs 67.68 crore net profit in fourth quarter||Steel wire and wire rope maker Usha Martin Ltd has posted a profit of Rs 67.68 crore in the fourth quarter, riding on the commodity boom. The company had earned a meagre Rs 0.9 crore profit on a consolidated basis in the same period of the previous year. Total income rose to Rs 660.48 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 531.39 crore a year ago. Profit for the entire year on a consolidated basis stood at Rs 151.5 crore compared with Rs 421.08 crore in 2019-20. In the last financial year, Usha Martin booked a profit of Rs 483.22 crore on account of the sale of its steel business to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd. Total income in 2020-21 stood at Rs 2,130.59 crore compared with Rs 2,207.17 crore in 2019-20. The company management said that UML would aim to deleverage the balance sheet and seek to achieve a debt-free status by the end of the next financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 5.25 crore penalty on Cairn India||Sebi has imposed a penalty of Rs 5.25 crore on Cairn India for making a misleading announcement regarding the buyback of shares in 2014. The market regulator has also levied a fine of Rs 15 lakh each on P. Elango, who was the CEO and director of Cairn, Aman Mehta, then a director on the company’s board, and Neerja Sharma, who was director (risk assurance) and company secretary. Sebi said the three officials had signed the public advertisement regarding the buyback in January 2014 and facilitated the company in making the misleading announcement. After a detailed investigation, Sebi found that Cairn did not place adequate buy orders despite the availability of adequate sell orders on the  NSE. It further noted that Cairn was not able to fulfil at least 50 per cent of the buyback issue, although the conditions were favourable to the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Bosch Group plans to invest euro 1 billion in fuel-cell technology||Bosch Group, a global supplier of technology and services, plans to invest euro 1 billion in fuel-cell technology from 2021 to 2024. Fuel cells convert hydrogen into electricity, and Bosch is developing both stationary and mobile fuel-cell solutions. The company will make an upfront investment of 5 billion euros in electromobility with an euro 700 million investment in 2021 alone. In India, Bosch has made significant investments in electrification and local solution development in three broad categories, said Guruprasad Mudlapur, chief technology officer, Bosch. “We are developing battery systems and electric mobility solutions in the lower voltage category of 48 volts for two and three-wheelers. Bosch is a leading player in the high voltage segment of passenger cars and for trucks and buses, Bosch is investing in electrification as well as hydrogen and fuel cell technology,” said Mudlapur. “While we have successfully managed the transition from BS-IV to BS-VI, next challenge will be transitioning to TREM 4 and 5, adoption of CAFE norms phase 2 and BS VI stage 2,” said Soumitra Bhattacharya, managing director, Bosch Ltd, and president of Bosch India. Despite 2020-21 being challenging with a sales wipeout for two months, the company posted a total revenue from operations of Rs 9,718 crore   — only a marginal decline of 1.3 per cent compared with the previous fiscal. Profit before tax of the company before exceptional items declined 19.9 per cent to Rs 1,311 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Government notifies rules pertaining to amended insurance laws||The government has notified the rules pertaining to amended insurance laws that seek to raise foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from the current 49 per cent. The rules have linked higher investments to higher solvency margin — which is the excess of value of assets and liabilities of an insurer — while resident Indian citizens should comprise the majority in the board. Analysts said the ownership and control issue could act as a stumbling block before global insurers to increase their stakes as they would not have the management control in the firm despite putting in the money. An insurer with foreign investment exceeding 49 per cent and which pays dividends must have solvency margin at 1.2 times the control level of solvency, which is set by the regulator as the desired solvency margin. Otherwise at least 50 per cent of the insurer’s net profit must be kept in the general reserve. Besides, not less than 50 per cent of the directors shall be independent directors. If the the chairperson is an independent director, at least one-third of the board can be independent directors. The rules say majority of directors, key management persons and at least one among the chairperson of the board, managing director and chief executive must be a resident Indian. An insurer with more than 49 per cent FDI will have a year to meet these requirements under the Indian Insurance Companies (Foreign Investment) (Amendment) Rules, 2021. Total foreign investment would mean the sum of both direct and indirect foreign investment. Direct investment by a foreigner will be called foreign direct investment, while investment by an Indian company (which is owned or controlled by foreigners) into another Indian entity is considered as indirect foreign investment. “While the rules would open up the sector, foreign insurance firms would be cautious in picking up or increasing stakes due to ownership and management control issues. However, global financial investors would still find it lucrative to invest, given the low penetration and growth prospects,” Atul Pandey, partner, Khaitan & Co LLP, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||US taper talk sends first frisson through local bond and stock markets||Taper talk in the US has sent the first frisson through the local bond and stock markets but none of the market mavens are prepared to stick their necks out and term it a potential bloodbath event that investors need to brace for — if and when that wind-down occurs. On Wednesday, the Federal Open Markets Commission (FOMC) put out the minutes of its April monetary policy review that signalled the US central bank could reconsider its $120 billion bond purchase programme in upcoming meetings. ‘‘A number of participants suggested that if the economy continued to make rapid progress toward the Committee’s goals, it might be appropriate at some point in upcoming meetings to begin discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases,” according to the minutes. The hawkish tone in the FOMC minutes brought back memories of the reactionary panic in 2013 after then Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke first hinted in May that year of a possible pull back from the Fed’s bond buying spree, precipitating the now famous temper tantrum. On Thursday, the domestic markets did not react with great alarm: the Sensex fell 338 points with the stumble attributed to “weak global cues”, principally the 165-point fall in the Dow Jones Industrial Average the previous day. The rupee — badly roiled in the temper tantrum of 2013 — did not react to the FOMC minutes at all, and in fact gained 6 paise to close at 73.12 against the dollar, continuing its month-long appreciation against the greenback. But some experts were closely watching the situation. “The Fed minutes signalled a slowdown in bond buying at some point, marking a shift in policy in the future, which will have an implication on emerging markets,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. The Federal Reserve has been purchasing $80 billion in US treasuries and $40 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities every month until substantial further progress has been made toward its ‘maximum employment and price stability goals’. In late August 2013, the rupee plunged a record 256 basis points, going into a free fall after foreign investors dumped over $1 billion of Indian shares in eight frenzied trading sessions. Several experts feel that India is better placed today with foreign exchange reserves of $589 billion. Moreover, it has a manageable current account deficit now; the latest data shows it at $1.74 billion at the end of December 2020 against the massive $87.8 billion in August 2013. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India is expected to persist with its accommodative policy at its next three-day review meeting scheduled to begin on June 2. The central bank has maintained a liquidity surplus since June 2019 which is currently hovering above Rs 7 lakh crore. G-SAP tamps yields The RBI on Thursday offered to purchase Rs 35,000 crore of bonds as part of the second round of G-Sec Acquisition Programme or G-SAP 1.0 under which it proposes to buy Rs 1 lakh crore of government paper in the first quarter from the open markets. The RBI received bids for Rs 1,21,696 crore against the notified amount of Rs 35,000 crore. The cut off-yield for the benchmark 10-year security — one of the papers for which the RBI bid onThursday — was 5.95 per cent that led to the 5.85 per cent 2030 bond settling lower at 5.96 per cent in the bond market. The RBI is committed to driving down the 10-year bond yield below 6 per cent and smoothening the yield spread between different maturities with the ulterior aim of reducing the costs of government borrowing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
