22-05-2021||Business||Extended lockdowns hit economic activity across states: SBI research wing||The research wing of the State Bank of India on Friday said that the extended lockdowns and restrictions across states have hit economic activity. The impact is more visible in May, it added. The Business Activity Index of SBI has dipped to 62.6 as on May 17 from 104.6 on March 15. “The current level is a 51-week low with 58.7 last registered in the week ended May 25, 2020. However, with the sequential removal of restrictions expected from June, we believe the destruction to overall activity in Q1 will be lower than what was witnessed last year. Furthermore, inoculation, which is slow at present, is expected to pick up pace from July,” said SBI Research in its latest Ecowrap report. The report added that it would be better for the states to import vaccines through global tenders than suffer a revenue loss through lockdowns. The prices of vaccines are in the range of $5 to $40. With the rupee-dollar exchange rate at Rs 73 and the Centre giving 50 per cent of the vaccines to the states, the aggregate estimated expenditure of the states would be in the range of Rs 46,210 crore to Rs 3,69,710 crore. This is less than the aggregate loss of revenue at Rs 5,51,510 crore because of the restrictions. For Bengal, the study estimates the vaccination cost at Rs 28,580 crore at the highest price of $40 per dose versus the state’s estimated revenue loss at Rs 37,770 crore — a difference of Rs 9,190 crore. “The total vaccination cost of Rs 3.7 lakh crore is much lower than revenue loss of Rs 5.5 lakh crore assuming the lockdown for most states end by June. Also, the budgeted capital expenditure of Rs 8.8 lakh crore could see a significant rollback to balance the revenue loss, exacerbating the GDP loss,” the report said. It added that import of vaccines could potentially trigger a renewed interest of capital flows into the country as investors look through the benefit of mass vaccination. The report also suggested that the states and centre must chalk out a cold chain infrastructure system quickly while simultaneously targeting international vaccine manufacturers through advanced purchase agreements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
22-05-2021||Business||Firm ordered to return unused cryogenic oxygen tank||The Calcutta bench of the National Company Law Tribunal has asked for the immediate release of a cryogenic oxygen tank lying unused at a closed steel mill in Bengal, raising hope that more such idle containers may be made available to increase the supply of medical oxygen in the state. The tank, which has a capacity of 13,000 litre of liquid oxygen, can easily feed a 500-bed hospital. At present, it is on the premises of Ramsarup Industries Ltd in Kharagpur. Ramsarup is undergoing bankruptcy proceedings. After the court’s intervention, the owner of the tank is likely to take possession of the asset over the weekend and bring it to an unit at Uluberia to refurbish before sending it for hospital use. “...you return the tank. ... you have no reason to withhold it,” Justice Rajasekhar V.K. of the NCLT Calcutta bench remarked during the proceedings. A ‘compliance report’ ensuring transfer of the tank to Ellenbarrie has to be furnished on Monday when the judge will hear the case and is likely to pass an order. The advocate representing the gas company prayed that the bench also pass a general order which will ensure that oxygen tanks lying unused in steel mills facing bankruptcy should be released without the elaborate and time consuming process of going to court. Padam Agarwal, managing director of Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd, said the company has been taking assistance from courts, administration, health department to recover idle tanks. “Sometimes the customers are helpful and in some cases they are unwilling,” he said. Ellenbarrie, in which Air Water Group of Japan holds a 51 per cent stake, is a significant producer of oxygen in Bengal. The company has been able to recover four such idle tanks in recent times. It usually takes about 45 days to instal a tank, the kind which is being recovered, at a hospital site as the work requires construction as well as obtaining licences and approvals. Agarwal said tanks and cylinders are in short supply even though the administration is now proactive in giving out contracts. Advocate Rishav Banerjee, who appeared for Ellenbarrie, said the oxygen tanks supplied and installed by gas companies like Ellenbarrie in factories of different companies undergoing insolvency resolution or liquidation cannot form part of any resolution process or the liquidation estate under the insolvency and bankruptcy code. The oxygen tanks are third party properties whose ownership lies with the respective gas manufacturing companies, the advocate said. “Thus, at this crucial juncture the insolvency professionals should cooperate and hand over the oxygen tanks to the gas manufacturing company without intervention of the court so that such they can be installed in hospitals and institutions for supply of medical oxygen to treat Covid patients,” Banerjee added. Gas companies can only hope to take tanks which are unutilised. Even though industrial use of oxygen is prohibited by the Centre in the wake of heavy demand from the medical side, plucking out tanks from an operational plant is not feasible. According to the industry practice, gas facilities, tanks or oxygen generating plants, are usually owned by the gas companies even though they are installed at the factories of the customers who operate them for their exclusive use. While India’s cumulative production of medical oxygen is more than the demand, transportation of gas from factories to hospitals has remained a challenge. Corporate entities such as Tata Group and ITC have procured cryogenic tanks from abroad to meet the sudden surge. The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the country’s health infrastructure and thousands of people are dying because of shortage of oxygen. The Centre has invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and also issued a notification that oxygen will only be supplied for medical purposes, stopping supply to the industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
22-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India Q4 profit jumps 80 per cent on higher interest income, lower provisioning||State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday topped Street estimates as it reported an 80.15 per cent rise in net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 following a drop in provisions even as its core income showed a good growth. The country’s largest lender posted a net profit of Rs 6,451 crore against Rs 3,581 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the bank to post a net profit of around Rs 6,000 crore during the period. The growth in the bank’s bottomline was supported by an almost 19 per cent rise in the net interest income (NII) to Rs 27,067 crore from Rs 22,767 crore in the year-ago period. Another positive element was the improvement in the bank’s asset quality. The gross NPA ratio fell to 4.98 per cent from 6.15 per cent and net NPA stood at 1.15 per cent against 2.23 per cent a year ago. In absolute terms, the gross bad loans came down to Rs 1,26,389.02 crore from Rs 1,49,091.85 crore in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. The bank’s loan loss provision declined 16.64 per cent to Rs 9,914 crore from Rs 11,894 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. SBI chairman Dinesh Khara told reporters that while there could be some stress on account of the second wave of Covid-19, the bank did not see any major asset quality problems so far. SBI said that during the period, domestic credit growth stood at 5.67 per cent over the same period last year, mainly driven by retail advances which grew 16.47 per cent.  SME lending rose 4.24 per cent, while agricultural advances were up 3.92 per cent. According to the bank, its loan book has grown 6.53 per cent over the year-ago period, including the growth in corporate bonds or commercial paper of Rs 51,811 crore. In the retail segment, home loans showed a growth of 10.51 per cent over the previous year. The board has recommended a dividend of Rs 4 per share for the financial year ended March 2021. The total payout will be Rs 3,569 crore. SBI shares ended with gains of 4.30 per cent to close at Rs 401.10 on the BSE on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Sebi doubles overseas investment limit of AIF, venture funds to $1.5 billion||Sebi on Friday doubled the overseas investment limit of alternative investment funds and venture capital funds to $1.5 billion. The decision has been taken in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, Sebi said in a circular. At present, Sebi-registered alternative investment funds (AIF) or venture capital funds (VCF) are permitted to invest overseas, subject to an overall limit of $750 million. “The said limit has now been enhanced to $1,500 million,” Sebi said. Under the rules, AIFs and VCFs need to mandatorily disclose the utilisation of overseas investment limits within five working days of such use on the market regulator’s intermediary portal. In case an AIF or venture capital fund (VCF) has not utilised the overseas limit granted them within six months from Sebi’s approval, the same needs to be reported within two working days after expiry of the validity period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||US Treasury Department backs 15 per cent corporate tax||The US Treasury Department has said it supports a global minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15 per cent — below the minimum 21 per cent it has been seeking to impose on the foreign profits of US-based companies. The offer comes as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Group of 20 major economies seek an agreement on a minimum corporate tax rate. It is part of an effort to end what the Treasury calls “a race to the bottom” as countries compete with each other to cut corporate tax rates and lure multinational companies. The OECD estimates that governments lose up to $240 billion a year to companies that shift earnings among countries to lower their tax bills. Competition to cut corporate tax rates has been “undermining the United States’ and other countries’ ability to raise the revenue needed to make critical investments,” the Treasury said in a statement, adding that its proposal had been received positively by other countries. Treasury emphasised that the proposed 15 per cent is a floor and said that “discussions should continue to be ambitious and push that rate higher”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel plans rights issue to raise Rs 19,000 crore||JSW Steel plans to launch a rights issue to raise Rs 5,000 crore and another Rs 14,000 crore in the form of debt and equity-linked issues. Taking advantage of the runway rally in the stock prices which followed an unprecedented  margin for the producers of the alloy, the Sajjan Jindal-led company will seek shareholders’ approval to issue non-convertible debentures with warrants convertible into shares and qualified institutional placements, apart from the rights issue. The JSW scrip has risen 310.95 per cent in one year, gaining as much as 76.4 per cent in the last three months alone, preparing the ground for a share flotation. The stock closed at Rs 698.20 on Friday, up Rs 3.7 a share. The fund raise is expected to lend support to JSW’s aggressive expansion plans and bold acquisitions it recently concluded. The company said it would spend Rs 15,000 crore over the next three years to put up an additional capacity of 5 million tonnes. Once completed, Vijaynagar in Karnataka would become the largest single-site steel mill in India with 17mt capacity. JSW has also earmarked Rs 3,450 crore to enhance mining capabilities and efficiencies in Odisha where it has won rights to four iron ore mines in auctions in February 2020. Own mines now contribute 42 per cent of JSW’s total requirement. While announcing the new capex plan, the company said the commission of the expanded capacity at Dolvi from 5 million tonnes (mt) to 10mt would be impacted by the ongoing Covid disruptions. JSW now expects full integrated operations by September 2021. It has guided 1.4mt of additional capacity in 2021-22. Overall, the company has guided for 22.94mt production and 21.63mt in sales in this fiscal after taking into account companies under joint control such as Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Second wave of Covid hits India’s oil import||The country’s crude import in April was almost flat at 18.26 million tonnes (mt) compared with last month as a lockdown in several states has hit demand. However, it rose 10.3 per cent on a year-on-year basis, Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) data showed. The year-on-year rise in imports could be attributed to the lower imports last year, when the country first went into a national lockdown. The data showed that oil products’ imports rose about 24.1 per cent to 3.50mt on an annual basis, but it was down 14.6 per cent from March, while exports slumped 35.8per cent. Diesel accounted for a major share of the 3.88 million tonnes of exports in April, at 1.86 million tonnes. However, they fell 39.4 per cent from the preceding month and were down 45.3 per cent year-on-year. Meanwhile, natural gas production jumped 22.7 per cent in April after Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc ramped up output from their eastern offshore KG-D6 block, government data released today showed. India produced 2.65 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas in April up from 2.16 bcm in the same month last year. ONGC’s production was flat at 1.72 bcm. The Delhi high court has put on hold state-run ONGC’s notice inviting a tender (NIT) and the consequent e-auction with regard to sale of natural gas from its block in the Krishna-Godavari (KG) basin in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said a prima facie case is made out in favour of the petitioners — two GMR group companies — and balance of convenience was also in their favour as finalisation of the bidding would cause irreparable loss to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Supreme Court rules to hold personal guarantor accountable for corporate debt||The Supreme Court has granted banks and other financial creditors the liberty to start recovery proceedings against the promoters of insolvent companies who had provided personal guarantees for loans to these entities. The decision — which upheld a notification issued on November  15, 2019 amending the IBC Code with the introduction of the relevant proviso — comes as a massive setback to Anil Ambani, Kapil Wadhawan and around 70 other promoters who now will have to brace for action from the lenders. A bench comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat held that the approval of the resolution plan under IBC does not discharge the personal guarantors of their liability towards the banks. In over a dozen cases, several industrialists stood personal guarantors for their own corporate entities for availing huge loans from public and private sector banks. But after the corporate entities turned insolvent, the personal guarantors pleaded they cannot be fastened the liability in the insolvency proceeding by the creditors before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It was their argument that their liability to pay the debt as personal guarantors for the corporate debtors stood extinguished once the insolvency and bankruptcy proceeding commenced before the NCLT. Moreover, it was argued that any recovery proceedings for the guarantee can at best be challenged before the debt recovery tribunal dealing with individuals and partnership firms. Hence, the industrialists-cum-personal guarantors challenged the notification of November 15, 2019, issued by the central government making them liable for the debt as being unconstitutional. There were multiplicity of petitions challenging the notifications in different high courts. The matter was transferred to the Supreme Court early this year for an authoritative pronouncement. Several top banks such as the SBI which had extended loans running into several thousands of crores had supported the central legislation and insisted that the personal guarantors ought to be saddled with the debt and had already initiated the process of revoking the guarantee. While dismissing the batch of petitions filed by the industrialists, the bench said: “It is held that approval of a resolution plan does not ipso facto discharge a personal guarantor (of a corporate debtor) of her or his liabilities under the contract of guarantee. “ “As held by this court, the release or discharge of a principal borrower from the debt owed by it to its creditor, by an involuntary process, i.e. by operation of law, or due to liquidation or insolvency proceeding, does not absolve the surety/guarantor of his or her liability, which arises out of an independent contract. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that the impugned notification is legal and valid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||RBI to transfer payout of Rs 99,122 crore to government||The Reserve Bank of India has announced that it will transfer Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the Centre for the nine months ended March 31, 2021. The central bank, which has followed a July-June accounting year, is transitioning to an April-March accounting year from this fiscal. The surplus is 73.5 per cent higher than the Rs 57,128 crore payout last year. But it works out to an increase of 131.34 per cent over a proportionate payout of Rs 42,846 crore in the nine-month period of the previous year. The RBI said the surplus amount was decided while holding its contingency risk buffer at 5.5 per cent. The amount being transferred is the highest since 2018-19 when the central bank transferred Rs 1.75 lakh crore which included a one-time payout on account of a change in the RBI’s economic capital framework, recommended by the Bimal Jalan panel. The short statement from the RBI after a virtual conference of the central board members provided no other income and expenditure figures, with the details expected in the central bank’s annual report for the year ended March 2021. Last year, the central bank had a consolidated income of Rs 1,49,672 crore and an expenditure of Rs 92,540 crore. The central bank transfers its surplus profits to the government of India in terms of the provisions of Section 47 of the RBI Act, 1934. “After making provisions for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets, contributions to staff and superannuation funds and for all matters for which provision is to be made by or under this Act or which are usually provided for by bankers, the balance of the profits shall be paid to the central government.’’ The RBI’s reserves consist of a contingency risks buffer (CRB) — which the Bimal Jalan committee said “realised equity” — and a notional fund or the currency and gold revaluation account (CGRA) which represents the unrealised revaluation gains arising from exchange rate movements and the rise in gold prices. The Jalan panel had recommended the RBI should not dip into CGRA and CRB should be between 5.5 and 6.5 per cent of the RBI’s balance sheet. The RBI’s earnings come from interest earned on bond holdings, purchase and sale of government securities and from its dealings in the forex market. Part of these earnings is set aside for its operational and contingency needs, while the rest is transferred to the government in the form of a dividend. Analysts said the RBI’s earnings may have gone up because of the large amount of open market operations that it conducted in the form of the purchase of government securities, increasing its interest earned from these securities. Ananth Narayan, professor at SPJIMR, said the payout was higher because of the gains booked against its forex transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
