23-05-2021||Business||Axis Bank awaits regulatory nod to reclassify 3 promoters as public shareholders||Axis Bank on Saturday said three entities classified as its promoters — United India Insurance Company, National Insurance Company and New India Assurance Company — will be re-classified as public category shareholders after the requisite regulatory approvals. This comes after the three non-life insurers made a request to re-classify themselves as public from promoter under the terms of Regulation 31A of Sebi (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Under the above rule, any person can be allowed to be reclassified as a promoter or public by the stock exchanges only upon receipt of an application from the listed entity and it should be done after the satisfaction of various conditions. For the period ended March 2021, the three non-life insurers held 0.74 per cent in Axis Bank. Axis Bank was recently in the news when the government raised Rs 4,000 crore by selling a part of its stake in the bank held through the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI). The Centre had announced that it will sell up to 5.80 crore shares, or a 1.95 per cent stake held through SUUTI in Axis Bank at a floor price of Rs 680 apiece. This includes a base issue size of 3.60 crore shares and a greenshoe option to sell more than 2.20 crore shares. For the period ended March 31, 2021, SUUTI’s holding in the private sector lender stood at a little over 10.31 crore shares or 3.45 per cent. Here, the private sector disclosed that it has identified the administrator of the SUUTI, Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), General Insurance Corporation, New India Assurance Company, National Insurance Company, United India Insurance Company, and Oriental Insurance Co Ltd as the promoters. Among them, the three entities had made a request for reclassification. “The board at its meetings held this year on February 27, March 26, and April 28 has considered and approved the said requests, subject to the approval of the stock exchanges, statutory/regulatory authorities and the shareholders of the bank, it said…The reclassification will be effective post receipt of the aforesaid approvals,” Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. In a discussion paper released recently, the market regulator had proposed to replace the concept of promoter or promoter group to “person in control” from promoter group. It said that there have been instances where shareholders or founders who have no control over a firm are continued to be classified as promoters. On Friday, shares of the lender closed at Rs 730.70.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Jaypee case: NBCC questions IRP's 'jurisdiction'; demands voting on its offer||Days after the rejection of its bid to buy Jaypee Infratech, state-owned NBCC has questioned the jurisdiction of the interim resolution professional in submitting that the offer was non-compliant with insolvency law and demanded that it should be put to vote. Asserting that the offer is compliant, NBCC in a letter to the interim resolution professional (IRP) also said the company is fully aware of its responsibilities to be compliant with the applicable law in its deeds and actions. On May 20, the committee of creditors (CoC) decided to put on vote only Suraksha Group’s bid for Jaypee Infratech. NBCC’s offer was rejected on the grounds that it was non-compliant with provisions related to treatment of dissenting financial creditors under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The voting on the Suraksha group’s offer is scheduled from May 24 to 27. Against this backdrop, NBCC has written a letter to Jaypee Infratech’s IRP Anuj Jain protesting the CoC decision and said it might approach appropriate forum of law for recourse if its bid was not considered. NBCC’s bid was rejected in the fourth round of bidding for Jaypee Infratech and the successful bidder has to complete around 20,000 apartments. The state-owned company has said the IRP exceeded his jurisdiction and also wrongly interpreted the laws. “... by declaring the NBCC plan as non-compliant, you have exceeded the jurisdiction beyond what is laid down by the Supreme Court,” NBCC said in the letter to the IRP. According to the company, the role of the IRP is merely to assist the CoC and not to decide whether the resolution plan does or does not contravene the provisions of law. Along with the letter, NBCC has submitted further clarifications through an addendum to address all the issues raised by representatives of banks and homebuyers as members of the CoC. Stating that it is a listed navratna company and holds high standards of corporate governance, NBCC said it is fully aware of its responsibilities to be compliant with applicable law in its deeds and actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Covid-19 second wave to delay auto sector recovery||The second wave of Covid-19 will push back recovery in the auto sector to pre-Covid peaks by five years. Bosch Ltd managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya, who was upbeat about a V-shaped recovery in the auto segment, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, now feels the industry will take another year to reach the four million sales volume of 2018-19. “We had earlier said that it would take from 2018-19 another four years to reach the same peak. However, tractor sales had reached their peak in three years itself. For passenger cars, the timeline was four years but it may take five years to achieve the pre-pandemic levels. Without the second wave, India had a chance to go near-about to the peak in certain segments. Now, we see another setback and whether it is one month or two months... we need to watch out,” said Bhattacharya The second wave of the pandemic is bound to affect the supply chain because of the local lockdowns. “There will be supply chain disruptions as original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) source their components from all over the country. As far as Bosch is concerned, all our units are running except for the one in Nasik where there is a complete lockdown,” said Bhattacharya. Shortage of chips, which is affecting most OEMs, is likely to continue through 2021, he added. Chip shortage is a global crisis and India cannot be delinked from that. Natural disasters like snow in the US and fire in a Japan factory are deepening the crisis, Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Sundaram Home Finance plans to raise Rs 2,500 crore for growth||Sundaram Home Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary of non-banking finance company Sundaram Finance Ltd, is planning to raise Rs 2,500 crore to fund its growth plans, the company said on Saturday. “The funds will be raised this year through a mix of debt instruments and bank funding,” a statement said. Sundaram Home Finance’s net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 stood at Rs 36.60 crore against a net profit of Rs 82 crore a year ago. However, in the corresponding quarter last year there was a one-time exceptional item of Rs 60 crore on account of write- back of deferred tax liability. “Hence, the net profit for the two periods are not comparable,” the statement said. Disbursements for the quarter under review grew to Rs 459.38 crore from Rs 389.60 crore a year ago. For the year ended March 31, 2021, the net profit was Rs 191 crore against Rs 218 crore for 2019-20. The total disbursements made were Rs 1,254.05 crore against Rs 2,112.09 crore a year ago. Sundaram Home Finance MD Lakshminarayanan Duraiswamy said, “While it was a gloomy start to 2020-21, marked by a lockdown in the first couple of months, the latter half of the year panned out well and we saw a gradual but certain recovery.” The real estate sector showed remarkable tenacity in 2020 against all odds, he said. “Over the five-month period between November 2020 and March 21, we saw demand getting back to pre-Covid levels. The fourth quarter was the silver lining  with return of customer confidence,” he said. “There will be a momentary halt in the upward trend... However, as the recovery of 2020 showed, the market is likely to emerge stronger.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
