24-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 111 points to close above 50k mark||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced 111 points on Monday, tracking gains in HDFC twins, SBI and L&T amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index climbed 111.42 points or 0.22 per cent to finish at 50,651.90. The broader NSE Nifty rose 22.40 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,197.70. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by L&T, ITC, Dr Reddy's, Axis Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement, Titan and Bajaj Finserv were among the losers. Domestic equities remained positive despite mixed global cues as persistent decline in daily caseload and improvement in recovery rate in second wave of COVID-19 continued to lift investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.81 per cent higher at USD 67.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, SBI and ICICI Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 310.72 points or 0.61 per cent higher at 50,851.20, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 71.90 points or 0.47 per cent to 15,247.20. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by SBI, L&T, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, IndusInd Bank and HUL were among the losers. In the previous session, Sensex soared 975.62 points or 1.97 per cent to finish at 50,540.48, and Nifty soared 269.25 points or 1.81 per cent to close at 15,175.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 510.16 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Markets finally ended a two-month-long consolidation phase and gained over 3 per cent last week. Signs of COVID cases peaking out combined with favourable global cues lifted sentiment, said Ajit Mishra, VP Research at Religare Broking. We expect volatility to remain high next week due to the scheduled derivatives expiry of May month contracts. Besides, participants will be closely eyeing the COVID-related updates as the reduction in the cases has raised hopes of gradual unlocking by the states, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.65 per cent higher at USD 66.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Renault-Nissan, employee union locked in a legal tussle over Covid-19 safety protocols||Renault-Nissan has told a court it needs to continue production at its car plant to meet orders, rejecting claims from an employee union that Covid-19 safety protocols were being ignored at the factory, legal filings show. Renault-Nissan India and workers at its plant in Tamil Nadu have been locked in a legal tussle after workers petitioned a court to halt operations because social distancing norms were being flouted and company-provided health benefits were outweighed by the risk to their lives. In response, Renault-Nissan has argued in a court filing — which is not public — that there was a “compelling need” to continue operations to fulfil domestic and export orders. It said all Covid-19 norms were being followed. The case will next be heard on Monday at the Chennai high court when the state government, which is also party to the case, is expected to file its response. A top Tamil Nadu state official told Reuters on Sunday automobile companies will be allowed to continue operations, but action will be taken against violations of social distancing protocols by any company. The legal battle highlights the challenges big companies are facing to keep operating in India amid heightened worries from employees who fear for their health and safety. "It is a question of life versus livelihood," M Moorthy, general secretary of Renault Nissan India workers union which represents all 3,500 permanent factory workers, told Reuters. "We just want social distancing protocols to be followed and the management to be responsible for any risks to the workers or their family members." The factory, which produces Nissan, Renault and Datsun cars, also employees 3,000 contract workers, 2,500 staff members and 700 apprentices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Sugar mills demand hike in MSP||Sugar mills are demanding a hike in the minimum selling price to enable them to clear the dues to the farmers which have touched a whopping Rs 23,000 crore. Rising output have caused ex-mill prices to fall to Rs 31-33 per kg, almost to the levels of the minimum selling price. The Indian Sugar Mills Association (Isma) said that their revenues were insufficient to clear the dues of the farmers. “The increase in MSP of sugar from Rs 31 per kilo, which was last fixed in February 2019, seems to be the only realistic way to ensure that mills improve their cash flows and are able to effectively reduce the cane price arrears of farmers faster,” Isma said. Cane arrears stood at Rs 22,900 crore till February of the 2020-21 marketing season (October-September), higher than Rs 19,200 crore in 2019-20, according to government data. “What an irony it is that those who speak of the market determining the prices of commodities are now demanding minimum price. But, when farmers seek MSP, their arguments are dismissed. The argument of the mills seems to be that consumers would have to bear the cost of cane arrears. The sweetener could turn sour if the government heeds to revising the minimum price,” agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said. The government, meanwhile, has cut the export subsidy to Rs 4,000 per tonne from Rs 6,000 per tonne in view of firm global prices. However, this comes at a time the mills have exported 95 per cent of the quota of 60 lakh tonnes quota set by the government. Hetal Gandhi, director, Crisil Research said “the subsidy cut of 32 per cent on sugar exports is not expected to have any change on export realisations as higher global prices and a weaker rupee are expected to offset the reduction in subsidy”. During the period October 2020-April 2021, global white sugar prices have risen sharply 18 per cent and the rupee weakened by 1.5 per cent year-on-year. “If the global prices continue to remain at current levels till the end of the season —  at $425-427 per tonne up to September 2021 — the government has a margin to cut export subsidies further by 17-18 per cent without having any effect on export realisations for sugar exporters,” Gandhi added. In May 2021, international prices have touched a 4-year high as the white sugar prices in London averaged $461.8 per tonnes and raw sugar prices in New York averaged US cent 17.4 per lb. Analysts said the firmness in international prices was expected to continue for the next 3-4 months unless output from the other major sugar producers come in for the next season 2021-22.The mills across the country have manufactured 30.36 million tonnes (mt) till May 15 of the ongoing 2020-21 marketing season, up 14.43 per cent from 26.53mt in the year-ago period. Production has surpassed Isma’s estimate of 30.2mt for the 2020-21 marketing season. In the last marketing season, the country’s sugar production stood at 27.42mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||WTO's TRIPS Council to discuss revised proposal of IPR waiver to deal with Covid-19||The TRIPS Council of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) will discuss a revised proposal submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia, seeking patent waivers to manufacture Covid-19-related medical products, an official said. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal suggesting a waiver for all World Trade Organisation (WTO) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. According to the revised proposal, the waiver should be in force for at least three years from the date of the decision on the matter. “The revised proposal will now be discussed in the TRIPS Council,” the official added. The revised text has proposed waiver for health products and technologies as the prevention, treatment or containment of Covid-19 which involves a range of things and “intellectual property issues may arise with respect to the products and technologies, their materials or components, as well as their methods and means of manufacture”. The co-sponsors have stressed that the proposed waiver is limited in scope to Covid-19 prevention, treatment and containment. “The international community is dealing with a novel pathogen, with many uncertainties. Investigation is still underway for effective therapeutics, and there are still many unknowns with respect to vaccines which will have a bearing on manufacturing and supply,” the submission has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Jaypee creditors' panel to discuss NBCC offer on Monday||The creditors’ panel of Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL) will meet on Monday morning to discuss submissions made by state-owned NBCC, a move that has been strongly objected to by the Suraksha group that also warned of legal recourse in case voting on its offer does not materialise as scheduled. The sudden meeting of the committee of creditors (CoC) was decided upon after NBCC shot off a strongly-worded letter to the interim resolution professional (IRP) Anuj Jain, questioning his jurisdiction in rejecting the company’s offer for the bankrupt JIL. The CoC had on May 20 decided to put to vote the offer made by the Suraksha group. According to sources, the CoC meeting has been scheduled from 10am till noon. Interestingly, the voting on the Suraksha group’s bid is to start from noon on May 24 (Monday) and close at 5pm on May 27. The sources said ratification and discussion on NBCC’s addendum dated May 22 to its resolution plan as well as the next steps in the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) are part of the agenda for the CoC meeting. The IRP took the decision to call the CoC meeting as five lenders — SBI, IIFCL, IDBI, UBI and LIC —  requested him to convene the meeting. In a regulatory filing on Sunday, Anuj Jain informed shareholders that a meeting of the CoC is scheduled on May 24. Suraksha group has strongly objected to the creditor panel’s meet to discuss the NBCC’s addendum to its final bid. ‘ ‘We wish to put on record strong objections to such actions to ratify and discuss the resolution plan of the other resolution applicant at this late stage,’’ Suraksha group said in a letter to the IRP and bankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel harnesses growth to financial discipline||When steel companies in India and abroad are aggressively reducing debt taking advantage of the global commodity boom, JSW Steel does not want to take its eye off growth, announcing fresh investment of Rs 25,115 crore in the next three years. JSW Steel’s joint MD and CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that JSW will be a 38-million-tonne company by 2024 but growth with responsibility will be its mantra. The big question before all: is the phenomenal rise in steel prices structural or speculative? There are some fundamental changes taking place. Governments across the world are giving stimulus and spending on long overdue infrastructure build. Second, China is consuming more internally and also reducing emissions. These fundamental changes are going to leave commodity demand strong in the future. How is the China factor playing out vis-a-vis world? The World Steel Association said global demand in 2020 was down by only 3 million tonnes (mt) to 1,772mt compared with much more gloomy projections. Demand in India dropped only by 6mt, much better than apprehended. Chinese demand was 995mt, growing by 83mt, even as it came down by 86mt in the rest of the world. But production in China went up by just 52mt. China absorbed the excess production from the rest of the world. It imported 24mt more in 2020 and exported 10mt less. That shortfall led to a surge in price and China led the surge. This year China wants to keep production like last year and discourage exports. At the same time, consumption will be good given the stimulus. These measures should support the price. What would be the impact of the second wave of Covid on steel demand in India? India’s steel demand was 6.7mt in April against 9.7mt in March. May would be no different. But it is still better than 1mt seen in April 2020. But India will bounce back strongly and I believe overall consumption will be 110mt compared with 94mt in 2020-21. Will exports surge again? Our priority is the local market. But whenever domestic demand is weak, we are pushing material to the export market. Half of our sales are to OEMs and retail makes up 20-25 per cent. Whenever retail is affected, we export. We are not reducing production. Export from India will rise again in April-May and also from JSW Steel. How do you see the first quarter pan out, given that OEM contracts are likely to be done at a higher rate and that the export market is strong? In April and May, prices in China and the US went up by 27 and 19 per cent, respectively. Benefits of that will flow in here even though it would be partly offset by iron ore price hikes in those months. Moreover, there will be benefits from the geographical change (exports). So, from the margin point of view, it would be good. When all steel companies are looking at deleveraging, JSW is chasing growth. How do you explain the divergence? We want to grow with financial discipline, maintaining our ratio to ensure stability even during a downturn. JSW will be a 30.5mt company by 2024, from 18mt now. A major part of it will happen in this year only (24mt). If we add, Bhushan Power & Steel (5mt), Monnet Ispat (1.2mt) and US operations (1.5 mt), the overall capacity will be 38mt. Much of it is going to be value-added steel. There is also transformation happening downstream where EBIDTA has doubled last fiscal. The overseas ventures (US and Italy) will have a good positive EBIDTA compared with a Rs 800-crore loss last year. JSW is also investing in mining and digitising operations. They will bring huge benefits to the company. What will be the benefit of mining capex? We paid 100 per cent of the market price as premium in the auctions last year to acquire four mines in Odisha and deployed third parties to quickly operationalise it. The arrangements are for two years. By that time, JSW wants to build a fully automated, world-class operation. JSW does not get any cost benefit for owning captive mines. But without them, we could not have maintained production last year. Now that availability is ensured, our priority is cost. Washing and grinding is in focus to improve quality. We realised it last year. That’s why this investment is imperative and the payback period is four years. Next year, we may look at a slurry pipeline to reduce the cost of transportation. Where do you see JSW’s debt matrix going forward? We were targeting 3.75 debt to EBIDTA to manage organic and inorganic growth. But with strong cash generation taking place, the target now is 2.75. We wrapped up last year at 2.61. Despite spending Rs 15,000-crore odd on acquisitions and capex, JSW reduced net debt by Rs 858 crore in FY21. Even at BPSL, where JSW has a 49 per cent stake, debt has been reduced by Rs 1,800 crore. This is despite undertaking expansion and cost optimisation projects of Rs 1,550 crore. However, these expenses will be borne by BPSL from their own cash flow. There are three divestment candidates in the steel sector. NINL, RINL and steel plant of NMDC. Would you look at them? We will definitely evaluate all the three, they look interesting, size-wise. For NINL, we have submitted the EoI. Further evaluation will be done after due diligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||GST Council to decide on IGST levy on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use ||The GST Council in its upcoming meeting, scheduled to be held on May 28, is likely to take a call on the 12 per cent tax on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use. The Delhi high court last week said that imposition of a 12 per cent integrated GST (IGST) on oxygen concentrators for personal use or those received as gifts is “unconstitutional”. The court’s observation came on a plea filed by an 85-year old Covid patient whose relative had sent oxygen concentrator from the US. It also quashed a May 1 notification of the finance ministry which said that a 12 per cent IGST will be levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use or gift. Sources said the final decision on this issue would be taken by the Council in its upcoming meeting on Friday. Tax experts said the Council may decide to exempt IGST on such imports as the revenue implications would not be much. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said, the government had already provided exemption from IGST on free import of oxygen concentrators for Covid relief by any state government or any agency authorised by the state government. “The Delhi high court has extended the benefit of this IGST exemption to personal import as gifts for individual use as well. Given the enormity of the situation and as a life saving measure and given that the revenue loss for the government may not be significant, the government may consider ccepting the judgment and extending the benefit,” Jain added. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said collecting tariffs on medical equipment, medicines, and vaccines, scarcity of which is leading to the death of millions, is against the nation's fundamental principles. “Lowering prices for Covid related material is needed, and neutralising tax on all such imports is one such effective method that would have an immediate trickle-down effect on the entire supply chain,” Mohan added. The council in its May 28 meeting also likely to discuss tax rate cuts on Covid essentials, besides compensation shortfall of states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||India challenges $1.2 billion Cairn arbitration award||India on Sunday criticised the international arbitrator that ruled in favour of Cairn Energy in its tax dispute with the Indian government even as it said it was open to an amicable solution with the UK company. The Centre challenged the international arbitration tribunal asking it to return $1.2 billion to Cairn Energy on the ground that it had never agreed to arbitrate over a ‘‘national tax dispute’’, the finance ministry said on Sunday. However, the ministry is open to an amicable solution to the dispute. “The CEO and the representatives of Cairn have approached the Government of India for discussions to resolve the matter. Constructive discussions have been held and the Government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework,” the ministry statement said. Cairn on May 14 had sued Air India to make the government pay up the arbitration sum. The ministry also refuted reports that the Government of India has purportedly asked state-owned banks to withdraw funds from foreign currency accounts abroad in anticipation of the potential seizure of such accounts. While the government appointed a judge on the three-member arbitration panel and fully participated in the proceedings against India seeking Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn, the ministry said the tribunal ‘‘improperly exercised jurisdiction over a national tax dispute that the Republic of India never offered and/or agreed to arbitrate’’. In December last year, Cairn won an award that held the levy of taxes using the 2012 law unfair and the tribunal asked the Indian government to return $1.2 billion plus cost and interest. The finance ministry called the 2006 reorganisation of Cairn’s India business for listing on the local bourses as ‘‘abusive tax avoidance scheme that were a gross violation of Indian tax laws, thereby depriving Cairn’s alleged investments of any protection under the India-UK bilateral investment treaty’’. ‘‘The award improperly ratifies Cairn’s scheme to achieve double non-taxation, which was designed to avoid paying taxes anywhere in the world, a significant public policy concern for governments worldwide,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||CII asks RBI to review circular on appointment of bank, NBFC auditors||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to review its April circular on the appointment of auditors for banks and NBFCs. The CII said the rules were inconsistent with the provisions of the Companies Act and would create hardship for businesses during the coronavirus pandemic. The CII is not the only industry group to object to the rules. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), which represents NBFCs, had also written to the central bank to review the norms. On April 27, 2021, the banking regulator imposed various restrictions on the appointment of auditors by banks and NBFCs, including a cooling-off period for their reappointment. Auditors will have to be appointed for a continuous period of three years and there should be a cooling-off period of six years prior to their next appointment, the RBI circular said. Entities with an asset size in excess of Rs 15,000 crore at the end of the previous year will have to appoint a minimum of two auditors who will do a joint audit. For entities with asset sizes of Rs 15,000 crore and above at the end of previous year, the statutory audit should be conducted under joint audit of a minimum of two audit firms. All other entities should appoint a minimum of one audit firm for conducting statutory audit. If the asset size of the regulated entity is Rs 5 lakh crore, it should have a minimum of four statutory central auditors, comprising a main auditor and statutory auditors. The rules will apply from the current fiscal. Banks have been given the flexibility to adopt the new guidelines from the second half of this fiscal. “The circular recommends certain changes that may be counterproductive and are likely to cause significant hardship and challenges to stakeholders, without appreciable enhancement in governance or audit quality,” the CII said. It said the implementation of the far reaching changes within a short span of time would have been extremely challenging even under normal circumstances. The CII suggested the engagement of auditors for a maximum period of three years and the cooling off period of six years be aligned to five years in line with the Companies Act, 2013. The industry chamber also requested the RBI to defer the applicability of the circular and provide a time period of at least 2 years with implementation distributed in a phased manner. “Accordingly, focusing on these changes, at this juncture, would cause avoidable hardships and may become impractical to implement. It is requested to keep the notification in abeyance for some time, till industry/corporates hopefully, attain normalcy in businesses,” the industry body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||IBA approaches finance ministry for refund of compound interest waiver by banks||The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) on behalf of lenders has approached the finance ministry to refund the burden fallen on their shoulders due to a recent Supreme Court judgment on the waiver of compound interest or penal interest on all loan accounts which opted for moratorium during March-August 2020. The March judgment of the apex court directed the banks to waive off compound interest on loans above Rs 2 crore availing moratorium as loans below this got blanket interest on interest waiver in November last year. “Whatever the amount is recovered by way of interest on interest/compound interest/penal interest for the period during the moratorium, the same shall be refunded and to be adjusted/given credit in the next instalment of the loan account,’’ a three-bench judge of Justice Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah had ruled on March 23, 2021. The government has agreed to absorb the cost of the waiver on penal interest for loans below Rs 2 crore. But there is no communication as yet from North Block on whether it will reimburse banks for the refunds they are making for loans above Rs 2 crore. While the banks are at different stages of executing the refund order, PTI quoting Punjab & Sind Bank managing director S. Krishnan said the burden on the bank works out to around Rs 30 crore. The issue of reimbursement of the refund amount by the government is being pursued by the IBA on behalf of the banks, he said: “So far, we have not heard anything positive on this.” The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. After the March judgment by the top court, rating agency Icra had estimated that the compound interest for the six month of moratorium across all lenders will be Rs 13,500-14,000 crore. The government is reimbursing the banks for all penal interest up to Rs 2 crore, which is Rs 6,500 crore. The waiver of penalty for borrowers above Rs 2 crore will cost the banks Rs 7,000-7,500 crore, Icra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||Retirement portfolio: ennui or annuity?||How do you know if you need an annuity plan... is an annuity plan reserved for people who are approaching retirement or should younger people also consider investing in it? If these are some things you are pondering about, continue reading to find out. Everyone can benefit from having a regular income post retirement to manage their expenses. That said, I’ve bucketed certain segments of the population that will find annuity plans particularly helpful. People with dependants The key advantage of an annuity plan is that it offers you a guaranteed fixed income for the rest of your life. And if your family includes members who are financially dependent on you for their financial needs, investing in an annuity plan would help you take care of their expenses even after you’ve stopped earning the regular income. For instance, if you have children who are still dependent on you, or if you have a dependant spouse or your parents, the regular income that an annuity plan provides helps you manage their expenses even when you don’t have a primary source of income. Fixed recurring liabilities Even if you don’t have any members who are financially dependent on you, there may be a possibility that you may have certain fixed recurring expenses to meet on a regular basis. Such as house rent or an EMI that needs to be paid off. As you would no longer have a regular stream of income, post-retirement it could get difficult to meet such recurring liabilities. Here’s where the regular income of an annuity plan comes to your aid. You could use the regular annuity payouts to meet these expenses with ease. Unfunded working populace Maintaining the same standard of living after your retirement is no easy task. When it comes to the post-retirement life, most of the working population is either unfunded or underfunded. If you find yourself in this situation, it could lead to one of two things — it may either force you to work longer, or it could mean a considerable reduction in your standard of living post retirement. However, the regular stream of annuity income gives you a security cushion on which you can fall back without having to make any compromises to your lifestyle. That’s not all. If you are a part of the working population, you can even get an additional advantage by opting for the deferred annuity option that some plans offer. With this, you can choose to make regular or limited premium payments instead of a lump sum amount. This ultimately reduces your financial burden. You can also defer your annuity payouts by around 10 years or so, making sure that the payouts commence post your retirement. The soon-to-be-retired One of the good things about annuity plans is their flexibility. Many plans come with a minimum entry age of 40 years and a maximum entry age of up to 85 years, giving you access to quite a large window to make your annuity purchase. So, even if you are a part of the segment that is fast approaching their retirement or the segment that has very recently retired, you can still purchase an annuity plan and enjoy its benefits. In fact, you could use your other retirement benefits such as the provident fund, pension, and gratuity payments that you may receive upon completing your work tenure to invest in a good annuity plan. With the immediate annuity plan option, your payouts start as soon as you have made the lump sum premium payment, thereby allowing you to reap benefits without any deferment. This makes it a preferred option for individuals who haven’t put enough thought into their post-retirement plans. Leaving behind a legacy Globally in general, and in India in particular, parents often want to leave behind a legacy for their children. With an annuity plan, you’ll find that creating and leaving behind an adequate legacy is easier than ever. By choosing options like ‘Return of Purchase Price’, you can ensure that your beneficiaries receive the capital of the annuity plan in the event of your demise. This way, you would be leaving behind a legacy that could be used by your beneficiaries. Looking for joint protection Most annuity plans come with a joint life option. This means you can choose to add your spouse for a joint life payout and create a strong financial security for your lifetimes. In a joint life annuity, payouts are first made to the primary annuitant. In case of the primary annuitant’s demise, their spouse, who is the secondary annuitant, continues to receive the annuity payouts. This way, you can be assured that your spouse can meet her/his post retirement expenses even in your absence. Taking all of the above points into consideration, one thing is clear that having a suitable annuity plan is a must for most individuals, irrespective of the life stage or the phase of their working career. Further, the surging living and healthcare expenses along with improved life expectancy makes it imperative to have a regular income for your post-retirement life. The writer is chief financial officer, Bajaj Allianz Life||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
