25-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat amid profit-booking||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note after range-bound trade on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels following the market's sharp recovery over the past few sessions.  The 30-share BSE Sensex settled 14.37 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 50,637.53, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 10.75 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,208.45.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 3 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, Infosys and TCS.  On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, HDFC and ITC were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities traded in a range. While BFSIs witnessed some profit-booking after sharp recovery recorded in last couple of trading days, others traded positively," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Notably, metal stocks witnessed recovery as sharp correction in last couple of days brought investors' interest back to metal companies, which have report robust earnings performance in 4Q FY21 and guided healthy performance in ensuing quarters, he added.  He, however, stated that investors will continue to focus on trajectory of daily COVID-19 cases and vaccination ramp up in the country in the near term, and possible withdrawal of restrictions in a phased manner by states from next week should boost market mood.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent lower at USD 68.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 250 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Infosys, Asian Paints and HDFC amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 265.07 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 50,916.97, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 86 points or 0.57 per cent to 15,283.70. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing nearly 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Titan, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India, NTPC, HUL, ONGC and Infosys. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex advanced 111.42 points or 0.22 per cent to finish at 50,651.90, and Nifty rose 22.40 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,197.70. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 585.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be good for the day. Notably, continued decline in daily caseload in the second wave (fell below two lakh on Monday after 40 days) and improvement in recovery rates have certainly bolstered investors' confidence as this can reinvigorate sluggish economy faster, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. On Wall Street, equities ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 68.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Renault and alliance partner Nissan and Hyundai face temporary factory closures in India||Auto makers Renault, its alliance partner Nissan Motor Co and Hyundai Motor Co face temporary factory closures in India because of a growing unrest among workers concerned about rising Covid-19 cases. Workers at Renault-Nissan’s car plant in the southern state of Tamil Nadu will go on strike on Wednesday because their Covid-related safety demands have not been met, a union representing the workers told the company in a letter on Monday. Hyundai, meanwhile, has agreed to send its workers on five days of leave starting on Tuesday during which time its plant, also in Tamil Nadu, will remain shut, said E. Muthukumar, president of the Hyundai Motor India Employees Union. The unrest highlights the challenges companies face in India amid a huge wave of Covid-19 infections and a shortage of vaccines which is making employees more fearful. Tamil Nadu is one of the worst hit states with more than 30,000 cases a day last week. The state, an auto hub known as India’s Detroit, has imposed a lockdown until May 31 but allowed some factories, including auto plants, to operate. The five-day production halt at Hyundai’s plant comes after several workers briefly staged a sit-in protest on Monday before resuming work for the day, two union sources said. “The management agreed to close the plant after workers expressed concerns over safety after two employees succumbed to Covid,” Muthukumar said. Hyundai Motor India did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The strike threat at the Renault-Nissan plant came ahead of a court hearing on Monday over allegations from workers that social distancing norms were being flouted and factory health policies did not sufficiently address the risk to lives. “Due to unsafe working conditions and as the union demands have not been met ... members of this union will not report to work from the first shift on Wednesday,” the union said in a letter dated May 24, reviewed by Reuters. It said workers would not return until they felt safe. The union represents 3,500 workers. Nissan, which owns a majority stake in the plant, declined to comment. Renault-Nissan told an Indian court last week it rejected claims that Covid-19 safety protocols were being ignored at the factory, adding it needed to continue production to meet orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Mihup Communications partners with Harman International||Mihup Communication Pvt Ltd, a Calcutta-based start-up working on vernacular voice interface platforms, has partnered Harman International to enable voice-controlled conversation conversion in Tata Motors cars. The partnership is aimed to enhance user experience in Tata Motors vehicles for users using native language. Tatas’ earlier in-vehicle voice assistant had a limited dictionary and no vernacular language or Indian dialect support. The original equipment manufacturer (OEM) wanted an embedded solution to make the experience handsfree for drivers. Mihup supports a mix of Hindi and English. The system responds based on user voice command without the need for a manual switch. AVA will also support Tamil and Bengali soon, with a plan to cover all major Indian languages by 2022. Voice adoption across vehicular platforms is on the rise and it is estimated that 8 billion voice assistants will be in use by 2023. About 95 per cent of customers are expected to use in-built voice assistants in their vehicles by 2022. Tapan Barman, Co-founder and CEO, Mihup, said, “We will focus on providing the best service to customers with cutting edge innovation.” Kia name South Korean auto maker Kia on Monday said it has officially changed its name in the country to Kia India from Kia Motors. The brand has removed “Motors” from its earlier name after ratification by the corporate affairs ministry and will now function under the corporate identity of Kia India Pvt Ltd, the auto maker said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Govt takes credit for record $59.64 billion foreign direct investment in 2020-21||The government on Monday took credit for the record $59.64 billion foreign direct investment in the pandemic year of 2020-21, an increase of 19 per cent over the previous year. The Centre attributed the rise to the measures taken by the government in policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business. In 2019-20, India recorded FDI inflows of $49.98 billion. However, trade analysts said the data mask the reality. Between April and December, the Reliance Group sold equity shares in seven companies to foreign investors, worth nearly $28 billion. “To what extent can these FDI inflows contribute to the revival of the Indian economy by creating productive capacities? Would these inflows support the government’s flagship Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced for the turnaround of the manufacturing sector?” trade analysts Biswajit Dhar of Jawaharlal Nehru University and K. S. Chalapati Rao, former professor at the Institute for Studies in Industrial Development, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Govt likely to announce tax refund scheme rates for exporters||The government is likely to announce tax refund scheme rates for exporters before the end of this month. While  the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) could bring much needed relief to exporters, sources have indicated that the government could put a cap on the refund amount for individual exporters and limit the number of items eligible for refunds to the budgeted sum of Rs 13,000 crore for this fiscal. Although there is very little clarity on the amount of rates, sources said the MSME sector and their products would be given preference. Analysts said this would hit the large exporting firms as they would end up paying much of the input taxes on their exports from their own pockets. The government has budgeted Rs 13,000 crore for the RoDTEP scheme for this fiscal, which is way below the scheme’s initial estimated annual cost of Rs 50,000 crore. It’s only a third of the Rs 39,097 crore the government approved for exporters in 2019-2020 under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) for many sectors. Exporters have been asking the government to urgently announce refund rates under the RoDTEP scheme, which replaced the MEIS from January 1, 2021, but is yet to be operational. The government withdrew the popular Merchandise Export from India Scheme (MEIS) for exporters following a WTO verdict against the latter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Liberty Steel to sell Stocksbridge plant in south-east England to help pay back Credit Suisse||Liberty Steel, the company led by British Indian businessman Sanjeev Gupta, on Monday announced “very constructive and productive meetings” as part of its ongoing restructuring plans, which will result in the sale of its Stocksbridge plant in south-east England to help pay back lender Credit Suisse. Gupta, who heads the wider Gupta Family Group (GFG) Alliance, and his newly-formed restructuring and transformation committee held advanced discussions with Credit Suisse Asset Management (CS) in Dubai over the weekend to reach a formal “standstill agreement” on its Liberty Primary Metals Australia business while refinancing is completed that will repay Credit Suisse out in full. The investment bank has, meanwhile, agreed to pause court proceedings against Gupta’s empire while the sale of Stocksbridge is conducted. “Both parties also made significant progress in agreeing on a framework to resolve GFG Alliance’s remaining exposure with CS,” Liberty Steel, the UK’s third-largest steel maker, said. “This work includes identifying a positive solution which will allow Liberty to complete the restructuring and refinancing of its UK operations, protecting thousands of jobs and supporting the fulfilment of its vision to be a leader in the decarbonisation of the UK steel industry,” it added. A formal sale process for the aerospace and special alloys steel business at Stocksbridge and its downstream plants, the narrow strip mill at Brinsworth and Performance Steels at West Bromwich will be launched soon, according to a statement by Liberty Steel. “This sale will allow Liberty to focus on developing its Rotherham plant, including its electric arc furnaces into a competitive 2-million-tonne  recycled GreenSteel plant, one of the largest in Europe,’’ Liberty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal stays Rs 25 crore penalty on Yes Bank||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has granted an interim stay on a Sebi order that had slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yes Bank in a case of mis-selling AT-1 bonds. Apart from penalising Yes Bank, Sebi, in its order in April, had imposed a fine of Rs 1 crore on Vivek Kanwar, who was the head of the private wealth management team, and Rs 50 lakh each on Ashish Nasa and Jasjit Singh Banga. Nasa and Banga were part of the private wealth management team at the time of the violation. Sebi alleged misrepresentation by the bank and certain officials for not informing investors of the risk involved while selling the AT-1 (additional Tier-1) bonds in the secondary market. While granting interim relief to Yes Bank, SAT said it has “stayed the effect and operation of the impugned order”. This is subject to an undertaking by Yes Bank that in the event of failure of the appeal, the lender would pay the penalty amount within two weeks from the date of the order, SAT said in an order passed on May 21. The tribunal has directed Sebi to file a reply within four weeks, thereafter the bank needs to file a rejoinder. The matter has been listed for admission and final disposal on July 30. The order comes following appeals filed by Yes Bank, Kanwar and others. Co-op bank mergers The Reserve Bank on Monday said it will consider the amalgamation of District Central Cooperative Banks with State Cooperative Banks, subject to various conditions, including that a proposal should be made by the state government concerned. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2020 has been notified for the state and district central cooperative banks with effect from April 1, 2021. Amalgamation of such banks need to be sanctioned by the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India to list more subsidiaries this fiscal||The State Bank of India (SBI) is looking to list more subsidiaries this fiscal with its asset management arm likely to be picked first, thereby adding vigour to an IPO market that has seen entities such as Go Airlines (India) Ltd (GoAir), Aditya Birla Sunlife AMC, Zomato and CarTrade filing their draft papers with the market regulator. SBI chairman Dinesh Khara in an interview to a television channel said that the “natural choice” in terms of offloading its stake this year will be SBI MF. The SBI chief, however, added that as the proposal is yet to be placed before its board, he had no details to share. He also indicated that the bank may list its general insurance subsidiary, though it is not immediately clear if it will happen in this fiscal as well. SBI holds 70 per cent in the general insurer, which has posted a net profit of Rs 544 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021. Some of the other arms of SBI include SBI Capital Markets Group, SBI Payment Services and SBI SG Global Securities. At present, SBI Life Insurance, in which the lender holds 55.5 per cent, and SBI Cards, in which it has a stake of 69.2 per cent, are listed on the bourses. The duo have a combined market cap of Rs 1.9 lakh crore. SBI Funds Management (SBI MF) is the country’s largest fund house with assets under management (AUM) of over Rs 5 lakh crore. The SBI has a stake of 62.88 per cent in SBI Funds Management with the rest being held by Amundi Asset Management of France. It has posted a net profit of Rs 860 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021, a 43 per cent rise over Rs 603 crore reported in the previous year. Earlier this year, Bloomberg had reported that the SBI may raise $1 billion from its IPO. Shares of the SBI on Monday ended 2.73 per cent or Rs 10.95 higher as investors gave a thumbs-up to its fourth quarter results. Analysts at Edelweiss Securities have retained their buy rating in SBI with a revised target price of Rs 600 of which the core bank is valued at Rs 414 and its subsidiaries at Rs 186. A Motilal Oswal report has set a revised target price of Rs 530 of which the shares of its subsidiaries stands at Rs 187. The likely offering from SBI MF comes at a time the IPO market is set for more activity after Rs 17,500 crore were raised in the first four months of this calendar year through the main board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Dewan Housing Finance administrator moves NCLT||The administrator of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) has moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribual (NCLAT) challenging last week’s order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that asked the lenders of the non-banking finance company to consider the settlement order proposed by its promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL lenders have also filed a separate application against the order. According to PTI, the matter will be taken up by the appellate tribunal on Tuesday. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT in its May 19 order asked the administrator of DHFL — R. Subramaniakumar — to put Wadhawan’s plan before its committee of creditors (CoC). The tribunal sought a meet of the creditors within 10 days. The administrator of DHFL said the timing of the NCLT order was surprising and in conscious disregard of judicial economy. He added that it was passed without application of mind or considering facts of the present case. The appeal further said that the NCLT order overlooked “relevant facts and settled law, ignoring the submissions and contentions of not only the appellant (administrator) and the CoC, but also the RBI’’. In its May 19 order, the division bench of Ravikumar Durisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi had said banks constitute only 35 per cent of the debt of DHFL. There are several fixed deposit holders and retail NCD holders who are also creditors but were kept in the dark about Wadhawan’s proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Jaypee Infratech  financial creditors defer voting process on Suraksha group offer||The financial creditors of Jaypee Infratech have deferred the voting process on the offer of the Suraksha group for the realty firm. Later this week, the creditors will decide on whether they will consider afresh the bids of the Suraksha group as well as NBCC. NBCC last week had strongly objected to the committee of creditors (CoC) rejecting its offer even as it questioned the jurisdiction of interim resolution professional (IRP) Anuj Jain. The CoC at its meeting on Monday decided to vote on May 27 and May 28 on whether both the contenders should be allowed to submit their resolution plans for Jaypee Infratech Ltd, which went into insolvency proceedings in 2017. In the earlier schedule, the voting process on Suraksha group’s bid was to commence from Monday noon and end at 5pm on May 27. According to a regulatory filing, the CoC has deferred the voting process on the Suraksha group’s bid. The CoC has also decided “to put to vote from May 27 to May 28 the proposal to give more time to Suraksha and NBCC to submit final resolution plans”. A PTI report quoting sources said there was no unanimity among lenders on whether the NBCC bid should be considered at this stage. Therefore, it was decided to take the views of the lenders and homebuyers through voting on whether further extension should be given to both the parties. On Sunday, the Suraksha group warned of legal action against lenders as well as the IRP if there are any delays and changes in the voting process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
25-05-2021||Business||Market capitalisation of all listed stocks on BSE cross $3-trillion mark||The market capitalisation of all the listed stocks on the Bombay Sock Exchange (BSE) on Monday crossed the $3-trillion mark for the first time, raising questions again whether the unnatural exuberance on the Street reflected a market that was out of touch with the stark realities of a Covid-stricken economy punctuated by extreme job losses, plunging government revenues and the grim prospect of a very large number of people sliding back into poverty. Experts said the $3-trillion milestone must be seen in the context of expectations of a sharp pickup in growth with coronavirus cases on the decline and states opening up from next month. Besides, the fourth-quarter results of companies have so far not delivered any major negative surprises. On Monday, the market capitalisation of the companies listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) settled at Rs 218 lakh crore ($3 trillion) after crossing Rs 219 lakh crore during the day. “Market capitalisation of equities of listed companies on @bseindia reached $3 trillion intra-day for the first time ever. A great milestone on a long journey,” BSE’s MD and CEO Ashishkumar Chauhan tweeted. The benchmark Sensex rose 111.42 points, or 0.22 per cent, to close at 50651.90 after rising 317.11 points to 50857.59 in intra-day trades. Reality check The gains in stock prices have reignited discussions on whether the markets are detached from reality with a section of analysts asserting the valuations are not justified by the ravages of the coronavirus on the economy and the gains largely fed by ample liquidity. But another section claimed the markets were “discounting the future’’, focussing more on what “tomorrow holds for the economy and corporate India’’. “Yes, there are so many negative news or factors such as a large number of Covid deaths, unemployment. While some of the industries are affected, one must look at the current situation in a holistic manner as well,” says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS Research. “The performance of corporate India has not been adversely affected as companies have been able to cut down on major expenditures such as travel, electricity and real estate.” He said most of the global companies are looking for one more supplier other than China and this can benefit India. “There is hope around the corner and our economy can bounce back sharply by posting a double digit growth. Given such an outlook, we must be ready for the rally to continue and in all probability, the benchmark indices could hit a new lifetime high in June,’’ he added. Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said a steady decline in fresh cases and hopes of the lockdown coming to an end have influenced the domestic market to extend its gains. He pointed out that positive quarterly earnings and easing asset quality woes have helped banking stocks to attract buying interest, while mid- and small-cap stocks have outperformed. Margin levy Stock brokers’ association Anmi has urged market regulator Sebi to reconsider the proposed 100 per cent levy on intra-day trade peak margins as the higher margin will reduce hedging opportunities. In a letter to Sebi on May 15, the Association of National Exchanges Members of India (Anmi) said that there is a great disconnect between what is being collected from clients and what needs to be collected vis-a-vis the attendant risks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
