26-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 380 points to close above 51,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 380 points on Wednesday, led by gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 379.99 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 51,017.52, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 93 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,301.45.  Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping nearly 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Infosys, M&M, Maruti and HDFC.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, ONGC and Kotak Bank were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities remained upbeat as improved visibility about economic recovery from 2QFY22 continued to lift investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Barring metals, most key sectoral indices traded in green. IT stocks witnessed sharp rebound after positive commentary of select managements about strong execution delivery despite the second wave of pandemic, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 68.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
26-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 100 points in opening trade on Wednesday, led by gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 125.76 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 50,763.29, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 25.75 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,234.20.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, M&M, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, HUL and Asian Paints.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Kotak Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 14.37 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 50,637.53, while Nifty inched up 10.75 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,208.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 959.77 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "A sharp drop in daily caseload in the second wave (remaining below 2 lakhs for two days) and improvement in recovery rates have already emboldened investors in the last one week. Further, robust 4QFY21 earnings and favourable commentaries from companies' managements also aided to lift sentiments," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  US equities ended with marginal decline as weaker-than-expected reading on consumer confidence data weighed on sentiments, he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business|| IBM to give access to its quantum computing system to India's educational institutes||American multinational technology firm IBM on Tuesday said it was giving access to its quantum computing system via cloud to the country's educational institutes. Two institutes from Bengal — the Calcutta University and IIT Kharagpur — will have the cloud access to IBM’s quantum computing system. The Calcutta University has been awarded an IBM Quantum Researchers Program Access Award for a project led by researcher Mrityunjay Ghosh under the guidance and supervision of Amlan Chakrabarti, professor and director of A.K. Choudhury School of IT, University of Calcutta. This is the first time such a facility is given to a student or faculty at an Indian university. “Quantum computing is getting more and more exciting. Today there is a strong interest not only from the research community but most global technology majors including IBM and Google among others. With this partnership, students and researchers of our university will be able to connect with physical IBM quantum computing machines through a cloud interface,” Chakrabarti said. He added that quantum computing being a multidisciplinary exercise, students and researchers from fields such as information technology, computer science, electrical engineering, mathematics, physics and applied physics from the university will benefit from the access. Explaining the rising interest in the field, Chakrabarti said that through quantum computing, a higher scale of complex problems solving can be done which existing classical computing cannot achieve. Financial modelling, predicting weather conditions, solving complex artificial intelligence and machine learning problems are among the areas where quantum computing is applicable. “Quantum computing is a paradigm shifting technology that can power countless innovations in the future. By providing access to our system over cloud, IBM is enabling India’s brightest minds to learn the skills to prepare for this disruptive future,” said Gargi Dasgupta, director, IBM Research India and CTO, IBM Indian/South Asia. IBM CEO Arvind Krishna in his quarterly earnings remarks (for Q1 2021) said quantum computing has the potential to unlock “hundreds of billions of dollars” for clients by the end of the decade. The company has also announced a road map to build a 1000-plus qubit quantum computer by 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Emami Ltd posts 3.8 times jump in profit after tax||Emami Ltd has posted a 3.8 times jump in profit after tax and 37 per cent increase in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 over the same period a year ago. The company recorded a  PAT of Rs 87.73 crore on a consolidated basis compared with Rs 22.75 crore in the same period of 2019-20 — a quarter marred by a nationwide lockdown towards the end. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 730.76 crore compared with Rs 532.68 crore a year ago. However, Emami’s profit and revenue slipped on a quarter on quarter basis, indicating a slowdown in FMCG sales from the third quarter which comprises the festive months in India. Revenues fell from Rs 933.61 crore and a PAT of Rs 208.96 crore in Q3. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Ltd, said the company ended the year with broad based growth in brands, channels and businesses and EBIDTA grew 65 per cent despite cost pressure. “While rural demand sustained, urban demand is gradually picking up,” he noted. Director Harsh V. Agarwal said all the company’s major brands grew by more than 30 per cent during the quarter. “In the fourth quarter, we invested in brand building, resulting in 37 per cent growth in our ad spends, which is in line with our sales growth. With our focus on digitisation and evolved business strategies, we are confident of continuing the growth momentum despite the second wave of Covid-19,” Agarwal said. The company said domestic and international businesses grew by 44 per cent and 28 per cent respectively in the Q4. Both the urban and rural markets performed well during the quarter and the retail channel also picked up momentum, Emami said in a statement. Likewise, modern trade grew by 46 per cent and e-commerce continued its robust run growing by 3x. The e-commerce business increased its contribution by 200 bps to 4 per cent of domestic revenues, an Emami statement added. However, input cost pressure weighed on the gross margin which declined by 250 basis points. Emami ended the year with a net cash surplus of Rs 357 crore despite dividend pay out of Rs 356 crore and buyback of Rs 221 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Barclays cuts India’s growth estimate by a sharp 80 basis points to 9.2 per cent||British brokerage Barclays has cut India’s growth estimate for the current fiscal by a sharp 80 basis points to 9.2 per cent, pointing out that the economic impact of the second wave of infections has been deeper than initially expected. The lower growth forecast also comes on the back of the slow pace of vaccinations in India and lockdowns across many states. Barclays is not alone as several analysts have pruned their growth estimates for India because of the ongoing second wave. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) retained its earlier forecast that the real GDP growth will be 10.5 per cent, observers feel that it may also lower this estimate at its next meeting in June. However, there are others who feel that with cases on the wane, states may opt for gradual unlocking from next month and this could lead to a pick up in economic activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Federal Bank shares end in the green in an otherwise volatile market||Shares of Federal Bank on Tuesday  ended in the green in an otherwise volatile market on reports that ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund is looking to acquire an additional 5 per cent stake in the private sector lender. As on March 31, 2021, the fund house held a  4.8 per cent stake, or 9,52,64,974 shares, of the Kerala-based lender. A report in CNBC TV-18 on Tuesday said that ICICI Prudential MF has submitted a proposal to pick up another 5 per cent in Federal Bank with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in this regard. An approval from the banking regulator is required if an entity seeks to acquire more than 5 per cent in a private sector bank with a cap of 10 per cent. On the BSE on Tuesday, shares of Federal Bank ended with gains of 0.46 per cent at Rs 86.85. It has a market cap of over Rs 17,300 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||NCLAT stays order directing DHFL lenders to consider Kapil Wadhawan offer||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has stayed an order which directed the lenders of DHFL to consider the offer by the mortgage firm’s erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan. The NCLAT bench comprising acting chairman Justice A.I.S. Cheema and member technical V.P. Singh stayed the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) last week. On May 19, the administrator of DHFL, R. Subramaniakumar, was asked to place Wadhawan’s plan before its committee of creditors (CoC). The tribunal asked the CoC to be convened within 10 days. Wadhawan had proposed a 100 per cent payment of principal amount to all the creditors, including the non-convertible debenture (NCD) and fixed deposit holders. While DHFL owes around Rs 91,000 crore to its lenders, its CoC has already approved the Rs 34,250-crore resolution plan submitted by Piramal Capital and Housing Finance for the mortgage firm. It includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and a deferred component through NCDs of Rs 19,550 crore. The administrator of DHFL, its lenders and the Piramal group had filed applications challenging the May 19 NCLAT order. The appellate tribunal also clarified that its order should not come in the way of the NCLT approving the resolution plan of the Piramal group, which has been approved by DHFL’s CoC. The NCLAT bench will now take up the matter on June 25. Jaypee Associates plea Jaiprakash Associates, the erstwhile promoter of bankrupt-Jaypee Infratech, has said its settlement proposal without any “haircuts” should be considered by the creditors’ panel, which is set to take a call on two existing resolution plans this week. In a letter to interim resolution professional Anuj Jain, Manoj Gaur, chairman of JAL, has urged him to consider the settlement offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Centre notifies revised rules for slump sale of assets||The Centre has notified the revised rules for the slump sale of assets which will enable the government to tax the capital gains on non-monetary transactions. The move seeks to plug a major loophole that some companies misuse to dodge tax on plant and equipment by using the slump sale route under which capital assets are sold without assigning individual values to the components. The change in the tax rule was revised in this year’s budget and was designed to stop companies from masking a slump sale as an “exchange of assets” or the exchange of non-monetary consideration such as securities. The new rule requires the seller to carry out a fair value of the capital asset being sold with certain exemptions and also a fair value of the consideration received with a formula for the computation of the non-monetary consideration. The tax will be  on the higher of the two amounts. “Taxpayers will have to bear in mind that upon slump sale/exchange of a business, the fair market value as defined in these rules will be deemed to be the consideration received for computing taxable capital gains. In effect therefore even if the actual consideration received is lower, notwithstanding that, the capital gains will be computed and taxed based on this fair market value,” according to Pranav Sayta, partner and national leader – international tax and transaction services, EY India. “If transfer is to a wholly owned subsidiary, there are exemptions that can be explored but these are subject to conditions like: it has to remain a 100 per cent subsidiary for at least a minimum eight years etc,” he said. Kumarmanglam Vijay —partner, J. Sagar Associates, said: “The fair market value methodology prescribes two benchmarks and the higher of the two would be deemed as the sale consideration.” “The first benchmark essentially refers to the adjusted book value of the business undertaking as on the date of transfer, while the second benchmark refers to the sum of actual monetary consideration and fair value of the non-monetary consideration (to be determined in the prescribed manner).... With the proposed changes, the minimum benchmark for computing gains on transfer of business and transfer of shares has been aligned. Thus, businesses may have fewer tax reasons to choose the manner in which a business is to be transferred,” he added. Finance Bill 2021 proposed that the ‘‘fair market value” of the business undertaking would be deemed to be the sale consideration for such computation. The amendment is effective from April 1, 2020, and shall accordingly apply from assessment year 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Covid: Punjab demands cut in tax rate on life-saving items||Congress-ruled Punjab has demanded a cut in tax rate on life-saving items for Covid-19 treatment as well as implementation of pending reforms, including reviewing tax rates and exemptions, setting up of dispute resolution body and ways to bridge shortfall facing states. In a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal sought a discussion on floor and band of rates within which states may be allowed to fix their respective state-GST rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Bengal calls finance minister's bluff on GST levy||Bengal has decided to call finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s bluff ahead of this week’s crucial meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting which is being held after a gap of over seven months. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote a letter to Sitharaman in which he suggested that Covid vaccines, drugs and allied equipment like oxygen concentrators should be placed under the zero rated category under Goods & Services Tax (GST) — and such a proposal should be placed on the agenda for Friday’s meeting. Mitra argued that this was the only way to achieve the objective of the proposal that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had floated as a way to lower the burden of costs on families battling the pandemic. Sitharaman had recently scoffed at Mamata Banerjee’s suggestion in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which the Bengal chief minister had suggested that the Centre ought to waive customs duty and GST on all Covid-related materials, including drugs, in order to break unnecessary choke points in the supply chain and manage the pandemic better. At that time, Sitharaman had leapt into the fray firing a staccato of 15 tweets in which she poured scorn on Banerjee’s proposal. The burden of her argument was that if Banerjee’s suggestion was accepted, it would raise rather than reduce the costs of Covid drugs and other equipment. “If full exemption from GST were given, the domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and input services and would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price,” she said. She argued that the levy of a nominal 5 per cent GST was in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccines as well as the citizens of India. On Tuesday, Mitra waded into the debate and explained why Sitharaman was wrong in making her assertions. Speaking to The Telegraph this evening, Mitra argued that the intended relief could be provided if Covid- related materials were placed in the zero-rated category. “There are items which are already zero rated such as supplies of goods and services meant for export or to special economic zones (SEZs). If Covid-related items are placed in this category, then the entire value chain will pay zero tax. There will not be any pressure on the manufacturers to pass on the input tax credit to the consumers as the Union FM has suggested in her tweets,” Mitra said. Section 16 of the integrated GST provides for a zero-rated category of items. Mitra argued that there was a need to take a bold decision to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. Many of the items that Banerjee had alluded to currently attract a GST levy between 12 and 18 per cent, he added. “The Chief minister wrote to the PM seeking relief for the common masses. By putting these items under zero rated category, such an objective will be achieved,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Facebook to comply with provisions of the IT rules||Hours before the new government rules to regulate online content come into force, social media giant Facebook said it would comply with the provisions. “We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government,” a Facebook spokesperson said. Facebook, however, did not give any date for compliance. “We are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies. Facebook remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform.” Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook owner, also has majority stakes in Instagram and WhatsApp. Google said it has invested consistently to combat illegal content but did not say whether it will comply with the regulations. “We respect India’s legislative process and have a long history of responding to government requests to remove content where the content violates the local law or our product policies,” a Google spokesperson said. “We have invested in significant product changes, resources, and personnel to ensure that we’re combating illegal content in an effective and fair way, and in order to comply with local laws in the jurisdictions that we operate in.” “We realise that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” the spokesperson added. Twitter when contacted declined to comment. WhatsApp also did not respond. The government had announced the new intermediary guidelines in February, giving social media firms three months to comply with them. The deadline ended on Tuesday. Sources said except for one Indian social media company, Koo, none of the top social media intermediaries has appointed a resident grievance officer, a chief compliance officer and a nodal contact person yet. The new rules require large social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to conduct additional due diligence, including the appointment of the officers. Analysts said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code), Rules 2021  would “fundamentally” change the Indian internet. The rules drafted without much consultation were criticised for being a back door to implement “political censorship” of content. The special provisions, which are put together under “additional due diligence” in the rules, require social media platforms with more than 50 lakh registered users to appoint a specific chief compliance officer. In addition to the three-officer requirement, the social media platforms are required to have a physical contact address in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
