27-05-2021||Business||Sensex rises 98 points amid F&O expiry||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced 98 points after a choppy session on Thursday as monthly derivatives expired amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 97.70 points or 0.19 per cent higher at 51,115.22, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,337.85. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, HDFC, Bajaj Finance, ONGC and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained resilient and traded in a range amid futures and options (F&O) expiry led volatility," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus for second consecutive day as sustained visibility of earnings momentum attracted investors' interest back to this space. Further, banks, metals and auto also were in focus. "Notably, short coverings also have supported momentum in various counters. Buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks and they have outperformed benchmark indices," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo closed in the negative terrain, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.77 per cent lower at USD 68.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note ahead of F&O expiry||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Thursday ahead of the expiry of monthly derivatives amid a largely weak trend in Asian markets. After opening on a positive note, the 30-share BSE index slipped into red to trade 67.33 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 50,950.19, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 11.20 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,290.25. Asian Paints was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, HUL and Maruti. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Titan and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 379.99 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 51,017.52, and Nifty climbed 93 points or 0.17 per cent to finish at 15,301.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 241.60 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be flat as of now. With the market cap of domestic equities crossing USD 3 trillion and market-cap to GDP over 110 per cent, there is apprehension among investors about the sustainability of market rally," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, traders said the market is choppy ahead of the expiry of monthly futures and options (F&O) contracts. US equities recorded modest gains led by rebound in growth stocks as the recent retreat in bond yields brought investors' focus back to growth stocks like technology, Modi stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the negative terrain in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||RBI needs to print money to ‘save Indian economy’: CII chief Uday Kotak||The time has come for India’s central bank to print money to help save the economy, says India’s top private banker Uday Kotak, who defended the drastic move, declaring: “Right now, we need to use the steroids to save the Indian economy for sustained growth going forward.” Kotak, who’s the founder and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank as well as being president of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), also said in a lengthy interview on NDTV late on Wednesday that the government must simultaneously help people at the bottom of the financial pyramid. “Direct cash transfers (should be given) to the poorest of the poor for meeting their day-to-day needs” and the government should also look at providing “direct medical benefits to the poorest of the poor,” the billionaire banker said. In addition, work programmes like NREGA, “should be strengthened,” Kotak said. Putting cash in the hands of the poor would help sustain consumer demand which has been flagging, he noted. “This is a time for us to be able to expand the (fiscal) balance sheet, duly supported by the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) which should deficit finance a part of the government’s expanded balance sheet rather than let (the government) go to the market borrowing,” Kotak said. Such fiscal stimulus would mean that the RBI’s balance sheet would “be expanded -- what is known as monetary expansion of printing of money,” Kotak explained. “Time has come for us to be doing some of that because -- unless we can protect growth through this period -- over the next one year, we run the challenge of trend growth rate getting more gradual on a long-term basis,” he said. India’s economy is estimated to have shrunk by around 7-to-8 per cent in the last fiscal year. Before the second wave, the economy was seen growing by 10 per-cent-plus this financial year, making it the fastest-expanding economy globally. But economists have been steadily cutting their forecasts in the light of the Covid-19 surge. Even before the pandemic erupted, India’s inflation was ringing alarm bells. For the first time since 2010, the wholesale price index soared to 10.5 per cent in April from 7.4 per cent in March. Rating agency Crisil warned on Wednesday inflation risks were accelerating due to rising input prices and supply disruptions amid the second Covid-19 wave. Kotak did not directly comment on the impact that rapid monetary expansion might have on inflation. But India’s economic fundamentals were strong enough to allow significant monetary expansion, Kotak said. “We are sitting on 600 billion rupees of reserves... Our balance of payments is likely to be 20 billion dollars positive. We are in a strong external position,” he said. “We have to ensure that the human cost (of the pandemic) is controlled and simultaneously (that) the economic cost is given a breather so that the economy can sustain and bounce back,” he added. “These are one-time measures. Again to use medical language, these are short-term steroids. They cannot be used for the long term,” he said. Kotak proposed that the government should move on multiple fronts -- offering handouts to the poorest of the poor and also looking at ways of rescuing small businesses in sectors that have taken a hit but have a good chance of survival post-pandemic. “I do believe the time has come for direct (fiscal) intervention… for the bottom of the pyramid,” said Kotak. For the businesses that can be saved, he urged that the government spend money generously and use schemes like the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) “so they can survive this wave and come out.” ECLGS is a government guarantee for banks lending to stressed sectors. Kotak said such moves would save businesses and protect jobs going forward. Kotak hinted that the government may also be thinking along the same lines he had mentioned, saying, “I think the government may also be waiting for this extreme (pandemic) health situation to ease a bit.” He added: “I think the time has come for the government to seriously start working on that.” The banker stressed, “We have to ensure that the human cost (of Covid-19) is controlled and simultaneously that the economic cost is given a breather so that the economy can sustain and bounce back.” He added: “These are one-time measures. To use medical language, these are short-term steroids.” Kotak noted that 17 of his bank’s employees had died from Covid-19 between April 2020 and March 2021. This year, during the severe second wave, in April and May, he said, another 45 to 50 staffers had lost their lives due to Covid-19. The CII chief said there were two types of businesses that have taken a hit in the wake of Covid-19 and one category could be rescued. Some, he suggested, were suffering “transitory pain and are likely to come out of it post-pandemic.” The second category of businesses, Kotak suggested, may not be possible to revive because they are facing a “structural challenge because Covid has changed the business model to the extent that these businesses may not be viable in the future.” He said Kotak has not implemented any layoffs or pay cuts this year and was going ahead with annual increments for employees. “The employee balance sheet is more important than the financial balance sheet,” he said, adding employees were now working from home. Employees were only being allowed to leave home for work in districts where the positivity rate was below 10 per cent. As far as the delayed rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, Kotak didn’t criticise the government. But he said it was “crucial” that the vaccine supply be increased. “There is one thing we learn when we run our companies is to make things happen,” he said. As far as a potential third Covid-19 wave, Kotak said it was vital to prepare in advance to ensure enough supplies of medical oxygen, hospital beds and drugs. “Our planning has to be for (case) peaks. It cannot be for averages.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd announces final dividend of Rs 58 per share||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Wednesday declared a record Rs 12,581-crore dividend, more than half of which will go to the government, ahead 
of the privatisation of the company. In a regulatory filing, BPCL said its “board of directors has recommended a final dividend of Rs 58 per equity share (including one-time special dividend of Rs 35 per equity share of Rs 10 each) for the financial year ended March 2021, subject to the approval of the shareholders”. The dividend works out to Rs 12,581.66 crore, including a special dividend of Rs 7,592.38 crore. The government, which is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, will get Rs 6,665.76-crore plus dividend distribution tax. During the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, BPCL posted a standalone net profit of Rs 11,940.13 crore compared with a loss of Rs 1,361 crore in the same period a year ago. The dividend declared is in addition to the interim dividend of Rs 21 per share paid earlier in the fiscal. Expectations that the privatisation candidate would announce a high payout rose after it announced the sale of its stake in the Numaligarh refinery to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India Ltd for Rs 9,876 crore. The corporation also liquidated around Rs 5,500 crore of treasury shares. After it had acquired Oman Oil’s nearly 37 per cent stake in Bina refinery, the net cash following these transactions was estimated at over Rs 13,000 crore.In March, the oil refiner had paid an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share which fell short of market expectations. Berger profit doubles Berger Paints’ consolidated net profit more than doubled to Rs 208.60 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 on account of higher revenue from operations.
It had reported a net profit of Rs 103.18 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations in the quarter under review was higher at Rs 2,026.09 crore against Rs 1,354.84 crore in the year-ago period, Berger Paints said in a BSE filing. 
The company's board has recommended a dividend of Rs 2.80 per equity share for 2020-21, subject to approval of shareholders. 
Shares of Berger Paints India settled 1.66 per cent higher at Rs 833.20 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Ford Motor Co outlines plans to boost spending on electrification efforts||Ford Motor Co on Wednesday outlined plans to boost spending on its electrification efforts by more than a third and said it aims to have 40 per cent of its global volume in all electric by 2030 in a move to have investors value it more like a technology company. Under a plan dubbed “Ford+,” the No. 2 US auto maker said it now expects to spend more than $30 billion on electrification, including battery development, by 2030, up from its prior target of $22 billion. It has launched the all-electric Mustang Mach-E crossover, and plans to introduce electric versions of the Transit van and F-150 pickup. Royal Enfield Eicher Motors-owned Royal Enfield will shut its three south Indian manufacturing plants for three days to ensure safety amid rising Covid-19 cases, according to an internal note seen by Reuters and two sources. Royal Enfield, the world’s biggest motorbike market, will shut its three manufacturing plants from May 27 to May 29, according to an internal note to workers. “We will resume operations from Monday, May 31,” the internal note signed by Royal Enfield chief operating officer B. Govindarajan said. Kia scheme Kia India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kia Corporation, has rolled out the ‘Satisfaction Guarantee Scheme’ offer for new buyers of its seven-seater MPV — Carnival. Owners of the car can return the vehicle if they are not pleased with the car within the first 30 days of its purchase. Eligible customers need to ensure that the vehicle has clocked not more than 1,500 kilometers from the purchase date and is completely free of damages to be able to return the car. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Infosys CEO Salil Parekh pay package rose almost 45 per cent||Infosys CEO Salil Parekh’s pay package rose almost 45 per cent to Rs 49.68 crore in 2020-21 — a year the IT services firm posted an industry-leading growth rate as clients preferred digital and cloud-based services during the pandemic. Parekh earned Rs 34.27 crore in the previous financial year. According to the annual report of Infosys for 2020-21, while his base salary was Rs 5.69 crore, the retiral benefits came to Rs 38 lakh, resulting in a total fixed salary of Rs 6.07 crore. His bonus incentives or variable pay came to Rs 12.62 crore and ‘perquisites on account of stock options exercised’ stood at Rs 30.99 crore. However, the disparity between the CEO’s pay and median remuneration of employees (MRE) widened during the year even as the rate of growth of the median salary dipped. The MRE at Infosys stood at Rs 7,21,314 crore in 2020-21, an increase of 5.62 per cent over the MRE of Rs 682,906 crore in 2019-20. However, in 2019-20, the year-on-year increase in MRE was 10 per cent, which indicates that the median salary growth rate fell in 2020-21. The ratio of Parekh’s salary to MRE in 2020-21 stood at 689, up from a ratio of 502 in the previous fiscal. Like in the previous year, Infosys chairman Nandan M. Nilekani voluntarily chose not to receive any remuneration for his services. During the year, chief operating officer U.B. Pravin Rao earned Rs 17.33 crore and the percentage increase in his remuneration during the year was 63 per cent. Infosys will hold its annual general meeting on June 19. In their note to Infosys shareholders, both Nilekani and Parekh expressed optimism about the growth prospects in the current fiscal. According to Nilekani while Infosys has delivered industry-leading growth, it is in “pole position for another year” of stellar performance as the company starts looking at the post-pandemic and post-cloud era. He added that the Bangalore-based firm has done several different things that has enabled it to be a market leader at a time when several “veterans” around them have struggled. “First and foremost, under our CEO, Salil Parekh, ably supported by the global senior leadership, Infosys has transformed into a very client-focused company. “Our stable and motivated leadership is working quietly and without fuss to ensure Infosys is the partner of choice for the world’s top companies as they navigate in these uncertain and rapidly changing times. This has led to unprecedented transformational large deals,’’ he said. Nilekani added that Infosys is also investing in designing and developing the right solutions required for accelerating digital transformation. The pro-active steps that the firm has taken over the last three and a half years has enabled it to set the narrative for the global digital services and consulting industry, he said. Parekh pointed out that clients of Infosys have been expanding their work with the company, particularly in the areas of digital and cloud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||State ministerial panel to look into possibility of levying GST in sectors like pan-masala, gutkha, and brick kilns ||A state ministerial panel will look into the possibility of levying GST in evasion prone sectors such as pan-masala, gutkha, and brick kilns on the basis of their manufacturing capacity. The seven-member Group of Ministers (GoM) under Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari will also examine charging GST on a reverse charge basis on mentha oil and other supplies to such sectors to check evasion. The GoM on ‘capacity based taxation and special composition scheme in certain sectors in GST’ will submit its report to the GST Council within six months. It will also look into any other administrative or systemic mechanism to plug leakages in these sectors Panel to evaluate casinos, online gaming portals The government has set up a panel of state ministers for better valuation of services of casinos, online gaming portals and race courses for levying GST. The seven-member panel, convened by Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, will also examine whether any change is required in the legal provision for better means of valuation of these services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority rule clarity for NPS sponsors||The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority of India has further streamlined the regulations for the eligibility criteria of fund managers of the National Pension Scheme, bringing in clarity on the net worth and the minimum capital requirement. According to the original Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Pension Fund) Regulations 2015, clause 8(1)(c), sponsors, either individually or jointly, need to have a positive tangible net worth of at least Rs 25 crore on the last day of each of the preceding five financial years. This clause was amended in February 2020 whereby the sponsors, either individually or jointly, were required to have a positive tangible net worth of at least Rs 50 crore on the last day of each of the preceding five financial years, out of which at least Rs 25 crore should be the capital. But the amendment was not clear about the nature of the capital. This was subsequently clarified through a notification published on Tuesday whereby of the minimum positive tangible net worth of Rs 50 crore, the regulations now state that at least Rs 25 crore should be the paid-up equity capital on the date of making the application as a sponsor. “Initially, the sponsor was only required to comply with the net worth criteria of at least Rs 50 crore which, in accordance with the amendment mandated that Rs 25 crore out of such Rs 50 crore of net worth should constitute the capital of such sponsor. “The criteria has been further amended to provide that the capital requirement of Rs 25 crore should be the paid-up equity capital and not any other form of capital on the date of making application as sponsor,” said Suresh Surana, founder, RSM India. “It is to be noted that the notification dated  May 25, 2021, provides for the aforementioned clause to substitute sub-clause (d) which provides for profit criteria and not sub-clause (c) which actually deals with the net worth and capital requirement. On an apparent basis, this may appear to be a clerical error to many people and a corrigendum providing clarification may be expected from the government,” he added. More players At present, there are seven pension fund managers for NPS and industry sources said that at least two more private players are evaluating the eligibility criteria of the PFRDA. “Today, we have over 40 mutual funds and 27 private sector general insurance companies. There is a need for more participation in NPS. But the regulator has to ensure only serious players come into the industry,” said an industry source. As on April 30, 2021, the assets under management in NPS is Rs 5,73,717.16 crore, covering a base of 1,45,04,489 subscribers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das asks private sector banks to implement RBI measures||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has asked private sector banks to implement the various measures announced by the central bank on May 5 as it looks to push credit growth to the needy sectors amid a cut in growth forecasts for the domestic economy. On Tuesday, Das held a meeting with select chiefs of private sector banks where he also asked them to continue focusing on efforts to further strengthen their balance sheets proactively. Some of the other issues that were discussed included the current economic situation, credit flows to MSMEs, the liquidity scenario and monetary policy transmission. However, a key highlight of the meeting was to “quickly and swiftly implement” the measures which it had announced more than a fortnight ago to shield the domestic economy from the adverse effects of the second wave of Covid-19. Among them is the creation of a ‘Covid loan book’ where it has opened an on-tap liquidity window of Rs 50,000 crore with tenors of up to three years at the repo rate till March 31, 2022. Under the scheme, banks can provide fresh lending support to various entities, including vaccine manufacturers, importers/suppliers of vaccines and priority medical devices, hospitals or dispensaries, pathology labs, manufacturers and suppliers of oxygen and ventilators, importers of vaccines and Covid-related drugs apart from logistics firms and even patients for treatment. While the SBI has already announced plans to create a Rs 10,000-crore book in this regard, the RBI is keen that private sector banks must also use the opportunity. This comes particularly after its efforts to push lending by small finance banks (SFBs) through an special long term repo operations (SLTRO) got a very poor reaction from these niche lenders on May 17. The SLTRO was also announced on May 5 as part of a step to provide further support to small business units, micro and small industries, and other unorganised sector entities hit by the pandemic. The RBI had said that it will conduct special three-year SLTRO of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for SFBs, to be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. While this facility will be available till October 31, 2021 (with one auction being held each month), the first auction on May 17 saw these banks borrowing only Rs 400 crore against Rs 10,000 crore allocated. The unutilised portion will now be carried forward to a subsequent auction. Meanwhile, a report in BloombergQuint said that during the meeting, the chiefs of private sector banks, pitched for a limited moratorium of payments and a wider window to restructure dues. They also requested that the RBI allow banks to offer a moratorium on payments between April and June. According to the bankers, this will ensure that the borrowers who were unable to pay their dues since April, because of the second wave, are not classified as non-performing assets by June 30. They also wanted the two-year moratorium granted under the one-time restructuring scheme be extended to three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling says overseas liasion offices should come under GST net||The Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling has said overseas liasion offices should come under the GST net, which is contrary to the stand taken by its counterparts in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The case relates to the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry which has set up an office, DCCI UAE, in Mumbai. The entity claims to be a non-profit organisation promoting the interests of Dubai businesses. The Maharashtra AAR has questioned this non-profit status . “There is definitely a supply of services by the applicant to various businesses in India and Dubai and such supply is done by the applicant as an intermediary,” its order said. In October, the Karnataka AAR said there was no “taxable supply” and the liasion office need not get a GST registration certificate. Abhishek Jain, tax Partner, EY, said: “Such contrary judgments add to the confusion  and further warrants creation of a Central Advance Ruling authority. It’s worth noting here that while the Maharashtra AAR distinguishes the earlier judgments on facts, it also adds to the dilemma as to what activities of liaison office are outside GST purview and what are not, and as such the government can consider providing explicit clarity on this topic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||GST Council  meeting to discuss compensation shortfall for 2021-22 ||The GST Council  meeting on Friday will discuss the contentious issue of compensation shortfall for 2021-22 with the Centre and the states preparing for another showdown over how it should be repaid. Sources said the Centre may borrow again this fiscal to meet the shortfall and this would be in addition to over Rs 12 lakh crore budgeted this year to bridge the fiscal deficit. The expected shortfall is likely to be about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. However, even this is likely to be subject to discussion on how much can be attributed to Covid and how much to economic slowdown. Last year, the Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore. However, it might be hard to do that this year as the govt is expected to raise its own borrowings and the RBI is planning more bond auctions to provide funds to banks and MFIs. Even as the GST receipts have come in at more than Rs one lakh crore each month for seven successive months till April, it is likely to slow down amid lockdowns implemented by most states to curb the spread of the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Koo raises $30 million in Series B funding||Microblogging app Koo has raised $30 million, or Rs 218 crore, in Series B funding, led by Tiger Global. Existing investors Accel Partners, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator also took part in the latest round of fund-raising, a statement from the Twitter rival said on Wednesday. IIFL and Mirae Assets are the other new investors who came on board in the new round. The announcement comes just two days after the Delhi police visited the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon, after the latter labelled as “manipulated media” a post by BJP leader Sambit Patra with regard to an alleged toolkit by the Congress party on Covid. It also comes amid new IT intermediary rules taking effect, translating into greater accountability and scrutiny for social media companies, including Twitter and Facebook. Koo has around 60 lakh users. Last week, Koo had said that it has complied with the requirements of the new rules and its privacy policy, terms of use and community guidelines now reflect the changes. The fresh round of funding would be used mainly to strengthen engineering, product and community efforts across all Indian languages at Koo. “We have aggressive plans to grow into one of the world’s largest social media platforms in the next few years. Every Indian is cheering for us to get there soon…Tiger Global is the right partner to have on board to realise this dream,” Aprameya Radhakrishna, co-founder and CEO of Koo, said. Koo was founded by serial entrepreneurs Aprameya Radhakrishna, founder of TaxiForSure, and Mayank Bidawatka, who previously founded companies like MediaAnt and Goodbox. It has seen a massive growth in its user base over the past few months after Union ministers and government departments endorsed the homegrown microblogging platform, following a spat with Twitter. While Tiger Global’s well known investments include Flipkart, Ola, Razorpay, it has also backed ShareChat, Gupshup and fintech app Cred among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp moves Delhi High court challenging Centre’s new IT rules||The stage is set for a battle royale between the government of India and the social media giants with WhatsApp moving the Delhi high court challenging the Centre’s new IT rules that require the messaging app to “trace” chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information. With the rules taking effect from Wednesday and no sign of compliance from the social media giants, India’s IT ministry has asked the large social media platforms to immediately report the status of appointments of key personnel under the new rules. So far, only Facebook has said it would comply with the new rules but did not give any date on meeting its obligations. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 directs intermediary platforms to put in place provisions to ensure “identification of the first originator of the information”. WhatsApp — which moved court at the last moment on Tuesday, the day before the rules come into effect — has argued that the provision is unconstitutional and against people’s fundamental right to privacy which has been upheld by a Supreme Court decision. WhatsApp also submitted that the provision goes against the concept of end-to-end encryption as it would force private companies to collect and store “who-said-what and who-shared-what” data for billions of messages daily just for the requirement of law enforcement agencies. The law requires WhatsApp to unmask only people credibly accused of wrongdoing. But the company says it cannot do that alone in practice since messages are end-to-end encrypted. To comply with the law, WhatsApp says it would have to break encryption for receivers as well as “originators” of messages. It has asked the Delhi High Court to declare the first originator identification provision as unconstitutional. The Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code, promulgated by the ministry of information technology, says “significant social media intermediaries” could stand to lose their protection from lawsuits and criminal prosecution if they fail to adhere to the code. The government on Wednesday said it respects the right to privacy and the requirement of tracing origin of flagged messages under the new IT rules is for prevention and investigation of “very serious offences” related to the sovereignty of India or public order. In a statement, the IT ministry termed WhatsApp’s  challenge to the intermediary guidelines as an unfortunate attempt to prevent norms from coming into effect. The UK, US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception, it said, adding, “What India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “It is interesting that a service provider who was thrusting on amending its privacy policy down the throats of Indian users without respecting their privacy, is today shooting from the shoulders of the same users agitating that the new IT rules violate their privacy”. “Till such time, the court of law does not set aside or stay the operations, these rules will have to be complied with by all intermediaries. It is also a high time that India needs to give a solid message of deterrence. India should not allow commercial exploitation of its market by social media platforms, who do not wish to comply with the Indian law.” Karnika Seth, who also specialises in cyber law,  said a data protection law is mandatory. The current IT Act does not have robust enough provisions to take express consent from consumers on what data is taken and how it will be processed. “The government should also have reasonable suspicious material or basis to ask for traceability or origin of a message. Only where there is a justifiable legal basis can tracing origin of a message be called into question and investigated according to the due process of law,” she said. WhatsApp, which has over 400 million users in India, was acquired by Facebook in February 2014 from Jan Koum and Brian Acton for $19 billion. “It's going to be an interesting balancing act between the conflicting interests of the govt , whatsapp and the public at large. Some of the requirments are quite fair, however, right to privacy also cannot be taken lightly,” Vaibhav Gaggar, Senior Partner, Gaggar & Partners. Puneet  Bhasin, cyber law expert,  said “in the absence of data protection law in the country, it would be interesting to see how the courts interpret right to privacy.” Internet freedom activist Nikhil Pahwa said “for WhatsApp to enable identifying  originator of even one message, it would mean that they have to rearchitect the entire platform. This potentially compromises all its users .  The court will have to decide if it is proportionate to violate the privacy of everyone to identify one sender of a message.  It's not proportionate. Of course, in all of this,  government is being coy and saying, "We're not asking you to break end to end encryption", knowing fully well that that's the only way this can be implemented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
