28-05-2021||Business||GST on Covid-19 vaccines remain unchanged after meet||The GST Council on Friday left taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged but exempted duty on import of a medicine used for treatment of black fungus. A group of ministers will deliberate on tax structure on the vaccine and medical supplies, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters after a meeting of the GST Council. The GST Council, which is headed by the Union Finance Minister and comprises representatives of all states and union territories, exempted levy of I-GST on import of Amphotericin-B, which is used for the treatment of black fungus. Currently, vaccines attract 5 per cent GST. Sitharaman said the Council decided to continue a waiver of I-GST on free COVID-19 related supplies imported from abroad. Also, the panel decided that the Centre will borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to the states to make up for the shortfall in their revenues from the implementation of the GST. A special session of the Council will be held soon to consider extending the five-year GST shortfall compensation period to states beyond 2022. The panel provided relief to small GST taxpayers through an amnesty scheme for late return filers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Tata Digital acquires majority stake in Bigbasket||Tata Digital Ltd has acquired a majority stake in online grocery platform Bigbasket. Tata Digital is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Tata Sons. "Grocery is one of the largest components of an individual's consumption basket in India, and Bigbasket as India's largest e-grocery player, fits in perfectly with our vision of creating a large consumer digital ecosystem. We are delighted to welcome Bigbasket as a part of the Tata Digital," Pratik Pal, CEO of Tata Digital, said in a statement on Friday. Specific details about the deal were not disclosed. E-grocery has been one of the fastest growing segments in the consumer e-commerce space and its growth is propelled with India's rising consumption and digital penetration. The current pandemic has further accelerated its adoption as consumers seek the convenience of ordering quality groceries to be delivered safely at home. Bigbasket was founded in 2011 in Bangalore and has expanded its presence to more than 25 cities. "We are extremely excited about our future as a part of Tata Group. As a part of the Tata ecosystem we would be able to build stronger consumer connect and accelerate our journey," Hari Menon, CEO of Bigbasket, said. According to the statement, Tata Group is building a digital consumer ecosystem addressing consumer needs across categories in a unified manner, and online food and grocery is an important part of this ecosystem. This acquisition presents an attractive opportunity for Tata Group in its overall vision of creating a digital ecosystem, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 308 points to close above 51,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 308 points and NSE Nifty hit a fresh record on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank amid positive cues from global markets.

Further, decline in daily COVID-19 caseload too bolstered investor sentiment, analysts said.

The 30-share BSE index ended 307.66 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,422.88. The broader NSE Nifty surged 97.80 points or 0.64 per cent to close at its fresh peak of 15,435.65.

Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 6 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank, ITC and Bharti Airtel.

On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.

"Domestic equities remained upbeat and recorded fresh high as improved prospects of economy recovery and strong 4QFY21 earnings continued to bolster investors' sentiments. A strong rebound in Reliance Industries was a key driving force," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Sustained market rally added over Rs 3 trillion in investors' wealth this week, with the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies crossing the landmark USD 3 trillion during the week, he noted.

Further, a sharp drop in daily COVID-19 caseload in second wave (remaining below 2 lakhs despite higher testing) and improvement in recovery rates have emboldened investors in the last couple of days, he said.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red.

Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 69.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive cues from global markets.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 306.57 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,421.79, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 101.15 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,439.

ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 3 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank.

On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, M&M, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 97.70 points or 0.19 per cent higher at 51,115.22, and Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,337.85.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 660.90 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.

According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the best news for the economy and markets is coming from the COVID data which has shown a dip in fresh cases to 1.75 lakhs during the last 24 hours.

"This will certainly pave the way for the progressive removal of restrictions on economic activity," he said.

Global cues are positive with the US economy showing a rise in jobs indicating sharp economic recovery.

Equities on Wall Street largely ended with gains in the overnight session.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 69.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Mehul Choksi lawyer suggests so-called escape might not have been 'voluntary'||The disappearance of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi from Antigua and his subsequent arrest in neighbouring Dominica has stirred controversy after his lawyer in Mumbai suggested that his so-called escape might not have been “voluntary”. The loaded statement came after reports from Antigua said Gaston Browne, Prime Minister of the Caribbean island where Choksi had sought refuge in early 2018, had asked the Dominican authorities to extradite the diamantaire to India rather than send him back to Antigua. Late tonight, reports emanating from Roseau, the capital of Dominica, said the authorities there had decided to deport Choksi to Antigua. Choksi, who is one of the prime accused in the Rs 14,000-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, had obtained citizenship in Antigua and Barbuda in November 2017 — a couple of months before he disappeared from Mumbai. He was last seen on Sunday while out for dinner. Family members reported him missing after his car was found abandoned near Jolly Harbour which has a large marina and is popular with expatriates. On Tuesday night, police in Dominica captured him in Toucari Beach, a small fishing village located in the northwestern coast of the island. The arrest was apparently made on an Interpol Yellow notice issued by Antigua and Barbuda. But there was no sign of the notice on the Interpol website which does, however, carry a red notice against Choksi issued by India that was possibly issued in 2018. Browne claimed Dominica had agreed to his repatriation. “We’ll not accept him back. He made a monumental error by skipping the island.” “Browne indicated that Choksi would enjoy certain legal and constitutional protection in Antigua and Barbuda as an Antiguan citizen ... it would be easy for Dominican authorities to repatriate him directly to India,” said a report in the dominicannewsonline.com. The reports had raised suspicions that authorities in India and the two Caribbean nations had conspired to carry out a clandestine operation to bring Choksi back to India — a ploy that will help restore the Modi government’s battered image and deflect attention from its miserable failure to deal with the pandemic. Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer in Mumbai, said there was something “fishy” about the manner in which the fugitive had reached Dominica, an island 188 kilometres away from Antigua by boat. “There should be no speculation till one finds out from Mehul Choksi how he landed up in Dominica...my understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So I find something fishy that nobody seems to be looking into,” he said. Aggarwal said Choksi cannot be deported to India as he is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda. “As per Indian Citizenship Act Section 9, the moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua he ceased to be a citizen of India. Legally, he can be deported only to Antigua,” he said. Aggarwal said the Antiguan high court had issued an order restraining any request from India to extradite him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Google, Jio affordable smartphone initiative underway||Google CEO Sundar Pichai on Thursday said the company continues to engage closely with partner Jio on the initiative of building an affordable smartphone and that work is underway on the project. Last year, Google had picked up a 7.7 per cent stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 33,737 crore. It had also entered into a commercial agreement with Jio Platforms to jointly develop an entry-level, affordable smartphone. “We are focused on building an affordable phone... we are committed to making progress on the project and we are working with them (Jio),” Pichai said in a virtual conference with select reporters from Asia Pacific. He, however, did not divulge other details, including possible launch date and pricing. Availability of affordable devices, along with cheap data rates can help bring the internet within reach for more people across the country. Google’s investment in Jio Platforms was part of ‘Google for India Digitisation Fund’ that was announced last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sun Pharma reports over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Thursday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 894.15 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, mainly on account of a robust performance in the Indian market. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 399.84 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, Sun Pharma said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 8,522.98 crore for the quarter under consideration compared with Rs 8,184.94 crore in the same period a year ago. The full year consolidated profits were, however, down 22.87 per cent at Rs 2,903.82 crore from Rs 3,764.93 crore a year ago. Wockhardt loss Drug firm Wockhardt on Thursday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 106.84 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 68.51 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. The consolidated total income of the company for the reporting quarter stood at Rs 639.50 crore, down from Rs 700.66 crore in the same period a year ago. For the financial year ended March this year, the company posted a net profit of Rs 688.60 crore against a loss of Rs 43.39 crore in 2019-20. Cadila show Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Thursday reported a 73.5 per cent rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 679 crore for the March quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 391.9 crore a year ago. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 3,846.7 crore compared with Rs 3,752 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Uco Bank board of directors approve capital raising plan of Rs 3,000 crore||Uco Bank on Thursday said that its board of directors has approved a capital raising plan of Rs 3,000 crore for 2021-22. The bank posted a net profit of Rs 80.03 crore for the fourth quarter ended March  2021 against a net profit of Rs 16.78 crore a year ago. The bank has seen an improvement in the net interest income along with lower provisions for stressed assets during the quarter under review. The net interest income of the city-based lender for the March quarter was Rs 1,412.61 crore against Rs 1,254.51 crore, a year-on-year growth of 12.60 per cent. The bank said that this is the highest net interest income in the last 22 quarters. Total income was up 9.43 per cent to Rs 4,936.75 crore, aided by a 78.26 per cent growth in non-interest income. The asset quality  has improved with the gross non-performing assets as a proportion of advances falling to 9.59 per cent during the quarter against 16.77 per cent a year ago. Provisions for non-performing assets were also lower at Rs 769.81 crore against Rs 1,089.26 crore a year ago. Net non-performing assets also improved to 3.94 per cent during the quarter against 5.45 per cent a year ago. Provisions for non-performing assets were also lower at Rs 769.81 crore against Rs 1089.26 crore a year ago which along with a lower provision for taxes aided the growth in bottom-line. Provision coverage ratio of the bank as of March 31, 2021 was 88.40 per cent against 85.46 per cent as of March 31, 2020 The bank’s capital adequacy ratio improved to 13.74 per cent as of the quarter ended March 31, 2021 from 11.70 per cent in the corresponding year ago quarter. In its regulatory disclosure the bank has said that it has received Rs 2600 crore capital infusion from the centre. Government holds a stake of 94.44 per cent in the bank. UCO Bank scrips at Rs 13.15 were up 1.39 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Paytm to come out with initial public offer worth $3 billion||Digital payments giant Paytm plans to come out with an initial public offer worth $3 billion later this year, according to sources. The proposed flotation, if successful, would be the largest such offer beating Coal India’s Rs 15,200 crore-IPO in 2010, which is the country’s largest till date. The SoftBank and Alibaba-backed company is looking at raising about $3 billion (over Rs 21,700 crore) at a valuation of well over $25 billion, the sources privy to the development said. The fintech major’s board is expected to meet on Friday to discuss the IPO proposal, they added. Paytm declined to comment on the matter. A number of young businesses in the country, including Policybazaar, Nykaa, Delhivery and MobiKwik, are also reportedly firming up plans to launch their IPOs. In April, food delivery platform Zomato filed preliminary papers for an IPO with capital market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 8,250 crore. Paytm — which is locked in an intense competition with Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe and others in the digital payments space in India — had raised $1 billion (over Rs 7,000 crore) in November 2019 from US-based asset management firm T Rowe Price and existing investors, including SoftBank and Alibaba. At that time, the company was valued at $16 billion. The Noida-based firm, which had an astonishing rise after demonetisation in 2016, is betting on financial services, commerce and payments as three key focus areas. Fintech firms have continued to witness a strong growth in the Indian market over the past few years, especially amid the pandemic, as people turned to digital platforms. Pharma floats Five pharma and life sciences  companies have firmed up plans to tap the equity markets through IPOs over the next few months, according to investment bankers. These are Glenmark Lifesciences, bulk drugs firm Supriya Lifesciences, drug formulations firm Windlass Biotech, Bain Capital-backed Emcure Pharma and CX Partners-funded Veeda Clinical Research. PTI  Amidst the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and with many fearing a third wave, the healthcare sector is in the limelight for the second consecutive year as several pharma and life sciences companies are lined up to tap the equity markets through IPOs over the next few months, according to investment bankers. According to investment-bankers, they are planning to mop up over Rs 7,000 crore in primary share sales. While the IPO street was the busiest in FY'21 with the best ever performance after the pandemic scare had ebbed, pharma stocks have been one of the best performers throughout the year when Sensex and Nifty scaled new highs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||GST Council to take a call on removing anomaly of inverted duty structures||The GST Council at its meeting on Friday is expected to take a call on removing the anomaly of inverted duty structures for footwear, textiles and the fertiliser sector. Sources said this is a long pending issue and hopefully would be addressed. The businesses involved in these sectors are unable to claim input-tax credit because of higher levies on raw materials compared with finished goods. Inverted duty structure is a situation in which inputs are taxed at a higher rate than finished goods. The textile sector uses a variety of components with different rates. The council could consider the proposal of doing away with the dual rate on readymade garment and made-ups and be placed at a uniform rate of 12 per cent. For footwear, the council had earlier lowered GST to 5 per cent on items worth up to Rs 1,000, while those above this value attract 18 per cent duty. However, inputs used by the sector attract a GST rate in the range of 5-18 per cent. The rate on chemical fertilisers is at 5 per cent, while inputs are taxed at 12 per cent. The committee of officers set up to help augment revenue had suggested several measures to remove anomalies such as the inverted duty structure. The other issues that the council is likely to take up include a tax cut on medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and testing kits, and an amnesty scheme for the late filing of the GSTR-3B returns. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder & managing partner, DVS Advisors LLP said “with the revenue expected to decline due to the lockdown & second wave of the ongoing pandemic, the mode of compensation for states for the shortfall is expected to take centre stage. Even last time, there was a lot of confrontation between the states and the Centre on this subject and it finally got resolved. This time as well it is expected to be no different.” Sources said the Centre may borrow again this fiscal to meet the shortfall and this would be in addition to over Rs 12 lakh crore budgeted this year to bridge the fiscal deficit gap.  The expected shortfall is about Rs 1.6 lakh crore -- but even this is likely to be subject to discussion on how much can be attributed to the Covid and how much to the economic slowdown. “Further, the issue of GST on Covid vaccine and treatment equipment such as oxygen concentrators, are expected to be discussed further, in spite of the Government announcing various interim measures. The issue of GST on free supply of vaccines by corporates to its employees is also expected to be discussed in addition to the long pending issues of inverted duty, reduction of GST on two-wheelers, and bringing in petroleum products within the ambit of GST. However, the priority would be on compensation for the States and Covid related issues," Divakar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Uday Kotak asks RBI and govt to print more money||Leading banker Uday Kotak has asked both the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government of India to print more money to help the country tide over the  debilitating effects of the pandemic. Kotak, who is the CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, made these comments in an interview with NDTV. He suggested that the Centre spend up to 1 per cent of the country’s GDP for direct cash transfer to the poor as such a move will strengthen consumption at the bottom of the pyramid. “In my view, this is the time to expand the balance sheet of the government, duly supported by the RBI... for monetary expansion or printing of money. Time has come for us to be doing some of that... If not now, when?’’ he said in the interview. His comments come at a time the second wave of the pandemic has led to job losses and hit people’s mobility as various states have announced lockdowns. This has led to economists lowering their growth estimate for the Indian economy in this year. The RBI expects the real GDP growth to come at 10.5 per cent in this fiscal. The central bank had announced a slew of measures on May 6 to help the economy among which was a G-Sec Acquisition Programme or G-SAP 1.0 wherein it will purchase Rs 1 trillion of government securities every quarter. It has already purchased bonds worth Rs 60,000 crore in two tranches since then. Therefore, if the RBI were to accept his suggestion, it may choose to widen the size of the bond purchase programme. This comes amid speculation that the Centre may expand its first half borrowing programme, which is currently at Rs 7.24 lakh crore. According to the RBI annual report of 2020-21, it undertook several conventional and unconventional measures during the year to ensure ample system-level liquidity as well as targeted liquidity to support vulnerable sectors, institutions and financial instruments. As a result, interest rates eased across the spectrum, and conducive financial conditions prevailed. The central bank added that this enabled the orderly completion of the enhanced government borrowing programme at a 17-year low weighted average cost of borrowing. Of late, the central bank has also been successful in keeping a lid on G-Sec yields with the benchmark 10 year security trading currently at 5.98 per cent. While Kotak did not dwelve on whether his suggestion would be inflationary, the RBI continues to be cautious in this regard. Its annual report said that the inflation trajectory is likely to be subject to both upside and downside pressures. The RBI has forecast that CPI inflation is expected to average 5 per cent during 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Jump in forex transactions behind RBI transfer of Rs 1 lakh crore surplus to Centre||The RBI could transfer nearly Rs 1 lakh crore as surplus to the Centre because of a 69 per cent jump in income from foreign exchange transactions . During the nine month period ended March 31, 2021, the RBI’s “exchange gain/loss” from foreign exchange transactions rose to Rs 50,629.18 crore from Rs 29,993.22 crore in the previous fiscal. A key factor behind this large gain was the change in the accounting method: from 2018-19, the RBI has been valuing its foreign exchange transactions on the basis of a long-period weighted average cost method. Earlier, it used to value them every week, which resulted in narrow gains or losses. The surplus transfer of Rs 99,122 crore marks a 73.5 per cent increase over the Rs 57,128 crore given last year and is the highest after 2018-19 when the RBI gave a record payout of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. The RBI’s annual report for 2021-22 which showed the size of its balance sheet increase almost 7 per cent from Rs 53.3 lakh crore as on June 30, 2020 to Rs 57 lakh crore as on March 31, 2021. Its earnings come from interest earned on bond holdings, purchase and sale of government securities and from its transactions in the forex market. Part of these earnings are set aside for its operational and contingency needs, while the rest is transferred to the government in the form of a dividend. Expenditure dip During the year, the RBI’s income decreased by 10.96 per cent, while expenditure fell even more by 72 per cent. The RBI also transferred a lower sum to its contingency fund, a specific provision to meet unexpected and unforeseen events. The apex bank  moved Rs 20,710.12 crore to the fund  against Rs 73,615 crore in the previous year, enabling it to transfer a larger sum to the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Covid second wave triggers revision of growth projections: RBI annual report||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said the economic costs of the second Covid wave can be limited to the first quarter of this fiscal with possible spillovers in July. In its annual report, the apex bank said the current round of infections has triggered a revision of growth projections with the consensus gravitating towards its own forecast of 10.5 per cent for 2020-21. According to the RBI, the government should utilise the limited window — till the arrival of the next wave of the coronavirus  — to establish strict pandemic protocols and logistics. The Centre should ramp up vaccine production and medical supplies. The government should fill gaps in the health infrastructure and build up stocks, particularly of vaccines. The RBI, however, admitted that losses in terms of lives, employment and output are likely to be adverse and long-lasting. Countries which are vaccinating rapidly and widely are flattening the infection curve and may lead the global recovery. The annual report said private investment needs to be rekindled to create backward and forward linkages among the various sectors that would prepare the ground for a durable investment-driven economy. “Going forward, as growth revives and the economy gets back on track, it is important for the government to adhere to a clear exit strategy and build fiscal buffers, which can be tapped into in events of future shocks to growth,” the RBI said. The report expects the Centre to stick to its commitment to pare the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2026. However, the pandemic may induce states to borrow more to provide counter-cyclical support in order to deal with the second wave. It said the high frequency indicators present a mixed picture in April and early May. While mobility and sentiment indicators have moderated, several activity indicators have shown resilience. What to expect The RBI said monetary policy  would be guided by the  macroeconomic conditions, with a bias to remain supportive of growth till it gains traction while ensuring inflation remains within the target. On its regulatory and supervisory steps, the report disclosed that several measures are on the anvil during 2021-22, including a review of the rules  applicable to all the regulated entities engaged in microfinance, guidelines on dividend distribution by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and scale-based regulation for them. Further, steps would also be taken to strengthen the on-site assessment of oversight and assurance functions, including risk and compliance culture as also business strategy or models of regulated entities. The annual report said private investment needs to rekindled to create backward and forward linkages among the various sectors that would prepare the ground for a durable investment-driven economy. According to the RBI, the impact and duration of the second wave is the biggest risk to its forecast of 10.5 per cent growth this fiscal. The upsides to growth will  come from the capex push by the government, rising capacity utilisation and the turnaround in capital goods imports. It said the high frequency indicators present a mixed picture in April and early May. While mobility and sentiment indicators have moderated, several activity indicators have shown resilience. GST collections crossed the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the seventh consecutive month in April, suggesting manufacturing and services production remained on track. But, e-way bills moderated, indicating mobility restrictions and a possible slackening of GST collections in the coming months. Over the past year, industry has suffered deep losses even as windows of opportunity opened out to them in some sectors. While the manufacturing sector suffered the worst contraction, with the brunt of the loss of output concentrated in the first quarter, the services sector is still “wounded”. The deterioration in the major fiscal indicators in 2020-21 may be attributed to the pandemic superimposed on a cyclical slowdown in tax revenues and a counter-pandemic fiscal push through higher government expenditure. “Going forward, as growth revives and economy gets back on track, it is important for the government to adhere to a clear exit strategy and build fiscal buffers, which can be tapped into in events of future shocks to growth," the RBI said. The report expects the Centre to stick to its commitment of paring the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2026. However, the pandemic may induce states to borrow more to provide counter-cyclical support in to deal with the second wave. The RBI said that the conduct of monetary policy in 2021-22 would be guided by evolving macroeconomic conditions, with a bias to remain supportive of growth till it gains traction on a durable basis while ensuring inflation remains within the target. On its regulatory and supervisory steps, the report disclosed that several measures are on the anvil during 2021-22, including a review of the regulations applicable to all the regulated entities engaged in microfinance, guidelines on dividend distribution by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and scale-based regulation for them. Further, steps would also be taken to strengthen the on-site assessment of oversight and assurance functions, including risk and compliance culture as also business strategy or models of regulated entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
