29-05-2021||Business||Petrol price crosses Rs 100-mark in Mumbai||Petrol price on Saturday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Mumbai after the 15th increase in fuel prices this month. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase - 15th this month - took petrol and diesel prices to a fresh all-time high across the country. The price of petrol, which had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol now costs Rs 100.19 a litre in Mumbai and diesel comes for Rs 92.17 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In Delhi, the petrol price rose to Rs 93.94 a litre and diesel to Rs 84.89. This is the 15th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during Assembly elections in states like Bengal. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 104.94 per litre and Rs 97.79 a litre, respectively. In 15 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 3.54 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||DoT allocates spectrum for 5G trials to telecom operators||The telecom department has allotted spectrum for six months to the telecom players for 5G trials even as there is little clarity on spectrum pricing and whether the 26Ghz millimeter wave (mmWave) band, which the operators have been pitching for would be put out on auction. The trials will be conducted at various locations including Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore, Gujarat and Hyderabad. The trials will be spread across six months, including 2 months to procure and set up the equipment. “Telecom operators have been allocated spectrum in the 700 Mhz band, 3.3-3.6 gigahertz (Ghz) band and 24.25-28.5 Ghz band across various locations,” a telecom company official said. On May 4, the department of telecommunications (DoT) had approved applications from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL for the trials without using technologies from Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE. The DoT had approved the trials with equipment from Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and India's Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DoT). Reliance Jio will use its own technology. According to the DoT, 5G technology is expected to deliver ten times faster download speed than 4G and up to three times greater spectrum efficiency. “We hope the government will also look into the industry's call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P.Kochhar, director-general, Cellular Operators Association of India, said. The operators are pressing DoT to move Trai for reserve prices across all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including the 26Ghz and the 3.3-3.6 Ghz bands. In 2018, the Telecom  Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) had set the reserve price for the 5G spectrum in the 3,300-3,600Mhz bands (or 3.3-3.6Ghz band) at Rs 492 crore per Mhz. The suggestions were accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT, in the following year. The band has not been put up for auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia, ICICI Lombard set up 58-bed dedicated Covid care centre in New Town||Ambuja Neotia and ICICI Lombard on Friday announced the opening of Vinod Neotia Covid Care Centre — a 58-bed Covid care facility in New Town. Located adjacent to Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, this facility is set to start operations from Friday. ICICI Lombard has provided the medical equipment to the centre, which comprises 48 oxygen-aided beds for mild or moderately affected Covid-19 patients and 10 high dependency unit (HDU) beds. The centre will provide nursing assistance and laboratory support too. Meanwhile, four oxygen generator plants installed by Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) under its CSR activities were inaugurated on Friday by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal. These plants, manufactured by Airox Nigen, Sam Gases and Gaskon, were commissioned in three government hospitals of Haryana. Bosch aid Robert Bosch GmbH has sent more than 500 medical products worth approximately 1 million euros, completely free of charge to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Bosch India has handed over these equipment to NITI Aayog for further distribution. The aid shipment includes 92 ventilators and 438 oxygen concentrators, 10 oxygen cylinders, and other medical supplies such as face masks and glass cannula from major manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Government plans FDI policy tweak to facilitate BPCL privatisation||The government plans to change its foreign direct investment (FDI) rules to allow 100 per cent ownership of state-owned refineries by global players through the automatic route. The move by the government is seen to make the sale-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) more attractive to bidders. According to the existing policy, up to 49 per cent FDI is permissible through the automatic route in the petroleum refining PSUs, without any disinvestment or dilution of domestic equity in them. However, the policy allows for 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining in the private sector. Official sources said “... 100% FDI is already permissible in private sector refining. As BPCL is getting privatised by the government, the same should apply to it as well. DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) will soon clarify this". The sources said several rounds of discussions have taken place among Dipam (Department of Investment and Public Asset Management), Department of Economic Affairs and DPIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Trade), and they have all agreed on the proposal to issue the clarification. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. The expression of interest (EoI) was issued on March 7, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Anand Mahindra to transition to non-executive chairman in November||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Friday announced that Anand Mahindra will transition to the role of non-executive chairman from November 12. Anand Mahindra is currently the executive chairman of the farm equipment & utility vehicles firm. In December 2019, M&M had announced major changes to its leadership roles with effect from April 1, 2020 as part of a succession plan. Under this plan, Anand Mahindra was slated to be a non-executive chairman from April 1, 2020. But after market regulator Sebi postponed the deadline for separation of chairman and managing director roles to April 2022, this plan was deferred. Subsequently, M&M disclosed that after a request made by its governance, nomination and remuneration committee (GNRC) and the board of directors, Anand Mahindra decided to continue as the executive chairman till his original term of appointment as approved by the shareholders of the company-up to November 11, 2021. M&M said in a regulatory filing on Friday that Anand Mahindra will transition to the role of non-executive chairman from November, subject to approval of shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting on August 6. While the shareholders meeting will also approve the remuneration to Anand Mahindra, he will be liable to retire by rotation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Liquor sales down 3.3 per cent in Bengal||Bengal has seen a consistent decline in the sales of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) throughout the four quarters of 2020-21 as a combination of lockdown on account of the Covid pandemic and an excise duty revision affected sales in the state. Data compiled by the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies show total IMFL sales in the country fell 12 per cent to 305 million cases (9 litres each). The share of Bengal in the all-India sales at 10 million cases fell to 3.3 per cent from 4.2 per cent in the previous year. In the early months of the Covid pandemic last year, the state government introduced an additional excise duty of 30 per cent, replacing it with a slab-based structure later in the year that inflated the cost of foreign liquor in the state by 40-90 per cent. Bengal joins the likes of Meghalaya, Pondicherry, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan which reported a consistent decline in sales in contrast to the national trend as per the CIABC data. While liquor sales nationally fell a whopping 42 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, it declined 9 per cent in second quarter and 1 per cent in third quarter before showing a recovery of 6 per cent in fourth quarter. The top five states that aided the recovery in sales were Maharashtra, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Many states showed positive trend through the quarters, and even though most states were unable to fully recover volume lost in the first and second quarters, strong performance in third and fourth quarters reflects fundamental strength in the market. It also confirms that there is no lasting shift against alcoholic beverages in consumption baskets,” said CIABC director general Vinod Giri. He added that the industry was concerned that sales did  not pick up in some of the states, contrary to the national trend. “The inclination of some state governments to impose high taxes on alcohol, assuming it will yield greater revenues, is greatly misplaced. Higher prices on account of higher taxes not only lower case sales, they also force consumers to downgrade to cheaper options,” Giri said. A detailed breakup of the state excise receipts, however, show Bengal had sourced an estimated gross revenue of Rs 6,510 crore only from foreign liquor and spirits against Rs 6,387 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Paytm board clears country’s largest IPO||The board of One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, met on Friday where it is understood to have considered the country’s largest IPO. Though there was no official comments as to the outcome of the board meeting, it is learnt that the board has approved the share float plan. This comes amid reports that the SoftBank and Alibaba-backed firm is likely to file its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) within the next couple of months. The company is expected to be listed by October-November this year. The exact size of the offering has not yet been confirmed though informed sources had said that it may be worth $3 billion, making it the largest IPO, beating the record held by Coal India which had come up with a Rs 15,200 crore share float in 2010. While Paytm is currently valued at $16 billion, the proposed IPO will see its valuation rising to over $25 billion. After the board approval, the company may have take nod of its shareholders as well. Founded by Vijay Shekhar Sharma, its investors include SoftBank, Ant Financial, AGH Holdings, SAIF Partners, Berkshire Hathaway, T Rowe Price, and Discovery Capital. Ant Financial is its largest investor with a stake of around 40 per cent. Digital transactions in the country has seen a rapid rise since the demonetisation of 2016, benefitting players like Paytm which now has over 58 million account holders. The pandemic has resulted in the people preferring digital platforms for various transactions, thereby aiding the fintech companies. After beginning as a mobile & DTH recharge platform, it later offered services like mobile wallet. It has now ventured into other financial services such as distribution of mutual funds and insurance products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Indian Bank estimates good response to new loan restructuring policy||Indian Bank estimates a better response to loan restructuring under the Resolution Framework 2.0 announced by the Reserve Bank of India earlier this month. “We expect that this year we would probably be doing between 1.5-2 per cent. That is the initial estimate. We will need to see how the appetite for restructuring builds up,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD and CEO of Indian Bank, on announcement of the bank’s quarterly result on Friday. The PSU lender disclosed that only 0.72 per cent of the standard advances as of March 31, 2020 under retail, MSME, agriculture and corporate was restructured under the previous framework. With 19 per cent of the domestic advances in the MSME segment as of March 31, 2021, the bank has seen a jump in the fresh slippages in the segment worth Rs 2,921 crore for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 801 crore a year ago. “The RBI has given the dispensation for restructuring and MSME which is the most vulnerable among our portfolio, we expect restructuring to happen,” Chunduru said adding that the bank expects the slippage ratio to remain close to a similar level of around 2.8 per cent last year. Indian Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 1,709 crore in the March-ended quarter. The lender had posted a net loss of Rs 1,641 crore in the same quarter of the preceding financial year 2019-20. Sequentially, the bank had posted a net profit of Rs 514.29 crore in the December quarter of the financial year 2020-21. Gross NPA at 9.85 per cent of the gross advances as of March 31, 2021 was lower than 11.39 per cent as of March 31, 2020. The board of the bank has recommended a dividend of 20 per cent for 2020-21. Keeping in mind the adverse impact of the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the RBI had announced another window of restructuring for vulnerable borrowers – individuals, small businesses and MSMEs with an aggregate exposure of not more than Rs 25 crore as of March 31, 2021 subject to certain eligibility conditions. The restructuring under this framework has to be invoked by September 30, 2021 and implemented within 90 days of invocation. With 19 per cent of the domestic advances in the MSME segment as of March 31, 2021, the bank has seen a jump in the fresh slippages in the segment worth Rs 2,921 crore for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 801 crore in the corresponding year ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Bengal finance minister threatens to submit dissent note at GST Council meeting||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said he had threatened to submit a dissent note at the GST Council meeting when the Centre blocked the state's proposal to fix a zero tax rate on Covid-related products. That is when the Centre backed down and agreed to form a Group of Ministers to discuss the contentious issue. Mitra said he had received support from the ministers of nine other states when he pushed his proposal. Three other state ministers had lobbied for a flat 5 per cent GST rate on all Covid products. Mitra then offered a compromise: reduce the rate to 0.1 per cent which could be notified through an ordinance. But the Centre stuck to its guns, prompting him to threaten a dissent note. “It would have been the first dissent note in the Council if they had gone ahead. That's when they decided to relent,” he added. “I had expected the GST Council would have the boldness to address a once-in-a-hundred-year event like the Covid pandemic. You cannot impose an 18 per cent GST on hand sanitisers,” Mitra told The Telegraph. The Bengal government officers had put up a stiff fight in the fitment committee meeting and hammered out the decision to bring down the GST rate on medical grade oxygen, O2 concentrators, covid testing kits and pulse oximeters from 12 to 5 per cent. However, they failed to drive consensus on a rate cut for hand sanitisers (18 per cent), ventilators (12 per cent), RTPCR kits (18 per cent), RNA Extraction machine (18 per cent), and genome sequencing machines (12-18 per cent). Mitra also said he did not agree with the Centre's estimate of a Rs 1.58 lakh crore GST compensation this year. He felt it would be closer to Rs 2.13 lakh crore. He said the Centre still owed compensation of Rs 63,489 crore in the previous year which could be given in the form of a grant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
29-05-2021||Business||Centre proposes to borrow Rs1.58 lakh crores to fund cess collection shortfall||The finance ministry has proposed to borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore to fund the shortfall in cess collection under the Goods and Services Tax regime, applying the same formula as last year. “We will continue with the GST compensation formula that we adopted last year. The rough estimate is that the Centre will have to borrow Rs1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to states,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the 43rd GST Council meeting here on Friday. She said that a special session will be conducted to discuss the modalities of the GST compensation cess such as collection, distribution, and time limit. “As we are in the last of the 5 years of  compensation protected revenue arrangement, I have assured the members, we’ll hold a special session of the GST Council, exclusively on a single-point agenda of how compensation cess is to be collected,” she said. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in a tweet said the “GST compensation needs a primary maths teacher; central government reduces proposed compensation by nearly 33 per cent amidst faking revenues”. On October 5 2020, the GST Council had decided to extend the levy of compensation cess beyond the transition period of five years for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap. “Any decision on extension of the compensation cess period or the products needs to consider the interests of all stakeholders and hence the decision to have a special session to discuss only the compensation issues of states is a step in the right direction,” M.S Mani, senior director, Deloitte India said. The government has projected the compensation required for the current year at Rs 2.7 lakh crore, assuming nominal GDP growth of 7 per cent for 2021-22 . Of this, about Rs 1-1.1 lakh crore will likely be collected through the cess imposed, according to the proposal. The remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore, will be funded through borrowings by states by the Centre. Tarun Bajaj, revenue secretary said “unlike last year, when there was a lockdown and the economy really suffered, this time the economy has not suffered as much”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
29-05-2021||Business||GST Council leaves tax rate on Covid vaccines, medical supplies unchanged||The Goods and Services Tax Council met on Friday after a gap of almost seven months — and was immediately riven by dissent as the Centre and the Opposition-ruled states failed to reach an agreement on the contentious issue  of fixing a zero rate of tax on all Covid-related products. The Centre refused to relent, arguing that the tax waiver issue was devilishly complicated since it would have to cover a barrel-load of items across the value chain to be really effective, ensuring that no manufacturer was denied an input tax credit just because some product was let out of the ambit of the tax break. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters after a day-long video conference with state finance ministers that the whole complex exercise would be rendered meaningless unless there was some way to ensure that the benefit of the tax waiver flowed to the patient struggling to pay off humongous hospital bills. At the end of the fractious meeting, the GST Council agreed to form a group of ministers that would examine the issue in greater detail before submitting a report on June 8. The group will decide on any new rates, exemptions and further cuts in levies on specified items. Several Opposition-ruled states slammed the Centre later for showing less compassion for the people who are battling the pandemic by quibbling over end-user benefits. “There were protracted discussions with varying viewpoints. So, I announced the formation of a GoM which will submit its report by June 8. If tax cuts need to be given we will do it,” she said, adding that efforts would be made to ensure that intermediaries did not corner the benefits leaving the patients high and dry. The GoM was set up after hours of discussions failed to break the stalemate. The composition of the GoM will be decided on Saturday. Several Opposition-ruled states, including Punjab, pressed for complete GST exemption on vaccines, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters, Covid testing kits and ventilators. The GST Council’s fitment committee, which draws up rate revision proposals, wants to keep the rates on Covid vaccines unchanged. However, Bengal and Punjab have reiterated their demand for lowering duty on all Covid relief materials. Union revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said a GST rate cut on Covid products could be extended to private players like hospitals if there was a mechanism to ensure that they passed on the benefit to their patients. He added that a similar question was raised on how the benefit of a GST rate cut on ventilators — which are only bought by hospitals — could be actually passed on to the patients. The demand for a tax waiver on Covid products was first raised by  Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sitharaman said a 5 per cent GST rate on Covid vaccines would actually benefit both the manufacturer as well as the citizen. If the duty was exempted, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would then try to pass on the cost to the consumer by raising prices. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said: “Businesses may be slightly disappointed that they now have to wait till June 8 for a final decision on the additional GST exemptions for Covid relief activities.” The GST Council decided to exempt the levy of IGST on import of Amphotericin-B, which is used for the treatment of black fungus. The council decided to exempt from integrated GST Covid-related items which are imported on payment basis but donated to the government or given to a relief agency certified by the state authorities. The tax exemption will continue till August 31. These items include medical oxygen, concentrators, certain diagnostic markers test kits and Covid-19 vaccines. Earlier, the Centre had exempted items donated by persons or overseas entities from IGST. That exemption has been extended to August 31 as well. An amnesty scheme has been devised to reduce the payment of late fees by small taxpayers which reduce the compliance burden. The filing of annual returns will continue to be optional for small taxpayers for fiscal year 2020-21. The GST Council said it will make appropriate changes to clarify that land owner promoters can utilise credit of GST that developers charge them for the apartments they build. The land promoter subsequently sells these apartments on which GST is paid. The developer promoter shall be allowed to pay GST relating to such apartments any time before or at the time of issuance of completion certificate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
