31-05-2021||Business||Economy contracts by record 7.3% in 2020-21||India's economy contracted by less-than-expected 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 2021 after growth rate picked up in the fourth quarter, just before the world's worst outbreak of coronavirus infections hit the country. The gross domestic product in Asia's third-largest economy grew by 1.6 per cent in the January-March period, up from 0.5 per cent in the previous quarter when India began pulling out of a steep pandemic-induced recession in the earlier six months. The GDP had grown by three per cent in the January-March quarter in the previous year. The economy, which was facing a slowdown even before the pandemic broke out last year, contracted by 7.3 per cent during April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal , weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. This is the first full-year contraction in the Indian economy in the last four decades since 1979-80, when GDP had shrunk by 5.2 per cent. The economy had grown by 4 per cent in the previous 2019-20 fiscal. The GDP expanded by 8.3 per cent in FY17 before slipping to 7 per cent in the following fiscal and to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, India's real GDP contracted to Rs 135 lakh crore in FY21 (2020-21) from Rs 145 lakh crore at the end of March 2020. To regain Rs 145 lakh crore, the economy will have to grow by 10-11 per cent in the current 2021-22 fiscal but the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 infections last month has disrupted the momentum of economic activity and many expect the GDP may not touch double-digit growth rate despite the low base. Even though daily COVID-19 cases have come down from a peak of over 4 lakh to 1.5 lakh, a crash in consumer demand -- constituting over 55 per cent of the economy -- and unemployment soaring to near one-year high of 14.73 per cent pose fresh challenges. Analysts have warned of risks to growth from slow pace of the four-month-old vaccination programme. While the NSO had previously estimated that the economy will contract by 8 per cent in 2020-21, the Reserve Bank of Inda (RBI) had projected a shrinkage of 7.5 per cent. China, which was once the hotbed of coronavirus infections, has recorded 18.3 per cent economic growth in January-March 2021. Separately, higher tax collections helped arrest fiscal deficit (excess of government expenditure over revenue) at 9.3 per cent of the GDP in FY21 as against 9.5 per cent projected previously and 3.5 per cent estimated when the Budget was presented in February 2020. Even before the outbreak of the pandemic, the fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of GDP in 2019-20 mainly due to poor revenue growth. The government has pegged the fiscal deficit during the current 2021-22 fiscal at 6.8 per cent of GDP. Indian economy contracted by a record 24.4 per cent in April-June 2020 and by 7.3 per cent in the following quarter. The government had imposed a lockdown on March 25, 2020 to combat COVID-19. Later the lockdown restrictions were eased in phases. But it dented the economic growth eventually in the later period of the last fiscal. The Indian economy swung back to black in the October-December quarter. According to the NSO data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector accelerated to 6.9 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 compared to a contraction 4.2 per cent a year ago. Farm sector GVA growth was down at 3.1 per cent, compared to 6.8 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20. Construction sector GVA grew by 14.5 per cent from 0.7 per cent growth earlier. Mining sector shrank by 5.7 per cent, as against a contraction of 0.9 per cent a year ago. Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment grew by 9.1 per cent in the fourth quarter, against 2.6 per cent expansion a year ago. Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting contracted by 2.3 per cent in the fourth quarter from 5.7 per cent growth earlier. Financial, real estate and professional services grew by 5.4 per cent in Q4 FY21 from 4.9 per cent growth. Public administration, defence and other services growth fell to 2.3 per cent during the quarter under review, from 9.6 per cent a year earlier. "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q4 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 38.96 lakh crore, as against Rs 38.33 lakh crore in Q4 of 2019-20, showing a growth of 1.6 percent," the NSO statement said. "Real GDP or Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in the year 2020-21 is now estimated to attain a level of Rs 135.13 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.69 lakh crore, released on 29th January 2021. "The growth in GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at (-)7.3 percent as compared to 4 percent in 2019-20," it said. The statement said the measures taken by the government to contain the spread of the pandemic have had an impact on economic activities as well as data collection mechanisms. The quarterly estimates of national accounts are indicator-based and data sourced from various ministries/ departments/ private agencies serve as valuable inputs in the compilation of these estimates. There have been disruptions in the data flow from some source agencies, leading to data coverage issues, it noted. The limitations in the datasets and the timeliness have a bearing on the GDP estimates and its subsequent revisions, it explained. To address the data challenges arising out of the unprecedented situation, the NSO has explored alternate data sources, indicators and methodology along with clarifications from international agencies, to capture the current economic situation, as per accepted best practices. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions in due course, as per the release calendar. Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to close just below 52k ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied around 515 points on Monday while the NSE Nifty closed at a fresh peak, led by gains in RIL, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. A steady decline in daily COVID-19 caseload also strengthened investor sentiment, brokers said.  The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 514.56 points or 1.00 per cent higher at 51,937.44, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 147.15 points or 0.95 per cent to its fresh closing record of 15,582.80.  Reliance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy, Maruti and ITC.  On the other hand, M&M, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, L&T, and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red.  Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals.  India reported the lowest daily new coronavirus infections in 50 days with 1,52,734 cases, taking the tally to 2,80,47,534 on Monday, while the active caseload declined to 20,26,092, the Health Ministry said.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.08 per cent to trade at USD 69.46 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 185 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 185 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys, TCS and Reliance amid a weak trend in the Asian markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 189.52 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 51,233.36 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 43.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 15,392.45. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding more than 5 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, L&T, NTPC and HCL Tech. On the other hand, ITC, Asian Paints, Bharti Airtel and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 307.66 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,422.88, and Nifty rose 97.80 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,435.65. "There are two conflicting pieces of news for the market now. The steadily declining COVID fresh cases continue to be positive. Progressive unlocking has started in many states paving the way for a pick up in economic activity. "But the negative news is rising fresh cases in countries like China & Vietnam. This might impact sentiments for Asian markets in general," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Usually, when markets touch new highs, some consolidation with minor corrections happen even in bull markets. This can happen since Nifty touched new highs last Friday, Vijayakumar said. Auto numbers of May will be very dismal and some market reaction can be expected in this segment. Banking appears to be on a strong wicket in the light of new reliefs announced for the MSME segment, he noted. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth 913.59 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Equities on Wall Street closed higher in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in negative territory in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.41 per cent higher at USD 69.00 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Centre decides to tweak emergency credit guarantee scheme||The government has decided to tweak its emergency credit guarantee scheme to provide longer-term relief to a wider section of small business borrowers. The extent of government support, however, remains restricted to the Rs 3 lakh crore in guarantees first promised under the scheme in May 2020. In an announcement on Sunday, the government said the scheme will now cover up to Rs 2 crore in loans to hospitals, nursing homes, clinics to set up oxygen generation plants. The interest rate for these loans will be capped at 7.5 per cent. The civil aviation sector is also now eligible to access loans under the scheme. The tenure of loans already availed under the scheme has been extended to five years from four years earlier. Those who have already availed loans under the scheme can get additional assistance of up to 10 per cent of outstanding dues as on February 29, 2020. The scheme will be valid till September 2021 or till the guarantee amount of Rs 3 lakh crore is exhausted, said the government in a release. Disbursements under the scheme are permitted till December 2021, it added. Briefing the media about the scheme, Indian Banks’ Association chief executive officer (CEO) Sunil Mehta said lending institutions have sanctioned Rs 2.54 lakh crore so far and another Rs 45,000 crore room is available under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS). The government has also removed the current ceiling of Rs 500 crore of loan outstanding for eligibility under the scheme. Borrowers will be able to avail themselves assistance limited to 40 per cent of the outstanding loan or Rs 200 crore, whichever is lower. Bank loan recast SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said in Mumbai on Sunday the public sector banks have formulated a template approach for restructuring loans to individuals and small businesses with an aggregate exposure  of up to Rs 25 crore under Resolution Framework 2.0 which was announced by the RBI governor on May 5. The PSU lenders have divided the loans into three categories — up to Rs 10 lakh, above Rs 10 lakh to Rs 10 crore, and above Rs 10 crore. In the first category, they will have a “standardised restructuring offer’’ to certain small businesses and MSMEs. For the remaining two categories, they will follow a “graded approach’’. Individual borrowers have the option of either visiting the branch or accessing a lender’s portal if they wish to recast their outstanding loans. According to the RBI rules, after an application is received, banks will communicate to the borrower their decision within 30 days. Further, the resolution plan should be finalised and implemented within 90 days from the date of its invocation under the window. This was disclosed by top PSU bankers in Mumbai as they announced various support measures and the launch of new products to mitigate the hardships faced because of the second wave of the pandemic. Among the new products that banks are coming up include unsecured loans for Covid treatment for self and family for a maximum period of five years. In the case of SBI, the  lender will offer loans between Rs 25,000 and Rs 5 lakh at an interest rate of 8.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||National Statistical Office to put out provisional GDP estimates||The National Statistical Office (NSO) will put out its provisional estimates for GDP (gross domestic product) in 2020-21 on Monday amid rising speculation that the economy will contract  about 7.5 per cent rather than the 8 per cent contraction forecast in late February. In its second advance estimate, the NSO had forecast real GDP of Rs 134.08 lakh crore in 2020-21 against Rs 140.03 lakh crore in the second revised estimates for 2019-20. The improvement is predicated on the assumption that the economy will bounce back in the fourth quarter with a growth rate of 2 per cent — which will come on the back of a 0.4 per cent growth in the third quarter, when the economy first showed signs of a return to growth. The economy had contracted 24 per cent in the first quarter of the last fiscal and 7.3 per cent in the second quarter. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said the widespread recovery in fourth-quarter volumes in the non-agricultural sectors benefited from the low base in March 2020. “Icra expects the growth of GDP (at constant 2011-12 prices) to have risen to 2 per cent in the fourth quarter from the anaemic 0.4 per cent in the third quarter. Consequently, we expect GDP to have contracted 7.3 per cent in 2020-21 as a whole,” she said. The research wing of the State Bank of India said they expected the economy to grow 1.3 per cent in the fourth quarter with a downward bias. The economy is expected to contract 7.3 per cent for the full year. The incremental opening up of the economy saw a faster-than-expected recovery in the services sector while consumer goods got a boost from the pent-up demand, said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings. The rating agency has forecast fourth-quarter growth at 1.2 per cent with a 7.5 per cent contraction for the year. Most of the high-speed indicators gained strength in the March quarter as the first Covid wave waned and the economy picked up pace before the second wave took hold, denting estimates for 2021-22. CARE said the corporate results so far reinforce the fact that the fourth quarter  figures would be much better than in the third-quarter of the previous fiscal. The corporate gross value added (GVA) of 625 companies expanded 62.04 per cent in the fourth quarter compared with 12.98 per cent growth in  the third quarter of 4,164 companies. The GST collection in April (for the month of March) hit a record Rs 1.41 lakh crore, marking the seventh straight month of collections exceeding Rs 1 lakh crore. Power consumption grew 22.8 per cent in March, while industrial output grew 22 per cent, albeit on a low base. A similar massive 60.3 per cent rise in exports in March pushed growth in exports for the quarter to 22.4 per cent. Indicators of urban consumption were also on the rise, with passenger vehicle sales up 48.1 per cent in January-March compared with 10.8 per cent in October-December, while two-wheeler sales, a proxy for rural consumption demand, increased 29.8 per cent against 12.6 per cent a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||India sends documents for deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi||India has sent a private jet loaded with documents for the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi from Dominica where he is said to have gone with his girlfriend on a romantic escapade from his sanctuary in neighbouring Antigua only to be arrested. A Qatar Airways private jet flew a distance of over 13,000 kilometres from Delhi to Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica on Friday carrying several documents needed for the deportation of 62-year-old Choksi who is wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore-bank loan fraud case, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne told a local radio station in Antigua. Indian officials in Delhi refused to confirm or deny whether a plane had been sent to Dominica. According to the flight status, Qatar executive flight A7CEE left the Delhi airport at 3.44am on May 28 and reached Dominica at 1.16pm local time on the same day, via Madrid. Choksi was detained in Dominica for illegal entry after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Caribbean country Antigua and Barbuda where he was staying since 2018 after fleeing from India in January that year. Within days, the scam came to light. The diamantaire had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using its Citizenship by Investment programme. Browne told the radio show that the jet is from India carrying necessary documentation needed for the deportation of Choksi. The Dominica high court stayed his removal from its soil and put a gag order on the developments till the matter is heard in an open court on June 2. India seems to have spotted a window of opportunity in the arrest of Choksi in Dominica where he was ‘‘detained’’ for illegal entry. ‘‘The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica, probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on, and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him,’’ Browne said. He said the government of Dominica and law enforcement agencies, unless the court rules otherwise, can deport him to India because he is an Indian citizen, Antigua News Room reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Mines ministry to fix mineral price lapses||The mines ministry is looking to address the “issues and shortcomings” that come in the way of fixing the average sale price (ASP) of minerals. The government has also sought suggestions from various stakeholders to overcome the issue till the National Mineral Index (NMI) is formulated for individual minerals. The development assumes significance in the wake of miners’ body FIMI earlier urging the Centre to continue with the present system of average sale price (ASP) published by the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) which it said is the most effective and transparent way to ensure price discovery and revenue to the exchequer. In April, the mines ministry had set up a committee to examine the double calculation of royalty due to its inclusion in the calculation of ASP of minerals and develop an NMI for the valuation of mineral resources as well as for the determination of value for the auction of mineral concessions and statutory payments for future auctions. The committee has decided to “seek comments from the governments of states and Union Territories, mining industry, stakeholders, industry associations on the issues and shortcomings in the fixation of ASP and suggest measures to overcome these till an NMI is formulated for individual minerals”, the mines ministry said in a notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Mahindra and Mahindra plans big-ticket launches||Mahindra and Mahindra is planning some big-ticket launches once the automotive sector recovers in June-July from the second wave of the Corona pandemic. The company expects the tractor sector to recover even earlier. The company is preparing to launch 23 products, including nine models in the SUV segment and 14 models in the light commercial vehicle (LCV) segment, by 2026. The company will take the wraps off the XUV700 in 2021 and the new Scorpio too. The five-door Thar, the all new Bolero and the new XUV 300 along with two other SUVs codenamed W620 and V201 will be launched between 2023 and 2027. The company will unveil two electric vehicles between 2025 and 2026, besides having electric powertrains for XUV700 and the new XUV300. The upcoming models in the commercial vehicle segment include electric vehicles in the last mile mobility segment. In small commercial vehicles, the company will launch an urban pick-up range as well as a proper pick-up range, including the new Bolero Compact Pick Up. Anish Shah, MD and CEO, Mahindra Group, said localised lockdowns and supply chain issues will lead to a complete wipeout of the first quarter sales in 2021-22. “But by July, things will stabilise.  The rural market will bounce back in June itself. The passenger vehicle segment will take a month or two to recover. But once it recovers, it will stage a strong comeback. There are no cancellations yet of bookings,” said Shah. However, the three-wheeler segment will take time to recover. “Passenger mobility in three-wheelers has been hit and will not recover soon. Besides, there is a fear factor among customers to take out margin money,’’ said Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, auto and farm sectors, M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Toch.ai witnesses three-fold growth in business||Remember Virat Kohli’s 47-ball 72 for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Rajasthan Royals in this season’s Covid-truncated IPL. Or take Mohamed Salah’s top-10 goals for Liverpool in EPL. And it is not not just sports: flashback and relive the action scenes of Paatal Lok and Family Man. Viewers now have a chance to re-live and treasure football, cricket or movies at the click of a mouse. Enter Toch.ai with its splice-and-dice technology to dissect that instant of sporting lore and movie scenes. The Mumbai-based firm has successfully used AI to splice video content to generate short clips of highlights of sports events or key moments of TV serials that have a great demand among viewers and therefore offers revenue-generation opportunities to the firm. Toch.ai has seen a three-fold growth in business as user preference for short-form videos drives OTT platforms to explore the route to garner viewership and monetise content. After developing its clips, Toch-ai adds graphical overlays and publishes content across platforms and devices. Vinayak Shrivastav, co-founder and CEO of Toch.ai, said whether it is boundaries hit in a T20 cricket match or moments of a daily soap opera, viewers are interested in watching the key bits instead of the entire match or the entire episode. This has prompted platforms and brands to explore short-form content and rely on artificial intelligence for the quicker generation of such content. “Platforms have realised that short videos — 10-15 seconds content — are something that is getting the maximum amount of viewership. This is driven by the changing behavior of viewer consumption. The new age viewer wants to control what they are watching. They will go on social media and search for clips and consume what is there. In this scenario platforms start losing on engagement and monetisation,” Shrivastav said. “So the need of the hour was how fast the clips can be generated and published for users to watch and artificial intelligence and tools today allow developers to clip these moments on a real-time basis, publish and monetise them. We have built the proprietary technology in-house that allows us to analyse various events inside the video including live broadcast.” Shrivastav said that the company was working with over 130 clients and these include OTT majors such as Disney Hotstar, Sony, besides several sports broadcasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal directs liquidation of Devas Multimedia||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has directed to initiate the liquidation process of Devas Multimedia by allowing a petition filed by Antrix Corporation, a commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation. The Bangalore bench of the NCLT has said Devas Multimedia was incorporated with a fraudulent motive to collude and connive with the then officials of Antrix Corporation to get bandwidth from it by entering into an agreement in 2005, which was subsequently cancelled by the government. The tribunal also confirmed the appointment of the provisional liquidator by it earlier on January 19 and directed him to take ‘‘expeditious steps to liquidate’’ the company to prevent it from perpetuating its fraudulent activities and abusing the process of law. ‘‘The incorporation of Devas itself was with fraudulent motive and unlawful object to collude and connive with then officials of Antrix and to misuse/abuse process of law, to bring money to India and divert it under dubious methods to foreign countries,’’ the tribunal noted. ‘‘In the light of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, after duly considering the legal position on the issue and by exercising the power conferred on the tribunal… company petition is allowed by ordering to wind up Devas Multimedia Pvt Ltd,’’ said a two-member NCLT bench — comprising R, Rao Vittanala and Ashutosh Chandra — in its order passed on May 25. The liquidator has to submit a report by July 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Xander Investment Management buys 30-acre logistics park in Bengal||Singapore-based private equity firm Xander Investment Management has bought a 30-acre logistics park on National Highway 6 near Bagnan for a little over Rs 200 crore, marking the entry of a top-notch investor in the fast growing warehousing space in Bengal. Previously owned by city-based Jalan Builders, the park offers Grade A warehousing space of 800,000 square feet. However, half of the area has already been leased out to Walmart-backed e-commerce giant Flipkart. Xander bought the property along with the long-term lease with Flipkart. The other half of the park is under development and slated to be completed by the first quarter of next year. The transaction underscores the interest of bulge-bracket investors into the fast growing warehousing space in Bengal, which has emerged as one of the top five markets in India, especially after the implementation of the GST. According to a study by international property consultant JLL, which facilitated the Xander-Jalan deal, Bengal has 24 million square feet of Grade A and B logistics space, which is projected to grow to 32 million square feet in five years. Surekha Bihani, managing director of JLL East, said, ‘‘We are seeing huge interest in investment in warehousing by private equity players and HNI investors. The growth story in this sector accompanied by low capital value makes this a very interesting investment option apart from commercial office and retail.’’ NH-6 and NH-2 (Calcutta-Delhi) are two of the most important micro markets within the state, which is catching the fancy of investors. The warehousing sector is being driven here by e-commerce, third-party logistics providers and FMCG players looking for seamless connectivity to other parts of the city and the country. Warehousing demand in Bengal is growing 8-10 per cent, accounting for 10-12 per cent of national demand. Despite the pandemic  in 2020, the city still logged demand for 2 million square feet space, like Pune and Hyderabad. A statement from a Xander official points out how the Bengal story in warehousing may unfold going forward. “As an emerging markets investor, we have always been focused on early identification of strong growth markets with great fundamentals… The acquisition of our first logistics asset in this part of India reflects our continuing commitment to emerging markets and our asset class focus at this point in the market cycle,’’  said a Xander spokesperson. ‘‘East India is becoming a logistical hub and shall emerge as a strong consumption market and trade corridor. We thus want to provide excellent industrial assets which act as catalysts to rapid economic development,’’ the spokesperson added. Prior to Xander, Blackstone-backed Allcargo Logistics and ESR have acquired warehousing assets in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Spare heirs the hassle||The pandemic has claimed many of our loved ones. At an uncertain time like this, it is important to shield our families from the financial repercussions of death and disease. One of the problems we are seeing is that many people succumbing to Covid-19 have left their families in the dark about their finances — where their bank accounts are, how much cash they had, where their investments and insurance policies are, and so on. The families, already devastated by their deaths, now must deal with the additional burden of trying to dig out the details of their finances critical for sustenance. There are a few steps you can take to protect your family from falling into financial despair in your death. Inform them, clearly Let a trusted family member know about your bank accounts, investments, insurance, loans, dues etc. This person should ideally be your spouse or an immediate family member such as a child, parent, or sibling. You can share the details of your finances in the most secure manner possible so that they do not fall in the wrong hands. Ideally, a password-protected file with additional layers of security would be ideal. As of March 2019, a whopping Rs 25,000 crore existed in the RBI’s Depositors Education and Awareness Fund. This is money left unclaimed for 10 years in various bank accounts — money that should have passed on to someone’s family. Don’t keep your family in the dark about your finances because it could hurt them financially after your death. Educate and empower them now about what they need to do in the event of your untimely death. Nominate your accounts Every bank and investment account you own should have a clear nominee. If you haven’t nominated your accounts, you should do so at the earliest. This can be easily done online. The nominee should be ideally an immediate family member but can also be a non-relative. In your death, the nominee becomes the caretaker of your asset. If the nominee is also the legal heir, they will inherit the asset, else they must pass on the asset to your legal heirs according to the laws of succession. These are complicated legal matters that could get tricky if there is a dispute between your heirs. Therefore, at the very least, clearly nominating your accounts would keep things simpler for your family and prevent too many heirs from becoming tangled in your financial affairs. Consider creating a will This may come across as a morbid idea, but it isn’t without its merits during a pandemic. Your assets must pass on to your heirs. But if the heirs have a dispute, they may be denied their rightful shares of your assets. You could attempt to foresee and settle these problems in your lifetime by creating a will which outlines your succession plan. A will is simple to create. It can be created on a regular piece of paper, signed by multiple witnesses, and should ideally be registered. You could look for details online or involve a local lawyer. Without will & nomination In case you do not nominate your accounts and also fail to create a will, things could get tricky for your family members. For example, to close your bank account without nomination and to access its funds, your dependants will have to produce a legal heir certificate. They must also decide among themselves who the legal heirs would be and who among them would explicitly agree to give up this privilege. The certificate is obtained via a court, and the process could take months. The process would only start after your death certificate has been obtained, which could also take weeks. Mind the locker accounts Some of your wealth may be tied to locker accounts where you store gold and other precious items. If you are the single holder of this account, your nominee can withdraw the locker’s contents after submitting a death claim. For a joint account, the surviving account holder can access the locker only if it is in the “either or survivor” mode. Without it, the locker may be sealed and a death claim may be required to access its contents. Therefore, you may want to check with your bank how your locker can be operated by your dependants after your death. Avoid illegal access If you believe that your family members could simply access your debit card or netbanking and withdraw the funds they need, you are wrong. Doing so would get them into trouble. It is a violation of terms for another person (except joint holders) to use your bank account in any manner and could invite legal scrutiny. Also, there may be multiple heirs to your assets, and they may initiate legal proceedings against any person making an unauthorised dip into your funds. Streamlining your accounts, ensuring nomination, creating a will, and above all, having ample health and life insurance will help your family in your untimely demise. You owe it to them. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
