01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Special ‘girdawari’ to assess damage to cotton, moong crops in Haryana: Official||The Haryana government has directed officials to conduct special girdawari (revenue assessment) to assess the damage caused to cotton and moong crops due to recent heavy rains and waterlogging in the state to provide them timely compensation, an official spokesman said here on Friday.The government had ordered for the report to be submitted by October 15, so that timely compensation to the farmers can be given, he said.The spokesman of the Revenue and Disaster Management Department said that under the special girdawari, those areas would be identified where the damage to cotton and moong crops is 25 per cent or more.He said special girdawari would be done in all the districts of the state to detect the damage to moong crop and for cotton crops in all the districts except Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.He said the assessment of damage to cotton and moong crops would be done in the category of 25 to 33 per cent, 33 to 50 per cent, 50 to 75 per cent and 75 to 100 per cent.All revenue officers will have to ensure that they conduct a supervisory check of the girdawari entries.In addition, damaged areas covered under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) or any other crop insurance scheme will not be included in this special girdawari, he said.He said that after special girdawari, all the Deputy Commissioners have been directed to remove the name of the beneficiary of PMFBY and send the report through their Divisional Commissioner by October 15, 2021. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-girdawari-to-assess-damage-to-cotton-moong-crops-in-haryana-official-318801
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police use water cannon to disperse farmers in Jhajjar||Haryana Police on Friday used water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who tried to force their way in Jhajjar where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was to attend a programme.A group of protesters jumped barricades and tried to force their way to the venue, police said.The venue of the event was a government college in Jhajjar. Police said the protesters gathered near the venue with some of them jumping over the barricades to force their way inside.Jhajjar's senior police officials and the deputy commissioner reached the spot to oversee law and order.Later in the day, Chautala is also scheduled to attend another event in Jhajjar.A group of farmers on Thursday had jumped over police barricades in a bid to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting in Karnal's Indri, police said earlier.Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-farmers-in-jhajjar-318754
01-10-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana among states that record double digit growth in GST collection in Sept as compared to same month last year||New Delhi, October 1The gross GST revenue collected in September was Rs 1.17 lakh crore that was 23 per cent higher in the same month last year.Punjab and Haryana were among the states that recorded a double digit growth in GST collection in September this year as compared to the same month last year. Punjab’s share in GST collection was 17 per cent higher and that of Haryana 18 per cent higher during the period.The average monthly gross GST collection for the second quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5 per cent higher than the average monthly collection of Rs 1.1 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year.The rise in collections was modest when compared to 1.12 lakh crore in August (for sales in July) this year but this was the third successive month that the accrual has been above the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark.The Union Finance Ministry said in a statement that these figures indicated that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The growth has also been due to anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers. The government expects the positive trend in the revenues to continue in the second half of the year.The higher growth in September has been mainly fuelled by 30 per cent higher accruals from imports and 20 per cent hike in domestic transactions, including an import component.The Centre had also released GST compensation of Rs 22,000 crore to states to meet their GST revenue gap.Of the total collections, CGST is Rs 20,578 crore, SGST Rs 26,767 crore, IGST Rs 60,911 crore (including Rs 29,555 crore collected from imports) and cess is Rs 8,754 crore (including Rs 623 crore from imports).The total revenue of Centre and the states after regular settlements in September 2021 is Rs. 49,390 crore for CGST and Rs 50,907 crore for the SGST. Growth in Sept ’21 over Sept ’20State                                 Sept ’20   Sept ’21 Increase(in Rs)Haryana                            4,712        5,577     18 per centPunjab                              1,194         1,402     17 per cent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-among-states-that-record-double-digit-growth-in-gst-collection-in-sept-as-compared-to-same-month-last-year-318732
01-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  Bypoll: BJP-JJP, Congress begin process to select candidates||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 30The BJP-JJP ruling coalition and the Congress have set into motion the process to finalise their candidates for the Ellenabad byelection at the state leadership level. The last date of filing nominations is October 8.Also read: Ellenabad constituency adds 4,548 more votersPostal ballot for Covid +ve, disabledELECTION SCHEDULEReady for battleWe are prepared for the poll battle and the party cadre is geared up. — OP Dhankar, state BJP ChiefAs the senior partner in the coalition, the BJP made up its mind to fight the bypoll. State party president Om Prakash Dhankar has called a meeting of the state election committee of the party on October 3 in Chandigarh.Dhankar told The Tribune that the BJP is set to contest the byelection in Ellenabad. “We are prepared for the poll battle and the party cadre is geared up.” He held a meeting today which chalked out the strategy for the poll narrative and campaigning style in Ellenabad. “The coalition will go to the people on the development plank,” said a leader who was present at the meeting.Party sources said that district BJP president Aditya Devi Lal, who is a grandson of Chaudhary Devi Lal (son of Devi Lal’s youngest son Jagdish Chautala), is among the contenders for the party ticket at Ellenabad. Though he had contested the previous Assembly poll from Dabwali, the BJP leadership could field him against INLD leader Abhay Chautala who happens to be Aditya’s cousin and probable candidate from the INLD.Sources said that two other names are also doing the rounds in political circles. However, party leaders are tightlipped on the names of probable candidates.The Congress has three contenders for party ticket in Ellenabad who have started lobbying with party leaders. The tussle between two local strongmen Pawan Beniwal and former MLA Bharat is well known as they have already made their claims for party ticket on social media platforms.A third name – Capt Amarjeet Chautala — is also doing the rounds in Congress circles. Capt Amarjeet is a grandson of Chaudhary Saheb Ram, elder brother of Chaudhary Devi Lal.Political observers said that as the INLD’s nomination is almost certain, it could be an all-Devi Lal clan contest in Ellenabad if the BJP and Congress go with the Chautalas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-bjp-jjp-congress-begin-process-to-select-candidates-318560
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad constituency adds 4,548 more voters||There has been an increase of 4,548 voters in the Ellenabad Assembly segment, where the bypoll is scheduled to be held on October 30.Total 1,85,569 voters are now be eligible to vote as per the January 1, 2021, deadline for enrolment. Of these, 98,930 are male and 86,639 female voters, as per the website of the state Chief Electoral Officer.This Assembly segment has a total of 190 polling stations, of which 166 are in rural areas and the rest 24 in urban areas. In the last Assembly poll, Ellenabad had a total of 1,81,021 voters.Meanwhile, advocate Hemant Kumar said the Election Commission of India, in reply to his RTI query, had said the new voters can be enrolled till 10 days before the last date of filing nominations.Since the last date of filing nominations is October 8 and the 10-day period lasts till September 28, there was going to be no addition to the voters’ list. The model code of conduct came into being on September 28 as the EC had announced the poll schedule on that date.Notably, the bypoll had been necessitated due to the resignation of Abhay Chautala, INLD’s lone legislator in the Vidhan Sabha, in solidarity with the farmers opposing the three farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-constituency-adds-4-548-more-voters-318561
01-10-2021||---||Indri: Farmers protest in front of BJP leaders’ meeting venue||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 30The situation remained tense for a couple of hours outside a marriage palace at Indri where BJP leaders were conducting a meeting as farmers reached outside the venue after crossing barricades.Cops on toesEveryone has the right to raise their issues, but under the ambit of the Constitution. Nobody will be allowed to take the law into his hands. Ganga Ram Punia, Karnal SPIn the presence of heavy police force and two companies of security forces, BJP leaders were taken out from the venue in police vehicles to avoid any confrontation.The farmers had given a call on Wednesday to protest against the programme, following which they reached Indri in large numbers.On Wednesday, the BJP had to cancel the meeting after protest by farmers.Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap, district president Yogendra Rana and former minister Karandev Kamboj were among the leaders present at the meeting. “It was a meeting of booth-level workers of Indri block. The farmers should protest in a democratic way and it is the duty of the police to ensure law and order,” said MLA Kashyap.Farmers led by their leaders Rampal Chahal and Jagdeep Singh Aulakh took out a march, but were stopped by the police around 200m from the venue.DSP Mukesh Kumar tried to pacify them and said that they would be given a designated place to protest, but the farmers refused to go to the site given by the police. Then, they crossed barricades and reached outside the venue.SP Ganga Ram Punia reached there and talked to farmer leaders to pacify them. Farmers assured the SP of a peaceful protest.After the programme, the BJP leaders were taken out from the venue in police vehicles. “To avoid any confrontation, the leaders were taken out safely in police vehicles,” said a police official.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member, BKU (Charuni), said that the BJP was organising programmes to provoke farmers who had already given a call to oppose the visit of BJP-JJP leaders. “We will continue our protest against BJP-JJP leaders in coming days also,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indri-farmers-protest-in-front-of-bjp-leaders-meeting-venue-318562
01-10-2021||---||Ranjit murder case: CBI lawyer transferred||Panchkula, September 30Daljeet Singh Chawla, the CBI lawyer who was assisting the special public prosecutor in the former Dera manager Ranjit Singh murder case, has been transferred back to Bhopal. He was recently transferred to Chandigarh from Bhopal.His transfer order, dated September 29, read: “On the recommendations of the Junior Establishment Board and approval thereon of the competent authority, Shri Daljeet Singh Chawla, senior public prosecutor, CBI, SCB, Chandigarh, is transferred and posted at CBI, ACB, Bhopal, in the same capacity with immediate effect till further orders.”Recently, victim Ranjit Singh’s son Jagseer Singh had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking transfer of the case to another CBI judge in either Punjab, Haryana or Chandigarh.The petitioner alleged that Special CBI Public Prosecutor KP Singh has been interfering with the case despite there being two other special public prosecutors, appointed exclusively for the trial. The plea is still pending before the High Court. Till then, the stay on the pronouncement of order by the special CBI court, Panchkula, will continue.Former Dera manager Ranjit Singh was murdered in 2002. The CBI registered the FIR in 2003 and charges were framed in 2007-2008. The trial has been going on since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ranjit-murder-case-cbi-lawyer-transferred-318563
01-10-2021||Karnal||Karnal mandi workers threaten strike over reduced labour rates||Infuriated over the reduction in labour rates from Rs 12.72 to Rs 8.52 per bag, hundreds of workers of the district’s grain markets today protested in the city and demanded the government to revoke the order.Registration on farm portal resumes todayChandigarh: The state will reopen registration on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for kharif crops from Oct 1 to 3. An Agriculture Department spokesperson said farmers could register on the portal to sell their produce in mandis and take advantage of the govt schemes. Registration on the portal is mandatory.They said the government should instead increase the labour charges to Rs 15 per bag. They also threatened to go on indefinite strike from Friday if their demand is not met. The labourers handed over a memorandum to the naib tehsildar for the CM.Farmers assembled in Fountain Park and after holding a meeting, they took out a protest march. They had plans to gherao the mini secretariat, but the naib tehsildar reached there and pacified them.“We came here to raise our objection over the reduction in labour rates. We want that the charges must be raised to Rs 15 per bag,” said Jang Bhadhur Yadav, labourers’ leader.“A circular was issued regarding the reduction in labour rates on September 24. When we enquired about it from the officials, they didn’t give a satisfactory reply, forcing us to protest,” he added.He said inflation was rising, but instead of hiking the labour rates, the government was reducing these. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mandi-workers-threaten-strike-over-reduced-labour-rates-318564
01-10-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak: Reconstruction of condemned Kalanaur school buildings yet to begin||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 30A beautiful entrance gate greets visitors at Government Senior Secondary School in Kalanaur town of Rohtak district. But the impression vanishes as soon as one enters the school premises and sees a dilapidated building, filth scattered on the compound and pigs loitering around.The buildings of seven government schools located at Bhaisru Khurd, Bainsi, Kalanaur, Polangi, Bahu Akbarpur, Karontha and Kharawar in the district have been declared condemned (unfit for use) by the Buildings and Roads wing of the Public Works Department (PWD), while the heads of several other schools have been writing to the authorities concerned to get their buildings reconstructed.“The building of the school I head is in a shambles. I have been writing to the department authorities for its repair/reconstruction, but no action has been taken as yet,” conceded the head of a government school, requesting anonymity.As per an official letter, the administrative approval was granted for the construction of new buildings on January 21, 2019 and a grant of Rs 1.97 crore given for the purpose.However, more than 32 months after the grant of the requisite approval and funds, the construction is yet to begin as the matter is stuck in official files.Several social activists and voluntary organisations have been urging the authorities concerned to get the dilapidated buildings of government schools reconstructed, but the construction is yet to take off owing to procedural delays.Contacted for comments, Rohtak District Education Officer Vijay Laxmi maintained that students of the schools having condemned buildings had been accommodated in nearby schools and the process to get the condemned buildings demolished and new ones constructed was in progress.“There is no delay on our part. However, the prescribed official procedures have to be followed,” she stated.Rohtak Additional Deputy Commissioner Mahender Pal pointed out that the prevalence of Covid-19 pandemic had delayed the progress of several projects during the past couple of years.“As of now, things are under control and all pending projects, including the construction of school buildings, are being expedited and will be completed soon,” he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-reconstruction-of-condemned-kalanaur-school-buildings-yet-to-begin-318565
01-10-2021||---||Students to get cash prize of Rs 5L for climbing mountain peaks: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, September 30Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar flagged off a mountaineering team of school students here today and said a unique scheme for mountaineering would be formulated for students, under which a student who will climb any one of the 10 highest mountain peaks will be given a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh.Programmes for children began in 2016The Chief Minister said a team of 75 students and teachers from various government schools of the state, in collaboration with the School Education Department and National Adventure Club, Chandigarh, will go for mountaineering to Mount Yunam located at a height of 6,111 metres in Lahaul region of Himachal Pradesh.He added that 25 specially-abled students are also part of the mountaineering team.Mountaineering programmes for students at school level first started in 2016, in collaboration with Sainik School, Kunjpura. Since then, students of state government schools have successfully climbed the Friendship Peak, a 5,289-metre high peak located in Manali, Himachal Pradesh, five times. On the basis of participation in these adventure programmes, Haryana has the distinction of winning the first position at national level in 2018-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-to-get-cash-prize-of-rs-5l-for-climbing-mountain-peaks-haryana-cm-318566
01-10-2021||---||Stray bull kills elderly woman in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 30A stray bull went berserk on Wednesday and killed an elderly woman in Ekta Vihar colony here.The deceased — Sheela Devi (70) of Ekta Vihar colony — had gone to Sai Temple in the vicinity on Wednesday morning. After offering prayers at the temple, she reached near her home and saw two stray bulls fighting in the middle of the road. Suddenly, one of the bulls went berserk and tried to attack her. However, she saved herself and in the meantime, the other bull attacked her and ran over her head and chest. She sustained serious injuries on her head. Her family members immediately admitted the injured woman to a private hospital, where she succumbed later.Notably, it is the fourth death reported within eight months in the district due to the stray animal menace. Despite the tall claims of making the city stray cattle free, the Panipat Municipal Corporation (MC) and the administration have failed to do so as the drive to catch the animals was stopped within 10 days after its launch. As per the MC records, over 2,500 stray animals roam on city roads and streets, haunting the residents. Ravinder Bhatia, ruling party councillor of Ward-10, said the MC authorities had failed to protect the citizen’s lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-bull-kills-elderly-woman-in-panipat-318567
01-10-2021||---||Couple, son die by suicide in Panipat||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 30Three members of a family reportedly died by suicide after consuming some poisonous substance in Mahavir Colony here on Thursday.The deceased have been identified as Dinesh Kumar (51), his wife Brajesh (48) and their son Ankit (25) of Mahavir Colony.Dinesh was working as a building construction contractor. His son Ankit married Dolly of Chanchal Park in Nazafgarh of Delhi around four-and-a-half years ago. They have a three-year-old son. Ankit was working with Amazon but he lost his job during the Covid-induced lockdown.Meanwhile, Dolly had lodged a dowry complaint against the trio and was living at her paternal house for a long time. On Thursday morning, the trio consumed some poisonous substance. Soon after, Ankit came out of the house and sought help. His uncle Anil, who lives nearby, immediately rushed to the spot and admitted all three to the General Hospital, where they succumbed during treatment.Anil, in his complaint to the police, alleged that Dolly and her family members — Suresh (father), Madhu (mother), Sachin, Amit and one more (brothers) — were allegedly torturing Ankit and his parents and they had even registered a false dowry complaint against the trio. Fed up with the day-to-day torture, they took the extreme step, he alleged. Inspector Neeraj, SHO, Civil Lines, said the bodies had been handed over to victims’ kin after the autopsy. A case has been registered against seven persons, including Dolly and a probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-son-die-by-suicide-in-panipat-318568
01-10-2021||---||Dr Sharmila awarded for ‘Teen Tukda Suraj’||Chandigarh, September 30The Haryana Sahitya Akademi today announced Shrestha Kriti Awards, Hindi Story Awards and Manuscript Grants for 2020 in Hindi and Haryanvi languages.The winners in Hindi category include Dr Sharmila from Hisar for ‘Teen Tukda Suraj’ in poetry, Vijay Vibhor from Rohtak for ‘Phir Wahi Pehli Raat’ in story, Lajpat Rai from Panchkula for ‘Pal Jo Yun Guzrein’ in novel, Pankaj Sharma from Ambala city for ‘Muft Baaton Ke Muftlal’ in essay, Dr. Ashok Kumar from Charkhi Dadri for ‘Haryana Shikhar Mahilayein’ in biography, Baljit Singh from Hisar for ‘Kale Pani Ka Safed Sach’ in travelogue and Mahendra Singh Sagar from Bhiwani ‘Bal Udaan’ in children’s literature.In Haryanvi language, the Shrestha Kriti Award was given to Dr Jai Bhagwan Sharma from Jhajjar for ‘Yadan Ka Jharokha’ and Rambir Singh from Sonipat for ‘Lokkala Sirmaur: Nihalchand Shivcharan’ in poetry.Similarly, in the Hindi story category for 2020, Suresh Barnwal from Sirsa bagged the first place for his story ‘Gile Panne’, followed by Faridabad’s Bhavna Saxena for her story ‘Naubat’ and Bhiwani’s Vinita Malik for story ‘Adjust Karungi’.Of the total manuscripts received for 2020, 20 in Hindi and Haryanvi languages have been selected for the grant. Under this scheme, a grant amount up to Rs 20,000 is provided to the author after the publication of the book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-sharmila-awarded-for-teen-tukda-suraj-318569
01-10-2021||---||11 Karnal policemen booked||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 30The Kaithal Civil Lines police have registered a case against 11 cops of the CIA-2 in Kaithal district for allegedly entering the house of a theft accused and also assaulting his family members.The case was registered on the complaint of a 56-year-old woman of Kaithal city against ASI Mukesh Kumar, head constables Naresh Kumar, Pawan Kumar, Praveen and seven unidentified police officials posted in the CIA 2.Sources said the complainant was the mother of a scrap dealer Rakesh Kumar and she alleged that the police personnel were demanding bribe from Rakesh, but he was not able to fulfil their demand.“I, along with my son, reached the police station and my son was taken into custody. The police demanded Rs 5 lakh from me to release him. I had given Rs 50,000, but the police did not release my son,” she alleged in her complaint.She further alleged that the police personnel entered her house forcibly and took money. On August 8, they again came to her house and demanded money and took her younger son Vikram along with them. She also alleged that the police assaulted her and her daughter-in-law. The Superintendent of Police Lokender Singh said that Rakesh and Vikram were arrested in a case of transformer theft registered against them. When the police party went to arrest Vikram on August 8, the woman and her son Vikram started fighting with police party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-karnal-policemen-booked-318570
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Efforts on to reopen Singhu, Tikri: Haryana CM Khattar||Residents of over 20 villages around the Singhu and Tikri borders adjoining Delhi today met CM Manohar Lal Khattar and apprised him of the problems being faced by them due to the closed border roads.Plaints of 20 villagesThe government, in a press statement, said Khattar told them that they were making every possible effort to reopen the borders while maintaining law and order.Under the leadership of Nationalist Parivartan Manch president Hemant Nandal, the villagers handed over a memorandum to the CM, seeking the opening of the roads at the earliest.The CM said the state intended to open the roads by maintaining peace. Today itself, the SC has asked the SKM to be made a party in the petition for reopening the blocked border roads, he said.Khattar said he was also worried about the loss being caused to the traders due to the closure of the roads. He said to fix the link roads passing via villages, work would be done on a priority basis by giving orders to the departments concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/efforts-on-to-reopen-singhu-tikri-haryana-cm-khattar-318571
01-10-2021||Rohtak||Congress crisis requires ‘manthan’: Bhupinder Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has stated that the disintegration taking place in the Congress was worrisome.‘Mismanagement’ in purchase of paddyAddressing a news conference at his residence in Rohtak on Thursday, Hooda said the disintegration in the party was not good in national interest and required ‘manthan’ (brainstorming) by the Congress leadership.Hooda remarked that it was not confined to Punjab as disintegration of the Congress was taking place in other states as well.Asked about Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja’s statement that the state party organisation was not involved in the proposed ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ campaign announced by Hooda, the ex-CM asserted that it was planned and approved by the Congress Legislative Party.“It is a campaign meant to reach out to the people and mobilise their support by underlining the failures of the BJP regime in the state. If somebody does not support it, you can draw the inference.”Questioned about the possibility of mid-term elections in Haryana, he quipped that as of now, it seemed that there was no government in the state. “Corruption is at its peak, and so is crime. The condition of roads is so miserable that even the national highways are badly damaged and potholed. These have been lying in the same state for about two years,” he alleged.Hooda urged the Centre to talk to the farmers so that the matter could be settled in an amicable manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-crisis-requires-manthan-bhupinder-hooda-318580
01-10-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS dedicates block to Covid again||The admission of two infected patients to the PGIMS here today made the authorities call an emergency meeting and dedicate its C-block and Ward-24 to Covid again.Last time, a Covid patient was admitted to the PGIMS on August 22 and discharged on September 2. Sources said one of the two patients admitted today was from Faridabad, while the second one from Rohtak, but residing at a hostel in Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-dedicates-block-to-covid-again-318585
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Holiday on October 3 on account of MC bypoll||In view of the byelections on October 3 for the seat of Ward 34 of the Municipal Corporation, Gurugram and Ward 7 of the Municipal Corporation, Karnal, Haryana has declared holiday on October 3 for all shops and commercial establishments falling under the jurisdiction of aforesaid wards so that the voters can cast their vote. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/holiday-on-october-3-on-account-of-mc-bypoll-318593
01-10-2021||Hisar||Man kills  live-in  partner in Hisar village||A man killed his live-in partner in Adampur village of the district on Wednesday night. The victim has been identified as Sunita (33), who started living with the accused, Sunil, after the death of her husband. The accusedwas arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-live-in-partner-in-hisar-village-318594
01-10-2021||Bhiwani||Hindi Diwas fortnight in Bhiwani||Awareness on career avenuesGurugram: The faculty of mass communication and media technology, SGT University, Gurugram, organised an open house "Story well told-careers aplenty" to inform students about career avenues in the field of journalism and mass communication. Pankaj Rakesh, a senior filmmaker and media educator, Sanjay Sharma, a senior journalist and Keshav Kumar, executive producer of a TV channel, interacted with students and informed them about the job opportunities in the field of mass communication.Training in biotechnologyHisar : A 21-day training programme organised by the Department of Biotechnology, Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS) concluded here. Dr Nirmal Sangwan, director, human resources directorate of the university distributed certificates to the participants. A university spokesperson informed that they had organised 33 training programmes in the department of biotechnology of veterinary college and 501 participants had taken training in biotechnology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hindi-diwas-fortnight-in-bhiwani-318595
01-10-2021||In the HSVP Sector 51 Urban Estate||HSVP Sec 51 in Gurugram lacks cleanliness||Veena Kansal, GurugramSports complexes a better optionThe development of canal front is sheer wastage of public money, it is better if the government spends Rs 65 crores for developing five sports complexes one each for 2-3 sectors. Karnal has only one 70 years old public sports stadium which was established when the city population was only 40,000. Now, the city has over 3.5 lakh population, thus there is a need for at least five additional stadiums spread across city.Dr Virender Singh Lather, KarnalCommuters suffer but MC does not botherThe road leading to the entrance of the BSNL office, a key public utility centre situated in Sector 5, Panchkula, is in a pathetic condition. How come that the city's civic body continues to look the other way even as this badly potholed road remain a potent threat to commuters traversing through this badly damaged segment extending upto the entry point of the Haryana state general bus stand.Vinayak G, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-sec-51-in-gurugram-lacks-cleanliness-318596
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 3 cr released for first-aid boxes in schools||The Haryana School Education Project Council has released about Rs 3 crore for 2021-22 for first-aid boxes in schools.Science teachers will be made the in-charge by giving them training in first-aid An amount of Rs 2,000 has been earmarked for each school. An official spokesperson said a child spends most of his time in school. If a child is injured during this time, immediate first-aid is needed. In view of this, the government has released Rs. 2,87,72,000 for all government schools in the state under the scheme ‘Fund for Protection and Security at School Level’. He said the government through the Haryana School Education Project Council has earmarked a budget for purchasing first-aid boxes in 11,049 primary and 3,337 secondary schools in the state. On behalf of the Haryana School Education Project Council, all officials have been directed to put 24 items in the first-aid box kit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-3-cr-released-for-first-aid-boxes-in-schools-318597
01-10-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Ellenabad bypoll: To campaign or not, Samyukt Kisan Morcha to decide today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30Having campaigned extensively in the West Bengal elections and announced “mission UP”, the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws have yet to take call on participating in the Ellenabad byelection.In dilemma over ellenabad bypollThough the farmers are opposing leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance in the state, they are unsure of doing the same in the bypoll. They said a decision would be taken at a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) likely to be held at Singhu tomorrow.“My individual opinion doesn’t matter. We will go with the decision of the SKM,” Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said. Yogendra Yadav echoed the same sentiment.Another leader said Punjab farm leaders were not too keen on participating in the Ellenabad byelection. “We campaigned in West Bengal and met with success. We will do so in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab too. However, a byelection doesn’t change the power equations much and the ruling party generally has the upper hand,” he said, adding that the Haryana unit should be allowed to take a call on the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-to-campaign-or-not-samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-decide-today-318443
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre puts off paddy procurement from Punjab, Haryana till Oct 11||The government has decided to postpone paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana till October 11, following high moisture content in the crop because of the recent spell of heavy rainfall in the region. The procurement was to begin in Punjab from October 1.Also read: Allow purchase from today, Punjab CM Channi urges PM ModiEarly variety of produce arrives in Jalandhar mandiIn a letter to the state government, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, said because of the recent rain, the maturity of paddy had been delayed and moisture content in the fresh arrival was beyond the permissible limit. “So to avoid any inconvenience to farmers, it has been decided that the procurement under the MSP will commence from October 11,” it said. The state governments have been advised to dry the paddy that has already arrived in mandis. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-puts-off-paddy-procurement-from-punjab-haryana-till-oct-11-318366
01-10-2021||---||Supreme Court clears Sandeep Moudgil’s name for Punjab and Haryana HC Judge||Chandigarh, September 30The Supreme Court collegium has cleared the name of advocate Sandeep Moudgil for elevation as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. With this, all five names, recommended by the High Court collegium for elevation in August last year, have been cleared by the apex court.Initially, the names of five advocates, including Vikas Suri, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain and Jasjit Singh Bedi, were finalised and forwarded. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as in April this year. While Moudgil’s name was pending, the other names were cleared by the SC collegium at its meeting held on September 1.The number of Judges with their elevation will go up to 50 against the sanctioned of 85. It may eventually increase to 51 as the High Court is slated to get three more judges, including two from the Himachal Pradesh High Court, following Supreme Court recommendations on their transfers. Two High Court’s senior judges are to be transferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-clears-sandeep-moudgils-name-for-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge-318372
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||50 per cent of Punjab and Haryana HC Benches to hear cases ‘physically’ from Monday||Nearly 18 months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to virtual mode of hearing cases following Covid outbreak, on Thursday it inched closer to normal functioning with the Chief Justice making it clear that 50 per cent of the Benches would hear the cases “physically” from Monday.An order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry indicated that 19 Benches would “hold the court through physical hearing”. In all, 39 Benches, comprising 45 judges, are currently holding court through videoconferencing and physical mode. As of now, 12 Benches are hearing cases physically. The high court had shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March end last year. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip high court judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates, and the staff.The high court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19. But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following a “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28. But all Benches resumed functioning through the virtual mode from July 28 with the reduction in the severity of the second wave. Amidst apprehensions of Covid third wave, the high court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, with two Division Benches and 10 Single Benches designated for hearing of cases through the physical mode.The high court at that time made it clear that four Single Benches would take up writ petitions and civil matters, while six would take up criminal matters. Currently, more than 2,000 cases are being listed for hearing.Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar president GDS Dhillon said the advocates had since long been demanding the resumption of physical hearing of cases and the decision to increase the number of Benches to 50 per cent of the total would expedite to a large extent the hearing of matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-per-cent-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-benches-to-hear-cases-physically-from-monday-318340
01-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana postponed till October 11||Chandigarh, September 30The government has decided to postpone the paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana till October 11, considering the high moisture content in the crop because of the recent spell of heavy rainfall in the region.Paddy procurement was to begin in Punjab from October 1.In a letter to Punjab government, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has said that because of the recent rains the maturity of paddy has been delayed and moisture content in the fresh arrival is beyond the permissible limit. “So to avoid any inconvenience to farmers, it has been decided that procurement under MSP would commence from October 11, in Punjab and Haryana to accept paddy stock as per specifications,” says the communication sent to the state government.The state governments have been advised to dry the paddy that has already arrived in the mandis and further produce to be brought in mandis after proper drying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-procurement-from-punjab-and-haryana-postponed-till-october-11-318338
