03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre has got positive help from Punjab, Haryana, UP, Delhi on stubble burning: Union Environment Minister||The Centre has got constructive cooperation from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments on the issue of stubble burning, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Sunday.Yadav had held a key meeting last month with the governments of Delhi and its neighbouring states Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on the action plan to mitigate air pollution caused by stubble burning.Yadav, who is also the minister for Forest and Climate Change and Labour and Employment, said on the issue of pollution caused by stubble burning, the Centre has got constructive cooperation from these northern states.He said discussions were held last month over the implementation of action plans by states to mitigate pollution due to agriculture stubble burning, dust, construction and demolition waste, and vehicular pollution.The minister, while interacting with reporters here, said with technologies available now, there was economic viability of stubble nowadays.The state-run NTPC had earlier floated a tender to buy farm stubble for use as fuel at power plants, he said.Some private companies too have come up with good experiments under which stubble or crop residue is turned into manure, said the minister.Touching upon the issue of machines needed to deal with stubble, Yadav said the Union Agriculture Ministry has given nearly Rs 700 crore to these northern states.Notably, farmers in Punjab, Haryana and some other states set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato.Experts have claimed it is one of the main reasons for the spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR at the onset of winters.The paddy harvesting season is between October 15 and November 15.In the country’s 132 cities, equipment to monitor air quality has been set up, he said.Replying to a question on climate change, Yadav said it is a global challenge.India recognises the urgency of strong climate action to stay within the temperature goal of the Paris Agreement, he said.Yadav also said India has taken many steps on clean energy, energy efficiency and biodiversity.He said the country has set an ambitious renewable energy target of 450 Gigawatts by 2030.Earlier, addressing an event at the Shram Bureau (Labour Bureau) Bhavan here, Yadav said following the motto of “Mehnat Ko Samman, Adhikar Ek Saman”, the Government is focused on the welfare of workers through evidence-based policymaking.During the event, he mentioned that data on all aspects of labour is crucial and scientifically collected data is the bedrock for any evidence-based policymaking.With the increasing importance of data in the time to come, coupled with the fact that India is a labour abundant nation, a dedicated organisation for labour and price statistics like the Labour Bureau merits strengthening and full support, said the minister.The Union Minister further said over the years, the Labour Bureau mandate has increased exponentially which now includes the collection and compilation of data on all possible aspects of labour.On the occasion, certificates of appreciation were also given to many of the Bureau officials.The minister also held discussions with the state labour ministers, labour secretaries & commissioners of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh & UTs of Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh on progress in the registration of unorganised workers on the e-Shram portal and preparedness of the states and UTs on the implementation of various schemes and reforms, an official statement said.The Minister also visited a special camp for the registration of unorganised workers under “e-Shram” portal organised by the office of chief labour commissioner (Central) under the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment.The minister distributed e-Shram cards to unorganised workers and had an interaction with trade union leaders, employers and unorganised workers.The e-Shram portal was inaugurated on August 26. The portal is the first-ever national database of unorganised workers including migrant workers and construction workers.An estimated 38 crore workers are engaged in the unorganized sector and employment (Economic Survey, 2019-20), Yadav said.As of October 2, 2021, a total of 2,46,57,524 workers have registered on the portal.Of these almost 55 per cent of the workers are engaged in the agriculture sector followed by almost 15 per cent registration from the workers in the construction sector and six per cent in the apparel industry. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-has-got-positive-help-from-punjab-haryana-up-delhi-on-stubble-burning-union-environment-minister-319639
03-10-2021||Satya Prakash||Haryana seeks to make farmer leaders parties to PIL seeking removal of blockades||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 3Ahead of Monday’s hearing on a PIL seeking removal of blockades at key roads connecting Delhi to NCR regions by farmers demanding repeal of farm laws, the Haryana government has moved the Supreme Court to make 43 officer-bearers of farmers’ organisations parties to it.In an application filed in the top court, the Haryana government has sought to implead farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh and others to the ongoing proceedings.Maintaining that the Dharna on Singhu and Tikri borders was being organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha—a body of number of Kisan unions – Haryana government said the names of parties mentioned in its plea were those of the office bearer/workers of various Kisan unions.The top court is hearing a petition filed by Monicca Agarwal—a women resident of NOIDA – on the issue. Agarwal—a single parent with some medical issues—alleged that due to blockades enforced by agitating farmers travelling between NOIDA and Delhi was taking two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes and that it had become a nightmare to commute between Noida and Delhi.Earlier, in an affidavit filed in the top court, he Haryana Government had said it’s making “sincere” efforts to remove the blockade for resumption of free flow of traffic. The UP government had also filed a similar affidavit stating that it’s making all efforts to convince farmers that their act of blocking roads was causing grave inconvenience to commuters.Giving details of its efforts, the Haryana Government said a state-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary was formed to find a way out. The panel’s September 19 meeting wasn’t attended by the farmers’ leaders.As farmers continued to block key roads connecting Delhi to NCR regions, the Supreme Court had on September 30 wondered how highways can be blocked perpetually and made it clear that it’s the duty of the executive to implement the law laid down by it.“The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” a Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had asked.“We may lay down a law but how to implement the law is your (the government’s) business. The court can’t implement it. It is the Executive which has to implement it,” it had noted.On October 1, another Bench of the top court had questioned the rationale behind blocking roads even after approaching the judiciary and reminded the agitating farmers that citizens had equal rights to move freely without fear.“You have strangulated the entire city, now you want to come inside the city and start protesting again here… The residents around... are they happy with the protest? This business should stop. You are obstructing security and defence personnel. This was in the media. All this should stop…There has to be a balanced approach,” a Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar had said.The Bench was hearing Kisan Mahapanchayat’s plea seeking directions to the Centre, Delhi Lt. Governor and Delhi Police Commissioner to allow them to hold dharna at Jantar Mantar in the capital.Both the matters are listed for hearing on Monday.Maintaining that “democracy and dissent go hand in hand”, the top court had on October 7, last year ruled that roads and public spaces can’t be blocked indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.The top court had on August 23 asked the Centre and governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to find a solution to the blockade of roads connecting Delhi with NCR towns by farmers agitating against the three farm laws.The farmers have a right to protest at a designated space, but they can’t block the traffic, a Bench had said. “The solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and state governments...Mr Mehta what is happening? You have to find a solution, they might have the right to a place to agitate, but the roads can’t be blocked like this.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-seeks-to-make-farmer-leaders-parties-to-pil-seeking-removal-of-blockades-319636
03-10-2021||Karnal||Paddy procurement: As farmers rush to grain markets, authorities struggle with crowd control||Farmers in Karnal are holding a protest to demand unrestricted entry into the Taraori and Jundla grain markets on a day when paddy procurement begins in the state. Haryana government’s paddy procurement announcement has led to an unexpected rush of farmers to Karnal’s grain markets, resulting in turn in a long queue of tractor-trailers outside these markets and prompting police to station themselves in the area to prevent escalation, authorities said on Sunday morning.Authorities said many of those who came didn’t have permission, prompting them to restrict their entry.  The state government has issued a schedule for farmers to bring in their crop in an attempt to prevent crowding, especially in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Protesting farmers who blocked the road leading to Jundla grain market, meanwhile, claim authorities promised gate passes to all farmers.In Indri mandi, farmers raised slogans against the government, demanding that authorities allow all farmers, both those scheduled to come to the grain market that day and the unscheduled ones, into the grain market, forcing district authorities issued gate passes to those without permission. Sub-divisional Magistrate Gaurav Kumar is at the grain market to pacify angry protesters.Meanwhile, procurement has begun at all 15 mandis and purchase centres in Karnal, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said on Sunday afternoon, although farmers disputed this claim.  Haryana government hastened to rush paddy procurement on Saturday after farmers held a protest against the decision to delay the process this year. Procurement begins on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-procurement-as-farmers-rush-to-grain-markets-authorities-struggle-with-crowd-control-319582
03-10-2021||Karnal||Man held with 18.5-kg opium in Karnal||The accused — Amritpal of Kabulpurkhera village — has been sent to 10-day police remand. His accomplice Balbir Singh of Kaitha’s Pundri fled the spot. The accused revealed he and Balbir had purchased the opium from Jharkhand for supply in Haryana and Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-18-5-kg-opium-in-karnal-319415
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Gang of thieves busted, 3 arrested in Gurugram||The police busted a Delhi-based gang of thieves after a brief encounter, and nabbed three members. A head constable was injured during the cross firing between the police and the accused.A case has been registered against the accused — Dara Singh, alias Dhara; Amit, alias Meeta; Abhinav, alias Chunnu; all residents of the Najafgarh area in Delhi, at the Bajghera police station. An illegal pistol with cartridges and a Thar have been seized from their possession.As per the police, a barricade was put up in an area in Sector 114. When the accused came, the police signalled them to stop, but they fled after breaking the barricade. When the police started chasing them, they opened fire. The cops also started firing. After a brief encounter, the police nabbed the trio, while two others fled. The accused were involved in many cases of thefts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-thieves-busted-3-arrested-in-gurugram-319417
03-10-2021||Yamunanagar||4 booked for holding two cops hostage in Yamunanagar||Two cops were allegedly held hostage by a family in Krishna Nagar colony of Yamunanagar last evening.The police went to the house of Rajesh Kumar to serve notice on his son Manmohan Singh to join investigation in connection with a case registered against him.On the complaint of Dal Singh, ASI, posted at Farakpur police station, a case was registered against Rajesh Kumar, his wife, their daughter and one more girl under Sections 323, 353, 342 and 504 of the IPC.The complainant said Manmohan Singh had been booked under Sections 504 and 506 of the IPC at the Farakpur police station on February 9. Last evening, they got information that Manmohan Singh was present at his house. They reached his house at 5.30 pm. Manmohan’s father, mother, sister and one more girl abused them, he said.They held them (he and one more police official Karan Singh) hostage by locking them inside the house. Later, a police team arrived from the Gandhi Nagar police station and freed them, said the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-booked-for-holding-two-cops-hostage-in-yamunanagar-319418
03-10-2021||---||Two held for murder in Faridabad||Faridabad, October 2The police have arrested two persons today for the murder of a local resident.The accused have been identified as Yogesh and Pankaj, residents of Mujesar village in the district. They had allegedly got into a fight with the victim, Deepak, and assaulted him with sticks near Machine Market in NIT on September 30, which resulted in his death.Deepak was assaulted on the suspicion of stealing the battery of an auto rickshaw of one of the accused, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-murder-in-faridabad-319419
03-10-2021||---||25 Faridabad units sealed over property tax||Faridabad, October 2Launching a sealing drive against defaulters of property tax, Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) on Saturday sealed as many as 25 units. These units owe Rs 24.99 lakh property tax.A spokesperson of the MC said despite issuing of notices, these units had failed to clear the dues. He said the defaulting units include both commercial and residential ones.The units that were sealed today are located in various zones of the civic body. These include five units owing Rs 9.16 lakh in NIT-1, five units in old Faridabad zone (Rs 3.22 lakh) and 15 units in Ballabgarh zone which have failed to clear pending tax to the tune of Rs 12.61 lakh for the past several years.Though the total defaulting amount of property tax in the city is around Rs 200 crore, the civic body aims to recover around Rs 125 crore. While an amount of Rs 38 crore is entangled in legal cases, another Rs 36 crore is pending towards government departments here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-faridabad-units-sealed-over-property-tax-319420
03-10-2021||---||BJP making anti-people laws: Sitaram Yechury||Hisar, October 2CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury has alleged that the BJP and RSS are bent upon destroying the progressive and democratic values of our country.Yechury said CM Manohar Lal Khattar had been constantly saying that people having red flag are behind the farmers’ movements.“The BJP’s fear is natural because it knows that only alternative to its current policies that are destroying the people ,” he alleged.He alleged that the RSS never recognised the Constitution and had no concern for the idea of equality. “That is why anti-people laws are being enacted today and there is no debate on those,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-making-anti-people-laws-sitaram-yechury-319421
03-10-2021||---||Randeep Surjewala alleges scam in Sub-Inspector recruitment exam||Chandigarh, October 2Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala today alleged a scam in the Sub-Inspector recruitment exam, conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSCC). Surjewala said usually an entrance exam would have one paper but here, three papers were conducted.The exam was conducted on September 26.Surjewala said the candidates had told him that at a few centres in Gurugram and Rewari, a Paper-I was given and after some time, a Paper-II was given followed by a Paper-III. At maximum centres, however, only Paper-I was given to candidates, he added.He expressed doubt that the paper might have been leaked and that was why three papers were distributed at some centres. He also alleged that questions related to the BJP were asked in the question paper, which were, in any way, not related to the law and order.The HSSC is re-conducting the exam for those candidates who had appeared at Government Senior Secondary School, Jharsa, Gurugram; Manav Rachan International School, Sector 46, Gurugram; and Saini Senior Secondary School, near Civil Hospital, Rewari; on October 13 in Panchkula.The HSSC has clarified that “if candidates do not appear for the re-examination, then the marks scored by them in the exam held on September 26 will be considered for evaluation”.Surjewala also questioned why a re-exam was being conducted for the candidates of only three centres.HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh said: “There was no paper leak. It was by mistake that different papers were opened at a few centres. We are re-conducting the exams only for those centres.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/randeep-surjewala-alleges-scam-in-sub-inspector-recruitment-exam-319422
03-10-2021||---||Withdraw new quota norms, Haryana ex-airmen association urges govt||Hisar, October 2The Haryana Ex-Airmen Welfare Association and Ex-Servicemen of Army and Navy have demanded the withdrawal of the instructions of the state government regarding availing the benefits of the reservation to the retired defence personnel and their dependents in the state.A delegation of office-bearers of the Haryana Ex-Airmen Welfare Association submitted a memorandum to Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa today.According to the amended rules, an ex-serviceman who has already secured employment in a civil service on regular basis under the state government with or without availing the benefit of the reservation will not be eligible to avail the reservation benefit for any subsequent appointment in the state government. Besides, their children will also not be eligible to avail the benefit against the posts reserved for ex-servicemen.Only children of those ex-servicemen will be eligible for availing the quota if the ex-servicemen himself/herself do not want to avail the benefit for self.“No children of martyred military personnel shall be entitled to avail the reservation benefit as one family member is already entitled to avail the benefit of compassionate appointment under another policy for family members of martyred armed forces personnel,” the guidelines issued on July 14, 2021, stated.The association, however, opposed these guidelines, alleging that these norms were set to curtail the benefit to ex-servicemen and their dependents.Amended rules||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-new-quota-norms-haryana-ex-airmen-association-urges-govt-319423
03-10-2021||---||Mahendragarh roads in deplorable condition||Mahendragarh, October 2The road condition in the district has gone from bad to worse in the rainy season inconveniencing road users. A majority of the roads in Mahendragarh and Narnaul cities are in a deplorable condition.Significantly, the situation remains the same even two week after a team of Haryana Human Rights Commission visited Narnaul while acting on the complaints of pitiable condition of roads in the district. It also directed the district authorities to resolve the issue.Vehicles break downShopkeepers of Quilla Road blocked the road to attract the attention of the authorities. But some of the traders were booked by the police instead of ensuring the construction of the road. Vehicles are getting damaged due to the potholes on the road. Anil Kaushik, resident of Narnaul“Be it the road leading to the vegetable market from Azad Chowk, Brahmdev Chowk to Railway road, Balaji Chowk to Cinema Road, Gaushala Road and Old Narnaul road or the road leading to the flyover from Satnali Chowk in Mahendragarh city, all these have been in a shambles since a long time. Not a single road has been constructed in Mahendragarh in the past five years,” said Neeraj, a resident of Mahendragarh.He maintained the situation forced shopkeepers of some markets to fill deep potholes on their own so as to prevent road mishaps. “Not a single day passes without any minor or major accident in the city. On many occasions, two-wheeler riders have got injured. Locals have raised their voice against this burning issue but no one is paying any heed to it,” he added.Anil Kaushik of Narnaul city said the road leading to Quilla Road from Police Lines in Narnaul was dug up in May for laying sewer lines but it had not been constructed yet. The situation was so bad that pedestrians could not walk properly on this road. “Shopkeepers of Quilla Road blocked the road to attract the attention of the higher authorities towards the issue but some of the traders were booked by the police, instead of ensuring the construction of the road. Vehicles are getting damaged due to the potholes on the road,” Kaushik added.Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said officials concerned had been directed to repair all those roads within 15 days, which got damaged in the rain.“The Narnaul-Mahendragarh and Charkhi Dadri road, which is the important highway of the district, is also damaged. The Public Works Department has written to the state authorities for increasing the budget so that the highway can be repaired. It is likely to be repaired within 20 days,” said the DC, adding that the officials have also been asked to repair the road near the Hero Honda Chowk in Narnaul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-roads-in-deplorable-condition-319424
03-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram Municipal Corporation bypoll today, Section 144 imposed||Gurugram, October 2The Municipal Corporation Ward 34 in the city is set for bypoll to be held tomorrow. The administration has imposed Section 144 at the polling booths. The previous councillor, RS Rathee, had died due to Covid. Rathee was a senior AAP leader and now, his wife will contest the polls on the BJP ticket. The elections are expected to be a neck-to-neck fight between candidates, though the BJP support to Rama Rani Rathee and the goodwill of her deceased husband is expected to provide her an edge.She faces a tough competition from Independent candidate Zile Singh Nambardar. Nambardar is the president of the Saraswati Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA). The third candidate is Jagmohan, an Independent contestant and a resident of Sikanderpur Ghosi village, while the fourth is Mohit Yadav, an advocate from Sikanderpur Ghosi village.“Being a former councillor, I have a lot of experience. In our last three-and-a-half years, we have undertaken many development works in the area,” said BJP candidate Rathee.“In the last election, I was defeated with a slight margin. People vouch for my work and I expect support this time,” said Nambardar.Prominent societies such as Belvedere Towers, Ivy Apartments, The Magnolias, DLF Phases 1-2, Silver Oaks Apartment, Oakwood Estate, Beverly Park 1 and 2, Heritage City and Essel Towers are under Ward 34. On Sunday, the poll will be held from 8am to 4.30pm at 12 polling stations and 30 booths, following which counting will be done and results will be declared on same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-municipal-corporation-bypoll-today-section-144-imposed-319425
03-10-2021||---||Ellenabad bypoll: Panchayat to decide INLD candidate||Hisar, October 2The INLD would go by the decision of the panchayat scheduled to be held in Chopta village of Ellenabad segment, in Sirsa district tomorrow, for fielding a candidate in the byelection, said party leader Abhay Singh Chautala, while addressing a press conference, here today.Abhay, who had resigned from the Assembly in support of farmers’ agitation, said he took the decision (to resign) after consulting the people of his constituency. “Now, the people of Ellenabad will decide the name of the candidate for the bypoll. A panchayat will be held tomorrow, which will take a decision in this regard,” he said.Abhay was the only INLD MLA in the Assembly after the 2019 elections. He resigned on January 27. The ruling BJP-JJP and the Congress are now raising questions on the rationale of his resignation. The Congress leaders questioned if he (Abhay) was entering the fray in the bypoll, why he resigned in the first place, as the issue of farmers’ demand was still unresolved.The INLD leader said the bypoll outcome would reflect the sentiments of people on the issue of farmers’ demands. “Let us see whether people accept or reject the three farm laws, which have provoked the farmers to launch a prolonged agitation,” he said.Abhay stated the ruling BJP-JJP coalition as well as the Congress had no party ticket takers for the Assembly bypoll. “The BJP as well as the JJP has designated observers for finalising a candidate, but there is no one interested in contesting the bypoll. Similar is the situation in the Congress,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-panchayat-to-decide-inld-candidate-319426
03-10-2021||Our Correspondent||60 down with diarrhoea symptoms in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 2Panic gripped Coralwood Society, Sector 84, after over 60 residents complained of diarrhoea symptoms in the past two days, and many were admitted to hospital. People claimed to have fallen ill after drinking water from a borewell that was recently cleaned.After the society raised an alarm, the health authorities took water samples for testing. A special team from the PHC, Bhangrola, organised a medical camp and examined 55 persons, of which 53 had symptoms. Two were referred to hospital and prescribed the necessary medication.Borewell water dirtyPeople have become ill due to the dirty water of the borewell. Samples have been sent for testing. Puran Singh Baghel, President, RWA, Coralwood SocietyResidents of the society are up in arms, saying they had been pleading for canal water supply for long.Society’s general secretary Jitendra Soni said, “Water comes from the borewell of the society. By drinking this water on Friday, almost one occupant of each house of the society fell ill.”“The complaint has been tweeted to the administration. However, no official or builder reached the spot. Now, there is resentment among people due to the spread of the disease,” said Soni.Most of the new societies in the city do not have clean water supply.“People have become ill due to the dirty water of the borewell. Samples of water have been sent for testing,” said Puran Singh Baghel, president, Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Coralwood Society.Sanjay Sura, project in charge of Coralwood Society, could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-down-with-diarrhoea-symptoms-in-gurugram-319427
03-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra innovator develops medicine-dispensing device||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 2With an aim to help people take the right amount of dose with safety and ease, a 29-year-old innovator of Kurukshetra has developed a medicine dispensing system.Samax, who has recently got a patent for his product, said consuming syrup with a measuring cup or a spoon was difficult and could lead to contamination due to ambient atmosphere.‘It prevents contamination’Consuming syrup with a measuring cup or a spoon can lead to contamination due to ambient atmosphere. Cleaning the cup after each use is difficult, and germs left in the residue can cause life-threatening diseases. His advanced syrup bottle with an inbuilt auto-measuring feature has been developed to ingest precise dose directly into mouth. “Medicines have become a part of our lives and still a majority of people fail to take it properly. Medications are one of the leading causes of child poisoning. Cleaning the measuring cup after each use is difficult, and germs left in the residue can cause life-threatening diseases,” said Samax. He said there was a need to give attention to the existing medicine packaging and consumption methods, and implement advanced solutions.Samax said after completing engineering and MBA, he got placed in an MNC in 2017, but he quit his job to pursue his dream to make revolutionary inventions for ease and safety in the pharmaceutical packaging sectors.The next-generation medicine packaging solution protects children from any accidental medicine consumption by providing a double child-safety lock, which requires adult-like manual dexterity to operate. For the elderly and the visually impaired, this advanced syrup bottle is designed ergonomically to make medicine consumption comfortable with a single hand.“Besides the improved dispensing system, I have invented seven more products, including an advanced auto-measuring cup, which can transform any container into the advanced auto-measuring bottle to take the precise amount directly to mouth. This auto-measuring cup is a replacement of the external measuring cup, so it can be implemented to any existing medicine bottle with no extra cost,” he said.“I have also invented a touch-free pill dispenser, in which only one capsule comes out per stroke for direct consumption,” said Samax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-innovator-develops-medicine-dispensing-device-319428
03-10-2021||Ambala||17 booked for rioting in front of BJP meet venue||The Ambala police have booked 17 farmers under charges of rioting, unlawful assembly, voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of his public functions and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty in connection with the farmers’ protest in Barara on Friday.The case has been registered against BKU (Charuni) Ambala president Malkit Singh, Gulab Singh, Amarjeet, Mahinder, Jodh Singh, Sham Singh, Rohit, Baljinder Singh, Happy, Puppy, Happy Saini, Davindu, Vikram, Labh Singh, Sadha Singh, Surjit and Asvinder under Sections 148, 149, 186, 188, 332, 341 and 353 of the IPC at Barara police station.In his complaint, Head Constable Surender Singh stated that BJP leaders had organised a meeting at Barara on October 1. Meanwhile, BKU activists started holding a protest there.The duty magistrate attempted to pacify the farmers but the activists were adamant. They also blocked the Dosarka-Shahabad road.They allegedly pushed the on-duty officials and obstructed public servants in the discharge of their duties. Water cannon and light force were also used to disperse them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-booked-for-rioting-in-front-of-bjp-meet-venue-319429
03-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Cricket scam: Coach nabbed, sent to 4-day remand||Gurugram, October 2In the investigation of the cricket scam, the Gurugram police have arrested another accused, Kulbeer Rawat, a coach who runs a cricket academy in Dehradun.Rawat was found to be involved in supplying young aspiring cricketers to the main accused persons, Ashutosh Bora and Chitra Bora.The Gurugram police produced the accused coach in a city court today and took him on a four-day police remand. The police said Rawat’s bank statement shows that he had taken more than Rs 40 lakh from Ashutosh Bora.We were questioning Rawat and further probe was on, said Dharmbeer Singh, ACP, Crime-2.Meanwhile, Ranji player Mohammad Javed Khan, who played for Mumbai in Indian domestic cricket, had applied for anticipatory bail before the District and Sessions Court, Gurugram, but was denied.It is alleged that Khan played an active role in the said scam, along with the main accused. He was a part of the day-to-day working of the company, Secure Corporate Management Private Limited (SCM).Besides, sources claimed that during the interrogation of Sanjay Bharadwaj, former director for the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), the police found some major leads and he had been called for investigation again.“Nabam Vivek, sitting president of the Arunachal Cricket Association, has sought more time to join the investigation and will join after October 2,” said an investigating official of Economic Offence Wing (EOW-2).On September 4, the EOW-2 had busted a gang for allegedly duping aspiring cricketers of several lakhs, promising them selection in various teams and tournaments. The police have arrested three persons, who were the directors of sports management company SCM, while the other three accused are still at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cricket-scam-coach-nabbed-sent-to-4-day-remand-319430
03-10-2021||Panipat||Deepender Singh Hooda joins stir in Panipat, hits out at BJP-JJP alliance||Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda alleged that the BJP-JJP government was beating farmers on roads and their produce in grain markets.The Congress MP staged a symbolic dharna at the Panipat grain market on Saturday in support of farmers and demanded to start the procurement with immediate effect.Besides, on the SKM call, the farmers protested at the residences of BJP MLA Pramod Vij and MP Sanjay Bhatia in Panipat. They also staged a protest near the residence of MP Ramesh Kaushik in Sonepat.Mandis flooded with paddy stockI visited various mandis, which are flooded with paddy. The decision to start the procurement from Sunday is a victory of the farmers, labourers and the Opposition. Deepender Hooda, Congress MPTaking a dig at the state government, Deepender said it was attacking the farmers at all levels — physically, mentally and economically. Farmers arrived with their produce and all grain markets were already filled with paddy, he added.Deepender further said the farmers at the grain market told him that they had been forced to sell their produce at lower rates than the MSP.He said the people in the state were fed up of this government. “The state economy along with law and order have derailed, besides farmers, labourers, government staff were agitating, small traders were suffering from recession and the common man was hit by inflation and unemployment,” he alleged.Later, Deepender also held a meeting with party leaders and workers to discuss the preparations of the ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme, to be launched from the CM’s constituency on October 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-singh-hooda-joins-stir-in-panipat-hits-out-at-bjp-jjp-alliance-319431
03-10-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula police ‘lathicharge’ protesters||Farmers clashed with the police while trying to gherao Speaker Gian Chand Gupta’s residence in Sector 17 here on Saturday over the delay in paddy procurement.They broke the barricades set up near the Chandimandir toll plaza with tractors, leaving many farmers and cops injured. The police then resorted to lathicharge on farmers to push them back.Denying the claim, the police said the protesters tried to run over cops with tractors, leaving a few of them injured.Later, many protesters were also taken into custody to main law and order. At 6 pm, BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh reached the toll barrier and sat on a dharna, seeking the release of the detained farmers and seized tractors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-police-lathicharge-protesters-319432
03-10-2021||---||PADDY PROCUREMENT: Haryana farmers end statewide protest after govt assurance||Karnal/Amabala/Yamunanagar/Hisar, October 2After the government assurance to start paddy procurement in the state from Sunday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday ended their statewide protest.Earlier on Saturday, a large number of farmers protested in Karnal and Kaithal against the delay in paddy purchase.In Karnal, farmers assembled at the grain market and took out a protest march on tractors, trailers, bikes and cars. Heavy police force along with two companies of security forces were deployed near CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Prem Nagar.The farmers, however, overpowered the police barricades and the police had to use water cannons. The farmers carrying paddy in their trollies staged a dharna outside the CM’s house and also hoisted the BKU flag on the wall he shares with his neighbour. They also erected a tent for an indefinite dharna but after the CM’s announcement to start the paddy procurement from Sunday, they ended the stir.In Kaithal too, the farmers protested outside the residence of Minister of State for Women and Child Welfare Kamlesh Dhanda.Meanwhile, Bhadhur Singh Mehla, district president, IT Cell, BKU (Charuni), said earlier, the government had announced to start the procurement from September 25, later postponed it to October 1 then to October 11, upsetting the farmers.In Ambala city, a large number of farmers marched towards the residence of MLA Aseem Goel. A farmer suffered a leg injury and was rushed to a hospital.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU ChiefWary Charuni Will not accept excusesThe govt has agreed to start the procurement from Sunday. But if it comes up with any other excuse and doesn’t start the process, farmers will block roads on Monday. For now, we’ve ended the dharna after the govt assurance.The protesters also staged dharna in front of the main gates of offices of the market secretaries in Ambala Cantonment, Mullana, Naraingarh, Saha, Barara and Shahzadpur. They even locked the gates of the offices of the market secretaries in some mandis.Similarly, in Kurukshetra, the farmers staged a dharna near the residence of Thanesar BJP MLA Subhash Sudha, while in Shahabad they reached in front of the houses of JJP MLA Ram Karan Kala, Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Sandeep Singh and CM’s political secretary Krishan Bedi, with paddy-laden tractor-trailers.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains, who was leading the demonstration in Shahabad, said: “The farmers held peaceful protests against the delay in paddy procurement.”Later in the evening, farmers lifted the dharna after the directions of BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh.In Jagadhri, farmers broke the barricades set up near the house of Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar and staged a dharna on Saturday.“We had to sit on a dharna to get the paddy purchase started in the state,” said Sanju Gundiana, BKU district chief.He said the Centre was intentionally delaying the procurement because it wanted to scrap the MSP system.Similar demonstrations were held outside the residences of state minister Anoop Dhanak, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag and BJP MLA Kamal Gupta in Hisar and BJP MLA Vinod Bhayana in Hansi on Saturday. In Sirsa, they marched towards the residence of MP Sunita Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-procurement-haryana-farmers-end-statewide-protest-after-govt-assurance-319411
03-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Enrolments up 4.8 lakh in Haryana government schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 2Government schools in Haryana registered 4.86 lakh new enrolments in Classes I to XII in the past two years (3.6 lakh in 2021-22 alone), which points to the fact that amid the pandemic, parents are preferring state-run schools.Sources said the number of students at government schools was 20.58 lakh in the 2019-20 session, which increased to 25.44 lakh this session, the highest in the past four years.While the 2020-21 session witnessed a rise of 1.20 lakh enrolments, 3.66 lakh fresh admissions were added in the 2021-22 session. Primary classes (Classes I-V) saw the highest 2.46 lakh enrolments in the past two years, followed by Class IX-XII with a hike of around 1.66 lakh admissions. Around 74,000 new admissions were registered in Classes VI-VIII, an official said.Nuh district saw the maximum of 2,34,441 admissions this session, followed by Hisar (1,68,200) and Sirsa (1,55,039). Charkhi Dadri registered the lowest 42,980 fresh enrolments followed by Jhajjar (65,299).Dr Sudershan Punia, Nodal Officer, Saksham Programme, Jhajjar, said the affiliation of 136 Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools with the Central Board of Secondary Education and introduction of English medium in 1,418 primary schools made the difference.Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association, said the pandemic rendered a large number of people jobless. “Many parents thus shifted their children to government schools. The trend is also picking up since physical classes are yet to resume fully in private schools. Besides, many private institutions were forced to shut and if the situation doesn’t improve, many more will wind up operations,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enrolments-up-4-8-lakh-in-haryana-government-schools-319403
03-10-2021||FCI SAMPLES SHOW HIGH MOISTURE CONTENT||Farmers on warpath, Centre relents; procurement in Punjab, Haryana begins today||18% - 22% in Punjab | 18.2% - 22.7% in Haryana | 17% permissibleTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 2Acceding to farmers’ demand, the Centre today decided to begin procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana from Sunday (October 3) instead of October 11.Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ashwini Kumar Choubey said kharif procurement would start in both states tomorrow.“The decisions to start procurement as well as accept paddy stock as per FAQ specifications are in the overall interest of farmers and consumers,” an official statement read. The announcement came after Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar met the Union MoS. “I am happy Minister Choubey has accepted our request,” said Khattar.Expressing gratitude, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi said the decision would help ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement. “On Chief Minister Charanjit Channi’s request, the Centre allows Punjab to start paddy procurement from October 3. The Chief Minister thanks Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his personal intervention to resolve this issue expeditiously (sic),” the Punjab CMO tweeted. The Punjab CM had met PM Modi on Friday on the matter.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions spearheading the protest against the three central agricultural laws, has called off the gherao of the houses of ministers, MLAs and MPs in the two states.On Saturday, the protesters broke police barricades and faced water cannons, including near the Haryana CM’s house in Karnal. In Ambala, the police put up barricades to prevent farmers from gheraoing the residence of BJP MLA Aseem Goel. Tight security arrangements were made outside the house of Minister Anil Vij at Ambala Cantonment. In Punjab, farmers protested outside the residences of several Congress MLAs, including Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh in Ropar and MLA Harjot Kamal in Moga.Drop cases: Channi to Rly Board chiefPunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday urged the Railway Board Chairman to withdraw cases filed by the Railway Protection Force against members of various farm organisations, pleading that a sympathetic view be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-on-warpath-centre-relents-procurement-in-punjab-haryana-begins-today-319407
03-10-2021||---||Centre relents after protests, paddy procurement to begin in Punjab, Haryana from Sunday||New Delhi, October 2Acceding to farmers’ demand, the Centre on Saturday decided to begin paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana from Sunday (October 3).Following a day of widespread protests over the delay in procurement, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Ashwini Kumar Choubey announced that procurement will start tomorrow in both the states.The announcement came after a meeting his meeting with Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar“The procurement (of Kharif crops) will start from tomorrow in Haryana and Punjab,” Choubey said.Emerging from the meeting Khattar said “due to continuing rains the Central Government had postponed the procurement of paddy and bajra to October 11. However, paddy had started arriving in the mandis leading to demands for procurement. After a meeting (with the union minister) today it was decided that the procurement will start tomorrow”.??????????? ???? @mlkhattar ?? ??????? ??? ??? ?? ???? ????? ???? ?????? ?? ?????? ??? ?? ??? ???? ??? ?????? ??? ?? ????????? ????????? ?? ??????? ???? ?? ??? ?? ?????? ????? ?? ?? ????  Read also:Expressing gratitude to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi for agreeing to his “personal request” Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi said the decision will help in ensuring smooth and hassle free procurement of paddy to the satisfaction of the farmers.“On Chief Minister Charanjit Channi’s request, Centre allows Punjab to start paddy procurement from October 3. The Chief Minister thanks Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his personal indulgence to resolve this issue expeditiously,” the Punjab CMO tweeted.The Punjab Chief Minister met PM Modi yesterday, who “assured him of early resolution of this issue”.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana today held protests at many places against postponing paddy procurement, prompting the Centre to hasten the process. TheCentre had earlier decided to delay the procurement of paddy under MSP to October 11 in Punjab and Haryana is in the “overall interest of farmers and consumers as well as to accept paddy stock as per FAQ”.“Procurement of paddy at high moisture content is fraught with risk of increase in damage percentage of rice grain. The grain will become vulnerable to shriveling, blackening, discolouration and prone to infestation. This may lead to rejection at procurement centres and would lead to distress sale of paddy and consequent loss to the farmers,” officials said, adding that the Haryana government had also written to the Centre intimating about the untimely rain and requested for relaxation in Moisture Content in the paddy.“The better course would be to harvest the paddy crop offered after a period of 10 days, that is after proper maturity then the problem of moisture in the paddy grain can be minimised. Accordingly, State Government of Punjab and Haryana have also been requested to advise their agencies to dry the paddy already arrived and further produce may be brought to the mandi after proper drying,” the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said yesterday.According to officials, widespread untimely showers across Punjab and Haryana during the second fortnight of September have affected the standing paddy crop in both the agrarian states. The maximum temperature at most of the places has also been recorded below normal due to downpour.“There was heavy downpour on September 29 and 30 in some parts of the States of Punjab and Haryana. Because of the untimely rains, maturity of paddy grains is delayed,” they said.Quoting the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), officials said rainfall during September 2021 is 77% and 139% above normal in Punjab and Haryana, respectively.“On the basis of moisture content check by FCI’s regional offices at Punjab and Haryana, it was reported that paddy samples are having moisture ranging from 18% to 22% in Punjab and 18.2% to 22.7% in Haryana against the permissible limit of 17%.“Accordingly, to save farmers from inconvenience and to protect farmer’s interest, Government of India decided that procurement of paddy under MSP operation would commence from October 11 in Punjab and Haryana and advised all agencies to gear up dying to help farmers,” the ministry stated yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-relents-after-protests-paddy-procurement-to-begin-in-punjab-haryana-from-sunday-319232
03-10-2021||Chandigarh/Karnal/Ambala||Farmers hold protests across Punjab, Haryana over delay in purchasing paddy||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday held protests at many places against postponing paddy procurement, prompting both states to hasten the procurement process.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Friday had given a call for holding protests outside the residences of legislators in both states to register their protest over the delay in purchasing paddy.As the pressure mounted, both Punjab and Haryana announced paddy procurement from Sunday.    Paddy procurement to begin in Haryana from Sunday, says CM KhattarFarmers from the Bharatiya Kisan Union pitched tents in front of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's residence in Karnal's Prem Nagar and later hoisted BKU's flag on the wall that Khattar shares with his neighbour. They lifted the dharna after Haryana announced procurement from Sunday. A large number of farmers assembled in Karnal's grain market against the postponing of paddy procurement.In Ambala City, farmers marched towards the residences of BJP MLA Aseem Goel with their paddy-laden tractor-trollies. A heavy police force was deployed and barricades installed to stop farmers in Ambala City.The protests began in response to the Centre's decision to postpone procurement of kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed and moisture content in fresh arrival is beyond permissible limits owing to recent heavy rains.The procurement operation is undertaken by the central government's nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) along with state agencies.Paddy procurement usually commences from October 1.Meanwhile, Haryana minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new laws is getting “violent day by the day”.“Farmers' agitation is getting violent day by day. Violent movement in the country of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be allowed….,” said Vij in a tweet.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to start the purchase of paddy.“The farmers of Punjab are upset, the central government has postponed the purchase of paddy for 10 days, the farmer is standing outside the mandis carrying lakhs of quintals of paddy on his tractor,” said Kejriwal in a tweet.In Punjab, farmers gathered outside the residences of several Congress legislators, including Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh in Rupnagar and MLA Harjot Kamal in Moga and staged protests over delay in the purchase of paddy crop.Police personnel were deployed in strength to maintain law and order, said officials.Farmers expressed apprehension that they would suffer if their crop is not purchased at the grain markets.Paddy crop, though in small quantity, has started arriving in mandis, especially in border areas of Punjab, farmers said .They questioned where the farmers, who have brought their crop at mandis, will go if their produce is not purchased.Some fear that they would be forced to sell their crop below the minimum support price (MSP) to private traders.A farmer in Haryana's Karnal said his paddy crop would get damaged by October 11 when the Centre would start procuring it.At some places, farmers even handed over memorandum to the Deputy Commissioners demanding commencement of paddy purchase.In Haryana's Ambala, police put up barricades to prevent farmers from laying siege to the residence of BJP legislator Aseem Goel.A fire-fighting vehicle and a water cannon vehicle were also deployed outside the residence of the MLA.Tight security arrangement has been made outside the residence of minister Vij at Ambala Cantonment, said officials. Also readFarmers’ agitation getting violent, says Haryana Home Minister Anil VijSukhjinder Randhawa directs SSPs to strictly check illegal rice/paddy coming into Punjab from other statesWhile in Shahbad in Kurukshetra, farmers held a protest in front of JJP MLA Ramkaran Kala’s house.Another group of farmers reached near the residence of Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh to hold a demonstration.In Kurukshetra, farmers reached near the residence of BJP Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha to hold a demonstration.In Yamunanagar, farmers reached near the residence of Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in Jagadhri to hold a demonstration.— With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-hold-protests-across-punjab-haryana-over-delay-in-purchasing-paddy-319179
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ agitation getting violent, says Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Amidst the anger for postponing the procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana by the Central government, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the agitation of farmers is getting violent day by day.Also read: On SKM call, Haryana farmers protest against postponing of paddy procurement Farmers close market committee offices, seek immediate paddy procurementFarmers oppose Dushyant Chautala's visit to Jhajjar"The violent movement in the country of Mahatma Gandhi won't be allowed. The leaders of farmers should keep patience during the agitation," Vij said in a tweet.The Centre on Friday said delaying the paddy procurement, which was supposed to have started on October 1 from Punjab and Haryana to October 11,  is in the "overall interest of farmers and consumers as well because of the untimely rains, maturity of paddy grains is delayed".As per Indian Meteorological Department data, rainfall during September 2021 is 77 per cent and 139 per cent above normal in Punjab and Haryana, respectively, a release from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said.Punjab and Haryana witnessed widespread protest and anger over the delay in the procurement.On Friday, even Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and requested him to take back the decision to postpone the paddy procurement by 10 days.As a protest, SAD president Sukhbir Badal accompanied a trolley filled with paddy to the FCI head office here to get the moisture content of the food grain checked.Talking to the media, Badal said the postponement in paddy procurement would spell doom for the state’s economy."Farmers had planned in advance and had started harvesting their crop in the last few days. Paddy had also reached 'mandis' in the state. Postponing procurement will not only result in harassment of farmers but will also jeopardise the paddy crop in case of inclement weather," he said. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-getting-violent-says-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-319163
