04-10-2021||---||Farmers stage dharna outside CM Khattar’s Karnal residence, seek release of Charuni||Karnal, October 4Demanding release of BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who was detained in UP when he was heading to Lakhimpur Kheri, farmers started a dharna outside Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Prem Nagar here on Monday evening.In the morning, farmers had blocked the NH-44 over slow procurement.They announced to continue their dharna till the release of Charuni.Gurdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member, BKU (Charuni), was leading the protest and announced they will not lift dharna till the release of Charuni.He said farmers will protest across Haryana on Tuesday if Charuni was not released.A large number of police personnel were deployed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stage-dharna-outside-cm-khattars-karnal-residence-seek-release-of-charuni-320094
04-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Bureaucrats to take personal cognizance of complaints marked by Haryana ministers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The BJP-JJP government has taken strong exception to the poor grievance redressal by the state bureaucracy.Now, to enforce accountability among bureaucrats at the state and district levels and create an institutionalised grievance redressal system, the chief secretary has asked the administrative secretaries, heads of the departments, divisional commissioners and SDMs, to take personal cognizance of all complaints marked to their respective departments by ministers.“There should be detailed inquiry about the complaints and the action taken reports (ATRs) should be sent to the minister concerned positively. An up to date record of the complaint should be maintained till it is resolved,” chief secretary’s order said.Thousands of the complaints by general public come up before the District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committees, presided over by different ministers, and attended by non-officials members and district officers, at the district headquarters every month. These complaints are marked to the department concerned for redressal at the earliest.However, on account of non-resolution of the complaints in a substantial number of cases, the aggrieved persons take up their complaints before different ministers. Even as the complaints are marked to different ministers, their resolution leaves much to be desiredThe chief secretary’s order said sometimes the complaints are shown as “resolved” in the reports sent to the ministers. While officially these are shown as “resolved”, necessary action for their resolution is delayed at the level of the lower bureaucracy.Inaccessibility of the bureaucracy and its poor grievance redressal record have regularly been flagged by public representatives, including MLAs and MPs, before the BJP top brass and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar regularly. Some of the complaints are resolved after these are raised at the CM Window by the complaints.The order of the chief secretary asking concerned officers to strictly enforce the new order seems to be an attempt to put in place a proper grievance redressal system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bureaucrats-to-take-personal-cognizance-of-complaints-marked-by-haryana-ministers-320074
04-10-2021||Karnal||Kaithal commission agent murder: Police arrest one as farmers block road outside mini secretariat||Kaithal Police said on Monday they arrested a man in connection with last week’s murders of a commissioning agent and his wife—a development that comes as farmers blocked the road outside mini secretariat demanding action.Superintendent of Police Lokender Singh identified the suspect only as Rajesh, who he said was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh. Rajesh, he said, was arrested at Fatehabad. He’s one of five people booked in the case, police said, and is suspected to be involved in another murder in 2017.This came as farmers blocked a road outside the mini secretariat at Kaithal on Monday as they demanded action in the case.Randeep Surjewala, a former minister and the Congress party’s media in-charge, lead a protest march in Kaithal.Satyawan (60) and his wife Kailasho Devi (58) were stabbed to death in their home in Model Town last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-commission-agent-murder-police-arrest-one-as-farmers-block-road-outside-mini-secretariat-320029
04-10-2021||Streets where interlocking tiles were laid have started caving in||Streets with  Inter-locking tiles cave in  at Ambala||Puran Kumar, AmbalaNo proper draining system as sewage flows on streetsResidents of HSVP Sectors 1, 2 and 3 are a harassed lot due to no proper system for draining out water. The sewage system has been choked for the past several days resulting in accumulation of dirty water on the streets. Rains have further deteriorated the condition as the sewage starts flowing back into the houses. The authorities concerned have been requested to address the grievances but all in vain.Jagbir Singh, RohtakGarbage dumped in front of Sirsa colony gateThe Centre talks of Swachhata Abhiyan but here in the Sirsa F block area which is a posh area in the heart of the town, it's entrance gate from gurudwara side has become a open site for dumping of garbage. One can see garbage, plastic and pigs eating from this litter. Even the drainage point made by the civic authorities has been covered by garbage so lots of rainy water keep stagnating there giving invitation to malaria and dengue. Action must be taken by the authorities to keep this area neat and clean.Dr Amit Narang, SirsaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streets-with-inter-locking-tiles-cave-in-at-ambala-319939
04-10-2021||Hisar||3 nabbed for bank thefts||Blood donation camp heldJhajjar: The district police organised a blood donation and health check-up camp , during which 106 police and paramilitary personnel donated blood. TNSDCs told to submit girdawari report by Oct 15Chandigarh: The Haryana Government asked DCs to submit reports of the special girdawari regarding loss to cotton and ‘moong’ crops due to unseasonal rain and waterlogging by October 15. An order by the Financial Commissioner Revenue read. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-nabbed-for-bank-thefts-319938
04-10-2021||Hisar||Haryana Diary: Hisar airport wall decorated with ‘warli’ painting||Abhay in bypoll contest for third timeHisar: Abhay is known as the winner of by-elections as he has won two bypolls in the past. He registered his first win in the Assembly polls in the 2000 Rori Assembly (Sirsa) by-election when the INLD was in power. He again contested the by-election from Ellenabad in 2010 after the seat was vacated by his father Om Prakash Chautala. Now, whether he would be lucky the third time or not, the results will tell.Once-a-week car-free day drive ‘worries’ manyFaridabad: The recent announcement made by the district authorities here for observing car-free day once a week from October has left many in the district administration worried as they are clueless regarding the implementation of the idea. While describing the proposed drive a good initiative to help the environment, sources in the district administration said expecting officials and employees to follow the rule seems impractical. Arranging bicycles and using these to reach office is difficult in view of the distance some employees have to travel to reach the office. Unavailability of cycle tracks is another issue, the sources added. Moreover, majority of employees consider using bicycles to come to work below their social status.Once bitten, twice shyJhajjar: Learning a lesson from the police-farmers’ clash in Karnal, the district administration worked smartly to pacify protesting farmers during the recent visit of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Farmers wanted to wave black flags to protest against the farm laws but the administration stopped them from reaching the venue. When farmers tried to remove the barricades, it allowed only 15 members to reach near the venue. This pacified farmers and averted a possible clash.Jute bags by self-help groups praisedJhajjar: Jute bags made by self-help groups (SHGs) attracted public attention when Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala applauded these and directed the Deputy Commissioner to introduce a programme to ensure the use of jute bags in government offices. Dushyant, while visiting an exhibition organised by the SHGs at Nehru Government College, said jute bags would give a different identity to the district at the state and national level. The BJP MP from Sirsa, Sunita Duggal, too praised the efforts of the SHGs and encouraged them to continue their work to become atmanirbhar.Contributed by: Deepender Deswal, Bijender Ahalwat, Ravinder Saini and Nitish Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-hisar-airport-wall-decorated-with-warli-painting-319937
04-10-2021||Karnal||Cleanliness drive in Karnal by NCC cadets||Sanitary workers felicitatedRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here celebrated the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri in a different way. The university authorities felicitated 200 sanitary workers and applauded their work of keeping the campus clean. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar presided over the function while Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh was the chief guest on the occasion. He appreciated the IGU authorities for this new initiative and also encouraged the people to ensure contribution in keeping Rewari city clean.Agricultural varsity signs MoUsHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) has signed MoUs with two major companies for promoting technology commercialisation under the public private partnership. University Vice-Chancellor Professor BR Kamboj said it was the endeavour of the university to provide advanced varieties and techniques developed by scientists, to farmers. Under the MoU, the University developed MH 1142 of mung, CSV 44 F of Jowar and RH 725 of Mustard varieties. The companies will prepare the seeds of these varieties and send them to the farmers so that the farmers can get reliable seeds of improved varieties and their yield can increase.Faculty induction ceremonyFaridabad: An induction ceremony for new faculty members was organised in the college auditorium. Principal Dr Krishankant Gupta was the Chief Guest and keynote speaker on this occasion. He discussed various challenges faced by teachers in higher education and further motivated them to actively participate in research activities. He also cautioned that in the initial days of teaching, the teacher should understand the student's basic problem and start teaching with focus on fundamentals.Webinar on Sikhs’ cultural heritageYamunanagar: A national-level seminar was organised by the department of History of Guru Nanak Khalsa College on the topic "Cultural Heritage of Sikhs". College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said more than 450 persons got registered for the seminar and 42 for the presentation of research papers. Speaking as the chief guest, Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Vice-Chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bhatinda said there were more than 25 million citizens around the world who followed the Sikh tradition and culture.Best-out-of-waste activitiesAmbala: To commemorate the birth anniversary of Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantt organised activities like mask making for Classes V and VI and best-out-of-waste, for VII and VIII.Students participated enthusiastically in both the activities. Principal Munish Jain appreciated the students' endeavours and advised them to inculcate principles of Gandhi's life - truth and non-violence in their lives.Awareness on cleanlinessKarnal: A two-day cleanliness drive was conducted by Mount Litera Zee School, Karnal to commemorate the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation. The mission of this campaign was to raise awareness on cleanliness among students. Deep Bedi, principal of the school, led the kids in celebrating this day. Students of Classes I to XII participated in a variety of activities aimed at instilling a sense of cleanliness among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cleanliness-drive-in-karnal-by-ncc-cadets-319936
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||NIC wins gold awards||The National Informatics Centre (NIC), Haryana, has been conferred two gold awards for the best implementation of national-level projects. Director General of the NIC, Neeta Verma, presented the awards virtually.The awards were for implementing the S3WaaS and on-boarding the maximum number of services on SARAL platform. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nic-wins-gold-awards-319935
04-10-2021||---||BJP candidate Kalra wins Karnal Municipal Corporation Ward 7 byelection||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 3BJP candidate Sarita Kalra won the byelections for the post of councillor of Ward 7 of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) with a margin of 3,593 votes from Naveen Kumar.The seat of this post has gone vacant after the death of Sarita Kalra’s husband Sudarshan Kalra who won the post as an independent candidate. However, later he had joined the BJP and during the Covid-19 pandemic he died. Sarita got 3,907 votes, while Naveen Kumar received 314 votes and 32 voters opted NOTA out of 4,253 polled votes. The newly elected councillor Sarita promised to do her best for the development of the ward like her husband. CM’s Karnal representative Sanjay Bathla, BJP district president Yogendra Rana, Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, treasurer of district BJP unit Brij Gupta, former district president Jagmohan Anand, former Senior Deputy Mayor Krishan Garg, former Deputy Mayor Manoj Wadhwa and other councillors congratulated Kalra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-candidate-kalra-wins-karnal-municipal-corporation-ward-7-byelection-319934
04-10-2021||Yamunanagar||Three injured at pre-wedding function in Yamunanagar district||A group of people allegedly attacked the members of a committee formed to ban gatherings from playing DJ music at weddings and other functions at Lapra village of the district. Three persons reportedly sustained injuries in the attack.On the complaint of Farukh, a resident of Lapra village, a case was registered against 14 persons, including the bridegroom, on Saturday.A week ago, residents of Lapra villager had decided to ban DJ music in marriages and other functions and formed a committee for the same. Villagers said it spoiled the atmosphere of the village.“The committee requested the groom’s father not to play DJ music. He assured the members of the same but on the night of the function, there was music playing outside their house,” the complaint read. The complainant added that when the committee members complained, several people attacked them with sticks and iron rods. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-injured-at-pre-wedding-function-in-yamunanagar-district-319932
04-10-2021||---||Gobind Kanda joins BJP, wants to  fight bypoll||Hisar, October 3Haryana Lokhit Party leader Gobind Kanda, brother of Sirsa MLA and former state minister Gopal Kanda, joined the BJP in Sirsa today.Kanda, who has contested the 2019 Assembly election on the HLP ticket from the Rania Assembly segment, has expressed keenness to contest the Ellenabad Assembly byelection.Gobind Kanda joined the BJP in the presence of former MLA Ramchander Kamboj and state BJP secretary Surender Arya. BJP sources indicated that Kanda could be fielded as a joint candidate of the BJP-JJP.The HLP, too, is likely to support the coalition candidate as Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda had already extended unconditional support to the BJP-JJP government in the Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gobind-kanda-joins-bjp-wants-to-fight-bypoll-319931
04-10-2021||---||3 Sonepat women drown in Ganga||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 3Three women members of a family drowned in the Ganga at Raiwala area of Dehradun in the wee hours today. The rescue operation is on, but no clue of the women has been found even after 17 hours.Kusum (36), wife of Rajesh of Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat; Seema (34), wife of Narender of Panchi village in Gannaur area; and Neha (24), daughter of Satbir of Garhi Kesari village in Gannaur; along with around 10-12 family members had gone to Haridwar and were staying in an ashram.The three women went to take bath in the Ganga around 4 am. They were bathing by holding each other’s hands. One of them slipped and, along with her, the other two also drowned.People present there tried to save them, but could not as the flow was strong. They informed the police, who, in turn, called the Jal Police and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF).Inspector Bhuvan Chandra Pujari, SHO, Raiwala (Dehradun), said the rescue operation is on.Search on||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-sonepat-women-drown-in-ganga-319930
04-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||QR code-enabled garbage collection system sought in Thanesar||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 3To improve the door-to-door garbage collection under the limits of Thanesar Municipal Council, the District Municipal Commissioner has sought implementation of QR Code -based waste collection system in Thanesar.The DMC has approached the Joint Secretary and Mission Director (Smart Cities Mission), Ministry Of Housing And Urban Affairs, Kunal Kumar for the implementation of the QR Code-based waste collection system. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, DMC, Kurukshetra, said, “Kurukshetra is being promoted as a major tourist destination so there is need to improve the sanitation conditions of the city. The MC has been taking steps to improve the sanitation conditions and also improve the door-to-door garbage collection system. A QR code-based unique addressing system has been launched in Delhi recently by the New Delhi Municipal Council in which plates with unique digital door number has been allotted to each property. It is a complete unique addressing system and we have shown interest to execute the same in Thanesar too.” “There are 68,000 property IDs under the limits of Thanesar MC. The QR code plate will contain complete information about the building and it will also give details about the pending dues and previous payments made by the property owner ”, he added. The DMC said during the door-to-door garbage collection, the garbage collection vehicles will automatically scan the QR code plates, installed outside the residences, and in case the vehicle passes the houses or any area without collecting the garbage then the control room at the municipal council will get the information about the same.To have building, owner’s infoThe QR code plate will contain complete information about the building and it will also give details about the pending dues and previous payments made by the property owner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/qr-code-enabled-garbage-collection-system-sought-in-thanesar-319929
04-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Sensor-based kit to check quality of packed dairy products||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 3Aiming at determining the quality of packed dairy food at the consumer’s end without opening the packet, scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), have developed a colour-based sensor kit to check the quality of dairy products.As per the scientists, the kit has indicators of different colour, which shows the quality. If the colour of the label is yellow, it indicates fresh product, and if it turns to dark brown it reflects towards risk for consumption. If it has orange shade, it means it is still good for consumption.The technique has been developed and standardised at the Dairy Technology Division of the NDRI and is currently being tested for market readiness. The scientists claim that the kit will give consumers a simple solution for knowing the real time quality of packaged dairy products such as khoa, and dahi by glancing at the colour of the indicator.After the efforts of over three years, these indicators were developed by a group of scientists comprising Dr P Narender Raju, Senior Scientist and supported by Dr AK Singh, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr Rajan Sharma, Principal Scientist (Dairy Chemistry), and Dr Sangita Ganguly, Scientist, along with scholars, including Rakesh Kumar Raman, Karpurapu Uma, and Raj Suwalka, to address the issue of spoilage of packaged diary food product.“Occasionally, people complain about the spoilage of packed dairy products even before the expiry date. That could be due to the mishandling in the supply chain and not maintaining the hygiene. Such problems can be addressed if the customer is given an informed choice by way of some simple solutions such as the visual colour-based indicators on the package, wherein the indicator displays one color in a product’s fresh state while transforming into another color upon the spoilage of the packaged product,” said Dr MS Chauhan, Director, NDRI.This can effectively supplement the printed “best before” or “expiry date” and give consumers an informed choice, he added. “This smart tool will be extremely beneficial to both customers and the manufacturers brand image can be strengthened. There exists a great scope for startups to take this technology further into the market,” said Dr Raju.About the working, Dr Raju said the developed sensor will be integrated inside the package. As the spoilage progresses, it will be manifested by the odour changes. The changes in the odour will be sensed by the sensor and in turn will communicate in the form of visible color changes and ultimately the suitability of the product for consumption.Colours indicate quality of eatablesAs per the scientists, the kit has indicators of different colours, which shows the quality. If the colour of the label is yellow, it indicates fresh product, and if it turns to dark brown, it reflects towards risk for consumption. If it has orange shade, it means it is still good for consumption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sensor-based-kit-to-check-quality-of-packed-dairy-products-319928
04-10-2021||---||Stubble made ‘economically viable’ to check pollution: Union Minister||Chandigarh, October 3Appreciating Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments for their “constructive cooperation” on the issue of stubble burning, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said the Centre had made stubble “economically viable” to check pollution.Yadav, also the minister for Forest and Climate Change and Labour and Employment, was in the city to attend the 101st Foundation Day of Labour Bureau here today.Interacting with mediapersons, Yadav said the NTPC had floated a tender to buy farm stubble, resource centres had been opened to provide machines to clear the land of stubble and some private companies had experimented with decomposing stubble.Farm fires: Northern states helped CentreThe Centre has got constructive cooperation from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments on the issue of stubble burning. Bhupender Yadav, Environment MinisterOn how the Centre was monitoring air pollution, Yadav explained that equipment to monitor air quality had been set up in 132 cities. Yadav stated that India had taken a number of steps to show its commitment to the biggest cause—climate change—and was promoting alternative “clean energy”. He said the country had set a renewable energy target of 450 gigawatt by 2030 even as 36 per cent of the energy demand was met through alternative sources.Earlier, addressing an event at the Labour Bureau Bhavan, Yadav said following the motto of “Mehnat Ko Samman, Adhikar Ek Saman”, the government was focused on the welfare of workers through evidence-based policymaking.During the event, he mentioned that data on all aspects of labour was crucial and scientifically collected data was the bedrock for any evidence-based policymaking.On the occasion, certificates of appreciation were also given to many of the Bureau officials.The minister held discussions with the state labour ministers, labour secretaries and commissioners of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh & UTs of Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh on progress in the registration of unorganised workers on the e-Shram portal and preparedness of the states and UTs on the implementation of various schemes and reforms, an official statement said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-made-economically-viable-to-check-pollution-union-minister-319927
04-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Demand to reintroduce education course at dist training institutes in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 3The demand for the reintroduction of Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd) course at the District Institute of Education and Training (government institute) has got louder, with the Haryana School Lecturers Association (HSLA) announcing to approach CM Manohar Lal Khattar over the issue.The development came after the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) recently released the admission schedule for the course for private institutes when the matter of “inordinate” delay in the admissions to the course reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The admission process for private colleges has started, but the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) have yet again not been included in the programme. The course was discontinued in the DIET two years ago, while all districts in the state have a DIET.“We have to take the call of approaching the CM after getting no positive response from the Education Minister (EM) regarding the issue. Our delegation recently met the EM and demanded from him to restart the DElEd course in the DIET, but to no avail,” said Satpal Sindhu, president, HSLA.He questioned when private colleges were allowed to run the course, why were the admissions not being made in the DIETs for the past two academic sessions? Villagers had given their land to the government for establishing DIETs so that their village candidates could get admission over there, but the government had deprived them of it by not making admissions in the course, he added.Ajit Chandolia, press secretary, HSLA, said on the one hand, the government was providing free travel facility to schoolgirls for commuting from home to their institutes, while on the other hand, it had forced the girls to pay hefty fee to private colleges for DElEd course as a majority of the girls preferred to pursue the course for making their career in the field of teaching, he added.Discontinued 2 yrs agoNo positive response from Edu MinisterWe have to approach the CM after getting no positive response from the Education Minister. Our delegation met him and demanded to restart the course in the DIET, but to no avail. Satpal Sindhu, president, HSLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-to-reintroduce-education-course-at-dist-training-institutes-in-haryana-319926
04-10-2021||Hisar||Kargil martyr Mahavir Singh Bura’s name removed from Hisar village school||The name of Kargil War martyr Mahavir Singh Bura has been removed from the gate of a government school in the district’s Ghirai village, upsetting his family.Sources say the district Education Department removed the name.Irked, villagers held a meeting on the school premises today and decided to lock the gate tomorrow.Villagers said four generations of Mahavir Singh’s family had served in the Army.Shaheed Seva Dal president Sawant Singh said the person responsible for removing the name should be taken to task. He demanded that the martyr’s name should be re-written on the gate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kargil-martyr-mahavir-singh-buras-name-removed-from-hisar-village-school-319925
04-10-2021||---||ITIs to open, online classes at varsities to continue in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 3The state government today allowed opening of the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) with 100 per cent attendance, subject to the enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Fully residential universities will continue teaching through the online mode till further orders.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended in Haryana till October 18,” an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Sunday.The district administrations have been asked to enforce Covid guidelines in view of the forthcoming festival season.Besides, entrance and recruitment examination by universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be conducted.The order also stated that action might be taken by universities to fully vaccinate hostel students, day scholars, faculty and other staff, including the outsourced ones, the order said.Meanwhile, 11 new cases of Covid were reported in the state today. The number of active cases was 113.So far, 9,874 persons have died of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/itis-to-open-online-classes-at-varsities-to-continue-in-haryana-319924
04-10-2021||---||Jat Samiti that led quota stir dissolved||Hisar, October 3The All-India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS), which had spearheaded the agitation for Jat reservation in the Other Backward Class (OBC) category, has been dissolved.Yashpal Malik, AIJASS president, made the announcement after a meeting in Delhi yesterday. Delegates from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi participated in the meeting.The All-India Jat Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) was formed in 2009. In 12 years, it led several agitations, demanding OBC status for Jats. In September 2010, the outfit then led by Hawa Singh Sangwan blocked the Delhi-Hisar rail track in Hisar’s Mayyar village, resulting in violence.In February 2016, the agitation turned violent following a Supreme Court’s decision to exclude Jats from the OBC category. About 30 persons were killed, and private and public property damaged.The Prakash Singh committee, which was instituted by the state government after the violence, mentioned in its report 208 persons, including 70 security personnel, were injured. More than 1,500 criminal cases were registered, mainly of theft, arson, mischief and robbery.“The outfit will be reconstituted democratically,” said Ram Bhagat Malik, state spokesperson for the AIJASS, in a statement.Malik said: “The samiti fought for its demands for long during the tenure of the Congress and BJP governments. Over the years, the state government justified the demand for Jat reservation, but never introduced a law on it. It instead shifted the responsibility on the Central government.”He further said Jats would continue their struggle for reservation after having re-constituted the body in a democratic manner.Will continue struggleOver the years, the state government justified the demand for Jat reservation, but never introduced a law on it. Jats will continue their struggle for reservation. — Yaspal Malik, AIJASS presidentTime not rightThe time is not right to resume the quota agitation. The farmers’ agitation is the most important issue today. Jats will be divided if the quota agitation is revived. — Ashok Balhara, AIJASS general secretaryThe 12-yr journey||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jat-samiti-that-led-quota-stir-dissolved-319923
04-10-2021||---||3 kids die of fever in Palwal village||Tribune News ServicePalwal, October 3At least three children lost their lives due to fever in Chhainsa village of Hathin sub-division of the district in the past 36 hours.The Health Department has posted a team of doctors in the village for health check-up and medication. This is the second village after Chilli in the district where three or more children have died of fever in the past month.A resident of the village said all three deaths took place on Friday. Those who have succumbed to fever include Mukshira (7), daughter of Aijaz; Munshida (4), daughter of Sammu; and three-month-old Dilshan, son of Shaqir.He said while Mukshira and Munshida died during treatment at the medical college located at Nalhar in Nuh district, Dilshan died at a private hospital in Palwal.Claiming that this has resulted in panic among the locals, he said that immediate attention of the authorities concerned is needed to overcome the possibility of an outbreak similar to the one witnessed at Chilli village a few weeks ago.He said that a large number of residents, especially minor children had been suffering from fever, perhaps caused by dengue or malaria. He said poor civic conditions and supply of contaminated water could be the reasons in the spurt, especially after the recent rain.Sources in the villages claimed that the total number of deaths in the past month could be more as some of these have gone unreported.Admitting to three deaths at Chhainsa village, Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh said a team of doctors had been deputed at the village. Blaming the poor civic conditions in the village, he said germination of mosquito larvae and water-borne diseases could not be ruled out due to uncleanliness and supply of unsafe water in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-kids-die-of-fever-in-palwal-village-319922
04-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Construction of Karnal bridge at snail’s pace, commuters suffer||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 3The construction of a bridge on augmentation canal on Karnal-Meerut road (a part of NH-709A) is on at a slow pace.This is causing suffering to residents of around 70 villages, as they have to travel extra miles from inside the lanes of the colonies to enter the main road. Also, heavy vehicles are damaging the roads of the colonies.The construction of the bridge on the canal is part of the widening of a 14.5-km-long stretch till Haryana-UP border from Tau Devi Lal Chowk, which is being constructed at Rs 105 crore.Six lanes would be made between Tau Devi Lal Chowk to augmentation canal bridge which will be 27.5m wide.Sources say delay in stopping the flow of water in the canal has resulted in hindrance in the completion of the work.“The sugarcane crushing season is nearing and we will face problems if it is not opened by then,” said Kewal, a farmer.An official said 60 per cent work has been completed. It will be over by mid-December.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said CM Manohar Lal Khattar had last week visited the construction site and directed the agency to complete the bridge by mid-November. “For the farmers, the agency has been directed to make a slipway so that they can bring sugarcane to the mill,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-of-karnal-bridge-at-snails-pace-commuters-suffer-319921
04-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Make upcoming expressway signal-free in Faridabad: NHAI told||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 3With the beginning of the construction of the 12-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project in the district, the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has asked NHAI officials to make the passage through the city as signal-free to ensure that various crossings do not pose a hurdle to the movement of traffic. The HSVP is working as the nodal agency for providing right of way (ROW) to the NHAI for the expressway. The total length of the expressway in Faridabad and Palwal districts is 59 kilometres.“We have recommended that all crossing points on the existing Bypass road be made signal-free by resorting to viaduct technique so that the traffic moving both on the expressway and roads crossing it do not come to a halt,” says Ajit Singh, Executive Engineer, HSVP, here. He said while several meetings had taken place with the NHAI, the issue regarding the signal-free proposal was taken up at a meeting recently. The passage in the city is around 14-km long. He further said as the flyovers at some of the congested points had already been approved, the provision of viaduct systems was important to make the movement of the traffic signal-free. The absence of such a facility had already resulted in traffic chaos and jams at many points on the National Highway number 19 passing through the city, it is claimed.Suggestion to adopt viaduct techniqueWe have recommended that all crossing points on the existing Bypass road be made signal-free by resorting to viaduct technique so that the traffic moving both on the expressway and roads crossing it do not come to a halt. — Ajit Singh, Executive Engineer, HSVPExisting Bypass road being convertedThe existing Bypass road running parallel to the National Highway number 19 is being converted into a 12-lane expressway.The existing Bypass road running parallel to the National Highway number 19 is being converted into a 12-lane expressway. Starting from Ring Road-DND junction in New Delhi, it will pass through the Kalindi and Faridabad-Ballabgarh bypass to culminate at the interchange of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway near Mindkola village in Palwal. The foundation of the Rs 3,580 crore project was laid on March 1, 2019. Claiming that the provision of the flyovers had also been made in view of the large-scale encroachments or existing structures.The HSVP has also submitted a 42-crore project related to the shifting of sewage, storm water and drinking water lines for providing the ROW for the expressway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-upcoming-expressway-signal-free-in-faridabad-nhai-told-319920
04-10-2021||---||8,750 MT paddy bought in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 3Over 8,750 MT paddy crop was procured by procurement agencies at different grain markets in Ambala on Sunday.Some farmers claimed that their crop has matured but they are being asked to bring their produce as per the schedule.Sukhvinder Singh, a farmer leader, said, “Procurement has started but there are still issues related to moisture content and capping of prescribed per acre productivity. The government has reduced the prescribed per acre productivity to 25 quintal per acre from 33 quintal per acre last year. We are hopeful the issues will be resolved soon.”DC Ambala Vikram visited Ambala City and Cantt grain markets and enquired about the procurement. He directed officials to ensure timely lifting of the stock.Meanwhile, in Kurukshetra, 3,044 MT paddy was procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-750-mt-paddy-bought-in-ambala-319919
04-10-2021||---||Farmers harassed during paddy procurement, portal to blame: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Kurukshetra, October 3Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said that the BJP government has failed to ensure smooth paddy procurement and the farmers are being harassed in the grain markets.He also said that if voted to power, the Congress would end the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal.The former CM was speaking to the media after visiting grain markets at Ladwa, Pipli and Thanesar in Kurukshetra. He was accompanied by Ladwa MLA Mewa Singh and Congress leader Ashok Arora.Don't get passes issued: BKU to farmersThe state has reduced the per acre productivity of paddy from 33 quintals to 25 quintals. We have requested farmers not to get gate passes issued till per acre quota is not increased. — Rakesh Bains, BKU leaderHooda said, “The Haryana Government has failed to ensure smooth procurement of paddy. A large number of farmers have sold their produce at cheaper rates due to delayed procurement. The procurement must begin from September 15 as the hybrid varieties mature early. The farmers are being harassed in the name of portal (Meri Fasal, Mera Byora) and higher moisture content.“There was no portal system during the Congress regime and the farmers used to sell their crop easily at grain markets. If voted to power, the Congress government will end this portal system. Punjab produces more grain, but it has no portal system,” he said.The Leader of Opposition said that besides these, the prescribed per acre productivity of paddy last year was 33 quintals per acre, but this year, it has been reduced to 25 quintals per acre. The government should procure the entire crop on MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-harassed-during-paddy-procurement-portal-to-blame-bhupinder-singh-hooda-319918
04-10-2021||---||Ellenabad bypoll: INLD fields Abhay Singh Chautala for prestige battle, again||Hisar, October 3The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has re-nominated party general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala for the byelection to the Ellenabad Assembly segment scheduled for October 30.The byelection was necessitated after Abhay, who was the lone INLD MLA, resigned from the Assembly in support of farmers’ agitation in January.The party supremo and former Chief Minister, Om Prakash Chautala, announced the decision to field Abhay after having consulted a panchayat at Nathusari Chopta village in the Ellenabad segment today.Abhay (58) has won the Ellenabad Assembly seat thrice (2010 byelection, 2014 and 2019). Besides, he won his first Assembly election in 2000 from the erstwhile Rori segment in 2000.“I had quit the Assembly seat after having consulted people in Ellenabad and to support the farmers’ agitation. The electorate wants me to fight the elections again. I am thankful to the party and people for reposing faith in me,” he said.The INLD leader brushed aside the criticism of the ruling BJP-JJP government and the Congress, which questioned his rationale for quitting the seat over the three agricultural laws and now seeking re-nomination though the farmers’ demand is still remains unfulfilled.Chautala will be the star campaigner in the byelection as the INLD is seeking to revive its political fortunes after the party split in 2018, reduced to just one seat in the Assembly in the 2019 elections. However, a new scenario is emerging in the state following the farmers’ agitation.Political experts say Abhay’s gamble to resign from the Assembly has apparently given a breather to the party, which was evident from the Jind rally on September 25 to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal, grandfather of Abhay.Both the INLD as well Jannayak Janta Party, which was formed by Abhay’s elder brother Ajay and his sons Dushyant and Digvijay in December 2018, have been claiming the political legacy of former Deputy PM Devi Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-inld-fields-abhay-singh-chautala-for-prestige-battle-again-319917
04-10-2021||Satya Prakash||Haryana wants 43 farm leaders made party to PIL on road blockades||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 3Ahead of Monday’s hearing on a PIL seeking removal of blockades at key roads connecting Delhi to NCR by farmers demanding repeal of farm laws, the Haryana Government has moved the Supreme Court to make 43 officer-bearers of farmers’ organisations party to it.In an application filed in the top court, the Haryana Government has sought to implead farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh and others to the ongoing proceedings.Maintaining that the dharna on Singhu and Tikri borders was being organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the government said the names of parties mentioned in its plea were those of the office-bearer/workers of various farmer unions.Hearing in SC todayThe Haryana Government said the names of parties mentioned in its plea were those of the office-bearers and workers of various farmer unionsIn an application filed in the SC, the Haryana Govt has sought to implead farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh and others to the ongoing proceedingsThe top court is hearing a petition filed by Monicca Agarwal, a women resident of Noida. Agarwal, a single parent with some medical issues, alleged that due to blockades enforced by agitating farmers, travelling between Noida and Delhi was taking two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes and that it had become a nightmare to commute between Noida and Delhi.Earlier, in an affidavit filed in the top court, the Haryana Government had said it was making “sincere” efforts to remove the blockade for resumption of free flow of traffic. The UP Government had also filed a similar affidavit stating that it was making all efforts to convince farmers that their act of blocking roads was causing grave inconvenience to commuters.The Haryana Government said a state-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary was formed to find a way out. The panel’s September 19 meeting wasn’t attended by the farmers’ leaders.As farmers continued to block key roads connecting Delhi to NCR, the Supreme Court had on September 30 wondered how highways could be blocked perpetually and made it clear that it was the duty of the executive to implement the law laid down by it.“The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” a Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had asked.On October 1, another Bench of the top court had questioned the rationale behind blocking roads even after approaching the judiciary and reminded the agitating farmers that citizens had equal rights to move freely without fear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-wants-43-farm-leaders-made-party-to-pil-on-road-blockades-319765
04-10-2021||Parveen Arora||On Day 1, Haryana mandis full, but procurement poor||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 3There was chaos on the first day of procurement today, with “unscheduled” farmers arriving at the mandis on tractor-trailers brimming with paddy, demanding that they too be issued gate passes. Farmers receive a message on their cellphones via ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’, informing them the date on which they must bring their crops to the mandis. Subsequently, they are issued gate passes.Also read: Day 1: Paddy procurement brisk in Punjab mandisOwing to high moisture content, most of the paddy was not procured today. Dejected, the farmers demanded relaxation in procurement norms. “The government should raise the moisture content limit,” said Rajpal, a farmer from a nearby village. While there was a ruckus at the Karnal grain market, farmers blocked the Karnal-Assandh road outside the Jundla grain market and the Karnal road in Assandh, demanding gate passes for all farmers. There were long queues of tractors and trailers on National Highway-44. The district administration later issued gate passes to “unscheduled” farmers through e-NAM.Even though procurement has begun, rice millers are yet to get themselves registered for custom milled rice (CMR). They are irked over the additional 5 per cent bank guarantee they must pay on the full value of paddy allocated to them. They are demanding that farmers from adjoining states too be allowed to sell their crop in Haryana.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia visited the Karnal market. They reviewed preparations and interacted with the farmers. Observing that most of the paddy had moisture content up to 22 per cent, Punia said the farmers had been told to bring their crop only after drying it.Vinod Goel, senior vice-president, Haryana Rice Millers and Dealers Association, said they were ready to cooperate with the government. “We have requested the CM to revoke the new rule of additional 5 per cent bank guarantee,” he said. Meanwhile, resentment prevails among the arhtiyas.“Today, no procurement was done on the ground. We request the government to raise the permissible limit on moisture content to 19 per cent from 17 per cent. We also want the government to allow farmers with 35 quintals paddy per acre instead of 25 quintals per acre,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-day-1-haryana-mandis-full-but-procurement-poor-319763
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Abhay Singh Chautala is INLD candidate||Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala, whose resignation in protest against farm laws in January has necessitated the October 30 bypoll for the Ellenabad assembly seat, will be the party candidate for the upcoming election.The party decided to field Abhay Chautala as its candidate during a Mahapanchayat (grand meet) on Sunday, attended by people from Ellenabad, including farmers, at Nathusari Chopta in Sirsa district.In another development ahead of the bypoll, Gobind Kanda, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief Gopal Kanda, joined the BJP on Sunday.Gopal Kanda’s party is supporting the BJP-JJP government and Gobind is among the probable to be put up by the ruling combine from Ellenabad.Abhay Chautala, who was his party’s lone representative in the 90-member Haryana assembly, had in January resigned as an MLA over the three central farm laws in solidarity with protesting farmers.He represented Ellenabad, a rural constituency.“When I had resigned, even then I had sought the opinion of the people of Ellenabad and they had told me that whatever decision I take against these three farm laws they are with me.“Even now, I had left the decision to the people of Ellenabad. Thousands of people held a Mahapanchayat at Nathusari Chopta, this was not a party programme.“And they unanimously decided that I should contest again from Ellenabad. Our national president (Om Prakash Chautala) and state president (Nafe Singh Rathi) accepted that decision and announced my candidature,” Abhay told reporters in Ellenabad.Abhay reiterated that farmers will make the BJP pay a heavy price in the bypolls, for bringing the contentious farm laws.Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, BJP’s state election committee meeting was held to take stock of preparations for the Ellenabad bypoll.The meeting was attended by Chief Minister M L Khattar, BJP’s state unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, senior leaders Birender Singh, Capt Abhimanyu, BJP MP from Sirsa Sunita Duggal, among others.“Discussion on seventeen names was held,” Dhankar told reporters after the meeting.When asked if Gobind Kanda’s name is among the probable, Dhankar replied, “definitely it is”.On farm laws issue, Dhankar said “lies were spread about farm laws that land of farmers will be snatched, mandis won’t run, procurement won’t be done..but people have realised the reality is opposite”.Meanwhile, the ruling BJP and opposition Congress are expected to announce their candidates in a day or two.Bypolls to Ellenabad will be held on October 30 and the counting of votes will take place on November 2. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-abhay-singh-chautala-is-inld-candidate-319653
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar talks about ‘tit for tat’ during BJP’s Kisan Morcha meet||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar talked about “tit for tat” during a meeting of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha here on Sunday when he told the gathering to form groups of 500 to 1,000 and be prepared to even go to jail, with the Opposition alleging that he was asking the supporters of the saffron party to attack the farmers protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre.A video clip of Khattar’s comments went viral on the social media, with the Opposition alleging that he told the supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to pick up sticks against the protesting farmers.At the event, while apparently referring to the impact of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Khattar said the problem is not much in south Haryana and it is limited to the northern and western districts of the state.“Form groups of 500, 700, 1,000 people and make them volunteers. And then at every place, ‘sathe sathyam samacharet’. What does it mean—it means tit for tat,” he said.??? ?????? ?? ????? ?????? ?? ????? ??????, ???? ?? ???????? ?? ?????? ???????? ?? ????? ???? ?? ??? ??????, ?? ?????? ??? ?????? ?? ??????? ?? ???? ?? ?? ??? ??????? ????? ?? ????? ?????? ???????? ?? ???????? ?? ?? ??????? ????? ????? ?? ???? ???? ?? ??? ? ??? ??? pic.twitter.com/kSgk8kiCUx  “Do not worry...when you remain there (in jail) for a month, three months or six months, you will become big leaders. Your names will be etched in history,” Khattar added.The Congress hit out at the Haryana chief minister over his remarks.“Your (Khattar’s) guru mantra asking BJP supporters to attack the agitating farmers with sticks, go to jail and become leaders from there will never be successful.“This call to spread anarchy at an open programme after taking oath of the Constitution is treason. Seems you also have the nod of Modi-Naddaji in this,” Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted in Hindi.“If the chief minister of the state talks about spreading violence, breaking the society and destroying law and order, then the rule of law and the Constitution cannot run in the state.“Today, the BJP’s anti-farmer conspiracy got busted. The time has come for showing the door to such an anarchic government,” he said.The farmers agitating against the contentious farm laws of the Centre have intensified their protests against the leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana.They gather near the venues where functions of the leaders of the BJP or the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) are held and stage vociferous protests. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-talks-about-tit-for-tat-during-bjps-kisan-morcha-meet-319648
