05-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||With decline in stubble burning cases, Haryana hopes for better air quality this festival season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Haryana, especially National Capital Region (NCR), can hope for better air quality this festival season with the number of stubble burning cases coming downing drastically in the post-paddy harvest season.The number of active fire locations (AFLs) for the period September 15 to October 4, mapped by the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC) through remote sensing has come down from 160 (2020) to just 21 this year. In fact, 16 of the 22 districts have reported zero AFLs this year, officials told The Tribune.What is more creditable is the fact that eight districts, Ambala, Hisar, Jind, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Sirsa and Rohtak, falling in the 13 Red Zone districts (traditionally reporting large number of AFLs) reported zero such incidents.Karnal, which reported a maximum of 46 AFLs last year, reported four such incidents with Kurukshetra (31 in 2020) reporting 12 cases. Ambala reported zero cases as against 22 cases last year. In Kaithal, 2 cases were reported this year as against last year’s 21.Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture) claimed that Haryana Government’s proactive strategy of reducing farm fires and increasing area with zero stubble burning had paid rich dividends. “With that end in mind, the state government has appointed senior officers as nodal officers in 13 Red Zone districts for effective crop residue management,” she added.Notably, the Haryana Government has set apart an amount of about Rs 200 crore in the year 2021-22 for the crop residue management which included liberal incentives to the farmers.260 cases in PunjabPunjab reported 260 cases during September 15-October 4 period as against 1,603 cases in the corresponding period last year. Amritsar reported a maximum of 161 cases as against 1,015 cases last year. Tarn Taran reported 34 cases (317 in 2020) and Ludhiana 19 cases (34 in 2020).Zero cases in 16 Harayna districts*During post-paddy harvest season, stubble burning cases come down to 21 from 160 last year*Eight Red Zone districts report zero cases.*Haryana sets apart Rs 200 crore for effective r crop residue management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-decline-in-stubble-burning-cases-haryana-hopes-for-better-air-quality-this-festival-season-320526
05-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Retired armyman accused of 4 murders commits suicide in Bhondsi jail||Gurugram, October 5Rao Rai Singh, a retired armyman from Gurugram, accused of murdering four people, committed suicide in Bhondsi jail here on Tuesday.He had allegedly killed his daughter-in-law, a tenant, his wife and their daughter, suspecting his daughter-in-law and the tenant of having an illicit relationship.He was found hanging on Tuesday morning in jail; no suicide note was found. Bhondsi SHO Jagbir Singh said a magisterial inquiry had been marked.Rao Rai Singh, 59, was lodged in Bhondsi jail for almost 45 days. On Monday night, he hanged himself with a towel in the toilet. During the head count when he was found missing the authorities looked for him and found his body.On August 23 this year, he had allegedly hacked three members of his tenant's family and his own daughter-in-law to death. He was apparently enraged over the alleged illicit relationship between his daughter-in-law Sunita (32) and tenant Krishan Tiwari (42).He not only attacked the two but also Krishan’s wife Anamika (38) and their two daughters, Surabhi, 9, and Vidhi, 3. While Surabhi died on the spot, Vidhi was rushed to hospital in a critical condition, where she was discharged a few days later and since has been living with her relatives in Delhi.The accused had later surrendered to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-armyman-accused-of-4-murders-commits-suicide-in-bhondsi-jail-320472
05-10-2021||---||Haryana farmers, Congress workers protest UP killings||Karnal/Ambala/Panipat, Oct 4Following a protest call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the Lakhimpur Kheri killings and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remark, a large number of farmers held demonstrations in different parts of the state.Plaint filed against KhattarHisar: BKU (Charuni) district spokesperson Jagdeep Lamba has lodged a police complaint against the CM over his ‘anti-farmer’ remarks at the BJP’s kisan morcha meeting in Chandigarh. He gave a written complaint to the Hisar SP and sought legal action against the CM, his media adviser and other officials concerned for allegedly inciting riots & threatening to kill farmers among others. The police are yet to act. TNSBook him for sedition: Guv toldRohtak: Congress workers on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Governor through SDM Rakesh Kumar, seeking the registration of a sedition case against the CM for his remarks in a video that went viral on social media on Sunday. They also criticised the UP Government for not allowing party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to meet the kin of the farmers who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. TNSThey sought action against the BJP leaders who were allegedly involved in the violence and Khattar’s resignation for his “tit-for-tat” remark, the video of which went viral on social media on Sunday.of CM ML Khattar and his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath in Karnal on Monday. Sayeed AhmedIn Kaithal, the situation turned tense when the farmers blocked the highway, alleging that the Deputy Commissioner did not come to them to accept the memorandum. However, later they lifted the blockade when the SDM pacified them. “I invited them to my office, but they did not come. I also went to farmers to take the memorandum, but they did not give it to me,” said DC Pardeep Dahiya.In Karnal, farmers protested at the mini secretariat and handed over a memorandum to Tehsildar Raj Baksh Arora to be handed over to the President after staging a dharna from 10 am to 1 pm.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee, BKU (Charuni), alleged that the CM’s statement instigating the violence was condemnable.In Ambala too, a large number of farmers under the banner of BKU (Charuni) on Monday held a demonstration against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and criticised the CM for his remark.The farm leaders said both the incidents had exposed the real face of the BJP.Meanwhile, Gulab Singh, BKU (Charuni), district vice-president, said: “Khattar’s remark were unfortunate as such words are not expected from a CM.”Similarly, Congress activists led by Rohit Jain, treasurer, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, held a demonstration in Ambala City and submitted a memorandum to SDM Hitesh Meena for the Governor. They also burnt the effigies of the CM and Union MoS Ajay Mishra.Jain said: “The statement made by the CM is condemnable. He should be sacked from his post and legal action should be taken against him. We have also submitted a memorandum for the President and have sought action against Mishra, who should also be sacked from his post.”On the other hand, activists of the Haryana Democratic Front led by its general secretary Chitra Sarwara held a demonstration.In Kurukshetra, the farm activists and Congress leaders held separate demonstrations against the BJP government.In Panipat, the Congress on Monday burnt effigy of the CM at the red light chowk on theNH-44 here reportedly for his derogatory remark against the protesting farmers.Congress leader Dharampal Gupta said the CM’s statement clearly showed that the BJP was not only provoking the public against the peacefully agitating farmers but also endorsing violence in the state. “The law and order situations in the state can be disturbed after this statement.”Later, the Congress workers moved to the mini secretariat and submitted three memorandums — one to the Governor, and two to the President through the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-congress-workers-protest-up-killings-320360
05-10-2021||Karnal||Karnal highway blocked over tardy paddy lifting||Infuriated over slow procurement of paddy in the Karnal grain market, farmers locked the main gate and blocked the National Highway-44 for around an hour, leading to a traffic jam.They lifted the dharna after the authorities gave assurance of a smooth procurement.Protest scheduling system in AmbalaAmbala: Unhappy with the scheduling system for paddy purchase, a group of farmers staged a dharna in front of the market committee office at the city grain market and threatened to lock its gate if their demand was not met. Gulab Singh, BKU (Charuni) district vice-president, said, “I got a text to bring my crop on Nov 1, while it’s already mature. We should be allowed to bring the produce as per our convenience.” TNSAs per the authorities, high moisture content in grain is the main reason behind slow procurement even as the arrival of paddy is in full swing which led to space crunch.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia held a meeting with farmers, arhtiyas and rice millers, after which the farmers were pacified and the procurement was started.On the second day of the procurement, farmers reached grain markets in large numbers. In the Karnal grain market, farmers did not find space, following which long queues of tractor-trailers loaded with paddy were seen on the NH-44.“We are not finding any space to unload our produce. The government had promised to start procurement from October 3, but on the second day, nothing was done,” said Ramesh Kumar, a farmer.Non-scheduled farmers alleged they were not given gate passes. Rajiv, a farmer, said the weather was not good so he could not hold crops in fields.“I have held a meeting with farmers, rice millers and commission agents. All issues have been resolved. The gate passes will be issued from 5 am to 9 pm daily,” said DC Yadav. “I appeal to farmers to bring their crops as per schedule for hassle-free procurement,” he said.Farmers also blocked the Kaithal-Jind road outside the grain market in Kaithal over slow procurement. After the assurance of smooth procurement by the authorities, they lifted the blockade. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-highway-blocked-over-tardy-paddy-lifting-320361
05-10-2021||Karnal||Protesting farmers lay siege to Haryana CM’s residence||Farmers began a dharna outside the CM’s residence in Prem Nagar here late in the evening on Monday against the detention of BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni in UP when he was heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri.They announced to block roads across the state on Tuesday if Charuni was not released at night.Gurdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member, BKU (Charuni), was leading the protest and announced that they would not lift the dharna till the release of Charuni. The situation was tense till the filing of the report.A large number of police personnel were deployed at the place, with police officials trying to pacify the protesters.Meanwhile, SP Ganga Ram Punia had reached there to pacify the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-lay-siege-to-haryana-cms-residence-320362
05-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Farmers booked for barging into Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra||Two days after a group of farmers entered Brahma Sarovar with paddy-laden tractor-trailers, a case has been registered against them for unlawful assembly, trespassing and voluntarily obstructing public servant in the discharge of his public duty.In his complaint, Karan Singh, estate manager of Kurukshetra Development Board, said on October 1, around 40-50 protesters forcefully entered Brahma Sarovar and caused damages worth Rs 20,200. The case was registered under Sections 147, 149, 452, 427, 353 and 186, IPC, and 3 of the Public Property (Prevention of Damage) Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-booked-for-barging-into-brahma-sarovar-in-kurukshetra-320363
05-10-2021||Hisar||In Hisar for meeting, BJP legislator Kamal Gupta held hostage by farmers||A group of protesting farmers held the BJP MLA from Hisar, Kamal Gupta, hostage at the rest house here today.The protesters raised slogans against the government while cornering him in the main hall of the rest house.Gupta had reached the rest house to hold a meeting of the party workers to discuss the strategy for the Ellenabad bypoll. However, as he reached there, he was informed by the rest house staff that the main hall was already booked by the farmers who were holding a meeting.On spotting the BJP MLA, a group of farmers gheraoed him in the lobby of the rest house and did not let him go. The drama continued for about half an hour. Later, the police went to the rest house and bailed the MLA out of the rest house from amongst the gathering of farmers.Later, talking to mediapersons at his home, the BJP MLA said he was unaware of the farmers’ meeting at the rest house. He alleged that during the gherao, he was manhandled and someone snatched and tore his shirt as the protesters tried to push him in the main hall of the rest house. He, however, said he was not lodging any police complaint about the incident.Meanwhile, Ranbir Singh, a farmer leader, alleged that the BJP MLA had intentionally reached the rest house where the farmers were already holding a meeting. “I suspect that it was a conspiracy to provoke the farmers,” he said, adding that the farmers raised slogans as a mark of protest, but none of the protesters manhandled the MLA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-for-meeting-bjp-legislator-kamal-gupta-held-hostage-by-farmers-320364
05-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Waterlogging damages kharif crops on 43K acres in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 4Waterlogging due to rain has destroyed bajra, cotton and paddy crops spread over 43,000 acres in the district. While the bajra and cotton crops have suffered damage up to 70%, the paddy crop has suffered 15% damage, as per a survey conducted by the local office of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department to assess the loss due to waterlogging in this monsoon season.“As per the survey report, the bajra crop has witnessed an extensive damage on 18,000 acres. Cotton on 17,500 acres, too, has been found badly affected by waterlogging. The paddy loss has been witnessed on around 3,000 acres. A majority of the villages here are affected by waterlogging as several spells of rain have been recorded this monsoon season,” said sources.Jaggu, a distressed farmer from Sundana village, said his entire paddy crop spread over 24 acres, got damaged as the fields remained inundated for around two months. Since no compensation for the damage to paddy due to waterlogging was given under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana, he would have to bear the entire loss on his own.“More than 500 acres in Sundana are still submerged under rainwater as the process of draining out water is under way at a very slow pace,” he added.An official said Basantpur, Makrauli, Sunaria, Baland, Ritoli, Kabulpur, Ladhaut, Sanghi, Patwara, Khidwali, Samargopal pur, Bahu Jamalpur, Gaddi Kheri, Aasan, Dhamar, Kansala, Mokhra, Kharkara, Meham, Baniyani, Kalanaur, Garhi, Balambh, Lahli, Kheri Sadh, Naya Baans, Kultana, Ismaila, Samchana, Atayal, Baliyana and Bhainsru Kalan were among the worst-affected villages in the district.Meanwhile, Preet Singh, district president, All India Kisan Sabha, said the entire crop had been destroyed in over 50 villages in Sampla and Meham blocks. “We will not hesitate to stage a dharna if the authorities do not initiate a special girdawari soon to assess the losses,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-damages-kharif-crops-on-43k-acres-in-rohtak-320365
05-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Installing of smart electricity meters yet to begin in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 4The ambitious project of replacing the electronic power meters with new smart meters in the city has failed to take off so far. The project costing Rs several crores was announced about three years ago. At present, the Faridabad circle has a total of about 5.95 lakh connections.Proposal to set up 2l devices in 1st phaseThe DHBVN had proposed to install about two lakh meters in the first phase. It was expected to start in 2020, but due to various hurdles, the department could only complete the survey for the project till the end of the year. Sources, power DeptCan be monitored by mobile phones“The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) had proposed to install about two lakh meters in the first phase. It was expected to start in 2020, but due to various hurdles, the department could only complete the survey for the project till the end of 2020,” claim sources in the department.“Though the survey in almost all subdivisions that had been identified for the first phase work had been done, yet It got further delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic as the meters were not available,’’ claimed an official on condition of anonymity.The installation work is unlikely to start soon as the project is faced with various technicalities, including proper survey and availability of the smart meters and related equipment, it is claimed. While Gurugram is the first city in the state where the installation work has already begun, Faridabad was to follow it early this year.Equipped with the GPS, the smart meters are expected to curb the incidence of not only power thefts but will erase the complaints of wrong-meter reading and inflated bills, say the officials of the DHBVN.The smart power meters can be monitored evenby mobile phones ofconsumers. The meters are of both pre-paid andpost-paid types and canbe recharged likemobile phones.The Haryana Power Minister in July last year had announced that 30 lakh smart meters were planned to be installed in the state by the end of 2024. Around1.5 lakh such meters have already been installed in Gurugram, it is reported.Describing the unavailability of the smart meters and related equipment as the main cause behind the delay, Naresh Kakkar, Superintending Engineer, DHBVN , Faridabad, said it would be started as soon as the adequate number of meters are available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/installing-of-smart-electricity-meters-yet-to-begin-in-faridabad-320366
05-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram: Residents to perform kirtan during namaz at public ground||Tribune news ServiceGurugram, October 4The ongoing controversy over namaz being held in the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) ground in front of the state Vigilance Bureau brews further with local residents threatening to hold kirtans there at the same time.Taking up practical issueWe have pleaded our case numerous times to the administration but they are not ready to listen. We are not against any religion but are taking up a practical issue. The RWA never permitted the administration to use the area for this purpose. Every Friday, this congregation leads to security and traffic issues. — Sunil Yadav, President, RWA, sector 47, GurugramMosque just 2 km awayThe mosque is just 2 km away and residents are not even from our area. One Friday, two girls of our sector were teased by men who had come here on cycles. They come from across Gurugram and create trouble. We cannot tolerate it any longer. — Diwaker Chaudhary, ResidentAccusing the administration of having turned a blind eye towards the alleged encroachment and security issues, residents at the local community centre here decided to take the matter in their hands.“We have pleaded our case numerous times to the administration but they are not ready to listen. We are not against any religion but are taking up a practical issue. The RWA never permitted the administration to use this area falling under our sector for this purpose. Majority of the population living here is Hindus. Every Friday, this congregation leads to security and traffic issues. We have moved to both the police and administration but to no avail. Now, we will gather on Friday and hold a kirtan for all. If the situation worsens, it won’t be our fault,” said Sunil Yadav, president, RWA, Sector 47.Residents have been opposing the issue for weeks but the administration and police insist the site is among the 37 designated places under the district administration for reading prayers in the city.The site was listed after a consultation with the representatives of the Muslim community in 2018.Residents claimed that they were not taken into confidence while making the decision and now, they were facing problems. There have been a series of disruptions over the past few weeks and last week, namaz was offered in police presence. The decision of over 200 residents, who attended meeting, has rung alarm bells for the police and administration. Local councillor Kuldeep Yadav has promised to take the issue to the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-to-perform-kirtan-during-namaz-at-public-ground-320367
05-10-2021||---||Cricket scam: More names of state selectors under scanner||Sanjay YadavGurugram, October 4In the investigation of the ongoing cricket scam, the arrested coach, Kulbeer Rawat, confessed to have received money from eight to nine players to let them play in state teams and leagues.During the interrogation, he also named Bikash Pradhan, a selector for Sikkim Cricket Association, who allegedly has ties with the scammers and took money for the same.The Gurugram police will shortly serve notice to him for joining the investigation.Meanwhile, chat records between Ashutosh Bora and Rawat also hinted that a few big names associated with state-level cricket associations are also involved in the scam.The police said the chat had a mention of Akram Khan, a selector for the UP Cricket Association; and Mahim Verma, vice-president, and Aman, CEO, Uttarakhand Cricket Association.In the chat, Rawat also hinted that he had done selections of aspirants through the UP and Uttarakhand Cricket Associations many times, the police added. The police are also set to serve notices to the mentioned names in the chat to join the probe. “More than Rs 35 lakh was transferred from the account of Ashutosh Bora’s firm to Rawat’s account. Pradhan also received a transfer of more than Rs 2 lakh through Bora’s account. Besides, Nabam Vivek, who is the sitting president of the Arunachal Cricket Association, will also join investigation by Tuesday,” said SI Umesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cricket-scam-more-names-of-state-selectors-under-scanner-320369
05-10-2021||Panipat||Power engineer associations protest decision to depute staff to Uttarakhand||The members of the Haryana Power Engineers Associations (HPEA) held protest meetings today at Hissar, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Panipat, Kaithal and other circle headquarters in support of the ongoing agitation of the Uttarakhand power engineers and employees.The association also protested the Haryana Vidhyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN) decision to depute its engineers and technical staff to power transmission corporation of Uttarakhand for strike duty. The association has asked its members not to join the illegal strike duty.HPEA president Ram Pal and general secretary KK Malik said the Uttarakhand power employees and engineers were forced to go on strike after the government backed out from the written commitments given by the Energy Minister in July .— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-engineer-associations-protest-decision-to-depute-staff-to-uttarakhand-320371
05-10-2021||---||Double murder accused arrested||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 4A team of the CIA-1, Kaithal, has arrested a double murder accused, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh and had been absconding since September 24. He was arrested from Fatehabad district along with three others who had given him shelter.Lokender Singh, Superintendent of Police (SP), said accused Rajesh was wanted in the double murder case of commission agent (arhtiya) Satyawan Goel (60) and his wife Kailash Rani (58). They were stabbed to death at their residence in Model Town.On a tip-off, the team some raided fields in Tharvi village of Fatehabad and finally nabbed Rajesh. The other arrested accused are Karam Singh, his son Dharambir and Dharmender of Tharvi village, the SP added.In the preliminary investigation, it has come to light that there was some monetary dispute between the commission agent and Rajesh, that led to the murders, the SP said. He said the accused was involved in another murder case of 2017. He was in a live-in relationship with a woman and he allegedly killed her father. He would be produced in court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, AICC media in charge and former Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala took out a protest march in Kaithal today and criticised the state government for the “deteriorating” law and order situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/double-murder-accused-arrested-320372
05-10-2021||Karnal||Karnal: 2 boys consume poison, die||Two teenagers of Takhana village died after consuming a poisonous substance today, allegedly for being humiliated after a girl filed a complaint against them for teasing at Taraori police station.The deceased have been identified as Vishal and Sahil.As per information, the boys were forced to seek pardon by touching the feet of the girl in the presence of the panchayat.The Taraori police registered a case against the girl and her brother for abetment to suicide.The girl’s family had filed a complaint of teasing against the two boys. Sahil was a student of Class X while Vishal worked at a car repair shop. The girl alleged that she, along with her friend, had gone to a bank on October 1, where the two boys eve-teased her. After the girl lodged a complaint, a panchayat was conducted, where they were forced to seek pardon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-2-boys-consume-poison-die-320373
05-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Module on nano-biotechnology||Workshop on life skills for youthRohtak: An online workshop on "Life skills for youth" was jointly organised by the Centre of Life Skills and Soft Skills (CLAS) and career counselling and placement cell (CCPC) of Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak. Prof Rajbir Singh, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said progress in life and in career was not possible without life skills and soft skills. Students needed to develop these skills to attain success. He exhorted the participants to cultivate human, moral and ethical values in their life. Dean, academic affairs Prof Nov Rattan Sharma underlined the importance of life skills in life. Invited speakers, including Rajbir Deswal, former ADGP, Haryana and Prof MN Mohamedunni Mushtafa, Director, E Sreedharan, Centre for Life Skills Education, Central University of Kerala, spoke on different facets of life skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/module-on-nano-biotechnology-320374
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gajender Phogat appointed OSD to Haryana CM||The state government on Monday appointed Gajender Phogat as Officer on Special Duty (Special Publicity) to Chief Minister with immediate effect. Phogat was earlier working as Assistant Information Public Relations Officer in the Information, Public Relations and Languages Department. TNSState to revise DC ratesThe Haryana Government on Monday decided to revise the DC rates of various districts. The DC rates are wages of unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers, which are fixed by a district-level committee headed by the DCs. The government has decided to fix DC rates on board principles of minimum wages and district-specific consumer prices. TNSBedi is Higher Edu Joint DirectorThe Haryana Government on Monday appointed Ruchi Singh Bedi, awaiting orders of posting, as Joint Director (Admn), Higher Education Department, with immediate effect. TNSKarnalPatwari suspended for graftKaithal Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Dahiya has suspended a patwari allegedly for corruption and poor public dealing. Vikas Walia was posted in Rajound in the Kalayat Assembly segment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gajender-phogat-appointed-osd-to-haryana-cm-320377
05-10-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI OPD patient count sees 50% jump in week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The PGI today saw a total of 7,971 registrations, an increase of 50 per cent from the 5,288 registrations recorded at the institute seven days ago. The daily walk-in registrations also increased to over 6,500 in the past one week.The institute had opened walk-in registrations for outpatient departments (OPDs) last Monday. On the first day, 3,942 patients had turned up for physical registration, while 1,345 patients got themselves registered through tele-consultation.Dr Naveen Pandey, incharge of the OPD administration, PGI, said, “There is a huge rush and the number of registrations has almost reached the pre-pandemic level. The situation will be reviewed soon in view of a possible third wave and the festival season.”The online registration for physical visit to all OPDs had increased to 50 for all departments and 100 for ophthalmology, hepatology and internal medicine. The registration for tele-consultation in the new OPD is being done from 8 am to 9 am. Registration of walk-in patients for physical visit to the new OPD is being done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters.Six cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Monday reported six cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSOne more Covid death in MohaliMohali: The district reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 1,068. Meanwhile, one new case surfaced till Monday evening, taking the tally to 68,747, while six patients were cured of the disease. The only case that surfaced in the district came from the Gharuan area whereas no case was reported from Mohali, Dera Bassi, Kharar, Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Kurali, Lalru and Banur. — TNSJust one case in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported just one Covid case on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,739. The toll remained at 377. While 30,357 people have recovered from the disease so far, five cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgi-opd-patient-count-sees-50-jump-in-week-320310
05-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Hum khud hi hain’: Neeraj Chopra's epic reply when he refused to call Shah Rukh Khan his inspiration. Watch the video||Chandigarh, October 4There is a thin line between being confident and arrogant. This is one thing that our golden boy Neeraj Chopra certainly is aware of. Also read: Neeraj Chopra’s Louis Vuitton sweatshirt costs as much as his imported javelinAnd those who following him after the Tokyo Olympics might be deceived into thinking that he rose to ranks only after winning the historic gold medal.Below is a video, where Neeraj was once at an event asked about his inspiration behind his long hairstyle. He was asked if it was actor Shah Rukh Khan or cricketer Ishant Sharma.  “Hum khud hi hain...nobody. I like keeping my hair long,” was Neeraj’s epic reply, which left everyone, amused. Neeraj first came into limelight after he became the junior world champion with a world record throw of 86.84m in Poland.  Neeraj’s confidence is still intact, even as he has trimmed his hair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hum-khud-hi-hain-neeraj-chopras-epic-reply-when-he-refused-to-call-shah-rukh-khan-his-inspiration-watch-the-video-320034
