06-10-2021||The cycling track near NDRI||Improper barricading a threat to commuters in Karnal||Madhav Madaan, KarnalMisery for farmers as water collects in fieldsThe monsoon season has brought misery for farmers at a majority of villages in the district as their fields are submerged under water leading to extensive damage to crops of wheat, cotton and paddy. Sundana is also one of the villages, where over 500 acres of agricultural land is flooded. Though pumps have been installed there to remove water but these are proving insufficient hence the district authorities are requested to install more pumps there to drain out the accumulated water at the earliest.Jagbir Singh, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/improper-barricading-a-threat-to-commuters-in-karnal-320900
06-10-2021||Hisar||Nutrition month concludes||Activist gets international awardKarnal: A 22-year-old activist and student from Karnal has been conferred with another international award this time from Germany called the Young Global Changemakers Award 2021. Earlier, she received Diana Award from England for her work. The Young Global Changemakers Award, which has been introduced by YEF Global to celebrate young individuals who inspire change through tangible action for the sustainable development goals, recognised Sanjoli Banerjee in the rising impact maker category for her work promoting quality education, climate action and gender equality under the sustainable development goal 4, 13 and 5, respectively.Interaction programmeGurugram: As a part of the Induction programme for fresh students, the faculty of mass communication and media technology of SGT University, Gurugram, on Tuesday organised an interaction of students with the Pro-Vice-Chancellor Dr Navdeep Singh Tung. Fresh students of journalism and mass communication as well as those from the university's centre for languages and communication participated in the event. Dr Tung said he found the atmosphere in universities much different from that of colleges.Self-help group training programmeHisar: A five-day women self-help group (SHG) training programme was organised by the Dairy Science and Technology College of Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (Luvas) in Hisar. The programme was sponsored by the National Commission for Women, Government of India and the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission. The university scientists gave training to women to make value-added dairy products such as paneer, beverages, low lactose burfi, kheer, flavoured milk, peda, bajra biscuit, probiotic yogurt, and lassi. The Chief Executive Officer, Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission, Amarinder Kaur attended the closing ceremony and said women would make various milk products through self-help groups or by forming 3-4 units and then these would be sold directly to consumers.Value-added training startsFaridabad: The Department of Mechanical Engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a three-day value-added training programme on automobile components of Royal Enfield for the benefit of B Tech and MTech students of mechanical engineering. As many as 25 students are participating in the programme and the training is being given by the resource person from Royal Enfield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nutrition-month-concludes-320898
06-10-2021||---||Bhupinder Singh Hooda to start special drive on October 10||Karnal, October 5Former Assembly Speaker Kuldeep Sharma on Tuesday said Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda would start an outreach programme ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ in Haryana from Karnal on October 10.Under this programme, the former CM will cover all 90 Assembly segments and will listen to public issues, he said. “The first programme will commence from the SBS School on the railway road at 10 am,” he said, while interacting with mediapersons.He said based on the feedback of the public, the Congress would counter the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-singh-hooda-to-start-special-drive-on-october-10-320897
06-10-2021||---||Faridabad: 2 of cyber crime gang nabbed||Faridabad, October 5The local police claimed to have busted an interstate gang of cyber criminals with the arrest of the remaining two accused. Four members of the gang were arrested earlier in the drive that was launched last month. The gang members duped people of Rs 1.80 crore in the name of providing them employment.The two accused nabbed on Sunday have been identified as Abhishek and Akhilesh, both residents of UP. They were nabbed from their native village after a raid, a spokesperson for the district police said. Their associates who were arrested earlier are Tridiv of West Bengal, Diwakar of Bijwasan, New Delhi, Nikhil of Baghpat and Ved Prakash from Sambhal in UP.The raids were conducted after an FIR was registered on September 13, in which a local resident had complained that he was cheated of Rs 1,35,000 by the gang who had offered him employment in a power company earlier last month. The gang was operating under the name of Global Recruitment Solutions and used to get money deposited in its account in the name of security and other charges and once the money was transferred to their account, their phones were switched off.“Eight mobile phones, two laptops and a cash of Rs 33,000 has been recovered from the accused so far,’’ said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-2-of-cyber-crime-gang-nabbed-320895
06-10-2021||---||Indo-Pak war veteran passes away at 83||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, October 5Lt Col Jai Singh (retd), who fought in the Indo-Pak wars of 1965 and 1971, passed away at Jhansi Cantonment. He was 83.Born on January 12, 1939, in Dang Kalan of Bhiwani district, he was commissioned into the 2nd Lancers, (Gardener’s Horse) in 1964. He was in the raising team of 41 Armoured Regiment in 1980 and was the first Second-in-Command and the second Commandant of the Regiment from 1982 to 1984. He served for 27 years.His son Lt Col Ajai Singh Berwal in the Armoured Corps said his father breathed his last on September 30 in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. He was cremated with military honours in Jhansi. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indo-pak-war-veteran-passes-away-at-83-320893
06-10-2021||---||19 more tax defaulting units sealed in Faridabad||Faridabad, October 5In its ongoing drive against property tax defaulters, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) on Monday sealed another 19 commercial and residential units for not clearing their dues lying pending for the past many years.The units sealed on Monday owe a property tax of Rs 22 lakh to the civic body. The MCF had sealed 25 units on Sunday for not paying the tax of Rs 24.99 lakh, thus taking the total units sealed so far to 44.Revealing that the drive carried out on Monday, which was the second day of the campaign launched to recover a total pending amount of Rs 125 crore as property tax in the city, a senior official of the MCF said the units sealed today were located in Old Faridabad and Ballabgarh zones.While 10 units owing the tax of Rs 12,79,787 are located in Old Faridabad zone, another nine units who have failed to clear the dues of Rs.8,72,425 are located in the Ballabgarh area. An amount of Rs 82,000 was recovered from a unit which faced the sealing action today, it is added.“The drive against the property tax defaulters will continue till the recovery of all dues’’, announced Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-more-tax-defaulting-units-sealed-in-faridabad-320892
06-10-2021||Karnal||Three men loot Rs 20 lakh from bank in Karnal||Three armed men on Tuesday evening barged into the Nissing branch of the Bank of Baroda and took away around Rs 20 lakh in cash.SP Ganga Ram Punia along with forensic experts and CIA teams reached the spot.The incident took place around 3.45 pm when three men entered the bank and held the staff captive at gunpoint.They looted the cash from the cashier’s counter and the strong room. Though the exact amount of cash looted is yet to be ascertained, the bank officials claimed it to be around Rs 20 lakh. Before fleeing, they locked the staff inside the strong room and fired shots in the air outside the bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-men-loot-rs-20-lakh-from-bank-in-karnal-320891
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram quadruple murder accused dies by suicide in prison||Rao Rai Singh, a retired army man, accused of quadruple murder in Gurugram, allegedly committed suicide in the Bhondsi jail today.In his suicide note, he reportedly confessed to hacking his daughter-in-law, tenant, his wife and a child to death, suspecting them of illicit relationship. He was upset over his wife being named as a co-accused.Singh ended his life by hanging himself from a bedsheet in the corridor towards bathroom from the barracks in the jail. The jail administration was informed about the incident after seeing him hanging at around 7 am. A magisterial inquiry was marked in the matter.An official said in the suicide note, he talked about catching his daughter-in-law and tenant red-handed. He said he had killed them all and his wife was innocent. Her being lodged in jail was the reason behind the step.Singh (59) was lodged in the jail for almost 45 days along with 49 inmates.On August 23, Singh had hacked three members of his tenant’s family and his daughter-in-law to death. He was enraged over the alleged illicit relationship between his daughter-in-law Sunita (32) and their tenant Krishan Kumar Tiwari (42). He attacked not just the duo but also Krishan’s wife Anamika (38) and two 9 and 3-year-old daughters Surabhi and Vidhi.While four died on spot Vidhi was rushed to Safdarjung in a critical condition from where she was discharged a few days ago and is living with her relatives in Delhi. The accused had himself walked with murder weapon to police station and surrendered. Police nabbed Rao Rai Singh and his wife Bimlesh and both were in Bhondsi jail. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-quadruple-murder-accused-dies-by-suicide-in-prison-320890
06-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Woman entitled to maintenance even if not legally wedded: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that a woman is entitled to maintenance under the domestic violence Act even if she is not a legally wedded wife. The Bench upheld a lower court’s order granting interim maintenance to a woman, whose husband claimed she was not divorced from her first husband at the time of their wedding.“The argument on which great stress has been laid that the complainant is not a legally wedded wife as on the date of marriage she was not divorced from her husband has no merit,” Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled.The matter was brought to Justice Thakur’s notice after the ‘’husband’’ challenged the order dated July 22, 2019, passed by Fatehabad Judicial Magistrate First Class, allowing interim maintenance to the woman-respondent under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. He was directed to give a monthly pay of Rs 25,000.Justice Thakur asserted it was interesting to note that the Act was enacted to protect women from domestic violence occurring within family. The statement of the objections and reasons noticed that domestic violence was widely prevalent and remained unaddressed. The existing law gave protection to woman subjected to cruelty by her husband or his relatives, making it an offence under Section 498-A of the IPC. The Section by itself did not address the issue of domestic violence in its entirety. The Act came into existence in this background to provide protection to women, who were or had been in a relationship with an abuser, where both parties had lived together in a “shared household” and were related by consanguinity, marriage, through a relationship in the nature of marriage, adoption or were family members living together as a joint family. The right to claim protection under the Act following domestic violence was not limited only to a wife. Justice Thakur added an aggrieved person under the Act had been defined to mean any woman, who was or had been in a domestic relationship, alleging to have been subjected to any act of domestic violence. Domestic relationship too had been defined as a relationship between two persons, who lived or had, at any point of time, lived together in a shared household, when they were related by consanguinity, marriage or through a relationship in the nature of marriage etc. “The question whether the marriage will be void is a matter of trial. Even if it is so, there is no dispute to the fact that till the time the complainant was residing with the petitioner, she was in a domestic relationship with him in a shared household,” said Justice Thakur.Domestic violence case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-entitled-to-maintenance-even-if-not-legally-wedded-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-320888
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana fastest growing state in development index||Haryana has been ranked as the fastest growing state in the NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Index 2020-21.This was stated by Sanyukta Samaddar, Adviser, NITI Aayog, during a workshop organised by Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute for Fiscal Management here today. The workshop was chaired by CM Manohar Lal Khattar.The CM also released the Haryana SDG Index 2020-21 and Provisional SDG District Index 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-fastest-growing-state-in-development-index-320887
06-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Encroachments galore on banks of oldest natural drain in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 5Budhiya Nullah, the oldest natural drain in the city, is faced with encroachments. The authorities concerned are yet to launch a drive against the illegal constructions that have allegedly come up in violation of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) in many parts of the city.Revealing that several acres of land located on the banks of the 25-km long Budhiya Nullah has been encroached by land mafia over the past few years, sources in the local civic administration claim that hundreds of residential structures have come up on the land that belongs to the Municipal Corporation.Emerging from the Aravalli hills in the Surajkund area, the drain passes under NH-19 to culminate in the Yamuna river. It is claimed that the constructions have come up on both sides of the banks of the drain at Sector 45, Greenfields Colony and Mewla Maharajpur village, all falling under the civic limits.“Though the land of the drain is owned by the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, several acres of the land located in the west side of the drain also comes under the PLPA, which prohibits construction of any type,” environment activist Vishnu Goel said.Plotting had also been done on several acres on the land belonging to a natural dam near Anangpur village, which was also a forest land, he added.“The nullah not only drains out sewage waste but also saves the city from flooding during the rainy season. The authorities concerned should conduct a survey and remove the encroachments that threaten its existence,” AK Gaur, a resident, said.A bridge built on this drain, which has not been used, has also been declared as a heritage spot due to the fact that it came up about 100 years ago.The Union Minister of state for Heavy Industries, Krishan Pal Gurjar, who visited the bridge recently, has asked the authorities to take up a renovation project.“A demarcation of the area will be done shortly and action will be taken against the encroachments if any,” Rajkumar, District Forest Officer, Faridabad, said.Emerges from Aravallis, culminates in YamunaEmerging from the Aravalli hills in the Surajkund area, the drain passes under NH-19 to culminate in the Yamuna river. It is claimed that constructions have come up on both sides of the banks of the drain at Sector 45, Greenfields Colony and Mewla Maharajpur village, all falling under the civic limits.Conduct land surveyThe nullah not only drains out sewage waste but also saves the city from flooding during the rainy season. The authorities concerned should conduct a survey and remove the encroachments that threaten its existence. — AK Gaur, a resident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/encroachments-galore-on-banks-of-oldest-natural-drain-in-faridabad-320886
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjeet Singh murder: Punjab and Haryana High Court dismisses plea to transfer case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed a petition seeking the transfer of Ranjeet Singh murder case, allegedly involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, from Panchkula CBI Special Judge to any other Special CBI Court in the states of Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh.The petition was filed by Ranjeet Singh’s son Jagseer Singh, alleging that “everything has been manipulated”.Referring to a plethora of judgments, Justice Avneesh Jhingan ruled it was clear that the trial could not be transferred on mere apprehension. It was required to be reasonable and not imaginary, and the power of transfer was to be sparingly exercised.After hearing senior advocate Sumeet Goel with advocate AK Ranolia and counsel for the other parties, Justice Jhingan asserted the petitioner’s apprehensions could not be held to be reasonable. “These were imaginary and based upon surmises and conjectures. The trial is at the stage of pronouncement of judgment. The petitioner watched and participated in trial before Special Judge since April 2021, when he was transferred. The petitioner in garb of transfer petition cannot be permitted to have the Bench of his choice or get the result of the trial as per his wishes,” Justice Jhingan added.“With the advancement of technology and activism of social media, allegations levelled by such litigants need to be scrutinised very carefully. On asking of apprehensive litigant, transfer of trial at fag end would result in browbeating the Judge and interference in fair administration of justice,” Justice Jhingan said while dismissing the petition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ranjeet-singh-murder-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-plea-to-transfer-case-320885
06-10-2021||Ambala||AAP protests Haryana CM’s remark||AAP held demonstrations against CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Ambala and Kurukshetra for his remarks against the farmers’ protest. The activists also burnt his effigy and slammed the BJP for the UP killings.In Ambala, AAP leader Gagandeep Kapoor said: “Remarks made by the CM have exposed the real face of the BJP. He is trying to disturb the state harmony just to please his bosses. Action should be taken against him.”In Kurukshetra, state AAP spokesman Sumit Garg said: “We condemn the CM’s statement against farmers. The anti-farmer face of the BJP has been exposed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-protests-haryana-cms-remark-320884
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Maintain peace: Anil Vij to farmers||Home Minister Anil Vij held a meeting of senior officers of the Home, Police and Health Departments today.He said the state government had recently invited farmers’ leaders to hold a meeting regarding clearing the roads leading to Delhi from the Haryana side.He called upon the agitating farmers to maintain peace and said everyone had the right to protest but violence did not resolve any issue. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maintain-peace-anil-vij-to-farmers-320883
06-10-2021||---||SKM seeks arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, son Ashish Mishra, aides||Karnal, October 5After another video showing an SUV mowing down the farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday went viral, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday reiterated its demand to the arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, son Ashish Mishra Teni and his accomplices.They also demanded the dismissal of the Union Minister and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Referring the farmers who died in the incident as martyrs, union leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, in a joint statement, said their last rites would be performed after receiving their autopsy reports. In Gurvinder Singh’s case, the autopsy will be performed again.Meanwhile, the leaders also condemned the Rajasthan Government’s lathicharge on protesting farmers, demanding the procurement of their crops on the MSP.“After the brutal UP killings, questions were raised on protesters and their violent behaviour. It was only a matter of time that the reality of the incident had to emerge, which happened after a video came to light, which cleared that the explanation given by Ajay Mishra and his son was false,” they alleged.Meanwhile, SKM leader Tajinder Virk, who was grievously injured in the incident, was operated upon at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram and is reported to be out of danger now.The SKM also condemned the arrest and detention of Gurnam Singh Charuni by the UP Government.Cong condemns Lakhimpur killingsPalwal: Congress leaders and workers held a meeting here on Tuesday to condemn the deaths of farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, saying the incident was “brutal” and “unacceptable”. Led by ex- MLA and senior Congress leader Karan Singh Dalal, the protesters demanded immediate arrest of all accused and stepping down of the BJP government for its “failure to prevent the incident”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-seeks-arrest-of-union-minister-ajay-mishra-son-ashish-mishra-aides-320882
06-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Delhi-Amritsar National Highway blocked near Pipli Zoo||Farmers and commission agents blocked the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway-44 near Pipli Zoo this afternoon, demanding smooth procurement of paddy.The traffic was diverted through alternative routes but heavy vehicles and roadways buses remained stuck on the highway. Ladwa SDM Anubhav Mehta reached the spot and tried to pacify the farmers but the latter refused to lift the blockade.Farmer leader Amrik Singh said, “The government has been misguiding everyone by claiming that it has started procurement but only formality is being done in the name of procurement. We brought dry produce at the grain market but it was not procured timely and got drenched after it rained. Now, who is responsible for the loss?”The farmers finally lifted their blockade around 8.20 pm after the assurance of smooth procurement by the administration. Farmer leader Amrik Singh said, “The administration has informed that the rice millers have agreed to start working from Wednesday and the administration will ensure smooth procurement and lifting.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-amritsar-national-highway-blocked-near-pipli-zoo-320881
06-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Rain drenches paddy in mandis, growers worried||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 5Fresh rain that lashed the district late on Monday night and early Tuesday morning have raised the worries of the paddy farmers who are waiting for the procurement of their produce.The rains also exposed the arrangements in different grain markets of the district as water soaked the paddy grains, with farmers fearing losses due to the high moisture content in their produce.Farmers at the Karnal grain market alleged that during the rains, most of the heaps of paddy grain were lying uncovered, leading to soaking. “The millers are not coming forward for procurement and the agencies are not procuring the grains, citing high moisture content. The rains also increased the moisture in paddy which was lying in the open in the grain market,” said Karamjeet Singh, a farmer. “I came here three days ago with permissible limit of moisture, but it was not sold. Now, the moisture has increased,” he added.Jasbir, another farmer, said rains lashed the district at around 11pm on Monday night and at that time, most of the grains were lying uncovered. Nobody is here to listen to farmers. The arrangements were not up to the mark, as there were not sufficient covers in the grain market. “Now, the moisture content has reached to 50 per cent and there are going to be few buyers,” he said.Malak Singh, another farmer, said the government should have fixed the agencies and rice millers prior to the commencement of the paddy season. “Now, no millers are buying in grain markets,” he added.Meanwhile, officials claimed that there were sufficient arrangements in the grain markets. Market Committee Karnal secretary, Chander Parkash, said that grains were covered in the grain market when the rains took place. The moisture of all heaps of grains is being checked. He said efforts were being made to speed up the procurement.Besides, the farmers who have yet to harvest the paddy crop are also fearing losses due to the untimely rain as they expect the rain at this time will damage the grain. “Rain at this time is not required. Rains, along with high velocity wind, flattened the basmati varieties which were in the milking stage. The rains will affect the yield,” said Jatinder Kumar, a farmer.Another farmer Mahabir said the rains had delayed the harvesting of paddy.Meanwhile in Kaithal, demanding procurement, farmers protested and blocked the Pehowa chowk, causing inconvenience to commuters. The situation remained tense for over three hours. They said there should be no excuse of moisture in the paddy and whole grains should be procured. In Pundri town in Kaithal district, farmers also protested, demanding procurement.Slow process leads to space crunchEven though the arrival of paddy has picked up pace, its slow procurement has led to a glut in mandis. Farmers are getting no space to unload their produce. “Due to slow procurement, the mandi is flooded with paddy and the farmers have to struggle a lot to unload it,” said Sultan, a farmer at Karnal mandi.Passes issued for procurementChandigarh: Passes have been issued on the e-Kharid portal for the procurement of about 3.60 lakh tonnes of paddy. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department ACS Anurag Rastogi said at the start of the procurement, problems arose when many farmers came to mandis at the same time to sell their produce. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-drenches-paddy-in-mandis-growers-worried-320880
06-10-2021||---||4 Haryana youths die in mishap in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 5Four Haryana youth were killed when the car (HR 32K 1761) in which they were travelling to Manali plunged into a 300-feet gorge on the Swarghat-Ghamberpul road. DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that the accident came to their notice today.A police team led by Additional SP rushed to the spot this afternoon soon after receiving the information. The victims have been identified as Abhishek (20) and Rahul (22), two brothers, Robin (22) and Mohit (22). They hail from Kaithal in Haryana. Their families have been informed about the mishap and a probe was underway.The DSP added that the deceased were in touch with their families on October 3 but there was no communication after that. The bodies have been shifted to Nalagarh hospital for a post mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-haryana-youths-die-in-mishap-in-himachal-320727
06-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Traffickers sourcing narcotics from Madhya Pradesh, Andhra, Jharkhand: Haryana cops||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 5After investigating 58 cases registered under the NDPS Act in the past nine months, the police have found that narcotics were being supplied to Haryana, Punjab and Delhi from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Nagaland.As many as 73 persons involved in the racket were arrested while a large quantity of narcotic drugs such as ‘ganja’ (cannabis), opium and ‘doda post’ (poppy straw) were seized. “A special campaign against drug peddlers was launched in January this year on getting a tip-off that drug traffickers were using a route passing through Jhajjar district to supply drugs in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi. Under the drive, night patrolling was intensified and vehicle-checking operations were started that led to arrest of traffickers,” said Rajesh Duggal, SP.He said a consignment of 245-kg cannabis was recovered in the Beri area in January while a truck was carrying it from Rajasthan to Delhi. Similarly, a huge quantity of opium was seized in the Aasoda area in June when it was being transported to Rohtak from Madhya Pradesh. Five persons of an inter-state gang were nabbed in the Bahadurgarh area in February while supplying ‘ganja patti’ (cannabis leaves) to Delhi, he added.“As many as 15 such cases were registered in September, 12 each in August and July, 7 in February, 3 each in June, May and March, 2 in April and 1 in January this year,” said Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffickers-sourcing-narcotics-from-madhya-pradesh-andhra-jharkhand-haryana-cops-320711
06-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Few opt for BTech, 37 private colleges shut in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4Sandeep Kaur, a student of BSc (2nd year) in Government College, Sector 1, Panchkula, didn’t opt for an engineering course in a private college last year. She says, “There is no point in going to a college that can’t provide you a decent job.”Time to change education systemThe stress in our colleges is on traditional streams. We need to adapt to changing times. Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secySimilarly, Saksham Gehnoria of BSc (1st year) in the same college, says private colleges have poor placement record. “I will rather take the CDS exam and join the defence forces,” he says.In Haryana private colleges, thousands of BTech seats go vacant every year, indicating that engineering courses are losing sheen among youngsters.Resultantly, the number of colleges offering BTech courses has come down from 114 in 2017-18 to 77 in 2020-21. At least 37 private institutes have shut down.According to the Technical Education Department, in 2017-18, there were 127 engineering colleges (114 private and 13 government) offering a total of 43,771 seats (39,940 private and 3,831 government). At least 28,443 and 1,490 seats remained vacant in private and government colleges, respectively.The same scenario was repeated in 2018-19 and 2019-20. In 2020-21, the number of private institutes fell to 77, where at least 14,675 seats remained vacant. In government colleges, there were no takers for 1,268 seats. For 2021-22, the admission process is yet to be completed. “Engineering courses are losing sheen because of the advent of new-age technologies like artificial intelligence and blockchain. The stress in our colleges is on traditional streams. We need to adapt to the changing times,” said Anand Mohan Sharan, Principal Secretary, Higher and Technical Education. He said the department had started the process of filling vacant faculty posts in government colleges.On the contrary, diploma courses in government polytechnics are doing well with an admission percentage of 72-80. “Polytechnic passouts are more employable than engineering graduates since the former focus more on practical assignments. Besides, polytechnics have signed pacts with many big companies for specialised training,” said Dr Rajesh Goyal, Secretary, Technical Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/few-opt-for-btech-37-private-colleges-shut-in-haryana-320254
