07-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Supply of water mixed with sewage a worry||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Supply of water mixed with sewage a worryResidents in the locality near Murari Cinema road in Bhiwani town are upset due to the supply of dirty water mixed with sewage. We have written to the district authorities and also sent photographs as evidence, but the problem persists. There is fear that dirty and adulterated water will result in water borne diseases in the locality. Ashok Kumar, Bhiwani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supply-of-water-mixed-with-sewage-a-worry-321096
07-10-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose University to hold convocation||Foundation stone laid by GuvHisar: The Haryana Governor laid the foundation stone of office complex and laboratory building at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Centre of Excellence in Organic Farming at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, on Wednesday. He said this lab would prove to be beneficial for the farmers. The farmers can get a lot of help in checking the health of the soil, making organic pesticides and fungicides, checking the quality of crops and value addition. He also visited the Centre of Excellence in Organic Farming and observed various research activities. He also visited various departments of the university and took stock of the ongoing research and teaching work here.Four-day workshop organisedFaridabad: A four-day workshop titled "Computer-aided drug design" has been organised by the department of chemistry, Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh. Prof Mukesh Doble of the department of biotechnology, IIT Madras has been the resource person. Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, Principal, emphasised on the need of such workshops in the present scenario. The resource person focused on hands-on training on various free software programmes available for drug designing. The workshop was attended by 45 participants.Poster-making competitionYamunanagar: A national-level online poster-making competition was organised by the department of industrial microbiology, Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said in this competition students from Haryana, Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu participated.He said in the competition, Nishtha, a student of the host college stood first, Vaishnavi Dattatreya, a student of SBS Appasaheb Jedhe Mahavidyalaya, Pune, Maharashtra and Tanya of GGDSD College, Chandigarh displayed their talent by securing second and third position, respectively. Randeep Singh Jauhar, president of the college managing committee, congratulated all teachers and students.Class II lad brings laurelsAmbala: A Class II student of MMIS Sadopur in Ambala participated in "First open national yoga championship" and won the second position. This competition was held in Rohtak and was organised by the "National Yogasna Sports Skills Association" from October 2-3. School principal Dr Nisha Sharma congratulated Siddharth and his parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-university-to-hold-convocation-321097
07-10-2021||---||Cyber security awareness at Haryana colleges, universities||Chandigarh, October 6The Haryana Government has decided to run “Cyber security awareness” campaigns in all colleges and universities of the state so that students, employees and other people of the society can be saved from cyber fraud.Giving information about this, a spokesperson of the Haryana Higher Education Department and Haryana Technical Education Department said on behalf of the Principal Secretary of the department, the registrars of all universities and principals of colleges had been directed to create “Cyber security awareness” in their respective institutions. He said the state government had published a booklet related to “Cyber security awareness” in which information had been given about cyber-crime threats, cyber-frauds, cyber-harassment, ways to prevent cyber-related crime, etc.They have also been directed to publicise the booklet in all institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cyber-security-awareness-at-haryana-colleges-universities-321098
07-10-2021||---||Former Haryana CM Bhajan Lal’s statue unveiled in Hisar||Hisar, October 6Nearly 10 years after the demise of former Chief Minister Bhajan Lal, a statue of the leader was installed at his native Adampur village in Hisar today. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi unveiled the statue via video conferencing.The statue was installed by the All India Bishnoi Mahasabha (AIBS) on the occasion of his 91th birth anniversary. Bhajan Lal’s son and Adampur Congress MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi, and other family members were present on the occasion.Addressing the gathering, Gandhi said Bhajan Lal had an inclusive approach in politics and brought diverse sections of society together during his lifetime.The Congress leader added that the former Chief Minister Bhajan Lal always kept public interest paramount by rising above the boundaries of caste, religion and region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-bhajan-lals-statue-unveiled-in-hisar-321099
07-10-2021||---||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri civic body floats tenders for 100 advertisement sites||Yamunanagar, October 6After suffering a loss in crores, the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) has finally woken up from its deep slumber and floated tenders for 100 advertisement sites after three years.The MCYJ will earn around Rs 23.5 crore as rent from these 100 advertisement sites in three years. According to information, several companies had reportedly put their advertisements on hoarding structures and building boards illegally without taking permission from the MCYJ, causing a huge revenue loss to the state exchequer.Ashok Kumar of Panchkula, who deals in the trade of outdoor media advertisements in Haryana, had lodged a complaint on the CM Window portal on May 28, 2021 alleging that this illegal business of putting up advertisements continued from April 2018 to April 2021 as during this period no tender was floated by the MCYJ in this connection.He had alleged that as per the provisions of the Haryana advertisement bylaws notified by the state government on March 28, 2018 and further fees notified on May 21, 2019, the losses of revenue to the MCYJ is about Rs 50 crores in the past three years (from April 2018 to April 2021). The MCYJ authorities have recently floated tenders for 100 advertisement sites, including 75 unipole hoarding advertisement sites in twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. The tenders of these 100 advertisement sites will be for three years and the MCYJ is expected to get Rs 23.50 crore as rent during this period.“We are making efforts to increase the income of the MCYJ. We are expected to get Rs 23.50 crore as revenue from the identified 100 advertisement sites in three years,” said Ajay Singh Tomar, Commissioner of the MCYJ. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, said they had set up a separate cell in the rent branch to deal with works related to advertisements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-civic-body-floats-tenders-for-100-advertisement-sites-321100
07-10-2021||---||Progress of work at Hisar airport, other airstrips in Haryana reviewed||Chandigarh, October 6The Haryana Government is working expeditiously to dedicate all six airstrips of the state, including ‘Maharaja Agrasen International Airport, Hisar,’ to the public at the earliest by equipping these with modern facilities.Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala held a meeting with departments concerned here today and directed them to complete all work related to the project in the stipulated time-frame.Regarding the delay in the work of the runway of the Hisar International Airport, the Deputy Chief Minister inquired from the officers the reason behind the delay, in response to which the officials called the traffic plying on the Hisar-Barwala road and Hisar-Dhansu road as a hindrance.The Deputy Chief Minister directed the officers in the meeting that people should not suffer due to the closure of Hisar-Barwala road, for this, the final plan of the alternative road connecting Mirzapur road to the National Highway near Talwandi should be prepared at the earliest so that the construction work of the road can begin. In the meeting, the officers were ordered to close the Dhansu road.Dushyant Chautala clearly asked the officials to complete the construction work of the runway of ‘Maharaja Agrasen International Airport within the stipulated time period. The approval has been given for the construction of a 33 KV station for 24-hour power supply at the airport. Apart from this, the Deputy Chief Minister told the officials that the Hisar International Airport was going to be constructed in 7,200 hectares, so for the drainage of such a large area, the officers should prepare a mega-drainage plan from now onwards.The expansion of airstrips, including helipads in Karnal, Pinjore, Bhiwani, Narnaul, Gurugram, and other development works such as modernisation, electricity supply, water supply, boundary wall, runway lights, air traffic control hangar etc. were discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/progress-of-work-at-hisar-airport-other-airstrips-in-haryana-reviewed-321101
07-10-2021||---||Now, Rohtak PGIMS has HIV viral load test facility||Rohtak, October 6Pt BD Sharma PGIMS here has become the first government healthcare centre in the state to have the facility of HIV viral load test that measures the amount (viral load) of infection in the blood and subsequently monitor the effectiveness of antiretroviral Therapy.The PCR machine worth Rs one crore has been provided to the PGIMS by the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), a division of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which formulates policy and implements the programmes for the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS in India. There are over 3,500 HIV patients registered at the Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre of the PGIMS."Earlier, samples for HIV viral load test were sent to a private lab located at another place hence the report took at least two to three days to come. Now, the test will be conducted in our lab to ensure the report in minimum time hence the HIV patients now need not wait for long to get his/her report. The test will be offered first to all HIV patients registered at the ART centre of the PGIMS," said Prof (Dr) Ritu Aggarwal, in-charge, HIV viral load testing lab, at microbiology department of the PGIMS.She maintained that initially, the HIV viral load test of the patient was conducted in six month and thereafter, it was repeated annually to find out the level of infection and the results of treatment. The test helps clinicians to switch to the second line of treatment if the first line of treatment is not giving expected results, she added."A total 35,000 HIV patients are registered across the state and many districts have the facility of the ART centre. HIV treatment of the patients is monitored as per clinical monitoring based on symptoms, immunological monitoring by enumeration of CD4 T cells and virological monitoring based on quantification of HIV viral RNA copies in the blood," said Dr Ritu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-rohtak-pgims-has-hiv-viral-load-test-facility-321102
07-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad Secretariat to go car-free once a week||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 6Taking a cue from World Car Free Day observed recently, the district authorities have announced to observe every Wednesday as Car Free Day. Faridabad is perhaps the first district in the state to have initiated such a move, no vehicle was permitted inside the Mini Secretariat here today as part of the drive.“Though vehicles had not been allowed inside the Mini Secretariat on September 29, which was World Car Free Day, the district authorities have decided to make it a practice at least once a week in which officials and employees of the district administration will be asked to drop using a fuel-based vehicle and resort to other means, including bicycle, to come to the office,” says Rakesh Gautam the District Information and Public Relation sOfficer (DIPRO).To use cycle to come to officeAt least one day in a week, officials and employees of the district administration will be asked to drop using a fuel-based vehicle and resort to other means, including bicycle, to come to the office. Rakesh Gautam, Dist information and public relations officerWill improve health of staffOfficials will be motivated to not use their personal vehicles at least once a week and this habit will not only save fuel and protect the environment, but also improve the health of the staff, who spend most part of the day sitting on chairs. Jitender Yadav, Deputy CommissionerRevealing that Wednesday has been chosen for the drive, he said only bicycles would be allowed inside the secretariat premises on this day. Several officials, including the DC, ADC and City Magistrate used their own bicycles to come to the office today, a majority of the remaining staff, which included officials and employees, used public transport or resorted to other means like carpooling, it is reported.Claiming that the drive has been launched on experimental or motivational basis, DC Jitender Yadav said the officials would be motivated to not use their personal vehicles at least once a week, he said this habit would not only save fuel and protect the environment, but also improve the health of the staff, who spend most part of the day sitting on chairs. He said other departments were being asked to implement it. Besides the provision of bicycle parking, he said a penalty could also be imposed on offenders.Over 1,000 vehicles, including two-wheelers, are used by the staff reporting here daily. Several vehicles, including private ones that were not permitted entry inside the secretariat were seen parked on the roads adjoining the main building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-secretariat-to-go-car-free-once-a-week-321103
07-10-2021||Rohtak||Why MP Arvind Sharma collecting Maharshi Dayanand University staff info: Rohtak MLA||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-mp-arvind-sharma-collecting-maharshi-dayanand-university-staff-info-rohtak-mla-321104
07-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Truck driver killed in Gurugram, 1 held||Gurugram, October 6A truck driver was allegedly murdered for causing loss to the owner. The police have nabbed the transport company owner, one of the accused, after a complaint by the victim’s brother. An FIR has been registered against six persons, including the truck owner, at Bilaspur police station. According to the police, the deceased truck driver has been identified as Tara Chand (37), a native of Churu district in Rajasthan.He was working with Jangra Brother Transport Company, Bilaspur, for the past three months. Yesterday, Tara Chand died under suspicious circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/truck-driver-killed-in-gurugram-1-held-321105
07-10-2021||Yamunanagar||Wife, paramour get life term for murder of Jagadhri man||Deepak Aggarwal, Sessions Judge, Yamunanagar, today sentenced four persons, including a woman, to a rigorous life imprisonment in a murder case.Sanjeev Kumar, Deputy District Attorney, said the Sessions Judge also imposed a fine of Rs 60,000 on convict Priyanka Batra and a fine of Rs 53,000 each on convicts Rohit Kumar, alias Maddi, Satish Kumar and Shyam Sunder. He said the convicts would further undergo imprisonment for one year in case fine is not paid.Businessman Yogesh Batra of Jagadhri died on May 27, 2016. His wife Priyanka told her father-in-law Subhash Chander Batra (who lived in another house) that Yogesh died of a heart attack and cremated the body.However, a few months later, Yogesh’s father Subhash Chander Batra suspected it to be a murder and filed a police complaint. In his complaint, he had alleged that they came to know later that their son was killed by his wife and some other persons. An FIR was registered at the City Police Station, Jagadhri, on September 21, 2016.Thereafter, the police arrested Priyanka, her paramour Rohit Kumar, Satish Kumar and Shyam Sunder.The police said Yogesh’s wife Priyanka had an illicit relationship with her gym trainer Rohit Kumar. As Yogesh objected to their affair, Priyanka and Rohit wanted to get him eliminated and they killed him with the help of Satish and Shyam by gagging him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wife-paramour-get-life-term-for-murder-of-jagadhri-man-321106
07-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders govt job for Kargil soldier||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6It is justice at last for Joginder Singh, a decorated ex-soldier fighting a different battle after being awarded commendation medals from the Army, including Operation Vijay Medal for the Kargil war. An international athlete, Joginder had also won a bronze medal for the country in an international athletics competition, equivalent to Asian Games, at Kuala Lumpur in 2006.However, when it came to a government job on the basis of his sports achievements, 70-per cent visually impaired Joginder Singh’s candidature was rejected for being “overaged” — an action that has now failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Taking up the petition filed by Joginder Singh through counsel Anurag Jain against the State of Haryana and another respondent, Justice Arun Monga ruled that the petitioner was entitled to age relaxation on both counts — of being an ex-serviceman and being visually impaired. Justice Monga said age relaxation had been wrongly denied to him and the rejection of his candidature stating he was overaged was not tenable.Justice Monga, in his order, noticed that the petitioner who was posted at the border suffered an injury in his eyes, resulting in permanent loss of vision. He said his service career had been meritorious throughout and was discharged following medical disablement after rendering a service of almost 22 years.Justice Monga also set aside impugned orders dated August 28, 2014, whereby Joginder Singh was held eligible otherwise but was denied employment on the basis of bronze medal and other achievements on the ground of being overaged.He asserted the impugned orders did not stand judicial scrutiny before directing the respondents to give the petitioner the benefit of appointment in accordance with a notification dated August 20, 2013, on the issue.He added the appointment should be commensurate with his achievements on parity with another sportsman Rajesh Kumar admittedly given appointment for participating in an equivalent tournament. Justice Monga has set a two-month deadline for this.“The petitioner shall be entitled to notional benefits with effect from the date Rajesh Kumar, the other sportsman, was given the offer of appointment while the petitioner had to run around to get the same benefits. For the period he remained out of job, he shall not be entitled to get the salary on the principle of ‘no work, no pay’,” he concluded.Was denied job on ground of overage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-govt-job-for-kargil-soldier-321107
07-10-2021||Faridabad||Congress MLA seeks nod to recite ‘Ram katha’ at Lakhimpur Kheri||Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from NIT Assembly segment in the district, has sought permission from the UP Government to recite “Ram katha” at Lakhimpur Kheri, where several persons, including farmers, lost their lives recently.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedIn a letter to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Sharma wrote that the incident was highly deplorable. “Besides an elected representative, I am also a reciter of ‘Ram katha’ and the permission to recite the holy preaching will only cool down the anger,’’ says Sharma in his letter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-seeks-nod-to-recite-ram-katha-at-lakhimpur-kheri-321108
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Smooth purchase of paddy yet to start: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today accused the BJP-JJP government of failing to make smooth arrangements for the procurement of paddy.“The government is bringing new rules every day to harass farmers,” he alleged in a statement issued here. Hooda alleged that about 28 lakh quintals of paddy was lying in the mandis and procurement had not started smoothly.“The crop brought to the market is either being sold to private agencies at a lower rate or has to be taken back home with farmers bearing the transportation costs,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smooth-purchase-of-paddy-yet-to-start-bhupinder-singh-hooda-321109
07-10-2021||---||Karnal: Moisture proves deterrent in providing MSP to farmers||Karnal, October 6On the fourth day of the procurement today, ricemillers who were staying away due to the bank guarantee condition, started purchase of paddy. However, the high moisture content in grain due to untimely rain is acting as a deterrent in providing the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers.Farmers are forced to sell their produce at rates much below the MSP. The produce is being sold between Rs 1,600-1,800 per quintal while the MSP is Rs 1,960 per quintal. The permissible limit of moisture content in paddy is 17 per cent.Farmers are claiming that the process of procurement of paddy by government agencies is not smooth and private buyers are purchasing it on behalf of the procurement agencies at throwaway prices.The district authorities, however, claimed that they had procured 14,417 metric tonnes of paddy so far.Farmers have also alleged that instead of using moisture meters, private millers are quoting lesser price by determining the moisture arbitrarily. Vishal Kumar, a farmer from Baldi village who came to the Karnal grain market two days ago with 90 quintal of paddy, said his crop was purchased at Rs 1,720.“Government agencies did not procure my produce and private millers quoted high moisture content of about 23 per cent in my grains without checking. It is a loot. Traders, millers and procurement agencies are hand-in-glove,” he added. Dinesh Kumar, another farmer, said the government had announced that they would procure paddy, but private players are the ones purchasing the produce at their own prices.Another farmer Paramjeet said he was told that his paddy had high moisture and the grains were discoloured, owing to which they were bidding it below the MSP.Parveen Kumar, another farmer, refused to sell his paddy as one of the private players quoted only Rs 900 per quintal for his PR-14 variety. He demanded the government to keep a vigil for transparency in procurement.Chander Parkash, secretary, market committee, Karnal, said the procurement was going smoothly. The issue of procurement at below the MSP did not come to his notice. “I will get it checked and will take action,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-moisture-proves-deterrent-in-providing-msp-to-farmers-321110
07-10-2021||Bhiwani||Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal faces farmers’ ire in his home district Bhiwani||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal faced protest from farmers in his home district Bhiwani today when he arrived to participate in the convocation of Adarsh Mahila College in Bhiwani.As the farmers came to know about his arrival, they gathered in front of the college gate and started demonstrating.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedThe farmers’ protest continued for about four hours. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Minister was taken out from the rear gate of the college.The police deployed around the college tried to stop the farmers from going forward but they insisted on going close to the college.Later, the minister alleged that the protesters were not farmers and they were acting on the behest of ‘jathebandis’ from other states. Meanwhile, farmers in Hisar started dharna outside the residence of BJP MLA Kamal Gupta today. — TNSCongress flays Khattar’s ‘tit for tat’ remark Chandigarh: AICC spokesperson Alka Lamba on Wednesday criticised Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s reported ‘tit for tat’ remark to counter farmers’ agitation, alleging that it was made to inflame passions in the state. She alleged the remark was also made to please the BJP high command. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agriculture-minister-jp-dalal-faces-farmers-ire-in-his-home-district-bhiwani-321111
07-10-2021||---||Farmers going to Lakhimpur Kheri stopped at UP border||Karnal, October 6Scores of farmers who were heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri from Singhu border were stopped on Haryana-UP border by the UP Police on Wednesday.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedA large number of farmers from Karnal district were also part of the farmers’ group. The farmers alleged that the UP Police have parked truck and dumpers on the bridge on Yamuna canal at the state border and are not allowing anyone to cross over.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member of BKU (Charuni), farmer leader Rampal Chehal, Bhadur Singh Mehla, district IT cell in-charge of BKU, were in the group of farmers from Karnal.Also read: UP govt appoints retired Allahabad HC judge to probe Lakhimpur Kheri violence“We were going to Lakhimpur Kheri to join the last rites of a farmer who was killed on Sunday,” said Chehal, adding that the UP Police did not allow them to do so.Meanwhile, the SKM reiterated its demand for the arrest of Ashish Mishra, sacking of minister Ajay Mishra from the Union Government and resignation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The SKM also served an ultimatum to the UP and Union Governments that if these demands are not met by the ‘antim ardaas’ day of the deceased farmers, a “big programme” will be announced.In a joint statement, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, said, “We will not step back from the struggle for justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers’ massacre.”The SKM also condemned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the events at Lakhimpur Kheri even though he visited Uttar Pradesh yesterday.Give ultimatum to UP Govt, centreThe SKM gave an ultimatum to the UP and Union Governments, saying that if minister Ajay Mishra is not sacked and his son Ashish is not arrested by the ‘antim ardaas’ day of the deceased farmers, a ‘big programme’ would be announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-going-to-lakhimpur-kheri-stopped-at-up-border-321112
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bail plea in Gurugram school murder case rejected||More than a year after a seven-year-old schoolboy “Prince” was killed in a Gurugram school, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed an appeal by “Master Bholu”.The Class XI student of Gurugram-based “Vidyalaya” was proceeded against after the victim “Prince” was found murdered in the boys’ washroom in the school on September 8, 2017.During the hearing, Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the only change in circumstances argued by counsel for the appellant was that his custody period was now three years and 11 months. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bail-plea-in-gurugram-school-murder-case-rejected-321113
07-10-2021||Gurugram||Quadruple murder: Bail denied to accused’s wife to attend last rites||A Gurugram court today rejected the interim bail plea of Bimlesh, wife of Rao Rai Singh, the main accused in the Rajendera park quadruple murder.Singh died by suicide in Bhondsi jail on Tuesday. Bimlesh has been lodged in Jhajjar jail as the co-accused in the murders. She moved an interim bail application in the court of Additional District and Session Judge Jasvir Singh. In her application, she requested for 14-day interim bail, stating that she wanted to attend the last rites of her husband.Family members of the deceased tenant couple have been sitting on a dharna for past several days and have demanded a CBI inquiry in the case, alleging that involvement of the son of the accused cannot be ruled out.On August 23, Singh hacked his daughter-in-law and three members of his tenant’s family to death. The accused was enraged over the alleged illicit relationship between his daughter-in-law and tenant Krishan Kumar Tiwari (42). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quadruple-murder-bail-denied-to-accuseds-wife-to-attend-last-rites-321114
07-10-2021||Ambala||Three forge taekwondo association’s certificates, booked||The Ambala police have booked four persons for allegedly forging certificates of the Haryana State Taekwondo Association.A case has been registered under Sections 420, 464, 468, 474, and 120B of the IPC against three identified and one unidentified persons at Mahesh Nagar police station.Jasbir Singh Gill, general secretary of the association, in his complaint to the police, stated that it came to his knowledge that certificates of the association, Ambala Cantt (Regd), had been forged by some persons.More players doing itMore certificates of state and national championships are being fabricated by players. We will soon disclose the names of the others involved so that genuine players do not suffer. Jasbir Singh Gill, General Secretary, Haryana State Taekwondo Association“I checked the website of the Sports Department to check the gradation list of state taekwondo players. After cross-checking, I sent the RTI to District Sports Youth Affairs Officer, Rohtak, in July. The officer informed that Devvrat, Hardik and Satish of Rohtak have produced merit certificates of the 25th Haryana State Senior Men Taekwondo Championship 2013 and 32nd National Senior Taekwondo Championships 2013 in their weight categories,” he stated.The complainant further stated that the association verified its records of the 25th Haryana State Senior Men Taekwondo Championship and found that these persons had not won any medal in their categories. The association did not issue Devvart Arya, Hardik Dhull, Satish Dhull any certificates and were allegedly forged by them. The certificates of the 32nd National Senior Taekwondo Championship 2013 were also forged by the players as they had not won any medal in that championship as well.Jasbir said: “More certificates of state and national championships are being fabricated by many players and also made gradation for job appointments. We will soon disclose the names of the others involved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-forge-taekwondo-associations-certificates-booked-321115
07-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll: Gobind Kanda to be BJP-JJP candidate||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 6Three days after joining the BJP, Gobind Kanda — brother of Sirsa MLA and businessman Gopal Kanda — is set to join the election fray in Ellenabad as the party candidate.Gobind, who met central party leaders in Delhi on Tuesday, claimed here today that he would be filing the nomination papers tomorrow. He said BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal and other party leaders would accompany him during the filing of nomination papers.Kanda will be the joint nominee of the ruling coalition of BJP-JJP. The Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP) of his elder brother, Gopal Kanda, will also back him in the bypoll as Kanda had extended unconditional support to the BJP-JJP government.Gobind Kanda had contested the 2019 Assembly poll on the HLP ticket from Rania Assembly segment. He joined the BJP on October 3.He will take on INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who is seeking re-election from Ellenabad after resigning from Assembly in January this year as a mark of solidarity with farmers. Abhay had won this seat three times — in the 2010 bypoll, in 2014 and in 2019.However, the Congress is yet to finalise its candidate and hopes to take a decision tomorrow. Pawan Beniwal, who deserted the BJP to join the Congress recently, former MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal and Capt Amardeep Singh, grandson Saheb Ram who was the elder brother of former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal were the three main claimants for the Congress ticket.Pawan Beniwal enjoys the blessings of state Congress president Kumari Selja. His nomination is likely to cause resentment to Bharat Beniwal who could turn rebel and vice versa.Political observers said both the BJP and the Congress needed persons with ‘resources’ and a ‘strongman’ image to take on Abhay in his pocket borough of Ellenabad. “After desertion of Pawan Beniwal, who had lost twice when contested on BJP ticket, there was no face with the BJP in Ellenabad. Thus, the party had to import Kanda,” said the political observer.To file nomination papers todayGobind Kanda, who met central BJP leaders in Delhi on Tuesday, claimed he would be filing the nomination papers on Thursday. He added BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal and other party leaders would accompany him.Farmer activist announces to join the frayVikal Pachar, a farmer activist, has announced to contest in the Ellenabad byelection. He claimed that he was joining the fray as a candidate of Haryana SKM. He said Abhay Chautala, who resigned from the Assembly seat to support the farmers' cause, should not re-contest the election until the farmers' issue is resolved. Meanwhile, the SKM, spearheading the farmers agitation, has denied fielding any candidate in the Ellenabad bypoll||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-gobind-kanda-to-be-bjp-jjp-candidate-321116
07-10-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Not being heard in Assembly: 1st-time Congress MLAs to Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Nearly two years after being elected, the first-timers among the Congress legislators have found a voice and are demanding their due.Having undercurrents of being a senior versus junior issue, 12 first-time legislators have, in a letter to Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, demanded that they be allotted specific time to voice their views and raise their issues when the Haryana Vidhan Sabha is in session.Senior versus junior issueUsually what happens is that the same leaders get a chance to speak each time there is an opportunity, a debate or a discussion. The longer one member speaks and overshoots his stipulated time, our time automatically gets reduced. We want equal chance since we are all on equal footing. Niraj Sharma, Congress MLA from FaridabadSources said that the MLAs — Niraj Sharma, Varun Chaudhary, Surender Pawar, Amit Sihag, Shailee Chaudhary, Shamsher Gogi, Maman Khan, Induraj Narwal, Kuldeep Vats, Sheesh Pal, Chiranjeev Rao, Balbir Israna — in a signed letter have also raised objections about being seated in the visitor’s gallery, an arrangement that is in keeping with the Covid management plan in the House.While the legislators have clearly mentioned that they do not mind forgoing their allotted time if Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda wants to speak, they have urged the Speaker to allocate equal time to senior and junior leaders at all times.“Usually what happens is that the same leaders get a chance to speak each time there is an opportunity, a debate or a discussion. The longer one member speaks and overshoots his stipulated time, our time automatically gets reduced. We want equal chance since we are all on equal footing,” explains Niraj Sharma, Congress MLA from Faridabad.Varun Chaudhary from Ambala, maintains that the first-timers are only seeking a chance to raise their issues and participate in the proceedings instead of limiting this to MLAs who have been elected to the House more than once.The legislators, in the letter, said that the present seating arrangement does not allow them a chance to participate because they usually get “overlooked”.The Speaker, when contacted, said, “Congress MLAs have given me this letter but time allocation is done by the CLP leader. We only allocate time to the party. How the leader divides it amongst the MLAs is his call. We go by the list received from him. However, I have told them that we will see to it when the session comes.”Leader of Opposition and CLP leader Hooda said, “Any MLA can write to the Speaker and the legislators can be given time separately. There is no bar on that.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-being-heard-in-assembly-1st-time-congress-mlas-to-haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-321088
07-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||No jeans, T-shirts, only uniform in Haryana medical institutes||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 6The Haryana Directorate of Medical Education and Research has instructed government and private medical universities/colleges, dental, nursing and paramedical institutes in the state to ensure compulsory wearing of uniform by their doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other staff during duty hours.It has directed the institutes to take strict action against dress-code violators stating that employees have been noticed in casual clothes like jeans, trousers and T-shirts etc. during duty hours. This makes it difficult to distinguish between an employee and a visitor.Dress codeThere have been complaints that dress code is not being followed in institutesSources said the instructions had come following complaints that dress code was not being followed by doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff in government and private institutions.Apron is the dress code for doctors, while separate uniforms have been prescribed for nurses and other employees, sources say. Dr RB Jain, senior Professor at Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciencesand president of the Haryana State Medical Teachers Association, said they were not against the dress code, but issuing instructions to the UHS was an attack on its autonomy.Another doctor said, “The UHS authorities have not yet issued any direction in this regard. We will oppose if not allowed to wear jeans and T-shirt as except apron nothing else is included in the dress code for doctors.”A senior officer said the dress code was already there, the fresh instructions only aimed at ensuring compliance of the standing instructions. UHS Registrar Dr HK Aggarwal and PGIMS Director Dr Rohtash Kanwar Yadav could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-jeans-t-shirts-only-uniform-in-haryana-medical-institutes-321068
07-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Sexual abuse cases in marriages on the rise in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1A 31-year-old woman of Gohana (Sonepat) registered an FIR against her husband in June, alleging that he had unnatural sex with her. She said her husband used to abuse her in an inebriated state and when she resisted, he resorted to violence. She also accused her husband of raping her.Since marital rape is not recognised under the law, the police registered a case of unnatural act of sex under Section 377 of the IPC in this case.The maximum punishment under Section 377 for carnal intercourse against the order of nature is life imprisonment or a term up to 10 years.Laws blurry on marital rapeSadly, laws are blurry on the subject of marital rape. I believe that enforcing something in the name of marriage or patriarchy cannot be justified by any standards. Discourse needs to be initiated on it. —Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, Acting chairperson, Haryana state commission for womenPorn changing sexual behaviourPornography is changing the sexual behaviour of couples. Initially, they do it as an adventure. Later, in matrimonial disputes, women make allegations of unnatural act. —Nitin Sood, SdvocateIn February this year, a 36-year-old woman also got an FIR registered against her husband under Section 377 at Women Police Station Ballabhgarh (Faridabad), alleging that her husband was an addict and not only he used to rape her but also performed unnatural acts several times.Such cases are not stray ones. A rise has been witnessed in the state in the cases where women are alleging unnatural sex by husbands. These cases also involve Section 498A of the IPC (subjecting women to cruelty).The Haryana Police’s record says that in 2018, there were 544 cases of matrimonial disputes, where women alleged acts of unnatural sex by husbands. Faridabad reported the maximum cases at 90, followed by 89 in Sonepat and 55 in Panipat.These comprised 13.1 per cent of the total matrimonial disputes (4,154) in the state.In 2019, cases of unnatural sex rose by 18.4 per cent to 644. The maximum cases were reported from Faridabad (146), followed by Sonepat (99) and Panipat (56). These cases comprised 13.2 per cent of matrimonial disputes (4,867).In 2020, there were 611 cases of unnatural sex reported. They formed 14.8 percent of the total matrimonial dispute cases (4,122), a rise from previous years. Faridabad (104), Sonepat (81), and Yamunanagar (48) topped the chart.Till April this year, 284 incidents of unnatural sex were registered with Sonepat reporting the highest at 56, followed by Faridabad (37) and Jhajjar (26). The percentage of such cases in matrimonial disputes (1,730) rose to 16.4 per cent this year.In August this year, the Chhattisgarh High Court ruled that forced sex with wife doesn’t amount to rape but underlined that “unnatural” sex with one’s wife is an offence. The Kerala High Court judgment of July, on the other hand, described marital rape as physical and mental cruelty and a ground for divorce. The Gujarat High Court in Nimeshbhai Bharatbhai Desai case in 2018 had commented: “Husbands need to be reminded that marriage is not a license to forcibly rape their wives. A husband does not own his wife’’s body by reason of marriage.” The Justice JS Verma Committee, formed after the Delhi gangrape in 2012, also called for recognising marital rape as an offence.The Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) receives hundreds of complaints of marital rape and unnatural act by husbands. Acting chairperson of the committee Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal said: “Sadly, laws are blurry on the subject of marital rape. I believe that enforcing something in the name of marriage or patriarchy cannot be justified by any standards. Discourse needs to be initiated on it.”However, police record says that Section 377 was dropped from 70 cases in 2018, 69 in 2019, 109 in 2020, and 19 this year (till April) for the lack of evidence. “Most matrimonial complaints have Section 377 but some cases are found false too,” said SP Sonipat Jashandeep Randhawa.The Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, identifies sexual abuse, but no case was registered in Haryana in 2020 while only two were filed in 2019.Malini (28) and Vijay (38) (both names changed) got married 10 years ago. In 2014, Malini joined a nursing course. Later, Vijay became an addict to alcohol and started raping her. He violated her whenever she returned from the nursing hostel. A mother of a 9-year-old boy, she was not even spared during her periods.  When she complained, she was beaten up. “I complained to my in-laws and my parents but in vain. He used to make false allegations of an extramarital affair. Even during my pregnancy in 2019, he raped me,” said Malini, in her complaint filed in April this year before Haryana’s Women and Child Development Department.  Both have got separated now after the Haryana Women Helpline intervened.  In July, a Gurugram woman, Gurnaaz (name changed), complained to the Helpline that she was being subjected to unnatural sex by her husband. Once, her husband brought his friend too for group sex, she said. The counsellors helped her in getting separated from her husband.  The Women Helpline has been dealing with such cases and many such cases are referred to one-stop centres at the district-level, where there is a provision of one-to-one counselling of husband and wife along with legal guidance. In the past two years, the centres have dealt with 76 complaints of sexual abuse within marriage on reference from the Women Helpline (data available jointly for two years). Faridabad alone contributed 29 complaints.  “Addiction to alcohol, drugs and pornography has amplified the problem of sexual abuse within a marriage,” said Women Helpline manager Preeti Phogat.  “Women are conscious that it is wrong, but continue to sustain the abuse because of children and societal pressure,” she added.  “When an abused woman tells her mother about rape by husband, she is told it is part of a marriage. A woman who has had a love marriage against her parents' wishes is not able to go back to her family,” she added.  Recently, Phogat handled a case of a couple working in an MNC in Gurugram as software engineers. “On the woman’s complaint of rape by husband, we tried to talk to the latter. He said it happened in marriages. It was normal to him. He thinks he owns his wife’s body,” said Phogat.  A complaint of sex addiction also came where a mason in Jhajjar used to rape his wife every day. The couple used to live in a small house with three children, their eldest daughter aged 14. The woman complained that her husband doesn’t bother even about grown-up kids.  In the National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16) too, Haryana topped the chart in north India with 8.4 per cent women facing spousal sexual violence, followed by Delhi (5.9 per cent) and Chandigarh (4.7 per cent)  “Wherever there is physical abuse, most of the time there is sexual abuse too. When we counsel, it has an impact for some time. But then husbands return to their old habits,” said Monica Bhardwaj, a call attendant at the Women Helpline.  Prof Sandeep Grover of the psychiatry department, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, who too has dealt with such cases, opined, “It is more to do with sexual liberation that people want to experiment. Some women are ok with it, some are not. There is a conflict of traditional values with sexual liberation.”  He added, “Pornography is changing sexual behaviour but there is no one-to-one correlation with sexual abuse as it was there earlier too.” Gynaecologist Dr Neerja Chawla, who had handled cases of sexual abuse within marriage, said women continue to sustain abuse and suffer pain as they wanted to continue with the marriage.    “Sexual abuse is an outcome of other forms of abuse like mental and physical abuse. Men exerting marital control end up abusing wives,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sexual-abuse-cases-in-marriages-on-the-rise-in-haryana-319037
