08-10-2021||Chandigarh||It was teamwork of CBI that led to conviction of Ram Rahim, says IO||It was a labour of about 15 years for former CBI SP Satish Dagar, one of the investigating officers in cases against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, which bore fruit on Friday.  He headed the investigation team in the rape case, while remained as one of the investigating officers in Ram Chander Chhatrapati and Dera follower murder cases.  The rape case and Ram Chander Chhatrapati cases had ended in conviction too while all accused, including Ram Rahim, were held guilty in the Dera follower murder case today.  He was among the officers who interrogated Ram Rahim for three hours.“He remained deceptive and even tried to use influence like any other criminal,” said Dagar.  On Ram Rahim’s conviction today, Dagar said, “I would have been very happy, had Dera follower’s father been alive today. His only son was murdered. His daughter was raped. The trial should have been carried out faster.”  He added, “Sometimes, he used to ask me whether anything would happen Dagar ‘Saab’. Nothing can compensate for the loss of the family. He fought bravely. Every father should have been like him.”  On convincing witnesses against mighty Ram Rahim, Dagar said, “We gave them assurances that if they speak the truth, the law would protect them. Earlier, they were not sure about the outcome even if they cooperate. A number of them were provided security, including Khatta Singh.”  “There were a few crucial witnesses. Only I knew about their whereabouts. I used to bring them to the court and drop them back, that included one of the rape victims. Attending all hearings till I remained posted in Chandigarh helped. You need to remain connected with the witnesses. No one should be able to touch them. As a result, hardly anyone turned hostile in the court,” he said.  In the rape case, Dagar said that there were more victims but only two came forward. One of them was Dera follower’s sister.  On pressure on him during the investigation, he said he was not the one who could be influenced by anyone.“I want to especially thank my seniors including the then Director Ashwani Kumar, Special Director ML Sharma, SSP Satpal Singh and among juniors, Inspector Rajesh Khajuria. Everyone worked with zeal. CBI counsels HPS Verma and VK Sharma did hard work. It was the teamwork which led to the conviction in all the cases.”  He added, “Serious offences need serious efforts.”   On September 20, 2005, Krishan Lal, a top dera functionary, filed a criminal complaint against him and DSP Armandeep Singh at Ambala for “assaulting” him. (Lal was accused in the Dera follower and Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder cases).They were summoned by an Ambala court on July 6, 2006. Both had to seek bail. Finally, on December 10, 2012, case proceedings were quashed by the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-was-teamwork-of-cbi-that-led-to-conviction-of-ram-rahim-says-io-321927
08-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur   ||Dera follower murder: Witness Khatta Singh was crucial in proving conspiracy: CBI||Tribune News Service   Chandigarh, October 8   Prosecution Witness 31 Khatta Singh was the star witness of the CBI. He was an eyewitness to the criminal conspiracy about the murder of the Dera follower.   Khatta Singh became the Dera follower in 1970. He became close to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and was made the driver of the bus in which the Dera chief used to travel. He used to take him to different places for religious congregations.     He knew the victim for eight to nine years as he was a member of the 10-member committee of the Dera.   During his statement recorded before a magistrate on June 22, 2007, he told the court that he came to know from some members of the management that Ram Rahim sexually exploited the sister of the victim, and for that reason he left the Dera.   He added that in May 2002, an anonymous letter was published in some newspapers in which allegations about the sexual exploitation of ‘sadhvis’ by Ram Rahim were published and that the copy of the letter was also distributed among people.  It was said that on the direction of Ram Rahim, Dera Manager Krishan Lal, Dera Manager Inder Sain, and member of Dera management Avtar Singh started searching for the distributor of the letter and during this period some Dera followers also threatened the newspaper editors, and many people were beaten up and threatened.   They suspected the victim to be the person behind printing and distributing the letter.   Talking about the incident of June 16, 2002, he claimed that he had seen Avtar Singh, Inder Sain, Krishan Lal and one Darshan Singh encircling the victim and pressing him to apologise to Ram Rahim. When he did not agree, they told him to be ready to die.   The same day, Ram Rahim called a meeting in which Jasbir and Sabdil were also present. Khatta Singh was also present there.   He told the court that when they told Dera chief about the behaviour of the victim, he got angry and directed them that before he could raise his voice further, they should kill him by going to his field.   Khatta Singh came to know that the victim was murdered on July 10, 2002. He said that on the same evening, he saw Jasbir Singh, Sabdil Singh and Krishan Lal celebrating at Kashish Hotel, which is situated opposite the new Dera in Sirsa. He deposed that while these persons were celebrating they were heard saying that they had killed a traitor.   However, during the trial, he resiled from the statement.   But on May 8, 2018, he appeared again before the court and said that he was under tremendous pressure of the Dera people and Ram Rahim on account of threats given to him and now he wanted to depose the true facts.   “This witness is the eyewitness of both the incidents dated June 16, 2002 and is, fortunately, the direct evidence with the prosecuting agency regarding the hatching of the conspiracy by the accused about the murder of the victim,” submitted CBI Special Public Prosecutor HPS Verma.   Earlier, his statement in the Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case had led to the conviction of Ram Rahim on January 11, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-follower-murder-witness-khatta-singh-was-crucial-in-proving-conspiracy-cbi-321893
08-10-2021||Poor sanitation in parts of Kaithal town has become a nuisance for residents. In the absence of any effective strategy||Poor sanitary conditions a nuisance for Kaithal residents||Satish Seth, KaithalStagnation may lead to infectious water-borne diseases in F’badRainwater often stagnates in Sector 21-A in Faridabad. It happens because the sewer lines are choked at many places that have hardly been cleaned by the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad. People are facing a lot of problem commuting on roads. Stagnant water during the rainy season increases the risk of spreading diseases like dengue, malaria etc. Although we appreciate the Swachchh Bharat Mission launched by PM Modi, the MC administration is engaged in defeating the aspirations of the taxpayers. The commissioner of MCF is requested to issue instructions to get the drainage/sewer pipeline of Sector 21-A cleaned by the usage of super sucker machine.Yugal Kishore Sharma, FaridabadTardy procurement of paddy in NarwanaIt's obvious that the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board is not fully prepared to begin the procurement of paddy as most of the grain markets are overflowing with arrivals since a week. The procurement agencies have not been debuted so far in mandis on day-wise basis. The computerised process is too complicated for farmers to understand. The market committee officials keep on postponing it in the name of high moisture content. The inclement weather is also complicating the process. Millers have gone on strike. Labourers are protesting against the recent decreased labour rates. All relevant agencies should streamline the process at the earliest .Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-sanitary-conditions-a-nuisance-for-kaithal-residents-321796
08-10-2021||Rewari||IGU VC releases book||National online film fest concludesGurugram: The second national online film festival, Xpression-21, organised by the faculty of mass communication and media technology (FMMT), SGT University, Gurugram, announced winners for the 'Best film' & 'Festival mention award' during the concluding day of the film festival. Short-film makers and mass communication scholars from pan-India, including 11 states with 70 films in the fiction and non- fiction category, participated in the festival. The best film of the ceremony was granted to Ravichandran Thangaveli, Loyola Institute, Chennai for 'Kasadaru'. The second runners-up was given to Priya Bhattacharya, Vanasthali Vidyapith, Jaipur, for her film 'The last letter' and the first runners-up was Pratha Chhatwal, Apeejay University, Delhi for her film 'The vain escape'.LLB seats raised from 60 to 80Rewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has raised the seats of LLB course from 60 to 80 for the academic session 2021-22. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar informed that the move had been made in view of the rising popularity of the course and the students' demand. He said the first physical counselling for the course would be conducted on October 12. Hailing the decision, Indian National Student Organsiation's IGU unit president Ravi Maseet termed the development as their victory stating that they had organised a demonstration last week to get the seat raised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-vc-releases-book-321793
08-10-2021||Yamunanagar||40-yr-old man found dead in Yamunanagar||A 40-year-old man was allegedly found murdered near the thermal power plant here.The deceased was identified as Mohammad Yunis (40).On the complaint of the victim’s brother, Mohammad Alim, who works as a mechanical fitter in the thermal plant, a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 of the IPC at the Sadar police station today.The complainant said his brother belonged to UP’s Bareilly district, but had been presently living with him at his quarter in the thermal plant for the past three months. He said his brother was running a clinic/medical store at Shambhu Colony here. His neighbour Hari Om informed him on Wednesday night that the car of his brother was parked on the wrong side near the thermal plant and his body was lying on the road, he said.“I, along with my neighbours, reached the spot and took my brother to the local Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.”Vijay Kumar, SHO, Sadar, said the body was handed over to his kin after postmortem today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-yr-old-man-found-dead-in-yamunanagar-321792
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Government nod to ‘One district, 1 product’ plan in Haryana||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said all 22 districts of the state had got the approval from the Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries for the One District One Product scheme.He said products related to agriculture, horticulture, dairy and poultry would be promoted by the government by providing financial and technical assistance under this scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-nod-to-one-district-1-product-plan-in-haryana-321791
08-10-2021||---||Mental health institute to open  today||Rohtak, October 7The Institute of Mental Health (IMH) at Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, will soon have an integrated yoga centre for the prevention and cure of mental disorders.The yoga centre would become operational from October 8 during the World Mental Health week, said Dr Rajiv Gupta, IMH director-cum-CEO.“The underlying idea behind the exercise is to prevent and cure mental and physical disorders through yoga,” said Dr Gupta.The upcoming yoga centre at the institute is being established as part of a Central Government project under the aegis of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mental-health-institute-to-open-today-321790
08-10-2021||---||Haryana Governor: Consult stakeholders before launching new courses||Hisar, October 7Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has asked the state universities to take feedback from stakeholders, including students, industry and academicians, before introducing new courses.Addressing a gathering at Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa, the Governor said there was a need to review the existing academic courses to make education more professional, skill-oriented and career-shaping. He said knowledge and skills acquired from education should be used not only for getting jobs but also for providing jobs, adding that the problem of unemployment could be tackled by acquiring skills.“Along with education, it is important to impart moral education to the youth. The implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) is a revolutionary step for education in India,” the Governor added. Vice-Chancellor Prof Ajmer Singh Malik said the university had been in the process of reshaping the curriculum of various courses to make students more skilful and strengthen their academic character.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-consult-stakeholders-before-launching-new-courses-321789
08-10-2021||Karnal||Interstate cyber hackers’ gang busted; 6 held||In a major breakthrough, a joint team of the STF, Sonepat, Gurugram and Panipat police busted an inter-state computer hacker gang involved in getting online competitive exams cleared and arrested six persons in this regard.Three persons have been arrested from Nagpur in Maharashtra, while the remaining three are from Sonepat. They had set up a lab in an engineering college in Panipat.The three accused were arrested from Sonepat and taken on eight-day police remand by the joint team. As per the police, the gang was involved in various paper leak cases for the past five years.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the joint team of the STF had been working to arrest the computer hacker gang, involved in the leaking of online competition exams.On a tip-off, the joint team arrested Ashok, Monu and Ashish residents of Gaurad village in Sonepat from Sonepat district on Thursday, while other members Akash of Jaipur, Gauri of Kodla Dosa in Rajasthan and Akash of Motinagar in Jaipur were arrested from Nagpur.“Two cases have been registered against the gang members in Bhiwani and Panipat under various Sections of the IT Act,” the SP said, adding that Ashok and Monu were wanted by the Haryana Police and carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000. The gang members had a network in Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan. They used to get good money to get the exams of IIT and others passed. They used to get the paper solved by accessing the software, SP Sawan said.He said they confessed that they had got online and offline exams of Railway clerk, MTS, NIIT, HSC, CHSL and others cleared of various students, for which they had taken good money from candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interstate-cyber-hackers-gang-busted-6-held-321788
08-10-2021||---||Land disputes: 3K joint shareholders get notices in Karnal||Karnal, October 7The Karnal district administration has started issuing notices to joint shareholders to come with an agreement of partition on their own in six months, otherwise the revenue officers will be forced to distribute the land among them.The move aims to reduce the litigation and disputes regarding the partition of joint landholdings. So far, the administration has served around 3,000 notices and around six lakh more are expected to be issued.“The state government has amended the Land Revenue Act by adding Section 111A, which allows the compulsory partition of joint shareholders, except for blood relatives,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“We have started the procedure and after evaluating the “jamabandi” (record of rights), we have found around six lakh joint shareholders. Of them, we have issued notices to around 3,000 joint shareholders, except blood relatives, to resolve their issues,” the DC added.If they don’t give a reply or sort out their issues in six months, the revenue officials will distribute the land among the shareholders in a month, he added.Notably, hundreds of litigations are pending in different revenue courts for the partition and this amendment will help in reducing the pendency. 6-month time to resolve issuesIf joint shareholders of the land don’t give a reply or sort out their issues in six months, revenue officials will distribute the land among them in a month. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-disputes-3k-joint-shareholders-get-notices-in-karnal-321787
08-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana babus told to take cognisance of plaints marked by ministers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The BJP-JJP government has taken strong exception to the alleged poor grievance redress by the state bureaucracy.Now, to enforce accountability among bureaucrats at the state and district levels and create an institutionalised grievance redress system, the Chief Secretary has asked the administrative secretaries, head of departments, divisional commissioners and SDMs, to take personal cognisance of all complaints marked to their respective departments by ministers.“There should be detailed inquiry about the complaints and the action taken reports (ATRs) should be sent to the minister concerned positively. An up-to-date record of the complaint should be maintained till it was resolved,” the Chief Secretary’s order said.Thousands of the complaints by the general public come up before the District Public Relations and Grievance Redress Committees, presided over by different ministers, and attended by non-official members and district officials, at the district headquarters every month. Delay by lower bureaucracyThe Chief Secy’s order said sometimes, the complaints are shown as “resolved” in the reports sent to the ministers. While officially these are shown as “resolved”, necessary action for their resolution is delayed at the level of the lower bureaucracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-babus-told-to-take-cognisance-of-plaints-marked-by-ministers-321785
08-10-2021||---||Three die, six hurt in Shahabad accident||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 7Three persons were killed while six others injured when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck on the Shahabad-Barara road in Shahabad late on Wednesday night.The deceased have been identified as Kamal (35) and Suman (28) of Kaithal and driver Bittu of Karnal while the injured are Pankaj, Ankit, Jatin, Vaibhav Guddi and Sudesh.They were rushed to the CHC, Shahabad, from where they were referred to the GMCH-32 and the KCGMC, Karnal.As per the information, nearly 17 people were on their way from Kaithal to Trilokpur Temple in Himachal Pradesh.Around 11 pm, a truck hit their vehicle head on. After the accident, the truck driver fled the spot.A case has been registered under Sections 304A, 337 and 279 of the IPC at the Shahabad police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-die-six-hurt-in-shahabad-accident-321784
08-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kitchen appliance makers find it hard to take on big brands this festive season||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 7With the festive season underway, the local manufacturers of kitchen appliances are expecting brisk business for the industry in the coming days.Industry players say they have started receiving good orders but due to an increased input cost, the local industry has been finding it hard to compete with the big brands and has forced the local manufacturers to play on lower margins.Rajender Nath, a manufacturer, said: “The upcoming festive season has brought some relief but the demand is still on the lower side. We are expecting the demand to pick up further around Diwali. The current situation is not good for small, local and unbranded manufacturers as they are in no position to compete with the big brands. The margins have drastically come down due to higher input costs.”Another manufacturer, Mohan Lal Saini, said: “Manufacturers have started getting orders from Punjab, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and other areas, besides the local orders. We are currently working on lower margins. We can produce quality products but we don’t get big orders due to lack of automation. We also fail to bring our cost of production down as we can’t purchase raw material in bulk like the big companies. With higher input cost and 18 per cent GST, it is hard to compete in the market. Right now, it is all about keeping the business afloat.”Around 70 units are engaged in manufacturing unbranded kitchen appliances and provide jobs to nearly 5,000 people in Ambala.Ajay Aggarwal, president of the Mixie Manufacturers’ Association, said: “The market has seen some recovery but we have to wait and see how much the industry manages to recover during the festive season. Covid has been badly affecting the business since last year. A delay in establishing the cluster for the industry is also a matter of concern for us. We started raising the demand for the cluster in 2016 but the same was approved by the government in 2019. The building is being constructed and it may take another year for the workshop to become functional. It has been already five years and we may not get the profits that we could have gained three years ago. We request the government to expedite the process and get the required machinery installed at the earliest so that the industry could benefit.”Demand to rise during DiwaliWe are expecting the demand to pick up further around Diwali. The current situation is not good for small, local and unbranded manufacturers as they are in no position to compete with the big brands. The margins have drastically come down due to higher input costs. Rajender Nath, a manufacturerMarket has recoveredThe market has seen some recovery but we have to wait and see how much the industry manages to recover during the festive season. A delay in establishing the cluster for the industry is also a matter of concern for us. Ajay Aggarwal, president, mixie manufacturers’ association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kitchen-appliance-makers-find-it-hard-to-take-on-big-brands-this-festive-season-321783
08-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Live-in relationship sans divorce is lustful, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has described as “lustful and adulterous” the life of a couple in a live-in relationship without seeking divorce from their spouses. The bench has also made it clear that naming the person extending threat to life and liberty in the plea for protection was essential for the presumption of apprehension.The ruling by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by a couple for the issuance of directions to the “official respondents” to protect their life and liberty from their spouses as they were in a live-in relationship against the wishes of their relatives.The bench was told that the both were married, but loved each other for the last many years and had developed some understanding and liking. For the past one month, they were in a live-in-relationship. As such, the respondents were annoyed with them. It was further submitted in the plea that the woman-petitioner had filed a divorce petition, but it had not been granted so far.Justice Sangwan asserted that the perusal of their application/representation, dated September 27 addressed to Kaithal Superintendent of Police, stated that they were having apprehensions at the hands of certain persons. But such persons were not referred to in the entire representation. Nothing was stated “as to from whom the petitioners are apprehending threat”.Justice Sangwan added that both petitioners, on the face of it, were living a lustful and adulterous life with each other without seeking divorce from their spouses and had relied upon a totally vague document — a representation wherein the person they were apprehending threat to their life and liberty was not mentioned.“It is worth noticing here that in the absence of any allegation by not naming anyone in the representation, it cannot be presumed that both petitioners have any apprehension from their own spouses and this petition has been filed just to obtain a seal of this court on their so-called live-in relationship. On the face of it, the representation appears to be a fake document as no receipt or diary number of the office of the Superintendent of Police, Kaithal, is given or attached,” Justice Sangwan asserted while dismissing the petition. Naming person issuing threat essential||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/live-in-relationship-sans-divorce-is-lustful-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-321782
08-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||83 dengue cases reported in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 7As many as 83 cases of dengue have been reported officially in Gurugram so far while private hospitals are projecting higher figures. The number fever cases in the OPD of the civil hospital has almost doubled. Out of the total number of patients coming to the OPD daily, 40 per cent patients are coming with fever along with vomiting, Diarrhoea and other symptoms of dengue and malaria. The Health Department issued an advisory to prevent these diseases.The outbreak of seasonal diseases is spreading rapidly in the district. Along with corona, viral, dengue and malaria have also raised their heads. Most of the people are coming under the grip of fever as primary symptom in all the above diseases is fever.In the OPD of Civil Hospital on Thursday more than 1,900 patients had come. Out of these, around 500 patients had reached the medicine OPD alone for examination. Dr Kajal Kumud, Senior Physician at the Civil Hospital said the number patients having fever had almost doubled in The OPD.“As many as 40 per cent patients are coming with fever along with vomiting, diarrhoea and other symptoms of dengue and malaria. The patients include children, elderly and patients of all age groups. Apart from this, the number of patients coming for treatment in the flu OPD and emergency ward has also increased. Almost all beds in the emergency ward are full. The 30-bedded dengue ward has also started admitting patients. At present, four dengue patients are admitted there”, added Dr Kajal Kumud. The Health Department issued an advisory to prevent these diseases. It has also fixed the rate for the test of dengue, malaria and chikungunya. All private hospitals and labs have been ordered to conduct tests only at the prescribed rate Rs 600 for dengue and chikungunya.“On Wednesday, 1,860 patients had reached various OPDs of the hospital for treatment. Full care is being taken that the patients do not face any problem.”, said Dr Manish, Rathi, Deputy Medical Superintendent of Civil Hospital, Gurugram.1,860 patients at OPDs on WednesdayThe number of patients in the hospital has increased. On Wednesday, 1,860 patients had reached various OPDs of the hospital for treatment. Full care is being taken that the patients do not face any problem. Separate counters have also been set up for the elderly. Dr Manish Rathi, depyty ms of civil hospitalPatients of all age groupsAs many as 40 per cent patients are coming with fever along with vomiting, diarrhoea and other symptoms of dengue and malaria. The patients include children, elderly and patients of all age groups. Dr Kajal Kumud, senior physician at civil hospital||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/83-dengue-cases-reported-in-gurugram-321778
08-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Farm fires drop, Haryana's air quality likely to improve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The state, especially the National Capital Region (NCR), can hope for better air quality this festive season with the number of stubble-burning cases coming downing drastically during the post-paddy harvest period.The number of active fire locations (AFLs) for the period September 15 to October 4, mapped by the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC) through remote sensing has come down from 160 in 2020 to just 21 this year. In fact, 16 of the 22 districts have reported zero AFLs this year, officials told The Tribune.What is more creditable is the fact that eight districts, Ambala, Hisar, Jind, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Sirsa and Rohtak, falling in 13 red zone districts (traditionally reporting large number of AFLs), reported no incidents.Karnal, which reported a maximum of 46 AFLs last year, reported four such incidents with Kurukshetra (31 in 2020) 12 cases. Ambala reported zero cases as against 22 last year. In Kaithal, two cases were reported this year as against last year’s 21.Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture) claimed that the Haryana Government’s proactive strategy of reducing farm fires and increasing area with zero stubble burning had paid rich dividends. “With that end in mind, the state government has appointed senior officers as nodal officers in 13 red zone districts for effective crop residue management,” she added.Notably, the Haryana Government has set apart an amount of about Rs 200 crore in 2021-22 for the crop residue management, which included liberal incentives to the farmers.Punjab sees 260 cases in similar periodPunjab reported 260 stubble-burning cases between September 15 and October 4 as against 1,603 in the corresponding period last year. Amritsar reported a maximum of 161 cases as against 1,015 last year. Tarn Taran reported 34 cases (317 in 2020) and Ludhiana 19 cases (34 in 2020).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-fires-drop-haryanas-air-quality-likely-to-improve-321776
08-10-2021||---||Moist paddy sold below MSP, Karnal growers take to streets||Karnal, October 7Infuriated over the alleged procurement at rates below the minimum support price (MSP) citing high moisture content, scores of farmers on Thursday blocked the Assandh-Karnal road in the district.The farmers alleged that rice millers, arhtiyas and officials of procurement agencies are hand in glove, forcing them to sell their produce below the MSP on the pretext of high moisture content. Due to the blockade, the commuters had to face a lot of inconvenience. The authorities, however, convinced to the farmers to end the blockade after around an hour.“Farmers are waiting for the procurement of their produce, but the millers and commissioner agents are forcing them to sell their crops for Rs 1,600-Rs 1,750, citing moisture content,” said Rishipal, a farmer, adding that while the MSP was Rs 1,960.Rajpal, another farmer, said the permissible limit of the moisture was 17 per cent and the millers were checking the content on their own without any machine.Meanwhile, the rice millers also held a demonstration at the Karnal grain market over slow lifting. Vindo Goel, president of the Karnal Rice Millers and Dealers’ Association, said they had started procurement in the larger interest of the farmers amid high moisture.“The permissible moisture limit is 17 per cent and we are purchasing paddy with up to 22 per cent moisture content. The slow lifting has, however, resulted in losses to us as the grains are getting damaged,” Goel added.He said the vehicles loaded with paddy bags were not being allowed to go to rice mills in the absence of online gate passes. “The authorities should issue manual gate passes,” he added. Goel even threatened not to continue the procurement if the demand was not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/moist-paddy-sold-below-msp-karnal-growers-take-to-streets-321774
08-10-2021||---||Farmer hurt in Naraingarh after being hit by car in BJP MP’s convoy||Ambala, October 7A farmer got injured in Naraingarh of Ambala during a protest after he allegedly got hit by a car in a BJP MP’s convoy. The farmers alleged that the BJP has tried to repeat the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Farmers under the banner of BKU (Charuni) had gathered near Saini Dharmashala in Naraingarh where Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma had gone to attend an event to honour Covid warriors.Heavy police force was deployed to stop the farmers. On seeing the MP’s convoy returning, the farmers attempted to stop the vehicles and to show black flags. Meanwhile, one farmer got hit by one of the cars in the MP’s convoy.After the incident, the farmers blocked the road and demanded an FIR in connection with the incident.Injured farmer Bawan Preet Singh of Yamunanagar said, “I was standing with a black flag on the road side. All of a sudden, the driver drove the vehicle towards me. I have suffered a leg injury.”In his complaint, the farmer alleged that vehicle driver Rajiv tried to run him over with an intention to kill him.The vehicle is registered in MP Nayab Saini’s name, the farmers claimed.Later, the farmers lifted their blockade on an assurance by the police of taking appropriate action.Farmer leader Amarjeet Mohri said, “The BJP leader has tried to repeat the Lakhimpur Kheri incident here, but we will not let this happen. We have submitted a complaint to DSP Naraingarh. If no action is taken by October 10, the farmers will gherao Naraingarh police station.”BKU (Charuni) district chief Malkit Singh said, “Bawan Preet has suffered a minor injury. We are trying to find a video of the incident.”DSP Naraingarh Anil Kumar said, “A complaint has been received and after investigation, appropriate legal action will be taken.”Requesting anonymity, an official said, “Some farmers ran towards the vehicles in order to obstruct their movement and he was among them. Nothing intentional has come to notice so far.”Denying the allegations, MP Nayab Saini alleged, “After seeing my vehicle, they attacked the convoy and the driver. These people are highly active on social media and make videos. If they have any proof, they should produce the video in support of their claims.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-hurt-in-naraingarh-after-being-hit-by-car-in-bjp-mps-convoy-321773
08-10-2021||Karnal||UP cops facilitated escape of Ashish Mishra, accomplices: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday attacked the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Government in “facilitating” the escape of Ashish Mishra and his accomplices from the scene of crime in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.In a joint statement, farm leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, said that even as the apex court’s CJI bench ordered for the details of arrests made so far in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, it was being reported that Ashish Mishra had gone missing, and that three teams of the UP police were trying to nab him.It was reported that two persons had been arrested and three detained so far, but Ashish Mishra was not found. The fact that the police allowed the prime accused to go missing, and the fact that all of this was happening in the immediate family of Minister for Home Affairs was unbelievable and reflected the state of law and order in UP and the country, said SKM. It warned the UP and Union governments against protecting the culprits of the massacre and demands their arrest quickly.The SKM condemned the statement of the UP minister Baldev Singh Aulakh that Lakhimpur Kheri incident was an “accident” and demanded that he should withdraw it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/up-cops-facilitated-escape-of-ashish-mishra-accomplices-skm-321771
08-10-2021||---||Haryana Congress leaders on way to Lakhimpur Kheri stopped at Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border||Karnal, October 7State Congress leaders heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri to protest against the arrest of other party leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi, were stopped on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border in Panipat. After that, they started staging a dharna on the border.On the call of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, party leaders led by state affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal and state president Kumari Selja and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda assembled at Sanjay Chowk in Panipat and started moving towards UP. When they tried to enter UP, they were stopped.Vivek Bansal demanded the arrest of the MoS’ son Ashish Mishra and alleged that the UP and Union governments were protecting him. He also demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. Besides, he demanded the sacking of MoS Ajay Mishra and UP Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya.Selja said that justice would be delivered to the family of farmers who have died at Lakhimpur. Former CM Hooda said that farmers have been staging dharna for the past 10 months on the borders of Delhi, but the government was not listening to them.Former CLP leader and Congress leader Kiran Chaudhary said that the Congress stands by the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-congress-leaders-on-way-to-lakhimpur-kheri-stopped-at-haryana-uttar-pradesh-border-321770
08-10-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Bhupender Yadav’s name in new BJP national executive raises eyebrows||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The inclusion of Union Minister Bhupender Yadav’s name in the Haryana quota in the reconstituted national executive of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has raised several eyebrows even as the party “dropped” senior leaders like Birender Singh, Rao Indrajeet Singh and Rattan Lal Kataria and Capt Abhimanyu.Union Minister of State Krishan Pal Gujjar is the only leader to find a place for the second consecutive time in the executive.Other than the ex-officio members, MP Suneeta Duggal has found a place among the members, while Haryana Minister of State for sports, Sandeep Singh, is a special invitee. This inclusion will increase their stature within the party circles. These names are in addition to those of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state chief OP Dhankar and state general secretary Ravinder Raju.Sources maintained that unlike last time when Jats dominated the list of members from Haryana, this time the party had tried to balance the caste equations. While Kataria has been replaced by Duggal, Rao Indrajeet has been replaced by Yadav. However, the induction of Yadav, an MP from Rajasthan, in the Haryana quota has come as a surprise even though he is a native of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupender-yadavs-name-in-new-bjp-national-executive-raises-eyebrows-321769
08-10-2021||---||Ellenabad: Farmers protest against BJP candidate Gobind Kanda||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 7Farmers staged a protest outside the SDM office in Ellenabad town in Sirsa district as the BJP candidate Gobind Kanda arrived to file his nomination papers, accompanied by BJP and JJP leaders, today.The farmers said they were protesting against the BJP-JJP leaders as per the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The heavy police force deployed outside the SDM office kept the protesting farmers away from the venue. They kept on raising anti-government slogans while waving black flags when the BJP leaders arrived at the office to file the nomination papers for the Ellenabad byelection.The farmers also protested against a farmer activist Vikal Pachar who had announced to take the field in Ellenabad as a candidate of the Haryana Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The SKM, spearheading the farmers’ agitation, however, had denied fielding a candidate in the bypoll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-farmers-protest-against-bjp-candidate-gobind-kanda-321768
08-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll: Pawan Beniwal gets Cong ticket; Gobind Kanda files nomination||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 7The Congress has reposed faith in Pawan Beniwal to take on Abhay Chautala at INLD bastion Ellenabad in Sirsa district.Beniwal had contested the two previous Assembly polls on BJP ticket and had crossed over to the Congress recently.The bypoll was necessitated after INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala resigned from the Assembly seat in the farmers’ support. Now, he is seeking re-election riding on the farmers’ sympathy.Political observers stated that both the BJP and Congress have had to ‘import’ candidates to make inroads into the Chautala stronghold.“The candidates of the BJP as well as the Congress are resourceful and have their own cadres. Ellenabad has been a traditional stronghold of the INLD which has won the seat 10 times since 1967,” said Kuldeep Singh of Mallekan village.Pawan Beniwal was inducted into the party by state Congress president Kumari Selja in Delhi on September 13. Now, the role of Congress ticket aspirant Bharat Beniwal — who happens to be the uncle and arch-rival of Pawan Beniwal — will be crucial in the bypoll outcome, Kuldeep added.Pawan had lost the two previous polls to Abhay Chautala as BJP candidate in 2014 and 2019.Meanwhile, BJP-JJP alliance candidate Gobind Kanda filed nomination papers today. He was accompanied by BJP state president OP Dhankar, JJP state president Nishan Singh, Power Minister Ranjit Singh and MP Sunita Duggal.Gobind had contested the two previous elections from Rania on Haryana Lokhit Party ticket floated by his elder brother and Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda.Political observers said that Ellenabad byelection is also the battleground for claiming the legacy of the former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal.While former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala will spearhead the INLD campaign, Abhay’s nephew and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, Power Minister Ranjit Singh (Abhay’s uncle), district BJP president Aditya Chautala (Abhay’s cousin) will be canvassing for Gobind Kanda.Coincidentally, Ranjit Singh, as an Independent candidate, had defeated Gobind Kanda in the 2019 Assembly poll from Rania segment.Gobind Kandas’ assetsGobind Kanda and his wife Sarita have total assets worth Rs65.32 crore. These include jewellery owned by Kanda worth Rs59.83 lakh and his wife’s jewellery worth Rs1.08 crore. Kanda and Sarita don’t own a car.Five file papersReturning Officer and SDM Narender Pal Malik said that on Thursday, five candidates filed their nomination papers for the Ellenabad Assembly byelection. He said that nominations could be filed by October 8. Scrutiny of nominations would take place on October 11. The last date of withdrawal of nomination is October 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-pawan-beniwal-gets-cong-ticket-gobind-kanda-files-nomination-321767
08-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Haryana rights panel seeks report on inundated Rewari village road||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 7Residents are a harassed lot due to the accumulation of water on a kutcha road leading to Kharkara from Bhatsana village under the Dharuhera block here.Taking note of a complaint, the Haryana Human Right Commission (HHRC) has sought a report from the Deputy Commissioner in six weeks. In his complaint, Prakash Yadav of Kharkara village has alleged that the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), irrigation and public health departments release water in Sahabi Dam with an aim to improve water table in the area. The practice has, however, led to inundation of the road. For the past 15 days, people have been facing inconvenience in going to their fields or sending their children to schools.“Kharkara, Bhatsana, Nikhri and Alawalpur residents are the worst affected. Many of them have to wade through stagnant water to reach their homes or go to their fields. After the authorities failed to take any concrete steps, I approached the HHRC,” Yadav said.Villager Ravi Kumar said the stagnant water had made their life difficult, but the authorities seemed oblivious to their plight.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh said the road and buildings department had been asked to redress the issue at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-inundated-rewari-village-road-321632
08-10-2021||Ambala||Protester injured after being hit by BJP MP’s convoy in Haryana's Naraingarh, alleges farmer union||Days after Lakhimpur Kheri incident of Uttar Pradesh, a farmer during protest got injured in Naraingarh of Ambala in Haryana, after he was allegedly got hit by a car of BJP MP’s convoy.The farmers alleged that the BJP has tried to repeat the Lakhimpur Kheri incident here.Farmers under the banner of BKU (Charuni) had gathered near Saini Dharmashala on Naraingarh-Sadhaura road in Naraingarh where Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma reached to attend an event to honour Covid warriors.Heavy police force was deployed to stop the farmers. Around 10:50 am, after seeing MP’s convoy returning, the farmers attempted to stop the vehicles and show black flags, meanwhile one farmer got hit by one of the cars of the MP’s convoy.After the incident, the farmers blocked the road and demanded FIR in connection with the incident.Injured farmer Bhawanpreet Singh, of Yamunanagar, said “I was standing with black flag to protest against BJP MP Nayab Saini, all of a sudden, the driver drove the vehicle towards me and I have suffered leg injury.”In his complaint, the farmer alleged that as per the call given, farmers had gathered to protest against MP Nayab Saini with black flags.Meanwhile, an Innova car driven by Rajiv hit Bhawanpreet. The vehicle is used by MP Nayab Saini and as per information the car is registered in the MP’s name.  Later the farmers lifted their blockade on the assurance of appropriate action given by the police.Farmer leader Amarjeet Mohri said, “The BJP leader has tried to repeat Lakhimpur Kheri incident here but we will not let this happen and will give a befitting reply to BJP leaders. We have submitted a complaint to DSP Naraingarh and if no action is taken by October 10, the farmers will gherao Naraingarh police station.”DSP Naraingarh Anil Kumar said, “A complaint has been received and after investigation, appropriate legal action will be taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protester-injured-after-being-hit-by-bjp-mps-convoy-in-haryanas-naraingarh-alleges-farmer-union-321461
