09-10-2021||Ambala||Undertrial tries to commit suicide in Ambala||An undertrial allegedly tried to commit suicide by slashing his wrist here on Saturday in police custody, police said.The inmate identified as Sahil, who was arrested in a theft case, attempted to slash his wrist with some sharp article when he was being taken in a vehicle to be produced in a court, they said.He was lodged in Ambala central jail.On the complaint of the jail authorities, a case has been registered against the inmate in Baldev Nagar police station at Ambala City.  Police said they are investigating how Sahil got the sharp object to slash his wrist. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/undertrial-tries-to-commit-suicide-in-ambala-322404
09-10-2021||Ravi S Singh||Haryana CM Khattar meets Amit Shah; apprises him of situation in state with regard to farmers' protest||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 9Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Saturday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and apprised him of the law and order situation in the state with regard to the farmers' protest against the three farm laws and the blockades set up by them at Singhu and Tikri borders at the outskirts of Delhi.The meeting took place ahead of the hearing in a case before the Supreme Court against the blockades which is resented by residents of villages adjoining the Singhu and Tikri borders."I have apprised the Home Minister of the farmers' protests and the blockades, and the state government's preparation relating to the hearing of the case in the Supreme Court," Khattar said."We are in talks with the protesting farmers. It would be good if the issue regarding the blockades is amicably resolved," Khattar told reporters after meeting Shah.In response to the allegations by the farmers that the government had set up barricades, Khattar said action might have been taken in view of the prevailing situation.When asked about the possible use of force by the government to remove the blockades, Khattar said it is not proper to think on these lines when talks with the protesting farmers are on."They have also said that they do not want to cause inconvenience to people," Khattar said.He rubbished the allegation by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that paddy stubbles were burnt by farmers in Haryana causing pollution in Delhi."The farmers are coming forward to sell their stubbles and are getting remunerative price. The state government has provided them monetary incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre to sell the stubbles. Private companies have started purchasing the stubbles," Khattar said.He said the paddy procurement in the mandis is going on smoothly. Earlier, a delegation of farmers, traders and shopkeepers of villages adjoining the Kundli-Singhu border in Sonepat district met Khattar and demanded immediate opening of the highway where the farmers have set up blockades.The delegation met Khattar under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh.They demanded repair of arterial and other smaller roads which have been broken and worn down due to diversion of vehicular traffic, including heavy vehicles due to the blockades.They alleged that the transport of their agricultural produce, trade and business and daily lives had been adversely affected due to the blockades for about a year. "The residents of the villages adjoining Singhu border have lost their patience, and the Union and Haryana government must intervene from their further victimisation," the delegation members told Khattar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-meets-amit-shah-apprises-him-of-situation-in-state-with-regard-to-farmers-protest-322355
09-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Monkey menace in Faridabad||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Monkey menace in FaridabadI want to draw the attention of the authorities towards the problem of monkey menace. Residents of Sector 18, Faridabad are frustrated due to the monkey menace. We have to stay alert all the time and we have stopped keeping anything in the balconies and terraces. The monkeys have torn our clothes, broken flower pots, damaged pipes and overhead tanks. Children are too scared of going out alone because of these aggressive simians. We have complaint to the authorities but no action has been taken by them so far. Ankit Kumar, FaridabadIncrease undergraduate seats in collegesFaced with heavy influx of applicants for various undergraduate (UG) courses, this year, a majority of the colleges are turning away or denying admission to many, claiming that the number of available seats has been lowered than the number of applications. Since, the pass percentage and the merit list this time has been much higher due to no offline examinations in view of the Covid, this has led to a steep surge in demand for admission to preferred UG courses in many colleges. Taking immediate cognizance of the problem, the state government should announce an increase upto 40 per cent in the UG seats (depending on demand in each of the district) immediately to provide relief to the students. Krishan Atri, FaridabadBhiwani stretch in dilapidated condition, a worry for commutersThe stretch of road from Bhagat Singh Chowk to city station is in a dilapidated condition. Residents have raised the demand several times but all in vain. Besides, the problem of sewerage system and lack of efficient water drainage system is adding to the problem of residents. The Bhiwani Residents Welfare Association met the Deputy Commissioner Ripudaman Singh Dhillon to apprise him of the poor civic amenities. I hope that the DC will take the issues seriously. Dr Phool Singh, BhiwaniWater tankers create trouble on Thanesar streetsBeing an old city, Thanesar (Kurukshetra), which is an ancient city has several bazars. The roads of these markets are narrow and when public park their vehicles, the path becomes so narrow that even walking becomes difficult. The major trouble creators are water tankers, who park the tempo in the midst of market during peak hours (11am to 12 noon). These tempos make the market area overcrowded. Policemen manning these markets, never stop them. The Superintendent of Police should take action at once and stop parking of these tempos in these narrow streets. RL Bansal, Kurukshetra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monkey-menace-in-faridabad-322008
09-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Latest issue of journal released||Training programme on food safetyHisar: The department of family resources of the Home Science College of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, organised a training programme on food safety and green consumerism in Shahpur village. The villagers were informed about the ill-effects of adulterated food on health. Programme coordinator Assistant Scientist Dr Promila Krishna Chahal said, "We should be alert about the adulteration in the food items available in the market. From cereals, milk, spices, ghee to vegetables and fruits, no food item is unaffected by adulteration. Therefore, it is very important to make common citizens aware of it from time to time so that they can become conscious about their health." Dr Poonam Malik, Assistant Scientist of human development and family studies, said that mother's milk is very important for the development of children and for six months the child should be fed only on mother's milk.A salute to Indian Air ForceAmbala: Hailing the air warriors on Indian Air Force Day, MMIS Sadopur (Ambala) celebrated Indian Air Force Day with great respect and honour to our brave airmen. Tiny tots showed gratitude towards the Indian Air Force by exhibiting popsicle stick soldiers in their scrapbooks. Little ones paid respect by reciting patriotic poems, making short videos etc. The school principal, Dr Nisha Sharma said it was the responsibility to follow the motto of the Indian Air Force, which is to touch the sky with glory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/latest-issue-of-journal-released-322006
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram residents again protest namaz in open||Gurugram, October 8Tension gripped the Sector 47 area today as the namaz being offered in a ground was stopped for the third consecutive time today. As many as 35 residents landed at the site where namaz was being offered in the open and began performing kirtan. The police got those offering namaz shifted about 150 metres from the ‘designated’ site .The namaz was completed in the presence of the police force. Meanwhile, the residents have given 10 days’ time to the administration to shift the namaz site citing ‘security and traffic’ concerns. The SDM, Badshahpur, ACP, Sadar and SHO, Sadar were at the spot with the force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-again-protest-namaz-in-open-321990
09-10-2021||Karnal||Karnal Civil Hospital gets Kayakalp award||Karnal Civil Hospital has bagged the first position in Kayakalp programme of the National Health Mission. The hospital will receive the Kayakalp award and a cash prize of Rs 50 lakh.The award is given on the basis of facilities provided by the hospital, faculty upkeep, sanitation and hygiene, waste management, infection control, support services and hygiene promotion.Giving details, Principal Medical Officer (PMO) Dr Piyush Sharma said it was an honour to be accorded the award.The Civil Hospital was restarted in December 2017, after parting from Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-civil-hospital-gets-kayakalp-award-321991
09-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||100-ft Ravana effigy to be installed at Barara||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 8For the second consecutive year, Shri Ramlila Club, Barara, famous for making the country’s tallest effigy (221 ft) of Ravana for Dasehra, is not preparing the tallest effigy. However, the club has started preparing a smaller effigy of 100 ft, which will be installed in Barara at the cost of Rs 10 lakh.Club president Tejinder Chauhan said, “Preparing a 221-ft tall effigy of Ravana is a time-consuming process and usually, we start its preparations in April, but due to Covid we were not sure whether the government would allow the celebrations or not, hence we decided not to make any effigy this year. But on the request of Barara residents, we agreed to prepare a 100-ft effigy of Ravan. Earlier, the club used to be the organiser of the five-day Barara festival in which the world’s tallest effigy used to be installed, but this year, the club is just providing its services by preparing the effigy.”“This year it will be a one-day event . All efforts are being made to complete the work at the earliest as we want to install the effigy on October 13. It will be a mini version of the 221-ft Ravana effigy, that we installed in Chandigarh. The height of the sword will be 25-ft. The effigy will weigh around 20 quintals”, he added.The club has been making effigies of Ravana since 1987. Initially, it was 20-ft tall. Each year its height was raised and it touched 210 ft seven years ago and the height remained the same for the next five years. But two years ago, the height was increased by another 11 ft and was increased to 221 ft. The five-day Barara festival used to be a major event during Dasehra and attracted a huge crowd from neighbouring states as well. But the festival was shifted to Panchkula in 2018 and then to Chandigarh in 2019, due to space constraints and no-government support. There was no event due to Covid last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-ft-ravana-effigy-to-be-installed-at-barara-321992
09-10-2021||---||750 get degrees at JC Bose university||Faridabad, October 8JC Bose University today held convocation, at which 750 students and scholars were conferred degrees.Haryana Governor and Chancellor of JC Bose University Bandaru Dattatreya presided over the function and awarded degrees to students. Addressing the third convocation of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, he said courses should be prepared keeping in mind the youth of rural areas.Emphasising upon the need to impart skills to the youth as per the global demands, Dattatreya called upon universities to focus on introducing skill-based short-term training courses in industrial partnership to prepare the youth ready to take advantage of the opportunities available in the job market.The chairman of the National Board of Accreditation, Prof KK Aggarwal, was the guest of honour on the occasion.The Chancellor also conferred honorary degrees to prominent aerospace scientist Dr G Satheesh Reddy, chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO); and business leader Navin Sood, chairman, Vee Gee Industries, Faridabad, and an alumnus of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/750-get-degrees-at-jc-bose-university-321993
09-10-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Pink Cafe opens in Rohtak, to voice women’s concerns||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 8With a view to provide an exclusive personal space to girls and women and encourage them to voice their concerns, the Rohtak-based voluntary social organisation, Path Society, has opened a Pink Cafe which is ‘of the women, for the women and by the women’.‘Of women, for women & by women’It is a welcome initiative which will go a long way and set a trend which will be followed by many individuals and organisations Dr Parveen Malhotra, HOD of Medical Gastroenterology, PGIMS, RohtakAs the name indicates, the pink cafe has only female staffers and serves only female customers. The cafe also comprises a salon-cum-training centre, meant for girls and women.“The underlying idea behind the venture is to build a platform where women can spend some time together, share their views, common problems faced by them as well as their possible solutions,” says Sunita, the woman behind the novel project.She maintains that the cafe will also provide a stage to budding artistes, including bathroom singers, aspiring actors, poets, musicians, dancers and other talented girls and women.“Our cafe will have open-mike sessions where our guests will be welcome to express their views on anything and everything under the sun,” reveals Sunita, who is also associated with Abhinav Toli, an organisation dedicated to the education, grooming and skill-training of the underprivileged children.The initiative has got a big thumbs up from the members of the civil society, who see it as a meaningful step towards women empowerment.“It is a welcome initiative which will go a long way and set a trend which will be followed by many individuals and organisations,” observes Dr Parveen Malhotra, head of the department of medical gastroenterology at the Rohtak PGIMS.Prof Rajendra Sharma of political science department at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, opines that girls and women should get an exclusive space where they can speak their mind and spend time in privacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pink-cafe-opens-in-rohtak-to-voice-womens-concerns-321994
09-10-2021||---||Ballabgarh’s air quality worsens, Air Quality Index 270||Faridabad, October 8Ballabgarh in the district has emerged as the most polluted town in the state and NCR region with a particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms hanging in air. The air quality index (AQI) fell into the poor category this evening, reaching 270.The AQI, which had been hanging in the moderate category (between 150 and 200) till September, rose to 270 today, the highest in the past four months. The AQI since June had been between good and moderate levels.Attributing the rise to change in weather conditions, increased manufacturing and traffic activity, and dust on roads, sources in the Pollution Control Department claimed that air quality was likely to deteriorate further in wake of the onset of harvesting season of kharif crops.Varun Sheokand, an environment activist, alleged that measures to contain the problem were missing.Dinesh Kumar, Regional Officer, Pollution Control Board, blamed increase in traffic and decrease in temperature for the deteriorating AQI and said activities leading to pollution were likely to be curbed after the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from October 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ballabgarhs-air-quality-worsens-air-quality-index-270-321995
09-10-2021||Karnal||3 die while cleaning sewer line in Panipat||Three persons died after they allegedly inhaled a poisonous gas while cleaning a sewer line of a water treatment plant at the TDI in Sector 23, Panipat, on Friday afternoon.The Chandani Bagh police sent the bodies for post-mortem. Two of the victims were identified as Jahid of Amroha in Uttar Pradesh and Sumit of Panipat, while the identification of the third victim was yet to be established.Sources said Salman and Jahid went into the sewerage pit to clean the line and later Salman came out and Sumit went below. After sometime, when they did not come out, Salman cried for help, after which a passerby went down to rescue them, but he could not come out.After sometime, people with the help of the Fire Brigade and the police, they were taken out. They were taken to hospital, where they were declared dead.Meanwhile, there were allegations that the company which had been given the contract to clean the sewerage did not comply with safety measures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-die-while-cleaning-sewer-line-in-panipat-321997
09-10-2021||---||Haryana administrative secretaries told to fill employees’ records by November 15||Chandigarh, October 8The Haryana Government has directed the administrative secretaries and heads of departments again to ensure completion of data entry and finalisation of employees’ records in the Human Resources Management System (HRMS) by November 15.An official spokesperson said all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, managing directors, chief administrators of boards, corporations, divisional commissioners in Haryana, Deputy Commissioners, and Registrars of all universities have been directed to upload employee data relating to service books and disciplinary proceedings into the HRMS and complete it in a time-bound manner.The spokesperson said the officials had been directed to verify data of the employees from October 23 to November 4. Besides, directions have been given to freeze the uploaded data on the HRMS after scrutiny by the headquarters from November 5-15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-administrative-secretaries-told-to-fill-employees-records-by-november-15-321996
09-10-2021||New Delhi||Aadhaar card can be considered for allotment to Khori evictees, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Aadhaar card would be one of the documents to be taken into account by the Faridabad municipal corporation for making provisional allotment under the rehabilitation scheme to eligible applicants of Khori village where unauthorised structures, which came under the Aravalli forest area, were removed.As an interim arrangement, the apex court directed the civic body to process the applications if it is accompanied by an Aadhaar card to make provisional allotment subject to verification of the applicant.A Bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari made clear that provisional allotment of EWS (Economically Weaker Section) flats would not create any right in favour of the person until he establishes his eligibility as mandated under the rehabilitation scheme.The top court said the Aadhaar card would be in addition to other documents prescribed under the scheme. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aadhaar-card-can-be-considered-for-allotment-to-khori-evictees-says-supreme-court-321998
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Student shot dead on SGT University campus||High drama and panic gripped SGT University, Chandu-Budhera, as a student was shot dead on campus by a group of unidentified youths this afternoon.The police suspected the involvement of other students in the shootout, believed to be over a girl. The entire incident was captured on the CCTV camera.The shooting took place only a few metres from a police post. An FIR was registered against four persons, including a girl nursing student, at the Rajendra Park police station. The accused fled after the incident.The deceased was identified as Vineet (23), originally a resident of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh. He was a fourth year student of BAMS (ayurveda) at the university. Vineet was going towards a hostel along with his friends at 12.30 pm when he was cornered and shot dead.As per the complaint of Harsh Kumar, an eyewitness and classmate of the deceased, the FIR was registered against students Pankil, alias Lucky, Mohit and Nitish. Pankil, a student of law, is the main accused who is a resident of Delhi’s Najafgarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-student-shot-dead-on-sgt-university-campus-321999
09-10-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Won’t tolerate insult of leaders, say Gujjars||Expressing anger over derogatory remarks about Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar by some people, members of the Gujjar community held a mahapanchayat at Kapal Mochan in the district on Friday.The mahapanchayat, which was attended by the Gujjars in large numbers, decided that they would not tolerate the insult of the leaders of their community by anyone at any cost.Jagdish Begampur, president, Gujjar Vikas Sabha, said recently, some people protested outside the Education Minister’s house in Jagadhri and used derogatory remarks against him.“The mahapanchayat has decided to give a befitting reply in a legal way to the people, who are using derogatory remarks against the leaders of the Gujjar community,” the president of the sabha alleged.Jagdish further said India was a democratic country and every person had the right to protest in a peaceful way, but no one should use derogatory remarks against anyone. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-wont-tolerate-insult-of-leaders-say-gujjars-322000
09-10-2021||---||Impartial inquiry will be held in Naraingarh incident, says Anil Vij||Ambala, October 8A day after the Naraingarh incident, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said an impartial inquiry would be conducted in the matter.Vij said: “We have received complaints of both parties and an inquiry has been marked to the DSP. Impartial inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken on the basis of the facts.”Inquiry markedWe have received complaints of both parties and an inquiry has been marked. Impartial inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken on the basis of the facts. Anil Vij, Health and Home Minister'DDRs registeredWe have lodged DDRs in connection with the incident and the matter is being further investigated. We are trying to obtain the videos related to the incident. Dhoom Singh, Naraingarh SHOA farmer received injuries in Naraingarh of Ambala during a protest after he allegedly got hit by a car of the BJP MP’s convoy. Farmers alleged that the BJP had tried to repeat the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Naraingarh.While the injured farmer accused the BJP leader and his driver of intentionally trying to run him over, the driver alleged that farmers attacked the MP’s convoy and threatened them.Naraingarh SHO Dhoom Singh, said: “We have lodged DDRs in connection with the incident and the matter is being further investigated. We are trying to obtain the videos related to the incident.”Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) leaders met SSP Hamid Akhtar at his office in Ambala City today and told them that the outfit would hold peaceful dharnas to protest the incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/impartial-inquiry-will-be-held-in-naraingarh-incident-says-anil-vij-322001
09-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Ellenabad byelection: Congress, INLD bank on anti-BJP sentiment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The Congress and INLD are pinning hopes on the anti-BJP sentiment in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws in the October 30 Ellenabad byelection. The ruling BJP-JJP alliance is playing the non-Jat card.Cong is only choiceWhile all sections of society are fed up with the BJP-JJP misrule, Abhay Chautala’s re-election could not resolve the issue of the farm laws, for whose repeal he had resigned. The only choice before the electorate is the Congress candidate. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, leader of oppositionIn fact, caste arithmetic seems to have weighed heavily on the parties while selecting candidates for the bypoll. While the INLD has fielded Abhay Chautala, a Jat, who had resigned as the Ellenabad legislator to express solidarity with farmers, the Congress has also placed its bet on another Jat Pawan Beniwal.With over 50 per cent of the 1.85 lakh voters in the Assembly segment belonging to the Jat community, the candidates’ choice of the INLD and Congress is clearly based on caste factors.Besides, the Congress and INLD hope to cash in on the anti-BJP sentiment in the wake of the farmers’ agitation to grab the crucial seat.As Ellenabad is primarily a rural constituency based on agricultural economy, the Congress and INLD are hoping for the support of the farming community in the key bypoll.Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Bhupinder Singh Hooda claimed that the Congress would win hands-down in the byelection. “While all sections of society are fed up with BJP-JJP misrule, Abhay Chautala’s re-election could not resolve the issue of the farm laws, for whose repeal he had resigned. The only choice before the electorate is the Congress candidate,” he asserted.However, in a smart move, the BJP-JJP alliance has fielded Gobind Kanda, a non-Jat face, in the bypoll in a clear bid to polarise the non-Jat voters and take advantage of the division in Jat votes between the Congress and INLD. The party hopes that BJP’s non-Jat and JJP’s Jat base could prove to be decisive for victory of the alliance candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-byelection-congress-inld-bank-on-anti-bjp-sentiment-322002
09-10-2021||Hisar||Ellenabad byelection: INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala files nomination||Abhay Singh Chautala, the INLD leader who is seeking re-election from Ellenabad Assembly seat, submitted his nomination papers today. He was accompanied by his sons Karan and Arjun during the filing of nomination.Abhay, who won the lone seat for the INLD in 2019 Assembly poll, had resigned from the Assembly in January, resulting in the byelection.Brushing aside his criticism by the BJP-JJP and Congress, which are questioning the rationale behind his re-entering the fray in the bypoll, the INLD leader maintained that he sought to strengthen the farmers’ agitation by resigning from the Assembly.“I had taken the decision to resign from the Assembly in view of the sentiments of the people. The resignation also exposed some politicians in Haryana politics who claimed to be supporters of farmers’ issues, but they hardly showed up in the agitation,” he said.Abhay said that he had left it to the panchayat of Ellenabad to take a decision whether he should contest the bypoll or not. The panchayat had asked him to take the field, he added.The INLD leader alleged that the Congress was the architect of the farm laws when it was in power before 2014. “You should ask Congress leaders Kumari Selja, Bhupinder Hooda and Randeep Surjewala about when they joined the dharna by the protesting farmers,” he said.Attacking the Congress, Abhay said had the Congress MLAs resigned from the Assembly along with him, there would have been mid-term poll in Haryana instead of just one byelection. — TNSAbhay’s assetsAbhay and his wife have total movable and immovable assets worth Rs65.4 crore. He owns three SUVs, two tractors and one Jeep. Abhay owns agricultural land in Lambi village in Punjab, Chautala village and Teja Khera village in Sirsa district and non-agricultural land in Assa Khera village, Mandi Dabwali and commercial properties in Sirsa town. He has residential houses in Sirsa, Tejakhera besides a residential plot in Jaipur and an apartment in Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-byelection-inlds-abhay-singh-chautala-files-nomination-322003
09-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad byelection: Congress puts up united face as Pawan Beniwal files papers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 8Putting up a united show, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda accompanied state Congress president Kumari Selja during the filing of nomination by candidate Pawan Beniwal for the Ellenabad byelection in Sirsa district today.However, the party is staring at trouble as former MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal adopted a rebellious tone today. He stated that he would take a decision about his next move in a couple of days after consulting his supporters and expressed resentment over not being allotted the ticket.Party sources said that Congress MLA from the adjoining Kalanwali segment, Sheeshpal Keherwala, went to his residence and Kumari Selja too called him up to join the party campaign for Pawan Beniwal. “He refused to attend the party meeting today and informed that he will take a decision after consulting his supporters,” a party leader added.Bharat is the uncle of Pawan Beniwal but they are arch-rivals in politics. He had won from the erstwhile Darba Kalan Assembly segment in 2005, but lost the 2019 Assembly election from Ellenabad segment as Congress candidate. Later, talking to mediapersons, former CM Hooda maintained that the Congress would fight the byelection unitedly. “The Congress is one and we will win,” he claimed.Hooda, however, took strong exception to the statement by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar stating that it seemed that he had no belief in democratic values. “I urge people to give a befitting blow to this kind of politics in the byelection,” he said.Hooda said that Abhay Chautala had resigned when the Congress brought the no-confidence motion against the BJP government on the farmers’ issue. “We will also bring a fresh no-confidence motion in next session. I want to ask Abhay whether he will again resign from the Assembly or support the no-confidence motion against the BJP government,” he stated.Selja said that the INLD is no longer a force in Haryana politics. “The INLD is a spent force as the party has got divided and was reduced to just one seat in 2019 Assembly poll,” she said.When asked about Bharat Beniwal’s resentment, she said that some leaders get upset on denial of ticket but they would campaign for the party soon. Haryana in-charge of Congress Vivek Bansal said that resentment is temporary and we would sort it out and hope that Bharat Beniwal too would join the campaign soon.Rival in the clan?The Congress is staring at trouble as former MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal adopted a rebellious tone on Friday. He stated that he would take a decision about his next move after consulting his supporters and resented over not being allotted ticket.Campaigning timingsThe Haryana Additional Chief Electoral Officer on Friday declared campaigning in the Ellenabad constituency will not be allowed from 7 pm to 10 am. She said the department had already apprised the parties about the election code of conduct.Beniwal’s assetsCongress candidate Pawan Beniwal who is BA from PU, Chandigarh, has total assets including that of his wife of Rs13.19 cr. He has immovable assets worth Rs2.16 cr and movable assets worth Rs70 lakh. He owns a tractor, three firearms besides five horses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-byelection-congress-puts-up-united-face-as-pawan-beniwal-files-papers-322005
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||6.8L tonne paddy procured in Haryana||Haryana has procured 6.83 lakh tonnes paddy till Friday.Of this, 1.97 lakh tonnes of paddy was alone procured from Kurukshetra, 1.08 lakh tonnes from Yamunanagar, 1.04 lakh tonnes from Kaithal and 1.34 lakh tonnes from Karnal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-8l-tonne-paddy-procured-in-haryana-322004
09-10-2021||Karnal||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to mark October 12 as ‘Shaheed Kisan Diwas’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday announced to mark October 12 as “Shaheed Kisan Diwas” and appealed to the farmers all over UP and country to join the antim ardas of the farmers died in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12 in Tikonia.From there, a series of actions will be taken up to put pressure on the Union and the UP governments to secure justice for the killed farmers. The SKM appealed to people to organise prayer meetings on the same day in gurdwaras, temples, churches, mosques and other public places, and organise prayer and shraddhanjali meetings. SKM additionally demands the immediate sacking and arrest of Minister Ajay Mishra Teni for promoting enmity, hatred and disharmony and murder, other than hatching the conspiracy against farmers. All the persons involved in this incident should be arrested.If the demands were not met by October 11, the SKM would go ahead with a call for all-India rail roko on October 18. The rail roko will be between 10am and 4pm, said Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, Yudhvir Singh, and, Yogendra Yadav in a joint statement.They said all peace-loving citizens are urged to join these candlelight vigils or light five candles outside their homes as homage to the five martyrs. On this day, all citizens participating in the farmers’ movement will re-commit themselves to the struggle until we secured all our demands and to ensure that the martyrs’ sacrifice does not go in vain.The SKM rejected both the SIT and judicial inquiry set up by the UP Government and demanded an impartial investigation that will report directly to the Supreme Court, and welcomed the court’s order asking the UP Police to keep all evidence intact. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-mark-october-12-as-shaheed-kisan-diwas-322007
09-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||In 3 days, 7 kids die of viral fever at Nuh hospital||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, october 8Viral fever situation seems to be going out of hands in Nuh. Seven children have died of fever over the past three days at Nalhar Medical College and Hospital in Nuh district here. Most of them had symptoms like recurring fever, pneumonia, tachycardia and diarrhoea etc.According to the hospital authorities, 277 such patients, including 150 children, are currently admitted to the hospital. Some of them have also tested positive for dengue.Medical Superintendent Dr Maha Singh said, “The main reason behind most deaths was the late arrival of patients at the hospital. Many of them were in the state of breathlessness when brought to the hospital.”Afsana, aunt of an infant who died at the hospital, said, “I don’t know what happened to him. He developed high fever at night and within hours, he could not breathe properly. We brought him to hospital, but his life could not be saved. Doctors say we brought him late to the hospital.”Sources say the hospital is getting around 50 such patients in the emergency ward and 200 in the OPDs daily. Owing to the limited staff and infrastructure, three-four children are being accommodated on one bed. A staff of around 10 persons is working relentlessly in the paediatric ward, they say.Meanwhile, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Surender Yadav could not be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-3-days-7-kids-die-of-viral-fever-at-nuh-hospital-322009
09-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Dera follower murder case: 25 days before incident, victim had got himself insured||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8Just 25 days before his murder, the victim, who was once a staunch Dera Sacha Sauda follower, got himself insured for Rs 5 lakh. He was facing continuous threats from the dera men, asking him to apologise to Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, a self-styled godman, for allegedly circulating a letter revealing sexual exploitation of women followers. He knew he would be targeted but refused to apologise.The victim, a staunch follower of the dera since 1972-73, was a member of a 10-member dera committee formed to oversee its religious activities in Haryana.In 1997, the victim had admitted his daughters to a dera school for studies. His sister joined there as a ‘sadhvi’ in 1999 and was a teacher at dera’s Shah Satnam Girls School, Sirsa.Ram Rahim had raped his sister twice. In 2000, when she told about the abuse to her brother, he asked her to remain quiet and promised that he would soon takeher away. Later, he withdrew his daughters and sister around April 2001.The victim’s brother-in-law stated before the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court that he told him that the dera was no more being run by religious people as women were allegedly being sexually exploited on the premises. The victim had further said he had wasted about 25 years of his life.In 2001, the victim stayed at the dera for just two days during the annual “bhandara” (a ritual), while earlier he used to spend 15-20 days.In May 2002, a letter, alleging sexual exploitation of women followers inside the dera, started circulating. It was addressed to the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and was published in newspapers too. The letter mentioned that a ‘sadhvi’, who belonged to Kurukshetra, had left the dera premises and her brother, who was a staunch follower, had also stopped visiting the place. As the reference was made about the victim and his sister, the dera men started suspecting him to be behind the letter. He was summoned to the dera on June 16, 2002.The victim’s father told the court that as he was apprehending danger to his life, so he got himself Rs 5 lakh LIC policy a day before i.e. on June 15, 2002.After coming back from the dera, the victim told his father that he was threatened by Inder Sain, Avtar Singh, Jasbir Singh, dera manager Krishan Lal and one Darshan Singh to apologise to Ram Rahim for the circulation of the letter or he would be killed. He apprehended that their house could be set on fire.On June 26, 2002, three persons — Krishan Lal, Jasbir, and Sabdil — came to meet the victim at his house, threatened him again and asked him to apologise.Meanwhile, the victim’s daughter had told the court that once she had received a telephone call from Krishan Lal in June 2002, who enquired about his father. When she told her father about it, he got perplexed and told her not to receive any call from the dera men. The victim had sharedhis fears with his brother-in-law too. A neighbour of the victim told the court that Sabdil and Jasbir had come to threaten him again on July 6, 2002.Eyewitnesses’ account||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-follower-murder-case-25-days-before-incident-victim-had-got-himself-insured-322010
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Investigating agency’s teamwork led to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s conviction: Investigating Officer||It was the labour of about 15 years for former CBI SP Satish Dagar, one of the investigating officers in cases against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, which bore fruit today.He headed the investigation team in the rape case, while remained as one of the investigating officers in the Ram Chander Chhatrapati and Dera follower murder cases.Ram Rahim tried to influence caseThe dera head remained deceptive and even tried to use influence like any other criminal. Satish Dagar, CBI Ex-SPThe rape and Ram Chander Chhatrapati cases had ended in conviction too, while all accused, including Ram Rahim, were held guilty in the Dera follower’s murder case today. He was among the officers who interrogated Ram Rahim for three hours. “He remained deceptive and even tried to use influence like any other criminal,” said Dagar.On Ram Rahim’s conviction today, Dagar said, “I would have been very happy had the dera follower’s father been alive today. His only son was murdered. His daughter was raped. The trial should have been carried out faster.”On convincing witnesses against mighty Ram Rahim, Dagar said, “We gave them assurances that if they speak the truth, the law would protect them. Earlier, they were not sure about the outcome even if they cooperated. A number of them, including Khatta Singh, were provided security.”In the rape case, he said there were more victims but only two came forward. One of them was Dera follower’s sister.On pressure on him during the probe, he said he was not the one who could be influenced. “I want to thank my seniors, including the then director Ashwani Kumar, special director ML Sharma, SSP Satpal Singh and Inspector Rajesh Khajuria. CBI counsels HPS Verma and VK Sharma did hard work. It was the teamwork that led to his conviction in all cases.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/investigating-agencys-teamwork-led-to-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahims-conviction-investigating-officer-322011
09-10-2021||---||Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s driver was crucial in proving murder conspiracy: CBI||Chandigarh, October 8Prosecution Witness 31, Khatta Singh, was the star witness of the CBI. He was an eyewitness to the criminal conspiracy about the murder of a dera follower.Khatta Singh became a dera follower in 1970. He became very close to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and was made the driver of the bus in which the former used to travel. He used to take him to different places for religious congregations.He knew the victim for 8-9 years as he was a member of the 10-member dera panel.During his statement recorded before a magistrate on June 22, 2007, he told the court that he came to know from some members of the management that Ram Rahim had sexually exploited the sister of the victim. For that reason, he left the dera.He added that in May 2002, an anonymous letter with allegations about the sexual exploitation of ‘sadhvis’ by Ram Rahim was published in some newspapers.On the direction of Ram Rahim, dera managers Krishan Lal, Inder Sain and dera management member Avtar Singh started searching for the distributor of the letter. During this period, some dera followers also threatened the newspaper editors, and many people were beaten up.They were suspecting that the victim was the person behind the printing and distribution of the letter.Talking about the incident of June 16, 2002, he claimed that he had seen Avtar Singh, Inder Sain, Krishan Lal and one Darshan Singh encircling the victim and pressurising him to beg pardon from Ram Rahim. When he did not agree to apologise, they warned him to be ready to die.The same day, Ram Rahim called a meeting in his ‘gufa’ where Jasbir and Sabdil were present. Khatta Singh was also present there.He told the court that when they told dera chief about the behaviour of the victim, he got angry and directed them that before he could raise his voice further, they should kill him by going to his field.Khatta Singh came to know that the victim was murdered on July 10, 2002. The same evening, he saw Jasbir Singh, Sabdil Singh and Krishan Lal celebrating at Kashish Hotel, which is situated opposite the new dera in Sirsa. He deposed that while these persons were celebrating, they were heard saying that they had killed a “traitor”.However, during the trial, he resiled from the statement. But on May 8, 2018, he appeared again before the court and told that he was under tremendous pressure by the dera people and Ram Rahim on account of threats given to him and now, he wanted to depose the true facts.“This witness is the eyewitness of both the incidents dated June 16, 2002 and is, fortunately, the direct evidence with the prosecuting agency regarding the hatching of the conspiracy bythe accused about the murder of the victim,” submitted CBI Special Public Prosecutor HPS Verma.Earlier, his statement in the Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case had led to the conviction of Ram Rahim on January 11, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurmeet-ram-rahims-driver-was-crucial-in-proving-murder-conspiracy-cbi-322012
09-10-2021||---||Paddy straw generation in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh may fall by 12%||New Delhi, October 8Ahead of the “smog season” in north, the Environment Ministry today said attempts to reduce paddy straw generation were yielding “positive results” and as per the data received from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, the amount of paddy straw generated would come down this year.Paddy straw generated is expected to come down significantly this year as states have adopted crop diversification measures and started moving away from PUSA-44 variety to short-duration high-yielding varieties, as part of the framework and action plan to control stubble-burning, it added.The burning of paddy straw from non-basmati variety is a prime concern.The Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management said paddy straw generation from the non-basmati variety is likely to be reduced by 12.42 per cent during the current year as compared to the previous year.“The total paddy area in Haryana, Punjab and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh have come down by 7.72 per cent in the current year as compared to last year,” it said.Crop diversification yielding results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-straw-generation-in-haryana-punjab-uttar-pradesh-may-fall-by-12-321967
09-10-2021||Amit Bathla||Gurmeet Ram Rahim, 4 others found guilty of killing dera follower||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 8A special CBI court here on Friday convicted Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four others in the murder case of a sect follower, Ranjit Singh.Also read: Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s driver was crucial in proving murder conspiracy: CBIInvestigating agency’s teamwork led to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s conviction: Investigating OfficerDera follower murder case: 25 days before incident, victim had got himself insuredThe court of special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg held Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil Singh guilty under Sections 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.Further, Sabdil Singh and Jasbir Singh, who were shooters as per the eyewitness, have also been held guilty under the Arms Act. Another accused, Inder Sain, died in October last year.The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on October 12.Gurmeet Ram Rahim is currently lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail after being convicted and sentenced for raping his two disciples and murdering journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.On October 5, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had dismissed a petition filed by Ranjit Singh’s son seeking transfer of the case from Panchkula to any other special CBI court in Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh, alleging that “everything has been manipulated through CBI public prosecutor KP Singh”.Justice Avneesh Jhingan had ruled that the trial could not be transferred on mere apprehensions. The order paved the way for the CBI court to pronounce its verdict, which it had earlier fixed for August 26. During today’s hearing, CBI special public prosecutor HPS Verma requested before the court to “provide adequate security to him and KP Singh given the sensitivity of the case”.The court said, “The Haryana DGP may consider in right earnest feasibility and requirement to provide security to both the lawyers as per rules.”TimelineJune 16, 2002: Dera chief hatches conspiracy to kill Ranjit Singh for exposing exploitation of disciplesJuly 10: Ranjit Singh shot dead on his way home at his village in KurukshetraOctober 24: Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murdered for raising the matter2003: CBI registers FIR against dera chief and others2007-08: Charges framed against accused||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurmeet-ram-rahim-4-others-found-guilty-of-killing-dera-follower-321978
09-10-2021||---||Haryana CM Khattar retracts his recent controversial statement, says was 'misconstrued'||Panchkula, October 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday retracted his controversial “pick up sticks” remark, saying it was "misconstrued" and he did not have any ill-intention against anyone..Khattar, who paid obeisance at Mata Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula on the second day of the Navratri festival on Friday, said he had no malicious intent against anyone but made the statement "in context of self-defence".“I want to tell my farmer brothers who are hurt by my statement that I am taking back my statement. I don’t want any sort of law-and-order situation to be created in Haryana which may disturb peace,” he said, adding that everyone has the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner.In a recent video, the Chief Minister was seen advising the party cadre for a “tit-for-tat action against the farmers” opposing the farm laws in Haryana.CM Khattar was accompanied by Haryana Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta during his visit to the temple.Khattar also said he won’t be attending a programme of the Aggarwal community in Kaithal as farmers have said they will oppose his visit.The protesting farmers have said they have no objection if a BJP leader from the community attends the event, the CM said.“Speaker Gian Chand Gupta will attend the event on my behalf,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-retracts-his-recent-controversial-statement-says-was-misconstrued-321866
09-10-2021||---||Sirsa Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh convicted of Dera follower's murder||Panchkula, October 8Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has been convicted in a Dera follower murder case.Panchkula CBI special court judge Sushil Garg pronounced him and others guilty.All the accused in the case have been convicted.The quantum of punishment will be pronounced on October 12.Along with the Dera chief, Krishan Lal, Jasbir, Avtaar and Sabdil have been convicted in the case. Another accused Inder Sain had died in October 2020.Ram Rahim is currently lodged at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail after being convicted and sentenced in two cases of rape and for the murder of a journalist.On October 5, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had dismissed a petition seeking the transfer of the Dera follower murder case from Panchkula CBI Special Judge to any other Special CBI court in Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh.The murder took place on July 10, 2002. The Dera follower was shot dead when he was returning from his fields in his native village in Kurukshetra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-singh-convicted-of-dera-followers-murder-321861
