11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal farmer-police clash: One-man inquiry commission begins probe||The Haryana government constituted one-man commission to inquire into the sequence of events leading to violence—including police lathicharge on protesting farmers—at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal began its probe on Monday.The state government had last month appointed Justice Somnath Aggarwal, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, as Commission of Inquiry. Before leaving for Karnal, Justice Aggarwal said the inquiry commission will try to complete the probe at the earliest and submit the report to the state government.  Replying to a question here, he said since the commission has to inquire about the entire sequence of events leading to the incident at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28, “that will take four to five months time”.The state government appointed the commission “in a bid to ensure fair and transparent inquiry to inquire into the sequence of events leading to incidents at Bastara Toll Plaza in Karnal on August 28”, an official statement had said here last month, while pointing to the decision taken in this regard by the state cabinet.“The commission of inquiry will inquire into the circumstances leading up to and including the action by the Police at Karnal on August 28, and the use of force against the demonstrators,” the statement had said.“The commission will also ascertain persons responsible for said situation and further will inquire into the role of (IAS officer) Ayush Sinha, the then Sub Divisional Magistrate, Karnal, in the action by the police on August 28,” it had said.The inquiry commission will complete the probe and submit the report to the state government within a period of one month from the date of publication of notification in the official gazette, it had said.The Haryana government had last month ordered a judicial probe into the clash between farmers and police in August.About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police when they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting.Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break the heads” of farmers if they breach the barricades near the spot where the BJP’s event was going on. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmer-police-clash-one-man-inquiry-commission-begins-probe-323154
11-10-2021||New Delhi||Centre tells Haryana to keep vigil against vested interests creating trouble in the name of farmers' protest||The Haryana government has been advised by the Union Home Ministry to keep up the security vigil against any possible attempt to create a law and order situation by vested interests in the name of farmers' protest against the three farm laws, especially in view of the recent Lakhimpur Kheri incident.The issue figured during Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar's recent meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.Shah enquired in detail about the prevailing situation and the state's preparedness with regard to security measures.Sources said that during the meeting the two leaders were of the view that proactive measures should be taken to prevent trouble by vested interests at sensitive places, especially following the Lakhimpur incident.The meeting also took place ahead of the hearing in the Supreme Court against the blockades set up by the protesting farmers at Tikri and Singhu borders. The hearing is scheduled for September 20.As many as 43 farmers have been made party to the case.After meeting Shah, Khattar said he had apprised the Union Home Minister of law and order situation in view of the farmers's protest, on the move to remove the blockades, and the state government's preparedness to present its case in the Supreme Court.   Haryana has emerged as an epicentre of farmers' protest.The Tikri and Singhu borders have also become sensitive on account of the resentment against the blockades, by residents of villages surrounding them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-tells-haryana-to-keep-vigil-against-vested-interests-creating-trouble-in-the-name-of-farmers-protest-323105
11-10-2021||---||Naraingarh incident: Fair probe promised, farmers call off gherao of police station||Ambala, October 10Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) on Sunday called off its call to gherao the Naraingarh police station after the administration’s assurance of a fair probe into the incident.Arrest MoS by monday, warns SKMSonepat: The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday warned the Centre and the UP Government against the delay in the arrest of MoS Ajay Mishra Teni and other accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The morcha reiterated its demand for the MoS’ arrest and sacking from the Centre. They told the govt that the deadline for the arrest was till Monday, failing which the morcha would take further steps to ensure that their demands were met.SIT CONSTITUTEDThere will be no injustice to farmers. A SIT has been formed under Ambala Cantt DSP Ram Kumar. Further action will be taken on the basis of facts and evidences. — Anil Kumar, Naraingarh DSPEnraged over the registration of three FIRs against the farmers, including Bawan Preet, who got injured in the Naraingarh incident, and not registering any case on the complaint against BJP MP Nayab Saini and his driver, BKU activists on Sunday gathered at the local grain market.The farmers had threatened to gherao the Naraingarh police station if no FIR was registered by Sunday.BKU (Charuni) district chief Malkit Singh said: “Three FIRs have been registered against the farmers, including the one who got injured in the incident, while no action was taken on the complaint submitted by the protesters. It indicates that the police have been working under political pressure. I have been made accused in all three FIRs. Such things don’t bother me, but two farmers, including Bawan Preet and Jaswinder, have been wrongly booked by the police. Fake cases have been registered against the farmers and these must be cancelled.”However, after a meeting with the administration and the assurance of a fair probe, the farmers called off their move to gherao the police station. “The administration has assured a fair probe. An SSP has also assured that there will be an impartial inquiry hence we have cancelled today’s protest. The police have provided us a copy of the document lodged on our complaint. The cases registered against farmers will be investigated by Ambala Cantonment DSP. If the administration fails to keep its promise, we will call another meeting soon,” Malkit added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naraingarh-incident-fair-probe-promised-farmers-call-off-gherao-of-police-station-322860
11-10-2021||Karnal||Bhupinder Hooda begins public outreach from Karnal||Launching a public outreach programme to take feedback about the ruling BJP-JJP government on the completion of its two years, former Chief Minister and leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday started “Vipaksh Aakpke Samaksh” programme from Karnal, under which he will listen to issues of the general public.Govt failed to keep poll promisesPeople of the state gave the govt two years to fulfil their poll promises, but neither the manifesto nor the common minimum programme has been implemented. — Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Ex-CMAs per Hooda, he will cover all 90 Assembly segments and will counter the state government on the issues which will be raised by the general public.Accompanied by party’s current and former MLAs, Hooda said: “Time has come to establish direct contact with the people and the next mass contact programme would be held in Jind.”Hooda said, “Today farmers are being beaten on roads, while their crops are taking a beating in the market. I have myself seen in the mandis that smooth procurement of paddy has not started so far despite the government changing dates repeatedly. Farmers are forced to keep their paddy on roads as their crop is neither being lifted from market, nor are the farmers getting the MSP or payment.”He said the government was imposing unnecessary conditions like portal, registration, scheduling and 25 quintals per quintal on the farmers, while there were no conditions to harass the farmers during the Congress government. “If our government is formed, the system of purchase and hand-to-hand payment of every farmer’s grain will be adopted,” he said.He said the state was getting buried under the burden of debt due to the policies and scams of the government. “Today, Haryana is under a debt of Rs 2.5 lakh crores. In the name of government recruitment, the future of unemployed youth is being played with. Paper leaks and recruitment scams have become the hallmark of this government,” he said.On the CM’s ‘tit-for-tat” remark, he said such statements had no place in a democracy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-begins-public-outreach-from-karnal-322861
11-10-2021||Hisar||Ellenabad  bypoll: Ajay Chautala flays ‘assault’ on BJP workers||JJP leader Ajay Singh Chautala has condemned the incident of manhandling and pushing out the BJP-JJP candidate and his supporters from a gurdwara in Ellenabad during canvassing yesterday.Also read: Ellenabad bypoll: BJP alleges assault, 25 farmers bookedAjay said though it’s a democratic right to protest, the way BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda and his supporters were pushed out of the gurdwara was highly condemnable.“We should not forget that the others too have equal rights. If such behaviour is meted out to anybody, the person too has the right to respond in the same way.”Talking to the media, Ajay said he was constantly in touch with workers for the Ellenabad bypoll and duties had been assigned to workers for canvassing in favour of the alliance candidate. “Soon, I’ll go to campaign for Kanda at Ellenabad. Everybody has the right to seek votes from the electorate.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-ajay-chautala-flays-assault-on-bjp-workers-322862
11-10-2021||Palwal||UP youth shot dead for resisting robbery in Palwal village||A 24-year-old youth was shot dead for resisting robbery near Alhapur village on the NH-19 in the district on Saturday night.MANHUNT LAUNCHEDWe’ve registered a case of murder and loot. A manhunt has been launched to nab the culprits. The CCTV footage of the spot is also being collected. Police officialThe incident took place around 10.30 pm when the victim — Nitin from UP’s Mathura — along with a friend, Govind, were on their way to Gurugram from Vrindavan, where they had gone on a pilgrimage. The duo stopped near the Alhapur flyover, about 5 km from the city, to check a snag in their motorcycle. Suddenly, two unidentified armed youths approached them, flashed a gun and asked them to hand over the cash and other valuables. They agreed to hand over the cash but requested the accused to spare their bags containing documents and clothes.Meanwhile, one of the accused still tried to snatch the bag from Nitin and when he resisted, he was shot from a close range. The accused then fled on a motorcycle driven by a third youth waiting nearby.Notably, the spot where the incident took place is located just about 500 m from the traffic police station.Govind, who escaped unhurt, stopped a vehicle and asked for help. Soon, a police team arrived at the spot. Nitin was rushed to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/up-youth-shot-dead-for-resisting-robbery-in-palwal-village-322863
11-10-2021||Panipat||Man mows down 2 of family in Nilokheri; 4 injured||Two members of a family, including a 42-year-old woman, were killed while four others sustained injuries when a man allegedly mowed them down with his car at Hafed colony in Nilokheri of Karnal on Sunday.The Butana police have booked two persons — a man and his son — on the charge of murder and began a probe into the matter.The deceased have been identified as Raj Rani (42) and Subhash (55) of Hafed colony and the injured as Rajneesh, Sheela, Ranjeet Kaur and Baby. The police said the incident took place following an argument that occurred over the high speed of the car.The family members of the deceased alleged that the accused Aman, who also lives in the same vicinity, drives his car at high speed in the street.On Sunday morning, they objected to it and complained to his father Balwinder. Meanwhile, Aman also came there in his car and both started abusing them. Aman allegedly hit six members with his car and fled, leaving them badly injured, they alleged.All the injured were rushed to hospital where Raj Rani (42) and Subhash (55) succumbed to their injuries.After getting information, ASP Indri Himadree Kaushik and Butana SHO Kanwar Singh visited the crime spot to probe the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-mows-down-2-of-family-in-nilokheri-4-injured-322864
11-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar admn’s efforts to drain out rainwater from fields prove futile||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 10The arrangements made by the district administration to drain out rainwater from agricultural land of several villages here are proving ‘insufficient’ as many fields are still inundated, leaving farmers worried.Girdawari soughtRohtak: The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has urged the administration to start the special girdawari immediately. “Delay in assessment adversely affects the actual loss due to waterlogging but the girdawari hasn’t begun even days after the announcement,” said Preet Singh, AIKS district chief, adding that a delegation would meet Rohtak DC in this respect on Monday.Sources said fields in Aasodha, Mandothi, Tandaheri, Dabauda, Rohad, Loharheri, Jasaur Kheri, Kulasi, Kanauda and Barahi villages under the Bahadurgarh subdivision were flooded with rainwater and were yet to be cleared.“My fields have been submerged for the past over two months. Though pumps were installed there to dewater the fields, these proved insufficient. No other arrangement has so far been made to drain out the water. More than 200 acres are still inundated in the village, where the crops of jowar, cotton and paddy have been damaged completely,” said Pradeep, a distressed farmer in Aasoda village.Krishan of Rohad village said they had been waiting for the removal of water from the fields so as to start the preparations for the next crop. A similar situation was being faced by the residents of nearby villages too, he added.An officer, however, said excessive rain during this year’s monsoon had brought misery for the farmers. “Neither farmers nor the district administration expected such a long monsoon this year,” he added.Meanwhile, Bahadurgarh SDM Bhupinder Singh said sincere efforts were being made to drain out accumulated rainwater from agricultural land of low-lying areas before the commencement of the rabi season. “Officers of the irrigation and other government departments have been asked to expedite the water removal work and to chalk out a project in order to ensure a permanent solution to the flooding issue. Meanwhile, the task of special girdawari will be performed in an impartial, transparent and timely manner,” the SDM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-admns-efforts-to-drain-out-rainwater-from-fields-prove-futile-322865
11-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Work on Ambala Cantonment ‘Welcome Gate’ at snail’s pace||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 10The Welcome Gate project in Ambala Cantonment, the construction of which started in 2019 to enhance the beauty of the entry point of the cantonment, is moving at a snail’s pace and is likely to be completed by December.The gate is being constructed by the Sadar Zone Municipal Council at a cost of nearly Rs 2.5 crore.Design issue, noc roadblocksThe issue related to design, NOC from the NHAI and four-laning project have delayed the project. The work will be completed by December this year — Vikas Dhiman, Executive Engineer, Sadar Zone Municipal CouncilDC to look into lapsesHome Minister Anil Vij who had laid the foundation stone of the project, has directed Ambala DC Vikram Singh to look into the delay and check if there were lapses on part of officials.An official said the project had been delayed due to the changes in its design and the four-laning project of the Ambala-Saha road.The official said, “When the project was started, a chakra made of sandstone was to be installed, but due to its weight, the then officials concerned expressed their concern and the idea was dropped.Then it was decided that fiber be used but later it also got cancelled and finally it was decided that reinforced cement concrete (RCC) be used for which some part of the pillar was dismantled.”The delay in the project has also been affecting the traffic movement.Home and Health Minister Anil Vij who had laid the foundation stone of the project, has directed Ambala Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh to look into the delay and check if there were lapses on part of officials. Following the minister’s directions, a three-member committee comprising the Chief Engineer of the Municipal Council Sadar Zone, Executive Engineer and SDO of PWD (B&R) has been formed to conduct the inquiry.The Executive Engineer of the Sadar Zone Municipal Council, Vikas Dhiman, said: “Issue related to design, NOC from the NHAI and four-laning project have delayed the project. The work will be completed by December.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-ambala-cantonment-welcome-gate-at-snails-pace-322866
11-10-2021||---||Murder case cracked, one arrested||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 10With the arrest of a man, the police today claimed to have solved the blind murder of Bijendra alias Matru Pahalwan (40) at Charra village, within 24 hours.The accused have been identified as Himanshu alias Chintu, Ajay and Ankur, all residents of Charra village. Himanshu has been arrested while the other two are absconding. The police have recovered a country-made pistol and cartridge from his possession.Matru’s body was found dead on Friday night and his car was missing from the spot.SP Rajesh Duggal said the murder was committed by Himanshu and his two accomplices after Matru refused to give them money for liquor. “The accused were roaming in the village in an inebriated state and wanted to buy liquor. They spotted Matru in his car and demanded money from him. When he refused, one of the accused removed the car key and opened fire on Matru. He died on the spot,” Duggal said.The trio fled the spot in the car and removed the number plate, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-case-cracked-one-arrested-322867
11-10-2021||New Delhi||Cop kills brother-in-law over financial dispute||A Delhi Police constable shot dead his brother-in-law with his service pistol over a financial dispute in the Safdarjung Enclave area here today.The accused has been identified as Vikram Singh. He shot at his brother-in-law Virender Nandal (36), a resident of Rohtak, in the head.Nandal was posted as a sub-inspector in the Haryana Police while the accused was a constable with the Greater Kailash police station in Delhi, the police said.The police said: “Singh had taken money from Nandal and had asked for some time to return it. However, Nandal was putting pressure on him to give back the money,” adding that the duo had an altercation this morning, during which Singh shot dead Nandal with his service pistol.Singh was arrested from the spot and the weapon was recovered. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-kills-brother-in-law-over-financial-dispute-322868
11-10-2021||---||1,050 eucalyptus trees cut illegally in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, October 10A man has cut 1,050 eucalyptus trees illegally from panchayat land at Rampur Raainya village in Sadhaura block of Yamunanagar district.Revenue loss  After cutting the trees, the suspect reportedly sold the wood, causing a huge revenue loss to the government.After cutting, the suspect reportedly sold the wood, causing a huge revenue loss to the government.On the complaint of a villager, Ram Payari of Rampur Raainya village, a case was registered against a man of Rampur Raainya village under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC at Sadhaura police station on October 7.The complainant informed the authorities of the Panchayat Department on October 6 that a man of her village was cutting eucalyptus trees illegally. After getting information, Dinesh Sharma, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Sadhaura, sent panchayat secretary Rajesh Kumar to the spot on October 6. “On October 6, we found that 830 eucalyptus trees were cut from the panchayat land. The wood of 700 illegally felled trees was found lying on the spot,” reads the statement of the panchayat secretary in the FIR. As per the FIR, the panchayat secretary told the suspect not to load the wood of the cut trees in his vehicles, but after the panchayat secretary left the spot, the suspect loaded the wood and sold it in the market. “On October 7, he cut 220 trees and sold those,” reads the statement of the panchayat secretary in the FIR. Dinesh Sharma, BDPO, said that as soon as they got information about the illegal felling of the trees, he immediately sent a panchayat secretary to look into the matter.“We got an FIR registered against the suspect for felling 1,050 trees. Besides, we will assess the value of the felled trees,” said Dinesh Sharma, BDPO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-050-eucalyptus-trees-cut-illegally-in-yamunanagar-322869
11-10-2021||---||75 war widows to  be honoured in Rewari||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 10The Rezang La Shaurya Samiti will felicitate 75 war widows with monetary aid of Rs 10,000 each during the Rezang Lal Shaurya Diwas to be celebrated here on November 18 in collaboration with the War Widows Association, Delhi, and the Rezang La Trust. The decision was taken at a meeting of the samiti held here today.Naresh Chauhan, general secretary of the samiti, informed besides war widows, those who performed remarkably in the fields of education,sports, social work, health and journalism will also be awarded with the ‘Rezang La Shaura Samman’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-war-widows-to-be-honoured-in-rewari-322870
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||e-vehicle centre opened at Ballabgarh||A unique electric vehicle (EV) fulfilment centre was opened at Ballabgarh by eWheelers Mobility, a market place for EVs headquartered at Hyderabad.“The state is giving a subsidy on the purchase of EVs. We are happy to bring a first-of-its-kind EV fulfilment centre to the state. The idea is to provide a physical outlet that can help in quick delivery of EVs booked by customers on our online platform,” said Vasu Deva Reddy Beerala, CEO and founder, eWheelers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-vehicle-centre-opened-at-ballabgarh-322871
11-10-2021||Panipat||Panipat villagers form panel to act against ‘polluting’ liquor unit||Residents of around 10 villages in the Samalkha area have formed a 51-member committee to decide the next course of action to shut down a liquor manufacturing unit. It is reportedly spreading pollution in surrounding villages and causing eye, skin allergies and other severe diseases.The villagers alleged that the unit was polluting air, water and environment by discharging untreated effluent openly and emitting fly ash.Enraged over the delay in action on the unit, the villagers on Sunday organised a mahapanchayat on the premises of the historical Shyam Baba temple in Chulkana village at Samalkha. They demanded that the unit be shut.Madan Kumar, ex-sarpanch of Chulkana village, and others said the liquor unit was established in 1992 and the residents had been forced to face scores of problems for the past 28 years. “We submitted a memorandum to MP Sanjay Bhatia around 10 days ago and he has marked the complaint to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). We also submitted a memorandum to the SDM, Samalkha, but to no avail.”Denying the allegations, Samalkha SDM Ashwani Malik said the HSPCB had served notice on the unit, which had to reply to the notice by October 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-villagers-form-panel-to-act-against-polluting-liquor-unit-322872
11-10-2021||Rewari||Haryana Governor honours Rewari girl||National virtual lab workshopFaridabad: A national-level lab workshop titled "Computer aided drug design" was organised by the department of chemistry of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh . According to Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, Prof Mukesh Doble, dept of biotechnology, IIT Madras, who was the main speaker focused on the topic aimed at making students aware of how to design drugs with the help of computers. The speakers emphasised on the need of such workshops in the present day scenario. The participants included 45 delegates from 15 universities and 23 colleges from 10 different states.Investiture ceremonyRewari: Air Force Day and the investiture ceremony of the newly selected school prefects was celebrated at Sainik School here on Friday. Air Marshal, VK Verma, was the chief guest, who exhorted the cadets to devote themselves to studies and imbibe traits like sincerity, obedience to duty, good communication skills and patriotism which would turn them into a good officer and an equally good human being. Principal Soumyabrata Dhar informed those teachers whose results were outstanding and cadets who brought laurels to the school in academics during the last academic year were felicitated by the chief guest. Besides, a video depicting the brief history and importance of the Indian Air Force was shown.World Postal Day celebratedAmbala: MMIS Sadopur (Ambala) observed World Postal Day to create awareness among students on the importance of postal services in our life. This day is celebrated to mark the role played by the Postal Department. Today when SMS and Email have replaced the traditional postcards and letter writing, our school encouraged the students to revive and remember the old medium of communication through various interesting activities such as letter box making, designing a stamp and poster making. Students participated with great zest and zeal.‘Kala Ki Udaan’ organisedAmbala : A creative activity "Kala ki Udaan" was organised at Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantt. The aim of the activity was to discover and hone the talent of embroidery among students. As many as 47 students showcased their talent with great fervour and enthusiasm. Aryan (11C) got the first position, second and third position were bagged by Kumkum Vaish (XI C)and Harshita Mishra (XI B), respectively. PrincipalMunish Jain applauded the extra-ordinary endeavours of all the participants and congratulated the winners.Photography workshopKurukshetra: Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University,s said technical skill was very important in photography. He said in the New Education Policy 2020, skill development has been described as the aim of education. He was speaking as the chief guest at the inauguration of a two-day National Photography Workshop on the topic 'New trends in contemporary photography' under the joint aegis of the Fine Arts Department of KU and Kala Uday Society under the banner of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav in the Senate Hall of KU on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-honours-rewari-girl-322873
11-10-2021||Hisar||State politics melting pot for age-old rivalries||Interesting face-off between MLAsRohtak: The face-off between sitting Congress MLAfrom Rohtak Bharat Bhushan Batra and former BJP MLA Manish Grover is getting interesting. Owing to his stature in the ruling party and his proximity to the Chief Minister, Grover is still calling the shots in the matters pertaining to Rohtak, much to the chagrin of Batra. Grover, a former Minister of State, is often invited to public functions while Batra is mostly ignored, despite the fact that he had defeated Grover and occupies the Rohtak seat in the Vidhan Sabha.BJP preparing ground for Yadav in Ahirwal?Rewari: The inclusion of Union Minister Bhupender Yadav in the national execute of the BJP has given credential to the speculation that the BJP is preparing political ground for Yadav in the state, especially in Ahirwal region. “Yadav is the Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan but he has been given a berth in the party’s national executive from Haryana quota, which is a clear indication that the BJP wants to stand on its feet in Ahirwal by pitching Yadav there as it has largely been dependent upon Rao Inderjit in the past two Assembly elections,” observes a political analyst.Hospital turns political chamberGurugram: One of Gurugram’s premium hospitals has virtually been converted into a political negotiation chamber after admission of farmer leader Tajinder Singh Virk. Virk was injured during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and rushed to Medanta, where he underwent surgery. Ever since his admission, various political leaders and party delegations have made a beeline to meet Virk. Leaders from Haryana and Punjab are out to gather support from Virk, who has hit headlines after the violence. This, however, has left authorities harried owing to security and patient privacy concerns and want Virk to recover and get discharged soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-politics-melting-pot-for-age-old-rivalries-322874
11-10-2021||One can go to any colony||Garbage, stray cattle nuisance for residents||Colonel (rtd) RD Singh, AmbalaVendors occupy pedestrian passage in GurugramThe pictures relate to mushrooming of illegal business on the pedestrian passages in Sector 51, Gurugram, in the line of Amity School vice versa . The road is very important in view of the fact that it leads to civil courts, bus stand, railway station, hospitals, schools and other important offices. Here some quacks have ensconced permanently for many years. Besides, barbers, coconut sellers and tea, pan-bidi sellers also setup their business. Ultimately no space is left for commuters and morning/evening walkers. I I hope the administration will take cognisance of the issue and remove the illegal setup in public interest.Gian Parkash, GurugramEncroachments narrow road space in marketsWith the beginning of the festival season, all main markets in Rohtak city are abuzz with shoppers but the encroachment on both sides of the roads by the shopkeepers has led to traffic jams. At some places, the shopkeepers have also placed stalls outside their shops to sell their items that narrow the road space. The municipal authorities claim to act against encroachers but nothing has been done at the ground level. Since the crowd is expected to increase in the markets in the coming days hence there is an urgent need of solving the issue of traffic jams.Abhishek, RohtakWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-stray-cattle-nuisance-for-residents-322875
11-10-2021||Ambala||2 held with 80-gm heroin||Wrestling c’ship from Oct 23Jhajjar: The two-day Haryana Senior State Wrestling Championship will be organised at Ladrawan village on October 23 and 24. More than 500 wrestlers from various districts are participating in the championship. The winners of the championship will head on to the National Senior Wrestling Championship to be held in UP. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-with-80-gm-heroin-322876
11-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll: BJP alleges assault, 25 farmers booked||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 10The police on Sunday booked about 25 farmer activists for allegedly assaulting BJP workers while they were canvassing for the bypoll at Ellenabad in Sirsa district.Also read: Ellenabad bypoll: Ajay Chautala flays ‘assault’ on BJP workersSKM refutes chargeIn his complaint, BJP’s Ellenabad (urban) block president Jasvir Chahal alleged he, Gobind Kanda and party workers were canvassing when 25 persons — five of them identified as Narender, Rana, Sonu Barar, Gurmeet Singh and Nirmal Singh — assaulted them.He alleged the accused abused them and raised slogans against them.The police have registered a case for rioting, unlawful assembly and criminal intimidation besides various provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Gurnam Singh Charuni rejected the charges, saying: “We are not supporting any candidate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-bjp-alleges-assault-25-farmers-booked-322801
