12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Haryana government employees can participate in RSS activities||The Haryana government on Monday withdrew two orders, issued in 1967 and 1980, that restrained its employees from participating in the activities of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), prompting a strong reaction from the Congress which asked if the Khattar dispensation was running a “BJP-RSS Pathshala”.“With the coming into effect of the Haryana Civil Services (Government Employees’ Conduct) Rules, 2016, government instructions…dated 2.4.1980 and…dated 11.1.1967 are hereby withdrawn with immediate effect as they are no longer relevant,” the general administration department said in an order issued on Monday.With the Monday decision, now Haryana government employees can take part in RSS activities.The order prompted strong reaction from the Congress party.                 “Now, Haryana employees are free to take part in activities of the Sangh (RSS),” Congress leader Randeep Surjewala tweeted, tagging the order issued by the general administration department.Attacking the government led by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has been an RSS pracharak, Surjewala further asked “are they running a government or a BJP-RSS Pathshala”.In April 1980, instructions issued by the then general administration department of the Haryana’s chief secretary’s office restrained the state government employees from any association with RSS activities.Before that in January 1967, the political and services branch of the chief secretary’s office in Haryana had issued an instruction saying that participation in RSS activities by government employees would invite action under the service rules.The Monday communications nullified these two orders.Khattar became the chief minister in 2014 when the BJP, for the first time, formed a government of its own strength in Haryana.The instructions restraining government employees from taking part in RSS activities had remained in force until now. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-haryana-government-employees-can-participate-in-rss-activities-323596
12-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll: Prominent Haryana Congress leaders to campaign in Ellenabad||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 11The Congress has handed out the task for campaigning in the Ellenabad byelection entirely to the state leaders, as no central leader of the party, except the Haryana affairs in charge Vivek Bansal, has been included in the list of star campaigners.AICC ’s list of Star campaignersThe AICC’s list of star campaigners for the byelection includes state chief Kumari Selja, ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kuldeep Bishnoi, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, Kiran Choudhary and Capt Ajay Yadav.Three nomination papers cancelledReturning Officer Narender Pal Malik said two nominations papers filed for Ellenabad were cancelled due to the non-deposit of the fee and non-fulfillment of proposers, while the third nomination paper was cancelled as the person was a covering candidate of a party.The AICC has issued a list of star campaigners which includes state president Kumari Selja, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kuldeep Bishnoi, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, Kiran Choudhary and Capt Ajay Yadav. The bypoll is also a test of the unity of the leaders in the Haryana unit, which is marred by factionalism.The Congress has fielded Pawan Beniwal who defected from the BJP to the Congress recently, much to the annoyance of the former MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal. The Congress is thus not only facing challenge from the INLD and the ruling BJP-JJP, Bharat Beniwal too could make a dent if he turns rebel, as he has a dedicated cadre base in the segment, said a party leader. Meanwhile, the Congress has roped in the Olympics bronze medallist boxer Vijender Kumar to strike a chord with the youth.Political observers said the Congress had also brought in some other leaders, including Chakrawarti Sharma, Ashok Arora, Charanjeet Singh Rori, Sushil Indora, Bajrang Garg and Bhupender Gangwa, in an attempt to strike caste equations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-prominent-haryana-congress-leaders-to-campaign-in-ellenabad-323378
12-10-2021||Hisar||Ellenabad byelection: Congress leaders hold meeting in Sirsa to chalk out poll strategy||Congress leaders held a meeting in Sirsa today to chalk out a strategy for the Ellenabad byelection.Nehra joins congressFormer state minister Jagdish Nehra returned to the Congress at the party workers' meeting in Sirsa. Nehra had switched over to the BJP in 2014.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state Congress president Kumari Selja and Haryana incharge Vivek Bansal asked party workers to embark on person-to-person contact programme for mobilising support from the electorate for party candidate Pawan Beniwal.Addressing workers, Selja said the party was united and poised to win the Ellenabad byelection. She said every section of the society was unhappy with the anti-people policies of the government.Hooda said the farmers’ movement was a big issue because the government had adopted a rigid stand. Meanwhile, former minister Jagdish Nehra announced to have left the BJP and joined the Congress today in Sirsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-byelection-congress-leaders-hold-meeting-in-sirsa-to-chalk-out-poll-strategy-323379
12-10-2021||---||Panel begins inquiry into Bastara toll plaza violence||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The one-man Commission of Inquiry (CoI) set up by the Haryana Government to inquire into the sequence of events that led to violence in Karnal began its probe today.IAS OFFICER’S ROLE UNDER SCANNERThe panel will ascertain persons responsible for the situation and will inquire into role of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, the then Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Karnal, in the action by the police on August 28. — Somnath Aggarwal, Retd Judge, HCJustice Somnath Aggarwal, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was appointed as head of the Commission of Inquiry last month.Talking to reporters here today, he said since the commission had to inquire the entire sequence of events, leading to the incidents at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28, “the inquiry will take about four or five months” to complete.The government appointed the inquiry commission “in a bid to ensure fair and transparent inquiry to inquire into the sequence of events leading to incidents at Bastara Toll Plaza in Karnal”, he added.“The Commission will ascertain persons responsible for the said situation and will also inquire into role of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, the then Sub Divisional Magistrate, Karnal, in the action by the police on August 28,” Justice Aggarwal said.The inquiry commission will complete the inquiry and then submit the report to the state government in a month, from the date of publication of the notification in the official gazette, the statement had said.Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, was caught on tape while allegedly telling personnel to “break the heads” of protesting farmers if they breached the barricades near the spot where the BJP’s event was taking place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-begins-inquiry-into-bastara-toll-plaza-violence-323381
12-10-2021||Sonepat||‘Shaheed Kisan Diwas’ today||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced to mark October 12 as “Shaheed Kisan Diwas” all over India. Besides, the antim ardas of the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri will take place in Tikunia at Sahebjada Inter College.The SKM has appealed to the farmers’ organisations across the country to mark the “Shaheed Kisan Diwas” by organising prayer meetings. In the evening, candlelight vigils will be held. The Morcha urged people to light five candles outside their homes at 8 pm tomorrow.Meanwhile, farm leaders, in a joint statement, said it was shameful on part of the Union Government that the MoS Ajay Mishra Teni had not been sacked yet.The SKM has already issued an ultimatum about October 11 being the deadline for the sacking and arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni. Tomorrow, at the prayer meetings in Lakhimpur Kheri, the Morcha will go ahead with its announced plan of action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shaheed-kisan-diwas-today-323382
12-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||STPs to be upgraded in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 11As the disposal of untreated industrial and chemical waste into drains continues, the authorities have launched a project to upgrade sewage treatment plants (STPs) here at a cost of Rs 322 crore. Over 450 MLD of waste is generated daily in the city against a treatment capacity of 120 MLD at present.Lying ‘defunct’One STP handed overWhile a newly built STP of 7.5 MLD is being handed over to the FMDA, another 30-MLD STP was under construction in Badhshahpur village. — Rajiv Sharma, Superintending Engineer, Haryana Shahri Vikas PradhikaranSources in the district administration said while almost all untreated waste is dumped underground or into drains, around 100 MLD of waste is generated by industrial units in the city.They said unsafe disposal had been a prime cause of pollution of underground water and the Yamuna river into which drains release their discharge. They said around 300 manufacturing units here were required to run effluent treatment plants (ETPs) but many of them were not complying with the norms, resulting in illegal discharge of waste.“We have been facing the problem of stagnated untreated waste water in the industrial sector of 58 for many years,” said an entrepreneur. “Though as per norms, the city requires functional STPs with the capacity of about 500 MLD, only one STP with a capacity of 45 MLD is functional at present,” said an official who claimed that two of the three STPs having a capacity of 90 MLD were lying defunct from many years. However, Faridabad Municipal Corporation officials said while the upgrade of two STPs was underway, the third one was functional. With a budget of Rs 332 crore, the upgrade is expected to be done by March 2023. The MC has also proposed to hand over the STPs to the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA).“While a newly built STP of 7.5 MLD is being handed over to the FMDA, another 30-MLD STP was under construction in Badhshahpur village,” says Rajiv Sharma, Superintending Engineer, HSVP. “As a Special Task Force carries out checking of the ETPs of the industrial units, offenders are often imposed with environmental compensation penalties,” says Smita Kanodia, Regional officer, pollution control department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stps-to-be-upgraded-in-faridabad-323388
12-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||68 dengue cases in Ambala, likely to increase||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 11Dengue cases are on a rise in Ambala after over 50 cases have been reported in the district over the past 20 days. So far, 68 cases have been confirmed.The Health Department believes that nearly 10 to 15 more cases are likely to be confirmed as results of nearly 150 samples are awaited. Last year, a total of 42 dengue cases were reported.An official in the Health Department says waterlogging in small pockets due to untimely rainfall and unhygienic conditions have led to the breeding of mosquitoes.Of the 68 confirmed cases, 45 patients have been treated and discharged while the remaining are undergoing treatment. However, no case of malaria has come to light so far.The Health Department has served notices on 6,670 residents in the Ambala district since July, after dengue larvae were found at their houses during the inspection.“Results of around 150 samples are awaited and the number of dengue positive cases may increase further, but the department has been taking all measures to control the spread,” Kuldip Singh, Civil Surgeon, said.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjeev Singla said necessary steps were being taken to check mosquito breeding. The department is creating awareness among people so that they don’t allow water to stagnate in their surroundings.To a query, the Civil Surgeon said: “A 10-year-old boy from the Naraingarh died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, earlier this month, but he had tested negative for dengue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/68-dengue-cases-in-ambala-likely-to-increase-323389
12-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram civic body to set up CCTV network, control room||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 11Out to ensure vigilance and security in every nook and corner, the Gurugram Municipal Corporation has decided to set up its own CCTV network across the city with a separate control room. The decision was taken at the House meeting today where the councillors highlighted that the cameras installed by the GMDA were just restricted to traffic intersections and were useful in dealing with traffic violations.Elderly lack socialising optionsA majority of households in the city today are empty nests and the pandemic has restricted socialising options for senior citizens. There are people who have been confined to homes since over a year and now have nowhere to go. We wish to make the city more inclusive and senior citizens need their own kind of infrastructure — Madhu Azad, MayorTo deal with illegal garbage dumpingAccording to the House, the cameras, will also help in dealing with issues like illegal garbage dumping, garbage burning and progress of civic projects.“There are repeated complaints of snatchings, vehicle thefts, burglaries and security concerns of senior citizens. The lanes are also not safe now and there has been a constant demand of vigilance across the city, especially in areas like Sadar Bazar and other parts of Gurugram. We will get in touch with the Gurugram police and set up a separate control room,” said Mayor Madhu Azad.The cameras, according to the House will also help in dealing with issues like illegal garbage dumping, garbage burning and progress of civic projects .Setting up of senior citizens’ clubs across the city was among the other projects approved. It is not just to enhance the social infrastructure but also to aid the senior citizens who have been left feeling lonely due to the pandemic.“A majority of households in the city today are empty nests and the pandemic has restricted socialising options for senior citizens. There are people who have been confined to their homes since over a year and now have nowhere to go. The open parks too are not very secure. We wish to make the city more inclusive and senior citizens need their own kind of infrastructure,” added Azad.The meeting was relatively peaceful this time. Among other agendas, there was the issue of alleged inaction against erring contractors. The local councillors demanded explanation over no action against C and D treatment plant contractor IL and FS despite being found guilty for ‘illegally subletting’ the entire plant and ‘illegal extortion of money’ in the name of waste collection by its subsidary the Aiyyer Group.Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said a legal opinion was sought and the contractor had been issued a show-cause notice. “Action will be taken after going through their reply” he informed the House.One of the key issues that stormed the House was complaints against waste management firm ‘Ecogreen’. The councillors alleged that the company was not only faltering in garbage management leading to sanitation crisis in the city but the people hired by it had now allegedly resorted to violence. It may be noted that it was two days ago that a Dharam colony resident was allegedly thrashed for refusing to pay Rs 100 for garbage collection, which is meant to be free. The councillors alleged that even they were roughed up by the company goons when they objected to their working in wards. The Congress has moved to CM Manohar Lal Khattar highlighting and seeking action against the company.“So far, they have nothing in terms of treating garbage and badhwari is a live example. I have written to the CM as to how the contractor was made advance payment of crores,” said captain Ajay Singh Yadav, senior Congress leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-civic-body-to-set-up-cctv-network-control-room-323394
12-10-2021||---||Applications invited for Sainik Schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Online applications have been invited from students keen to take admission in Class VI and Class IX in Sainik Schools for the academic session 2022-23. The last date to apply is October 26.The All India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE) for admission to these classes will be held on January 9, 2022. For more information, www.nta.ac.in. Students can also visit www.aissee.nta.nic.in.Sharing information in this regard, an official spokesperson said for the academic session 2022-23, Sainik School, Kunjpura (Karnal), has 83 seats (73 boys, 10 girls) while Sainik School, Rewari, has 60 seats (50 boys, 10 girls) in Class VI.The examination for Class VI will of 300 marks while for Class IX, it will be of 400 marks. The duration for the same is 150 minutes and 180 minutes, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-for-sainik-schools-323395
12-10-2021||---||Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak,  gets next-gen genome sequencing lab||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 11An advanced next-generation genome sequencing laboratory set up on the campus of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak was inaugurated today.To help in multiple fieldsThe MDU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Rajbir Singh, stated that this modern laboratory would help in the exploration of viral, microbial, animal, plant and environmental genomes, and would facilitate the applications of genomic sequencing in multiple fields.The laboratory has been set up at a cost of Rs 1.2 crore, which has been borne entirely by Rockefeller Foundation. It has been set up by the PATH organisation.In his inaugural address, the MDU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Rajbir Singh, stated that this modern laboratory would help in the exploration of viral, microbial, animal, plant and environmental genomes, and would facilitate the applications of genomic sequencing in multiple fields.He expressed the hope that this scientific facility would pave the way for innovative healthcare solutions and boost the research ecosystem of the university. The vice-Chancellor said the MDU was looking forward to working with Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, for joint applications, studies and research, especially in the area of life sciences.He expressed gratitude to PATH organisation for setting up the advanced laboratory at the university and Rockefeller Foundation for the financial support. Prof Dhruva Chaudhry, senior professor and head of the department of pulmonary and critical care medicine at UHS, underlined the importance of collaborative studies and research between the MDU and UHS. “Genomic epidemiology is one specific area where collaborative studies and research are the need of the hour,” he maintained.Earlier, Dr NS Chauhan, associate professor and principal investigator of genomic sequencing project, gave a detailed presentation on the scope of the genome sequencing laboratory.“The applications of genome sequencing will be for DNA as well as RNA. It has utility in viral genomics, microbial genomics, disease diagnostics, forensic genomics, environmental genomics, human genome sequencing, gene expression proficiency and evolutionary phytogenetics,” he pointed out.Dr Mayank Sharma, senior programme officer, PATH organization, disclosed that the MDU, Rohtak, was the only university in the country chosen for the project, while the four other institutions selected for it were medical colleges or scientific organisations.He pointed out that genome sequencing had application in management of Covid-19 as well as other diseases based on gene-sequencing analysis. The PATH organization will work closely with the MDU for this genome-sequencing project, he added.Proposing the vote of thanks, the MDU Director (Research), Prof Anil K Chillar, said this facility would have a stellar role in futuristic genomics based research work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-gets-next-gen-genome-sequencing-lab-323396
12-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana thermal plants have four-day coal stock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Amidst coal shortage, Haryana thermal power stations have been left with four-day stock.There are five thermal power stations in the state. Three are operated by Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) — Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Project Yamunanagar (600 MW), Panipat Thermal Power Station (710 MW) and Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Project Hisar (1200 MW).No power shortage in state, say authoritiesThere is no power shortage in Haryana. We are meeting the requirement of 15 cr to 18 cr units on an average every day. The demand is low compared to what it used to be during the summer, so the situation is manageable. Also, the paddy season is over.— PK Das, Additional Chief Secy, Power“We are left with four-day coal stock. But the situation has been the same for the last two months. The supply is improving,” said Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Power PK Das. He added, “Every year during the rainy season, the supply dwindles due to the flooding of mines in coal-producing states. This time there was an extended rainfall season, which continued to October. That is why this situation is persisting still now.” He said the HPGCL required 20,000-25,000 tonne coal per day. “All of them are running as of now,” said Mohammed Shayin, Managing Director, Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL).“As of the existing situation, the Hisar plant could run for seven days, Yamunanagar plant could function for 10 days, but Panipat plant might have to be closed down after four-five days,” he added.He said they required require six racks of coal every day. “One rack implies one train-full of coal. We are getting 2.2 racks. But now, we have been promised that we would be getting eight racks of coal,” he said. After states flagged blackout possibilities, citing coal shortage at power plants, the Centre had on Sunday said that coal stock at power plants was sufficient for over four days and fears of power disruption were misplaced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-thermal-plants-have-four-day-coal-stock-323399
12-10-2021||Panipat||Outsourcing appointments to be done through Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam||Minister of State (MoS) for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda today said that all appointments that were previously made under the outsourcing policy I and II would now be done through Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam (HKRN).The move would not only prevent exploitation of employees working on a contract basis, but also play a pivotal role in ensuring ample employment opportunities to eligible candidates, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/outsourcing-appointments-to-be-done-through-haryana-kaushal-rozgar-nigam-323400
12-10-2021||---||Cops come to rescue of newborn girl in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, October 11The police came to the rescue of a newborn girl who was found abandoned near a temple in Ahri village here early on Monday morning.Cops rushed her to the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar and ensured medical treatment for her. Her condition was critical when the child was brought to the hospital, but now she is recuperating well.Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Duggal announced to felicitate the cops for this noble act.A team of cops, deployed under the Machhrauli police station for Dial 112 services, got information around 5 am that a newborn child was lying in the village in an abandoned condition. The team, comprising ASI Poonam Kumar, constable Sandeep and Shamsher Singh, rushed to the spot in an emergency response vehicle. They took the newborn to the hospital in Jhajjar.A doctor at the hospital said the infant turned blue, while her blood sugar was also very low. She was immediately given medical treatment. Feed from another woman was also being given to the girl. “She has been kept at the intensive care unit under the close supervision of doctors and all required investigations are being done. Her condition is better now,” she added.Meanwhile, some people came to the hospital to adopt the girl when they learnt about the incident. “Efforts are on to find out the parents, while a case has been registered,” Duggal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-come-to-rescue-of-newborn-girl-in-jhajjar-323401
12-10-2021||Hisar||Sampat Singh urges Haryana CM to bridge ‘gap between farmers, PM Modi’||Former Haryana Finance Minister Sampat Singh today asked Chief Minister Manohar Lal to help “bridge the gap of a phone call” between the agitating farmers and the Prime Minister.In a statement issued here today, he said since the apex court had indefinitely stayed the contentious farm laws, the Centre should immediately withdraw these.He said the farmers were facing unprecedented crisis due to damage to their crops by floods, heavy and unseasonal rains, low prices and the failure of the government agencies to lift their harvest lying in mandis.He said on top of this, farmers had been sitting on borders of Delhi seeking the withdrawal of the three farm laws. Sampat Singh said the Lakhimpur Kheri killings had caused nationwide resentment among all sections of society. It was only after the outrage that the police took some action. He said there was a great resentment against the BJP-led state government. As a result, the police were preoccupied with trying to maintain order at the cost of curbing crime. He said the government should pay compensation to farmers at the rate of Rs 30,000 an acre for damage to crops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sampat-singh-urges-haryana-cm-to-bridge-gap-between-farmers-pm-modi-323403
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana private schools told to update fee data till Oct 20||The Haryana Government has given time till October 20 to private schools to update their data for the reimbursement of student fee under Rule 134-A.An official spokesperson said the state government had developed an online portal under Rule 134-A for the reimbursement of fee of students promoted in recognised private schools from Class II to VIII during the academic session 2020-21.Thus, the recognised private schools in which meritorious students of the BPL/EWS category had been admitted under the above rule, could update their data till October 20 by clicking on ‘APPLICATION PRINT’ section given on the link of departmental website. For any enquiry, e-mail id hryedu.fee134@gmail.com or phone number 0172-5049801 could be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-private-schools-told-to-update-fee-data-till-oct-20-323404
12-10-2021||---||Govt invites applications from minorities for scholarship schemes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The Haryana Social Justice and Empowerment Department, in collaboration with the Ministry of Minorities has invited applications from six minority communities (Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs, Parsis, Muslims, Christians) for pre-matric, post-matric and merit-cum-means scholarship schemes for 2021-22.While giving this information today, an official spokesperson said the last date to apply online for the pre-matric scholarship was November 15 and the last date to apply online for post-matric scholarship and merit-cum-means/top-class scholarship wasNovember 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-invites-applications-from-minorities-for-scholarship-schemes-323405
12-10-2021||---||270 conferred degrees at Gurugram varsity||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 11A convocation was held at Gurugram University today, at which 270 students were conferred degrees. Governor Bandaru Dattatreya presented degrees to students of 16 departments. Gold medals were also awarded to 17 students.The Governor called upon students to strive to become job givers and not job seekers. He urged the students to work for the development of the country. “Education is not just a means of getting employment but a means to pave the path for the welfare of humanity. Equipped with knowledge and skills, degree holders should play a proactive role in achieving the broader objectives of life and the nation,” Dattatreya said.The Governor also laid stress on the need for greater participation of women in every sphere of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/270-conferred-degrees-at-gurugram-varsity-323406
12-10-2021||---||Gita mahotsav from Dec 2-19||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 11The International Gita Mahotsav-2021 will be celebrated from December 2-19 at the Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra.Nodal Officer for the mahotsav and Director General, Food and Civil Supplies Department, Vijay Dahiya held a meeting with all departments concerned and officials of the Kurukshetra Development Board in Kurukshetra today and issued directions. The theme of the mahotsav will be Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Dahiya said, “The mahotsav will be celebrated like previous years and all events will be orgnaised, but at the same time the Covid protocol will also be followed. Some new events are also being planned. Different events will be orgnaised at the tirthas across the 48-kos land during the mahotsav.” During the meeting, the Nodal Officer directed the officials to start floating all tenders and constitute committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gita-mahotsav-from-dec-2-19-323408
12-10-2021||---||Palwal: Wife among 3 held for murder||Tribune News ServicePalwal, October 11Cracking a hit-and-run case, the police have arrested three persons who have been charged with murder. The accused include the wife of the victim, who was run over by an SUV on September 28 near a toll plaza on the National Highway-19 in the district.SP Deepak Gahlawat said the recent death of Gajender Singh, a teacher hailing from Mitrol village, in an accident has been found to be a case of murder, which was committed after a conspiracy was hatched by his wife and her paramour.He said Gajender (32) was riding his motorcycle when he was hit by a speeding SUV, resulting in his death. The police launched a probe after the kin of the deceased suspected it was a case of murder. He said the detective cell, which collected CCTV footage, found out that the accident was done deliberately by some persons.In this regard, Rohtash of Mitrol and Deepak of a Srinagar village were nabbed last evening from near Kithwari village. They confessed to have committed the crime. Pushpa, wife of Gajender, has also been arrested. The police said Rohtash, who was known to the couple, had developed illicit relations with Gajender’s wife. This had resulted in sour relations between the husband-wife duo.While two of the accused have been remanded in one-day police remand, the woman has been sent to judicial custody. The fourth accused, who carried out a recce to carry out the plan, is yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-wife-among-3-held-for-murder-323409
12-10-2021||Panipat||Two killed, four injured in road accident||Two persons were killed and four injured in an accident near Rajepur village in Indri of Karnal district in the wee hours on Monday.The deceased were identified as Anil (32) of Assandh and Prashant (30) of Poora village in Muzaffarnagar of Uttar Pradesh.Shakti Balyan of Soram village in Muzaffar Nagar, in his complaint to the Indri police, said he, along with his colleagues, Dev, Prashant Sharma, Anil Kumar, Shiv Kumar, Rohit, Vijay Kumar and Kuldeep, were on their way to their company in a tempo traveller of the company at around 5 am on Monday.As they reached near Rajepur village, a speeding tractor, with an overloaded trailer of dust, came from the Garhi Birbal village side and hit their vehicle. Prashant Sharma died on the spot, while Anil died at Kalpana Chawla Medical College.A case against the driver of the tractor-trailer, who fled from the mishap site. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-four-injured-in-road-accident-323410
12-10-2021||---||All services through PPP from Nov 1||Chandigarh, October 11Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while chairing the first meeting of Haryana Parivar Pehchan Authority, (HPPA) today directed officers to ensure that from November 1, all schemes and services being given by various departments should be given only through Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP).“The authority will ensure that data of every eligible family entitled to get benefits of all government schemes is verified along with the drafting of necessary rules and policies at the earliest with the prior approval of the state government so that the beneficiaries can get benefits in a time-bound manner,” said Khattar, who is also the chairman of the authority.Chief Executive Officer, HPPA, Vikas Gupta apprised the CM that over 64 lakh families had registered on the PPP portal, out of which more than 56 lakh families had given self-declaration of data shared by them.He shared that out of the 315 services being presently given through the Saral portal, 286 had been already integrated with the PPP portal. Along with this, data of the PDS and pension schemes have also been integrated with the portal, while the work of integration process of property IDs is going on and will be completed soon, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-services-through-ppp-from-nov-1-323412
12-10-2021||Gurugram||Youth falls from fourth floor, dies||Pankaj (26), died after falling from the fourth floor of his rented house in Noble Enclave in Sector 22 here on Sunday. On Monday, the police handed over the body to his family after postmortem. Police investigation showed that he had slipped and fallen from the building. The police said he was working in a private automobile company in Gurugram. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-falls-from-fourth-floor-dies-323413
12-10-2021||Sonepat||Seminar on National education policy||Inter-house dance competitionKurukshetra: Tagore Global School organised Inter-house dance competition with the aim of honing dancing skills of students. The vivacious dancers set the floor on fire with their energetic performances. The fun-filled extravaganza offered classical, semi- classical, traditional and folk dances. Principal Dr Jayeta Auddy congratulated and appreciated the winners.International Girl Child dayAmbala: On the occasion of International Girl Child day, painting, slogan writing and essay-writing competitions were organised at SD Vidya School by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in association with Rotary Club, Ambala Central. This event was conducted to spread awareness on legal rights of girls. The chief guest of the day was Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Ambala Dr Sukhda Pritam. In her address, Dr Sukhda Pritam talked at length about the need to educate girls and the need to make them aware about their rights. She gave examples of former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi, Britain counterpart Margaret Thatcher and current Prime Minister of New Zealand Jacinda Ardern, the powerful female leaders who gave the world a new perspective.Bhiwani boy brings laurelsBhiwani: Ishant Sharma, a resident of Kharak Kalan village in Bhiwani district, has been selected for admission to Class VIII at Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun. The written examination was conducted on January 9, 2021 at Panchkula by the RIMC, which is run by the Ministry of Defence, Union Government. Out of 350 students from across the state, only six students can pass the exam. After this Ishant's mentor and coach Naresh Sharma said that about 25 students from all over the country are selected in the RIMC through examination, whereas only one child is selected from Haryana.College felicitatedYamunanagar: Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, felicitated Dr Deepak Kaushik, officiating principal of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur for rendering unparalleled services by the college for organising a voluntary blood donation camp every year. In a glittering function held at the AIIMS, New Delhi untiring efforts of MLN institutions in organising blood donation camps were appreciated. The college recently organised the 25th blood donation mela in which 158 units of blood were collected.Mental health weekGurugram: To celebrate the World Mental Health Day, the faculty of behavioural science, SGT University, Gurugram, conducted a three-day activities which concluded on Saturday. The events started with a mental health awareness rally. This was followed by a mental health survey. The students performed a "Nukkad-Natak" with a message that one should consult to trained professional for mental health-related problems. A school mental health intervention camp was organised to deliver mental health services at Government Senior secondary school, Chandu-Budhera. Dr Navdeep Singh Tung, Pro Vice-Chancellor highlighted the need for psychologists during the time of pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seminar-on-national-education-policy-323415
12-10-2021||With a majority of the bitumen laid roads in the city lying damaged for the past over two months||Deduct officials’ salary for delay in road repair work||Varun Sheokand, FaridabadMake arrangements for drainage of dirty waterThe sewerage system of Barwala city in Hisar has come to a standstill. The dirty water has splashed on to the roads and in the residential areas of Ward no. 6,7,8,14,16,18, Old Water Works, Daulatpur Marg and Main Chandigarh Road. The standing water has led to spread of dengue, malaria and other diseases in the town. The defunct sewerage system should be repaired and arrangements should be made for the drainage of dirty water accumulated on the roads.Bhupender Gangwa, BarwalaRethink paid parking in Panchkula Sector 20The decision of the Municipal Corporation of introducing paid parking in Sector 20 markets along the main road stretch from the traffic control lights, needs a rethink as space available outside the SCOs and booths in the three market places is too small to be cordoned off. The spill-over will aggravate movement on the road that remains encroached by rehriwallas and vehicles of their customers. Attempts at earninig good revenue should be commensurate with public safety and service/facility provided.Lalit Bhardwaj, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deduct-officials-salary-for-delay-in-road-repair-work-323438
12-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Desi arms from UP, Bihar make way into Haryana||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 11In an increasing trend, illegal weapons manufactured in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli (UP) and Munger (Bihar) are being smuggled into Haryana.Dangerous trendWhile a ‘desi katta’ is available for anywhere between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000, a more sophisticated gun can be procured for Rs 25,000-50,000, said sources. The matter came to the fore during police investigation into 128 cases registered under the Arms Act in Jhajjar district since January this year. At least 135 persons were arrested and 138 revolvers and 335 live cartridges seized in these cases.It was found that not just people with criminal background, others are also buying these weapons either for show-off or for personal security. Reference of those already in contact with illegal weapon manufactures is necessary to buy a firearm.Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar SP, said, “We had launched a campaign against those dealing in illegal weapons or possessing them early this year. A special team was formed in every police station to nab the offenders.”He said acting on a tip-off, a police team nabbed three accused from Jhajjar on June 18 and seized seven illegal weapons from them. They had bought the weapons from Meerut through a mediator. The accused, involved in 17 cases of heinous crimes, disclosed vital information about the illegal weapon trade, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/desi-arms-from-up-bihar-make-way-into-haryana-323284
