16-10-2021||New Delhi||Haryana youth deported after conviction for assault on Sikhs in Australia||Australia has deported to India Vishal Jood, a student originally from Haryana, who was convicted for assaults on Sikhs living in the country.Jood’s forced departure from Australia was accompanied by a strongly-worded statement from the Australian Immigration Minister Alex Hawke.“The Morrison government takes very seriously its responsibility to protect Australians from non-citizens who engage in criminal conduct. We will always act decisively to protect our community,” he told South Asia Times, an Australian media house while describing Jood as an “unlawful non-citizen” at the time of his arrest.“I am pleased that this unfortunate event has seen our resilient local Hindu and Sikh communities unite. In particular, I want to thank the community leaders for their resilience against the attempts by a small minority to incite discord and disharmony,” he added.The Haryana youth was arrested for attacks on Sikhs on September 16, 2020, and February 14 and February 28 this year. Later under a plea bargain some charges were withdrawn and he was convicted for 12 months with parole after six months. He was shifted straight to the custody of immigration officials after being released on parole.Jood received support from Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar who wrote to the MEA seeking intervention for his release. His supporters claimed he was fighting the ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘trying to protect the Indian Tricolour.’Some Indian-Australians had planned a victory rally on his release but South Asia Times reported that Sydney-based Kathe Sunte, whose name was on the flyers, said his social media account was hacked and fake information with his name was posted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-youth-deported-after-conviction-for-assault-on-sikhs-in-australia-325470
16-10-2021||---||Slow lifting of paddy chokes Karnal grain markets||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 15With slow lifting, the Karnal grain market has got congested, resulting in huge traffic chaos on the service lanes of National Highway-44 as the farmers are waiting for their turn in long queues of tractors and trailers loaded with paddy.‘Allow Haryana farmers with farms in UP to sell’Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, has demanded that farmers of Haryana who have cultivated paddy in UP should be allowed to sell their crop in Karnal’s grain markets.Congestion prevails in almost all the grain markets of the district due to slow pace of lifting. The commuters using service lanes on NH-44 had to face lots of difficulty.To speed up the lifting process, there would be no procurement on Sunday. No gate passes would be issued from Saturday evening to Monday morning in Karnal grain market, said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Farmers blamed the poor management and said that they have been waiting since midnight for their turn to get gate passes, but to no avail.“I came here to sell my crop, but my wait seems to be never-ending as a large number of farmers are already standing in queue,” said Rampal, a farmer.Another farmer Krishan Lal said that due to slow lifting, there is space crunch at the grain market and farmers have not been able to unload their produce.On the other hand, the district authorities claimed that around 60 per cent of the total procured paddy has been lifted which is the highest in the state.“We have lifted around 60 per cent of procured paddy which is the highest in the state. I have directed the agencies to speed up lifting,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He said that as procurement was halted on Wednesday at the grain market, the rush increased on Thursday.Till Thursday evening, the district has witnessed arrival of 53,70,194 quintals of paddy. Of these, 86 per cent (46,10,376 quintals) of paddy was procured. Of the total procured paddy, 27,69,992 quintals of paddy was lifted. The remaining is lying in various grain markets.“We are expecting an arrival of around 12 MT in this current season. We have already done the payment of around Rs 300 crore to the farmers, which is around 30 per cent of the total procurement,” the DC maintained.Karnal grain market has witnessed 70 per cent lifting. At Gharaunda, it is 60 per cent, Assandh 39 per cent, Indri and Taraori at 61 per cent each, Nilokheri 62 per cent, Nissing 65 per cent, Kunjpura 56 per cent, Nigdhu 58 per cent, Jundla 64 per cent, Gheer 78 per cent, Ballah 76 per cent and Biana 49 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/slow-lifting-of-paddy-chokes-karnal-grain-markets-325230
16-10-2021||Karnal||Farmers burn effigies of PM Modi, Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP-JJP leaders||On the call of the SKM, hundreds of farmers on Friday burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala and other senior BJP leaders on Dasehra at various places in Karnal and Kaithal districts.Protest to continueOn the call of the SKM, farmers burnt the effigies of PM, Haryana CM, Deputy CM, Ambani and Adani. The farmers will continue to protest till their demands are met. Malkit Singh, BKU (charuni), Ambala presidentIn Karnal, they burnt the effigy at the Bastara toll plaza, Committee Chowk and other places, while the farmers in Kaithal burnt the effigies outside the grain market.Farmers said they had been protesting against the farm laws for the past 10 months, but the government was not listening to their issues, so they burnt the effigies of the PM, CM and other BJP-JJP leaders.“The government is not listening to our demands, so we have burnt the effigies of the PM, CM and other leaders on Dasehra, so that the government could understand the issues of the farmers,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee, BKU. Meanwhile, infuriated over the procurement below the MSP, farmers blocked the Jind-Kaithal road near the new extension grain market. They were demanding to allow the rice millers of the Cheeka area for the purchase. After a meeting with the DC, Pardeep Dahiya, farmers got pacified and lifted the blockade in the evening.In Ambala, farm activists burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and other BJP leaders on the occasion of Dasehra in Ambala and Kurukshetra.In Kurukshetra, farmers burnt the effigies near Umri village, Ambedkar Chowk Ladwa, Sunaria Chowk Babain, old grain market Pehowa, Isamailabad and Shahabad. In Ambala, farmers burnt effigies at Lakhnaur Sahib village.Farm activists raised slogans against the BJP leaders and said that they had burnt the effigies of the leaders instead of Ravana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-manohar-lal-khattar-bjp-jjp-leaders-325231
16-10-2021||---||Haryana registers 68% drop in farm fires||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 15There is a 68 per cent drop in farm fires across the state. As per the data of the Agriculture Department based on satellite information, the state witnessed 487 active fire locations across the state in a month (from September 14 to October 14) this season. The number was 1,569 last year in these days.Active fire locations*487 in 20211,569 in 2020*from Sept 14 to Oct 14In a single day on Thursday, the state reported 98 cases, which was highest in the current season. It witnessed 95 active fire locations on October 10 and 91 on October 13.Karnal district is leading the tally in farm fires across the state as it has witnessed 180 cases till today in comparison to 305 last year. Kurukshetra has reported 105 cases in the current season, Kaithal 103, Yamunanagar 22, Ambala 21, Fatehabad 20, Jind 15, Palwal 12, Sonepat five, said an official of the Agriculture Department.The data also showed that in the current season, stubble burning cases had been reported comparatively late in comparison to the previous year. The first case was reported on September 28.The authorities claimed to have issued fine to the farmers who violated the norms of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “To comply with the directions of the NGT, we keep vigil on the fields and impose fine on the farmers who violate the norms,” said SK Arora, Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Karnal.“So far, the air quality is moderate and we appeal to farmers not to burn stubble in the fields. We, along with the Agriculture Department, have started a joint campaign to educate farmers by holding seminars,” he added.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), said the number of active farm fire incidents has reduced this season in comparison to the last season.“We have identified almost all the active locations. So far, we have recovered Rs 1.45 lakh as fine from violators. Notices have been issued to farmers also,” he added.Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, said that the total area under paddy cultivation is around 1.65 lakh hectares. Of which around 99,000 hectares are under non-basmati paddy. “To reduce stubble burning, we have imposed Section 144 from October 1,” said the DC.He added that nodal officers have been deployed at village, block and sub-division level. As many as 166 active fire locations have been identified out of total 180 so far, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-registers-68-drop-in-farm-fires-325232
16-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Players unable to practise at Hisar’s waterlogged stadium||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 15Sportspersons practising in the Mahavir Stadium — only government stadium in Hisar town — are unable to hit the ground due to heavy flooding of the stadium for the past over three weeks.Have discontinued practiceThe Covid crisis restricted the practice for almost one and a half years. I have resumed my practice at Mahavir Stadium, but the rains in September flooded the stadium forcing us to discontinue practice there. An athleteOrder to drain waterDC Dr Priyanka Soni visited the stadium on Thursday and told officials of Public Health Engineering Department to drain the water within two daysThe players in outdoor, track and field events are unable to resume practise due to stagnant rainwater in the stadium. They said they had no other venue in the town, especially for running, except the Mahavir Stadium.“The Covid crisis restricted the practice for almost one and a half years. I have resumed my practice at Mahavir Stadium, but the rains in September flooded the stadium forcing us to discontinue practice there”, said an athlete. He said they could not practise on the roads as the concrete surface could result in injuries.An official of the Sports Department said the stadium was located in the low-lying area and there was no proper drainage system for the outlet of rainwater. “Every time, it rains the ground of the stadium is waterlogged for several days. We have been taking up the issue with the Public Health Engineering Department, but there has been no solution to the problem”, he said adding that the excessive rain in September has resulted in waterlogged ground. However, to take stock of the situation, Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni visited the stadium yesterday and directed officials of Public Health Engineering Department to drain the water within two days.The Deputy Commissioner asked the officials to install generators and pumping sets so that the water was drained out by Saturday. She also has directed the District Sports Officer (DSO) and the officials of Public Works Department (Building and Road Branch) to prepare such a plan keeping future in view, so that there was no problem of waterlogging in the stadium.The DC said apart from constructing a wall on the side of Madhuban Park, a pipeline should also be laid for the drainage of water. He also directed the Sports Department officials to send a proposal to the Municipal Corporation office for setting up recharge bore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/players-unable-to-practise-at-hisars-waterlogged-stadium-325233
16-10-2021||---||Legal services delivery to be strengthened in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 15In a sui-generis collaborative move, the Haryana Right to Service Commission has tied up with the District Legal Services Authority Ambala for further strengthening the services delivery regime in the state of Haryana.Presiding over as guest of honour at a mega legal aid camp as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, Chief Commissioner Haryana Right to Service Commission, TC Gupta said the DLSA, Ambala, had done commendable work towards making the social sector schemes of the government reach the targeted beneficiaries at the grassroots level.The event was organised at MMIM Block of MM (DU) Mullana. Speaking of the Right to Service Act 2014, he said the services notified under the Act would serve as a great base to the DLSA to spread its ambit towards making people aware of these services and the Commission, in turn, would ensure all possible cooperation from departments regarding notified services to the legal services authority. Gupta handed over Rs 1,100, along with a box of sweets, to parents of couples under the “Mukhyamantri vivah shagun yojna” on the spot. Loans to various self-help groups were sanctioned on the spot with certificates to the beneficiaries. Gupta praised Sukhda Pritam, Chief Judicial Magistrate, DLSA, Ambala, for organising the event. Sukhda Pritam CJM said she looked forward to greater participation of the Haryana Right to Service Commission in legal services activities, as 38 organisations of 31 departments of the government with 546 notified services fall under its ambit and can go a long way in easing the lives of people.ADC Ambala Sachin Gupta, Secretary Haryana Right to Service Commission Meenaxee Raj and SDM Barara Girish Kumar were also present. Different departments had set up their stalls for people to come and register for the services they wanted to avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/legal-services-delivery-to-be-strengthened-in-haryana-325234
16-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||MC Thanesar invites pvt institutions, banks to adopt public toilets||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 15The Municipal Council Thanesar has come out with an ‘adopt a toilet’ project in Thanesar city, inviting banking institutions, social organisations and private institutions in Kurukshetra to adopt and maintain the public toilets.There are 25 public toilets in the city area, including at prime locations such as near Gita Dwar, Pipli, new bus stand, old bus stand, Theme Park, and Tau Devi Lal Park, Pipli, besides some markets, and people often avoid using the public toilets due to poor sanitation.Under ‘adopt a toilet’ project, the private institutions will be able to use the wall of the toilets for advertising purposes and they have to deploy at least two workers per toilet and maintain it. An official said, “While the project will help the council in maintaining the public toilets without spending money, it will help the private institutions in advertising their services and brand at prime locations. In the absence of employees, miscreants often steal or break taps and other properties installed in the toilet. If an employee is permanently deployed, people will get clean toilets and the incidents of theft and damage will also stop. They will have to ensure that the public facilities are cleaned regularly. Since Kurukshetra is being promoted as a tourist destination, we want our toilets to be of good standard.Bharat Bhushan Gogia, District Municipal Commissioner, Kurukshetra, who has come out with the project, said, “We are inviting all banks, social organisations and private institutions to adopt public toilets in Thanesar city. We are asking them to adopt at least one toilet. They will be able to use the walls of the toilets for advertisements. The prime objective of the project is to provide clean and good toilets to the public. We have already deployed employees for maintenance of the public toilets and displayed their numbers there. But we want to improve the standards for which we will take measures.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-thanesar-invites-pvt-institutions-banks-to-adopt-public-toilets-325235
16-10-2021||---||Free treatment at Ambala homoeopathic facility||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Home and Ayush Minister Anil Vij today said the construction work of Government Homeopathic College and Hospital at Chandpura in Ambala Cantonment was moving at a fast pace.Accommodation for studentsHome and Ayush Minister Anil Vij said this would be the first government homoeopathic college and hospital in the state where students and staff would get accommodation and residential facility, respectively.The Minister added that free treatment would be provided at the hospital to benefit the residents of the area.He said this would be the first government homoeopathic college and hospital in the state where students and staff would get accommodation and residential facility, respectively.Vij said work was being done to ensure better connectivity to the college.For this, the construction of the Rampur-Sarsehri Road in Chandpura has been completed at a cost of Rs 4 crore. A new bridge is also being built on the Tangri river bridge at Chandpura, right next to the hospital. Besides, an approach road is also being constructed along the bridge.With the construction of the bridge, the connectivity of the cantonment area with Rampur Sarsehri and Chandpura will improve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-treatment-at-ambala-homoeopathic-facility-325236
16-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||21% decline in murder cases in Hisar, 90% solved: IG Rakesh Kumar Arya||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 15The Hisar police range have witnessed a decline of 21 per cent murder cases this year compared to 2020 in five police districts — Hisar, Hansi, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jind. , Inspector General of Police (IG), Hisar range, said the police had solved 90 per cent of murder cases registered this year.A total of 130 murder cases were registered this year in the range till September 30 as against 167 during the corresponding month in 2020.The IG directed the Superintendents of Police of the five districts for the speedy arrest of the culprits of heinous crimes.The police sources said Hisar district recorded 40 murder cases, of which 36 cases had been solved.In Hansi police district, 13 of the 16 cases registered have been solved while the Jind police have solved 38 cases out of 43. Sirsa police have been successful in solving 22 cases out of the 24 registered in the district.Remarkably, Fatehabad police have solved 100 per cent cases by solving all 16 murder cases registered in the district.The police range also registered 108 cases of attempt to murder till September 30, which accounted to 13 per cent less than the previous year, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-decline-in-murder-cases-in-hisar-90-solved-ig-rakesh-kumar-arya-325237
16-10-2021||---||Won’t allow purchase below MSP, says Kamlesh Dhanda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda said procurement of paddy below the minimum support price (MSP) would not be allowed.Taking cognisance of complaints regarding this issue in Kaithal, she directed Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Dahiya to call a meeting with the officers concerned and find a solution.Farmers harassedBy not giving the rate fixed by the government, people are harassing the farmers who are bringing their crops to the market. — Kamlesh Dhanda, MinisterDhanda had received a complaint regarding irregularities in the procurement of paddy, highlighting that some people in the district had procured paddy at a price Rs 100 to Rs 125 less than the minimum support price (MSP). She further directed the Deputy Commissioner to discuss the matter with the department officers, millers and arhtiyas.The minister said a special girdawari of crops damaged due to rain would be started in Kaithal district from Saturday, and for this, directions had been given to the officers concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-purchase-below-msp-says-kamlesh-dhanda-325238
16-10-2021||Hisar||Haryana Agricultural University experts find new disease in millet||Scientists of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar, have identified a new disease in millet crop which is caused due to ‘Klebsiella aerogenes’ bacterium at the international level. Such a disease in millet has been discovered for the first time on the global platform.American Phytopathological Society (APS) based at USA has accepted the presence of this disease in millet crops and have recognised it to be a new disease. The APS has published about this new disease in their journal ‘Plant Diseases’. Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj said that the university scientists have started working for the containment of this disease. Soon, they will make efforts towards its prevention at the genetic level.Director of Research, HAU, Dr SK Sehrawat said scientists spotted the disease for the first time in the kharif 2018 season. “It took three years to identify the disease. It has been found in up to 70 per cent millet crop in the state, mainly in the fields of Hisar, Bhiwani and Rewari,” he said. University’s plant pathologist Dr Vinod Kumar Malik, who is the main researcher in discovering this disease, said the initial symptoms of this disease appear in the form of long stripes on the leaves and soon, the stripes on these leaves increase.“Thereafter, watery lesions appear on the stem which later turns brown to black. On investigation at the morphological, pathogenic, biochemical and molecular level, it has been proved that bacterium Klebsiella aerogenes is the cause of this disease,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agricultural-university-experts-find-new-disease-in-millet-325239
16-10-2021||Palwal||9 challaned in Palwal||Nine farmers have been issued challans in the past week for stubble burning in Palwal district. A total of 13 cases of burning of paddy residue have been reported so far.The authorities have announced to set up teams to keep vigil and take measures to curb the activity.“While around 15 villages in the district have been identified most prone to such activity and have been placed in the red zone category, the administration has already issued challans against about nine violations detected and verified by the Agriculture Department till October 14,” said a senior official of the district administration.Admitting to the incidents of stubble burning despite a drive launched to create awareness and the appeals issued to farmers to go for alternative means of stubble disposal, Mahavir Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, here said that while nine farmers have been imposed a penalty known as environment compensation, three other incidents of fire recorded by HARSAC satellite imagery were being verified. He said a total of 10 teams have been set up for round-the-clock monitoring. He said the drive would continue till the end of the harvesting period.DC Krishan Kumar said the villages which are under the radar are Khambi, Biduki, Sevli, Baswa, Hassanpur, Kusak, Pingor, Raidaska, Asawata, Chajjunagar, Kithwari, Rasoolpur, Badram, Janoli, Khajurka and Mandkaul. He said three teams would be submitting a daily report. It will be forwarded to Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Environment Department. FIR will be registered if offenders fail to pay the penalty, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-challaned-in-palwal-325240
16-10-2021||---||Indoor gatherings up to 200 allowed in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The Haryana Government has allowed gatherings up to 50 per cent of the hall capacity in indoor spaces with a ceiling of 200 persons. In open spaces, gatherings up to 500 persons are allowed subject to the observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Meanwhile, lockdown has been extended from October 18 to November 14. “The ‘Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana’ is extended in Haryana along with guidelines issued earlier till November 14,” an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Friday.However, fully-residential universities would continue to conduct online classes till further orders.As per other relaxations allowed earlier, conduct of entrance and recruitment examination by different universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indoor-gatherings-up-to-200-allowed-in-haryana-325241
16-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  Bypoll: Abhay Chautala unlikely to have smooth sailing||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 15The INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala is perhaps amidst the toughest electoral battles of his political life. The outcome of the election will not only be a mandate of people in his bastion, but will also decide the course of the INLD’s relevance in Haryana politics.Bharat Beniwal to campaign for CongressHisar: Softening his stand towards the Congress, disgruntled leader Bharat Singh Beniwal said he would stay with the party and accept the decision of the high command to deny him the ticket. He has agreed to campaign for the party along with the state president Kumari Selja. Beniwal was upset with the party after the Congress allotted the ticket to his arch-rival Pawan Beniwal. TNSEyeing his fourth straight win from the Ellenabad Assembly segment, Abhay is up against “strongest rivals” fielded by the ruling combine of the BJP-JJP and the opposition Congress party. The BJP-JJP nominated Gobind Kanda is younger brother of Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda, while the Congress has fielded Pawan Beniwal who, as BJP candidate, had been the main rival of Abhay in Ellenabad in the past two Assembly polls.Realising the importance of the bypoll, the INLD has come out with all guns blazing in the campaign trail.Abhay embarked on a village-to-village tour of 74 villages yesterday. His sons Karan and Arjun were reaching out to every family head in the tour of their father in villages.“We have decided a man-to-man marking strategy in the personal contact programme. Arjun is leading the grassroots campaign. After he completes the visit to a particular village, then a meeting of Abhay Singh is organised in the same village,” said Rakesh Sihag, spokesperson of the party.Abhay will hold meetings in 74 villages and the urban areas in the segment. The tour events of the former CM Om Prakash Chautala are also lined up soon who, accompanied by grandson Karan too, is likely to cover maximum villages, said a party officialThe BJP-JJP and the Congress are trying to turn the heat on Abhay for forcing a byelection on the people and again joining the fray while arguing that he (Abhay) should not enter the fray until the issue of farm laws is resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-abhay-chautala-unlikely-to-have-smooth-sailing-325242
16-10-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha flays Singhu killing||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 15Silence and fear prevailed at the Singhu border today after a man was brutally lynched and his mutilated body was found hanging on the police barricade near the main stage of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).The SKM and protesters condemned the incident and claimed that there could be a conspiracy behind the incident. Farmers at the protest site were not very forthcoming over the incident and only said that they had been staying there for their genuine demand of repealing of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.Ravneet Singh, a resident of Moga, said they heard about the incident which happened in the wee hours, as they were sleeping in their tents at that time. It was very unfortunate and unthinkable, he said. Yogender Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said the gruesome killing was intolerable and unfortunate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-flays-singhu-killing-325243
16-10-2021||---||Kurukshetra woman wins Haryana Sanjhi Utsav||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The Art and Cultural Affairs Department today announced that Kurukshetra bagged the first place in the Haryana Sanjhi Utsav held from October 7 to 15.Nirmala Devi (65), representing team number 22, bagged the first prize. Chando Devi of Kaithal, representing team number 24, secured the second place. The third prize was bagged by Simran of Karnal, representing number 2. Ramandeep of Kurukshetra and Mukesh Rani of Karnal secured the fourth and the fifth places, respectively.A special award was presented to 65-year-old Suraj Devi, a resident of Ballabhgarh.The official spokesperson said it was for the first time that the ‘Haryana Sanjhi Utsav’ was organised at the state level, in collaboration with the Haryana Government and the Virasat Heritage Village.The first, second and third prize winners received Rs 51,000, Rs 31,000 and Rs 21,000, respectively.More than 54 women artists participated in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-woman-wins-haryana-sanjhi-utsav-325244
16-10-2021||Faridabad||Three boys drown in Yamuna||Three boys reportedly drowned in the Yamuna, near Chhainsa village, in the district, today.According to the police, the incident took place at 1.20 pm, when a group of men and women reached the Yamuna ghat, near Chhainsa village, about 22 km from the district headquarters, for immersion of the idol of goddess Durga. Three boys, identified as Anuj (16), son of Sukhbir of Karnera village in the district, and Sumit and Piyush, sons of Karan Singh of Mahipalpur in Delhi, got drifted away in the fast flow of the river. The kin called for help, and some locals tried to trace them. Senior officials of the district administration and the police reached the spot and called divers, who launched a drive to trace the victims. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-boys-drown-in-yamuna-325245
16-10-2021||Hisar||Webinar 'Samvaad' conducted||VC of law varsity meets GuvSonepat: Having knowledge of constitutional values, and law will make the youth more aware of their rights and duties, so teachers should make the students aware of the constitution and moral values along with quality education. It was stated by the Governor of Haryana, Bandaru Dattatreya, in a conversation with Dr Viney Kapoor Mehra, Vice-Chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, Sonepat on Friday. Dr Mehra made a courtesy call on Governor at Raj Bhawan and apprised him of the activities of the university. The Governor said that today there was a need to make the youth aware about their rights and duties. With the knowledge of the rights and duties of the citizens, an ideal society will be established and the society will be crime free. He said in the National Education Policy-2020 also, the emphasis has been laid on constitutional and moral values. He said that in the context of legal education, the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) clearly mentions that legal education in India has to be globally competitive, adoption of best practices and broader access and timely delivery of justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-samvaad-conducted-325246
16-10-2021||The Municipal Council of Kaithal got PVC pipes laid in street number-1 of Amargarh colony. Hardly 30 months have passed and the layers of concrete have decayed resulting in breakage of pipes defeating the very purpose for which such a heavy budget was spent. The civil authorities have been informed but to no avail. Action should be taken against the official concerned and the contractor responsible for carrying out this job.||Breakage of PVC pipes in Kaithal colony||Om Parkash Panesar, KaithalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/breakage-of-pvc-pipes-in-kaithal-colony-325247
16-10-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Man’s mutilated body found at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 15The semi-naked body of a man, with left hand and foot severed, was found hanging from an overturned police barricade near the main stage of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Singhu protest site on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Lakhbir Singh (35) of Cheema Khurd village in Tarn Taran, Punjab. A Nihang, Sarvjeet, was arrested after he surrendered before the police. Purported video clips of the incident went viral on social media, one of them showing Nihangs standing near an injured Lakhbir, his severed hand tied close to his head, accusing him of desecrating the holy granth and asking him on whose behest he had done so.Also read: Victim’s sister junks sacrilege chargeBJP blames TikaitHad Tikait not justified lynching in Lakhimpur… the murder at Kundli wouldn’t have happened. Amit Malviya, BJP IT Cell ChiefWhoever is responsible for the act must be dealt with as per law. Pawan Khera, CongressPolice sources said Lakhbir was dragged for a few metres and then tied to the barricade with ropes. He is said to have bled to death. His neck and chest bore injury marks. In another video, some Nihangs are purportedly heard taking responsibility for the crime, claiming, “He (deceased) disrespected the holy book.”Informed of the incident at 5.30 am, Kundli SHO Inspector Ravi Kumar rushed to the spot. He was prevented by protesters from taking away the body. It was after over four hours of persuasion that the protesters relented. ADGP Sandeep Khirwar said a murder case had been filed against unidentified persons. “A forensic team visited the spot. We have collected evidence. A few suspects are on the radar.”The SKM condemned the killing. At a press conference, SKM leaders said the Nihangs and the deceased had nothing to do with the Morcha. They demanded that the culprits be punished as per the law after probing the “conspiracy behind the sacrilege.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mans-mutilated-body-found-at-singhu-border-325171
