18-10-2021||Karnal||Huge quantity of rice found at godown in Nissing||Amid the paddy procurement and assigning of paddy to the rice millers, a huge quantity of rice was found from a godown in Nissing by a team of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department on Sunday. The actual quantity was being ascertained by the team members till the filing of the news.The team members did not confirm whether the stock is legal or illegal, but said they are verifying the papers. They did not deny the possibility of mixing this rice with the custom-milled rice (CMR) which is given by the rice miller to the government against the paddy given to him.A rice miller delivers 67 kg rice to the government against one quintal of paddy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/huge-quantity-of-rice-found-at-godown-in-nissing-325917
18-10-2021||---||4 killed as truck rams into harvester in Karnal||Karnal, October 17Four persons were killed, while two were seriously injured as a truck allegedly rammed into a combine harvester parked on the Karnal-Kaithal road near Zarifabad on the outskirts of the city late on Saturday night. The deceased were identified as Charan Singh (30), driver of combine harvester and a resident of Patiala, his assistants Sachin (18) and Ravi from Uttar Pradesh and Salinder (30) from Sirsi village.The truck driver Sunil Kumar of Nauch village of Kaithal and another assistant of the combine driver sustained injuries in the mishap. As per the police, the incident took place at around 9.15 pm on when the combine driver and assistants were waiting for a farmer on the road and the truck hit the combine. The injured were taken to hospital, where Salinder, Charan Singh and Sachin were declared dead, while Ravi was taken to the PGI, where he died on Sunday, said Tarsem Singh, SHO Sadar police station.“We have registered a case against the truck driver under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC,” said the SHO.In another road accident, a youth identified as Sahil Kumar (16) of Palheri village in Panipat was killed, while his mother and uncle sustained injuries when their bike was hit by a tractor-trailer near Barsat village on Sunday morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-killed-as-truck-rams-into-harvester-in-karnal-325918
18-10-2021||Faridabad||Youth killed in Faridabad||A 22-year-old youth was stabbed to death in a brawl between two groups in the AC Nagar locality here on Thursday night. A quarrel over passing of remarks by two youths was reported to be the reason behind the incident. The dead was identified as Shiva (22). A case was registered in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-killed-in-faridabad-325919
18-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Mandis lying choked with filled paddy bags||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comMandis lying choked with filled paddy bagsAbout four lakh bags filled with paddy are lying in mandis in Narwana, which are waiting to be lifted. There's no more space left to unload further arrivals. Due to increase in diesel rates, the transporters have also increased their rates manifold which the procurement agencies find it difficult to concede to. First, the untimely rains delayed the matter and then the high moisture content, slowed down the purchase. The farmers will get the payments only when the bags are lifted and stored in godowns. The agencies should lift the bags as early as possible so that both farmers and arthiyas can heave a sigh of relief. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaPoop by Pets in front of houses irks residentsPeople walking their pet dogs is a common sight in the morning and evening. So far, so good, but the problem arises when the pets poop in front of houses and owners or their handlers look the other side. This is not only being uncivil but also insensitive to others. Every morning I clean it myself from in front of our house. The pet owners should please be more caring towards others and train their pets well. The authorities should fine the defaulters. Col RD Singh (retd), AmbalaDifficult to enter Ambala post officeThe General Post Office (GPO), Ambala, has been recently renovated and painted, but it is very difficult for people, especially senior citizens, to enter and come out of it. Its all gates are closed which inconveniences the public. Only a small and dilapidated gate is opened for the general public. The construction work has been completed but heaps of rubble and debris are lying near the gate and obstructing entry into the GPO. The authorities should immediately pay attention to the grave problem otherwise old and handicapped people may get injured. Dr Vinay Kumar Malhotra, Ambala Cantt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mandis-lying-choked-with-filled-paddy-bags-325930
18-10-2021||Karnal||Amrit Mahotsav programme||Students shine in competitionsKarnal: Students of Dyal Singh Public School, Dyal Singh Colony, Karnal, bagged prizes in different competitions organised by the Haryana State Council for Child Welfare at Bal Bhawan, Karnal, on the occasion of Children's Day. Principal Sushma Devgun said Dhruvika of Class IX bagged 3rd prize in English declamation competition, while in group dance (girls of Classes IX and X) got consolation prize. Girls of Classes VI-VIII won third prize in the group dance, Manroop of Class V bagged 3rd prize in solo folk dance competition, while Varchasvi of Class VIII got consolation prize in solo folk dance competition and Kashvi of class VIII got consolation in handwriting competition. Devgan and head mistress Priya congratulated the students and encouraged them to keep up the good work.Vinay Tayal is 75th in JEE AdvancedPanipat: Vinay Tayal, a student of Aakash Institute in Panipat has made the institute proud by securing an impressive AIR 75 in the result of the prestigious Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021, much to the elation of their parents, and the entire staff of the institute. The results were announced by the National Testing Agency. He joined Aakash institute in a two-year classroom programme to crack IIT JEE, considered the world's toughest entrance exam.Workshop for non-teaching staffAmbala: The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of MM (DU) organised a one-day workshop for the non-teaching staff members of various constituent colleges of MM (deemed to be university), Mullana, Ambala. Arun Sareen, trainer soft skills, made the participants aware of the communication and interpersonal skills, phone etiquettes, meeting etiquettes and attire and personal appearance. Second session was on keeping records-related to admission, academic records of students. KL Huria, Deputy Registrar (academic) explained the participants how to keep record of students in an effective way. Third session was on how to keep records related to exams/ results etc. As many as 49 non-teaching staff members actively participated in this workshop.Strengthening teacher-pupil bondAmbala: The "Guru Vandan, Chhatra Abhinandan" programme was organised by the Bharat Vikas Parishad Vivek Shakha, Ambala Cantt at Bhartiya Public School. Under this programme, the representatives of Bharat Vikas Parishad visited school to express thanks and gratitude to teachers and congratulate the meritorious students. The aim of the programme was to redevelop the fast deteriorating teacher-student relationship and inculcate humbleness in the mind of children. The representatives of Bharat Vikas Parishad honoured Principal Munish Jain as the best teacher and Ananya Rajput (XII C) got the best student award for excellent academic performance during 2020-21session. Isha (XI C ) and Madhuri (IX C) were awarded with best solo song singer prize from the senior and junior category, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amrit-mahotsav-programme-325931
18-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Special buses for tourists resume in Kurukshetra||Ahead of the International Gita Mahotsav, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and the district administration have resumed the special bus service for tourists and devotees, which will cover ‘tirthas’ and ancient sites of the district and Pehowa in a day.The buses will cover 14 ancient sites in the district associated with the Mahabharata age in nearly nine hours. The ticket charge per person is Rs 50. The tour starts from Brahma Sarovar and culminates at Brahma Sarovar. The special bus service was started by CM Manohar Lal Khattar in 2017, but was stopped in a year. It was later resumed again but had to be stopped again due to Covid. The tourists will visit Rantuk Yakhsa at Bir Pipli, Abhimanyu Chakravyuh Sthali in Amin, Banganga Tirtha, Kultaran Tirtha, Saraswati Tirtha, Jyotisar Tirtha, Bhishma Kund, Bhurishrva Tirtha Bhor Saidan, Bhadrakali Shaktipeeth, Sannihit Sarovar, and Brahma Sarovar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-buses-for-tourists-resume-in-kurukshetra-325920
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Applications invited for state awards in Haryana||The Haryana Women and Child Development Department has invited applications for conferring State-Level Women Awards to those who have made outstanding achievements in various fields. Those interested can submit their applications till October 18 at the district office of the department.An official spokesperson said in Haryana State-Level Women Award of Rs 1.5 lakh will be for given for Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Award, Rs1 lakh for Kalpana Chawla Shaurya Award and Behen Shanno Devi Panchayati Raj Award and Rs 51,000 for Life-time Achievers Award along with appreciation letters. He said ANMs, nurses, women MPHWs, women players, literate women group members, government employees, social workers and women entrepreneurs would be provided an amount of Rs 21,000. The spokesperson said the women have to submit their bio-data about their contribution in the office of the District Programme Officer of the Department of Women and Child Development by October 18. For information , the website, wcdhry.gov.in can be visited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-for-state-awards-in-haryana-325921
18-10-2021||Karnal||Covid guidelines go for a toss at farmers’ stir||Confusion over namaz in public continuesGurugram: While the residents of Gurugram eagerly awaited the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to visit and resolve the ongoing controversy over the reading of namaz in open areas, especially in Sector 47, he failed to provide any solution. On being questioned about the same by the media after the grievance committee meeting on Saturday, the Chief Minister, taking a balanced route while on one hand, said prayers would be held at allocated places. He also said the administration would ensure that it did not cause inconvenience to the residents. This left both parties confused about whom had the Chief Minister supported.BJP attacks Chautala for re-entering bypoll fraySirsa: Attacking INLD candidate Abhay Chautala for re-entering the fray in the Ellenabad bypoll, Haryana BJP has uploaded a video on its official Facebook page to rant against him. The video has a statement by Abhay saying that he could win without campaigning for himself. The short video then shows Abhay campaigning for him and mixes it with a song “Gali Gali me firta hai….” The catch line on the video is “Kanda ka kamaal, gali gali ghoom rahe bhai sahib”.Posted out official fails to vacate residenceFaridabad: The wait to move in to the official residence for a senior district official, who took over an important post last month, has got prolonged as his predecessor has failed to vacate the premises despite the fact that he had been posted out about one and half month ago. According to sources in the administration, any official who is transferred out, is expected to vacate the official residence within two to three weeks under normal conditions, but in this case, the official is reported to have made his successor wait too long, resulting in various problems. The official who took over is reported to be lodged with temporary arrangements with no clarity on how he would have to wait.Contributed by Parveen Arora, Sumedha Sharma, Deepender Deswal, Bijendra Ahlawat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-guidelines-go-for-a-toss-at-farmers-stir-325924
18-10-2021||Ambala||Railway police SI arrested for wife’s murder||The Yamunanagar police have arrested a Railway Police Force (RPF) sub-inspector (SI) in connection with the murder of his pregnant wife, who was killed last month.Earlier, it was suspected to be a case of road accident.The deceased was identified as Nazma, while the accused has been identified as her husband Afsar Ali of Muradabad. He was produced in court which sent him to five-day remand.The woman was five-month pregnant at the time of the murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railway-police-si-arrested-for-wifes-murder-325922
18-10-2021||Karnal||Haryana youth freed from Australia jail, reaches Karnal||Vishal Jood, who was held for his alleged involvement in an attack on members of the Sikh community in Australia in March and April, was released from an Australian jail. Today, he reached Karnal where he was given a warm welcome by the Ror community, to which he belongs, and others.Following the protest by the community members and demand of his release from Australian jail, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia had taken up the matter with the Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar.After arriving in Karnal, a road show was taken out by the community members amid ‘dhol’ beats. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-youth-freed-from-australia-jail-reaches-karnal-325923
18-10-2021||Hisar||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh held in caste ‘slur’ case, released on interim bail||The Hansi police arrested cricketer Yuvraj Singh and released him on interim bail in a case of making caste reference while referring to another player in an Instagram live event.A Hansi-based lawyer and activist Rajat Kalsan had got lodged an FIR against Yuvraj Singh with the Hansi police under various Sections of the IPC and under the SC/ST Act.The Hansi SP Nitika Gahlout said here that Yuvraj Singh joined the investigation as per the directions of the court with the investigation officer today. The SP said he was released on interim bail after his arrest. She said the police had already the phone of the cricketer.Yuvraj had been booked under Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and Section 3 (1) (u) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention and Atrocities) Act on the complaint of Rajat Kalsan.Kalsan had alleged that Yuvraj, during an Instagram live, had made an objectionable remark while referring to another player.The cricketer has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking the quashing of the FIR while pleading being innocent in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cricketer-yuvraj-singh-held-in-caste-slur-case-released-on-interim-bail-325925
18-10-2021||---||Youth beaten to death by five in Jind village||Hisar, October 17A 22-year-old youth was beaten to death by five persons, including his girlfriend and her family members, in Rampura village of Safidon sub-division in Jind district last night.The victim, identified as Princepal, a resident of Gujrakhian village in Karnal district, had gone to meet his girlfriend after she called him on phone last evening.Girlfriend’s family to blame: MotherMy son, Princepal, was killed by five persons. A youth, who was with my son, told me that my son was badly beaten up by family members of his girlfriend. Baljeet Kaur, victim’s motherThe victim’s mother Baljeet Kaur alleged that her son was beaten to death by five persons. She said her son had gone to meet his friend. She said another youth who had accompanied her son informed her that Princepal was badly beaten up by the family members of his girlfriend. Later, the body was recovered lying on roadside.DSP Safidon police Sadhuram said it seemed to be a case of love affair as the victim was called by the girl at her house. He said a case under Sections 302, 201 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the accused, identified as Pinder Singh, Gurfateh Singh, Gurnam Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Pinder Singh’s daughter Gursaran Kaur in the case.The family members of victim staged a protest demonstration in Safidon town and demanded the arrest of the accused. The DSP said they had formed four teams to track down the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-beaten-to-death-by-five-in-jind-village-325926
18-10-2021||---||Nihangs demand fair probe in ‘sacrilege’ case||Sonepat, October 17Nihang Sikh groups on Sunday demanded a fair inquiry into the “disrespect” incident of the holy book “so that the big conspiracy behind the incident should come to the fore”. Besides, they warned that the “disrespect to the holy book would not be tolerated at any cost”.Baba Raja Ram Singh, along with another Nihang jathedar, said the man (Lakhbir Singh) was punished for disrespecting the holy book in the wee hours on Friday. We took the responsibility of the incident and our four members have surrendered before the police, he added.The Nihang jathedar said it did not matter what the farmer leaders think about them. They had come here to support the farmers and if the farmers ask them to leave from here, they would leave the border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nihangs-demand-fair-probe-in-sacrilege-case-325927
18-10-2021||---||Singhu lynching: 6-day police remand for three accused||Sonepat, October 17The police produced before court on Sunday the three accused Nihang Sikhs, who reportedly surrendered before the police late on Saturday night in connection with the lynching of Lakhbir Singh of Tarn Taran at the Singhu border on Friday morning.The court sent them on a six-day police remand. Besides, the accused confessed before the court that “they had punished him (Lakhbir Singh) for disrespecting the holy book”.The police team produced the accused, Bhagwant Singh, Govindpreet Singh of Dera Fatehgarh Saheb and Narain Singh of Devidas pura, Amarpur of Punjab, in the court of Civil Judge (Junior Division) Kimmi Singla.The police had filed an application, seeking 14-day remand of the accused.In the court, the police said they had to recover the weapons used in the murder and blood-stained clothes of the accused, which they wore at the time of the crime from Kundli.One accused Sarvajeet Singh of Thithwa village in Gurdaspur district was produced in the court on Saturday and has been sent on seven-day police remand. Now, all four accused will be produced in the court on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-lynching-6-day-police-remand-for-three-accused-325928
18-10-2021||---||Five held for murder in Ambala||Ambala, October 17The Ambala police have arrested five persons under murder charges in connection with the death case of Mandeep Singh who had received injuries in a brawl over a petty dispute at Sambhalkha village of Saha on Saturday.The deceased was a resident of Dhurala village of Ambala. The arrested accused have been identified as Jasbir, Sudesh, Sukhbir, Dharmpal and Ashok, residents of Sambhalkha village. They will be produced before a court on Monday.Harjot Singh, a resident of Saha, in his complaint stated that, around 8:30 pm on Saturday night, Dinesh and Harjot were on their way with their combine machines after harvesting paddy crop. Mandeep was accompanying Harjot. Meanwhile, Dinesh’s combine machine hit the power cables due to which the power supply of Dharmpal and Mamraj’s houses got snapped. Dharmpal and his family members came out and started quarreling with the driver of Dinesh’s combine machine.“After seeing the quarrel, we also stopped our machine and tried to pacify Dharmpal and other people but they were not ready to understand. Meanwhile, my father Pritpal Singh also reached there and he also attempted to pacify them. Dharmpal, Manish, and Sudesh started thrashing my father and he suffered injury on his right eye and face. Meanwhile, Sudesh, Sukhbir and Jasbir Singh attacked Mandeep. The accused were carrying iron rods and sticks. He was taken to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, by the police and he died there”, he alleged.A case was registered against 11 persons identified people (Sudesh, Jasbir, Sukhbir, Dharmpal, Manish, Karampal, Ashok, Mamraj, Ramprakash, Rajender, and Jagpal), some unidentified persons under Sections 148, 149, 323 and 302 of the IPC at Saha police station.SHO Saha police station Gurmail Singh said, “Last night we got information about the brawl at Sambhalkha village following which we reached the spot and the injured was taken to Civil hospital where he died. A case was registered and five accused have been arrested. Raids are being conducted to nab the remaining accused.”To be produced in court on MondayThe deceased was a resident of Dhurala village of Ambala. The arrested accused have been identified as Jasbir, Sudesh, Sukhbir, Dharmpal and Ashok, residents of Sambhalkha village. They will be produced before a court on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-held-for-murder-in-ambala-325929
18-10-2021||Vijay C Roy||Kaithal girl Pooja Sund in Microsoft aims to empower women||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17Having risen to the post of Director, Engineering and Finance at Microsoft’s Core Finance Engineering group in the US, from a small town called Kaithal, this Haryanvi girl is empowering people, especially women, around the globe. Pooja Sund, an alumnus of Tilak Raj Chadha Institute of Management and Technology (TIMT), Yamunanagar, working with Microsoft (US) is currently responsible for providing organisational leadership across the broad technical and non-technical areas, including databases, data pipelines, telemetry, governance, security, and warehouses at Microsoft.Family, societal norms become barriersSometimes family and societal norms become the barrier for us. Gender biases, lack of networking opportunities, mentorship and sponsorship hit us hard when we want to grow in our career and that is why I am strongly proposing to have a circle of strong mentors and sponsors and learn the art of negotiation. Pooja SundComing from a humble background, she feels that there is a majority of women population who do not get a chance to study. Also, those who have this privilege are told to be a doctor or an engineer and not to be the person of their dreams or to be the CEO of their own career.“Sometimes family and societal norms become the barrier for us. Gender biases, lack of networking opportunities, mentorship, and sponsorship hit us hard when we want to grow in our career and that is why I am strongly proposing to have a circle of strong mentors and sponsors and learn the art of negotiation, precise questioning, strategic thinking and above all learn the art of when to say “No”,” said Pooja Sund.“Our key priority is to create meaningful connection opportunities for our community to build and leverage networks, inspire learning, and amplify impact by empowering women. In addition, I am leading a mentoring series for 20 plus persons at the mid to senior level in the company and coaching them on various aspects of professional success,” she added further.Within Microsoft, she is co-leading the learning and development pillar of women at Microsoft employee resource group comprising 24,000 women globally. “Through this pillar, we are conducting monthly series and inviting leaders to come and share with our global women workforce their success stories, their stories of rejections, belonging, career growth, and how to navigate through challenges to get here where they are,”said Pooja Sund.In addition, she is moderating events around career branding, storytelling, how to ask for promotions, how to establish themselves in the technology field, the art of negotiation with one big goal to enhance their career growth and to set them up for success in their professional and personal life. As a LinkedIn influencer (with Rs25,000 followers) and as a woman in technology, she keeps on organising the “Tech careers: Mentoring & AMA (Ask me anything)” type of events and collaborating with industry leaders and influencing women from all parts of the world. Especially for India, she has delivered many talks in the past 2 years.For her initiatives, she has won many awards like the Human relations and leadership award for coaching an elite group of finance professionals. For empowering women at Microsoft through community and learning pillar, she has been selected as a leader multiple times in the past 5 years to represent Microsoft at a global conference “Grace Hopper Conference” attended by 30,000 women professionals from across the globe.Selected leader multiple timesPooja Sund has been selected as a leader multiple times in the past 5 years to represent Microsoft at a global conference “Grace Hopper Conference” attended by 30,000 women professionals from across the globe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-girl-pooja-sund-in-microsoft-aims-to-empower-women-325932
18-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Drive launched against illegal water, sewer connections in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 17The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has launched a drive against illegal water and sewage connections. Around 50 such connections have been disconnected as part of the drive in the past three days. More than 60 per cent of the total water connections are unauthorised at present, it is reported.Aiming to get all connections regularisedThe aim behind the drive was to get all illegal connections regularised. The acute shortage in the supply of drinking water in many parts of the city and loss of several crores of revenue due to illegal connections has made the civic body resort to such an action. Senior official, Municipal Corporation, FaridabadFIR to be lodged for theftPlumbers have been asked to ensure that all connections are regularised within a given time period. The unauthorised connections will not be disconnected but an FIR will be lodged for theft. Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, FaridabadA senior official of the MCF said the aim behind the drive was to get all illegal connections regularised. The acute shortage in the supply of drinking water in many parts of the city and loss of several crores of revenue due to illegal connections had made the civic body resort to such an action. He said several connections had been disconnected recently. The drive will continue till all connections are authorised, he added. Announcing that the drive will rope in registered plumbers, Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF said the plumbers had been asked to ensure that all connections were regularised within a given time period. He said unauthorised connections would not be disconnected but an FIR would be lodged for theft. The MCF is losing a revenue of several crores each year on account of illegal water and sewage connections, it is claimed.In the city there are a total of 5.5 lakh units that avail the water and sewer connections, it is reported that only about two lakh units have been paying bills, while the rest are illegal. A majority of the illegal connections are located in slum clusters and densely populated colonies of the NIT and Old Faridabad zone of the city. It is claimed that tanker and private water supply mafia enjoying political patronage have also been exploiting the water supply sources and piped water supply of the MCF, resulting in short supply or unavailability of water in many areas.Against a demand of 300 MLD daily, the MCF has been able to supply around 270 MLD of water daily in the city having a population of over 22 lakh at present, it is learnt. As the total revenue generated from water and sewer connections is around Rs 10 crore each year, it has the potential of going up to Rs 30 crore.Defaulters in slum clusters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drive-launched-against-illegal-water-sewer-connections-in-faridabad-325933
18-10-2021||---||Karnal man dies in police custody, kin allege torture||Karnal, October 17A 38-year-old man, who was arrested in a theft case, died in police custody of CIA-3, also known as detective staff of the district police, late on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Mintu of Garhpur Khalsa village of Indri police station. He was arrested on Saturday evening in a theft case registered at Butana police station.The police claimed he died of heart attack. After the arrest, he complained of chest pain and was taken to hospital where he was declared dead.His family members alleged that he succumbed to the injuries which were inflicted on him due to police torture in custody.The family members protested outside the post-mortem house of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). They blamed police personnel for the death and demanded action against them.“My husband was murdered by the police and action should be initiated against them,” said Neetu, the victim’s wife.After assurance by DSP, Karnal, Jagdeep Singh of a post-mortem examination by a board of doctors with videography under the supervision of Judicial Magistrate, they got pacified. The postmortem was conducted later.However, the cause of death is yet to be determined. The police said the cause could be determined only after the viscera report.“We have conducted proceedings under Section 176 of the CrPC and the investigation is going on under the supervision of Judicial Magistrate. Prima facie, it seems to be a heart attack. But to determine the actual cause of death, viscera has been sent for investigation,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, Panipat SP, who is also looking after the charge of Karnal SP.The SP said that as many as 26 cases of theft were registered against Mintu at different police stations of Karnal, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. He was also declared proclaimed offender. In some of the cases, he has served sentences and in remaining cases, he was absconding.26 cases against him, say cops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-man-dies-in-police-custody-kin-allege-torture-325934
18-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad Bypoll: It’s do-or-die fight for Cong candidate Pawan Beniwal||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 17It seems to be a do-or-die election for Congress candidate Pawan Beniwal who is trying his luck for the third time in a row in the Ellenabad Assembly segment.Beniwal had contested the previous two polls on BJP ticket but ended up second on both occasions.However, when INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala resigned from the Assembly in January, necessitating the byelection, Beniwal too resigned from the primary membership of the BJP citing his support to the farmers’ agitation on April 21.After staying quiet for some time, he joined the Congress on September 13 in the presence of the state president of the Congress Kumari Selja at the AICC headquarters.“Apparently, the byelection was on his mind when he decided to ditch the BJP and join the Congress. He took a big political gamble in his bid to see himself in the Haryana Assembly,” said a political observer indicating that the prevailing scenario in Ellenabad bypoll during the campaign had proved that such decisions are always fraught with risk.A sarpanch of a prominent village in Ellenabad segment stated, “On paper, Pawan Beniwal seems to be a strong candidate. But his win depends on the tone and tenor of his uncle and arch-rival Bharat Singh Beniwal. If both join hands, they will form a formidable political force. Coupled with the Congress’ traditional vote bank and mobilisation of supporters by former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the state Congress president Kumari Selja, their joining of hands can be a winning formula for him,” he stated, adding that this calculation is only on paper. “In reality, internal conflicts in the party are undermining his poll prospects,” he maintained.Another resident of Raipur village in Nathusari Chopta block in Subhash Chander segment stated that after Bharat Beniwal joined the campaign, electioneering has picked up for the Congress candidate.Selja, who has been MP from Sirsa, and her father Dalbir Singh, who had represented the constituency in Parliament four times, have a strong support base in the segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-its-do-or-die-fight-for-cong-candidate-pawan-beniwal-325935
18-10-2021||---||DAP shortage upsets rabi-sowing plans in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 17Panic has gripped farmers across Haryana with severe shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser, the basic nutrient for crops, threatening to upset their plans for the sowing of the Rabi crops, especially wheat and mustard.Plans upsetI have already prepared the fields for the sowing of mustard. These will be ready for the sowing of wheat in the first week of November. However, the inadequate availability of DAP has upset my plans for sowing of rabi crops. Ram Niwas, farmer from NarnaundEnsure proper supply, Khattar tells DCsTake immediate steps for the adequate supply of fertilisers, including DAP, to the farmers. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMLong queues of farmers wanting to buy DAP have been reported outside the offices of primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS) and other dealers in several districts, including Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani and Hisar, for the past few days.With the onset of the rabi season, the demand for urea, DAP and other fertilisers has risen. However, the shortage of the fertilisers, reportedly due to less import in the wake of spurt in global prices, has upset farmers.Ram Niwas, a farmer from Narnaund (Hisar), said he was finding it difficult meet his requirements of DAP as sufficient stocks were not available in the market. “I have prepared the fields for the sowing of mustard, while these would be ready for the sowing of wheat in the first week of November. However, the inadequate availability of DAP has upset my plans for the sowing of the rabi crops,” he lamented. Farmers argued that since DAP had to be sprinkled at the time of the sowing of rabi crops, any delay in its supply could have adverse impact on sowing of the crops.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda alleged that farmers were forced to suffer as the Central and state governments had failed to make adequate provisions for the supply the fertiliser.Sources said the DAP requirement for the rabi season in Haryana was pegged at around 2 lakh metric tons, while the supply so far had been about one-third of the demand. The farmers are supplied the fertilisers through about 700 PACS and other dealers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dap-shortage-upsets-rabi-sowing-plans-in-haryana-325936
18-10-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for 6-hour ‘rail roko’, wants MoS Ajay Mishra Teni sacked||Sonepat, October 17The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday gave a call for a six-hour nationwide ‘rail roko’ protest from 10 am on Monday to press for the dismissal of Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Fight for justiceJustice cannot be secured till Ajay Mishra remains a minister in the Union Cabinet. We again demand his dismissal and immediate arrest. SKMIn a joint statement, SKM leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Hannan Mollah, said a series of actions had been planned to secure “justice” in the incident in which four farmers were mowed down under SUVs, with Ashish allegedly seated in one of them. The father-son duo, however, has denied the allegation claiming they could produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time.“Justice cannot be secured till Ajay Mishra remains the Minister of State for Home Affairs. We again demand he be sacked and immediately arrested,” the SKM said.An umbrella body of farmer unions, the SKM appealed to its constituents to ensure a peaceful blockade. It said the morcha was also conducting ‘Shaheed kalash yatras’ with the ashes of the killed farmers in different parts of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-calls-for-6-hour-rail-roko-wants-mos-ajay-mishra-teni-sacked-325900
18-10-2021||Hisar||Yuvraj Singh arrested, released on interim bail in Hansi||The Hansi police arrested cricketer Yuvraj Singh and released him on interim bail in a case of making caste reference while referring to another player in an Instagram live event.A Hansi-based resident, Rajat Kalsan, had lodged an FIR against Yuvraj Singh under various sections of the IPC and the SC/ST Act.Hansi SP Nitika Gahlout informed here today that Singh joined the investigation as per the directions of the court with the investigation officer today.The SP said he was released on interim bail after the arrest. She said that the police had already recovered the phone of the cricketer.It may be mentioned that Yuvraj was booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and Section 3(1)(u) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention and Atrocities) Act on the complaint of a Hansi-based lawyer and activist, Rajat Kalsan.Kalsan had alleged that Yuvraj, during an Instagram live, had made an objectionable remark while referring to another player.The cricketer has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking quashing of the FIR while pleading innocence in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yuvraj-singh-arrested-released-on-interim-bail-in-hansi-325837
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching: 3 accused sent to police remand, 2 SITs conducting probe||Three people allegedly involved in the lynching of a labourer at a farmers’ protest site near Singhu border were remanded to six days in police custody as the Haryana Police set up two Special Investigation Teams to probe the incident.Narain Singh, a key member of the Sikhs’ Nihang order, who was arrested on Saturday from near Amritsar, besides two more Nihangs—Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh—from Fatehgarh Sahib, who had “surrendered” before the Sonepat Police in connection with the lynching, were produced before a court in Sonepat, which remanded them to six days in police custody.The police sought remand of the accused on the ground that they have to reconstruct the scene of the crime, recover clothes which the accused wore at the time of incident, besides interrogating them in depth about the entire incident.One of the SITs headed by IPS officer Mayank Gupta, who is Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, Sonepat, will investigate the videos of the incident which were circulating on various social media platforms, while the other led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sonipat, Virender Singh will carry out the overall probe into the incident.The victim’s family had earlier questioned the attackers’ claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe.The mortal remains of Lakhbir Singh were cremated at his native village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his family members on Saturday evening. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-lynching-3-accused-sent-to-police-remand-2-sits-conducting-probe-325811
