19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Several ‘rail roko’ protesters booked in Haryana for blocking tracks||Cases have been registered against several people in Haryana for squatting on railway tracks on Monday as part of the six-hour ‘rail roko’ protest of the farmers.The cases have been registered by the Railway Protection Force against the protesters, the railway officials said on Tuesday.The protesters have been booked under various provisions of the Railways Act, they said, adding most of those booked were unknown.In Sonepat, 100-120 protesters, including four farm union leaders, have been booked, a government railway police official said over the phone.He said the other people booked were unknown and unnamed in the FIR.A case has been registered in Ambala as well, an RPF official said.Farmers in Haryana and some other parts of the country had squatted on rail tracks on Monday as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour ‘rail roko’ protest to demand the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The stir had disrupted the movement of trains in both the states, causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for at stations for hours with their baggage.The protest had passed off peacefully in Haryana, the state’s police had said.The impact of the protest was seen in the form of blockades of railway tracks at 47 locations across the state that hindered the movement of trains causing inconvenience to passengers, a Haryana Police spokesperson had earlier said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/several-rail-roko-protesters-booked-in-haryana-for-blocking-tracks-326625
19-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Monkey menace in Panchkula goes unchecked||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Monkey menace in Panchkula goes uncheckedThe population of monkeys has increased in Panchkula. They have become a source of great nuisance. They damage electric points, TV connections, call bells, water tanks, clothes for drying, and other household things. They even scare children and other persons by attacking suddenly. They spoil plants and kitchen gardens. The government must take effective steps to rid us of this perpetual problem. Colonel Rajiv Malhotra, PanchkulaUntreated waste dumped illegally in Aravallis Untreated chemical waste is being dumped in the Aravalli forest area of the district against all rules and regulations governing the norms of ecology and environment. While the matter has been raised with the departments of pollution control, forest and the police, no action has been taken against the offenders. The activity of dumping the chemical waste is leading to acid contamination of the Forest area, which is preserved under the PLPA Act. The acid waste is mainly dumped in the region adjoining Pali and Bhankri villages of the district falling under the PLPA zone by unidentified persons mainly during the night. This is likely to adversely affect the ecology and biodiversity of the area A PIL will be filed in the High Court if the local authorities fail to take action soon. Jitender Bhadana, FaridabadPoor show by P’kula MCThe accompanying photograph taken in close proximity to House No 243 in Sector 21, Panchkula, reveals the lackadaisical attitude of its civic body. While this damaged spot remains risk prone for the unsuspecting commuters (mainly those riding two-wheelers and also bicycleborn children) as and when it rains but the MC has failed to rise to the occasion. For sure, it does not require rocket science to address this unduly prolonged issue. Kumar Gupt, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monkey-menace-in-panchkula-goes-unchecked-326382
19-10-2021||Hisar||Azadi Amritmahotsav Series||Short-term training programmeFaridabad: A week-long short-term training programme (STTP) on 'Emerging research areas in big data computing' organised by the department of computer engineering, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad concluded recently. Sponsored by the All-India Council for Technical Education, the programme was attended by scholars and experts from the field of education, as well as industry professionals. The programme had been divided into three sessions per day. The theme of the concluding session was presented by Prof SK Garg, registrar of the university. In the first two sessions, Nitish Vig, a data scientist with Trejhara Pvt Ltd made the presentations. The keynote session was conducted by Dr Ravindra Kumar Soni, Adviser II, All-India Council for Technical Education, who was also the chief guest of the concluding session. Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar, highlighted the importance of education.Mamta tops in MA-HindiKaithal: Mamta, a student of MA-Hindi of RKSD College, Kaithal secured first place in the results declared by Kurukshetra University. She obtained a total of 461/500 marks in the results of first semester. Apart from this, Tinku secured second position with 458/500 marks. On reaching the college, principal Sanjay Goyal, head of the Hindi department Prof RP Maun, senior prof Om Prakash Saini and prof Bijender Kumar welcomed the students and honoured them with prize money. On this occasion, prof Sharad Gaur and prof Sanjeev were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/azadi-amritmahotsav-series-326363
19-10-2021||---||Actress Yuvika Chaudhary held, released on bail||Hisar, October 18Actress Yuvika Chaudhary was nabbed in a case registered under the SC/ST Act by the Hansi police today. She was later released on interim bail. She was booked on the basis of a video she had uploaded on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actress-yuvika-chaudhary-held-released-on-bail-326364
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Agricultural University develops nation’s first e-tractor||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today congratulated Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU), Hisar, for developing the country’s first electric tractor.“It shows the power of innovation and research which CCSHAU possesses in abundance,” said Dattatreya. The electric tractor has been developed by the College of Agricultural Engineering and Technology (COAE&T), CCSHAU.“The electric tractor will make farming much more cost-effective. Farmers will save a lot of money which will be a big boost to their sustainable prosperity,” he said.He urged the engineers and technical experts of COAE&T to take the electric tractor as a product to the global level which would make the dream of ‘local to global’ a reality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agricultural-university-develops-nations-first-e-tractor-326365
19-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Ayurveda helpful in Sjögren’s syndrome: Expert||In a ray of hope for the people suffering from Sjögren’s syndrome, a chronic slowly progressive autoimmune disorder, the ayurveda can help them lead a better life. Sjögren’s syndrome is characterised by dryness in eyes, mouth and throat, lips and skin, and stiffness in joints said Dr Raja Singla, Associate Professor at Shri Krishna Government Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Kurukshetra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ayurveda-helpful-in-sj%C3%B6grens-syndrome-expert-326366
19-10-2021||---||Haryana CM: Tosham to become municipality||Chandigarh, October 18Tosham in Bhiwani district will be upgraded to the status of a municipality, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today.The Chief Minister said this while addressing representatives of the business cell who came to meet him at his residence here.Khattar said if Tosham residents sent a resolution passed by the gram sabha, then within a month, Tosham would be given the status of a municipality.The Chief Minister said the amount deposited by the traders with the government in the form of tax was spent on development works and public welfare schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-tosham-to-become-municipality-326367
19-10-2021||Gurugram||Man shot dead, 3 held in Gurugram||The police today nabbed three persons who allegedly shot a dhaba owner and injured his brother here.Three other accused are still at large. A car and a pistol have been seized.The incident took place on October 10 at Dheeraj Dhaba situated on the Pataudi road near Sampka village. The accused came in a car and shot at the two brothers. While Ajit Singh died during treatment, Mahender was discharged after three days.The arrested accused have been identified as Rohit and Jitender, residents of Khandewla village, and Ajay of Jatauli village. The accused told the police they had a feud with the deceased and his brother over contract labour for work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-3-held-in-gurugram-326368
19-10-2021||---||Singhu victim was tied at two spots: Probe||Sonepat, October 18Lakhbir Singh (35) of Tarn Taran, whose semi-naked body was found hanging from an overturned police barricade at Singhu border on Friday morning, was tied at two places by the accused.This was revealed in the police investigation during the interrogation of the four accused — Sarvajeet Singh, Narain Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govindpreet Singh — in police remand.The SP, Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, said it has come to fore during interrogation that Bhagwant Singh saw Lakhbir running away. He, along with Govindpreet Singh, caught him in the wee hours on Friday 200m away from where he was found.After hearing the noise, scores of Nihangs gathered there and Sarvajeet Singh chopped off his hand there, he added. Then, they tied him to a pole near the main stage, the SP said.After that, they brought him down and Narain Singh chopped off his leg. Then, Govindpreet and Bhagwant dragged him to the rear of the main stage and tied him to a police barricade, the SP said.The four accused have been kept separately. Some 2-3 more accused have been identified, he said. We are trying to nab the abettors and facilitators in the case, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-victim-was-tied-at-two-spots-probe-326369
19-10-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad builder dies of heart attack in court||Anil Goel (60), chairman of real estate company Piyush Group, died of heart attack when he was produced in a local court in connection with a case of cheating filed against him.Goel had been in judicial custody since his arrest in April.A case had been registered against him in response to 28 complaints lodged with the police. It had been alleged that the accused had failed to deliver the flats or return the money paid by investors in a building project here several years ago.Goel, who was produced in one of the courtrooms, was being taken to another court when he suffered heart attack.According to police officials, he fell down complaining of acute pain in his heart. As he was rushed to the civil hospital, the doctors attending to him declared him dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-builder-dies-of-heart-attack-in-court-326370
19-10-2021||---||Subsidy on bamboo, iron stacking for veggie farming in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 18The Haryana Government is giving 50 to 90 per cent subsidy to farmers for using bamboo stacking and iron stacking for farming of vegetables.To take advantage of the scheme, the farmers will have to apply online at the horticulture portal https://hortharyanaschemes.in.Giving this information today, an official spokesperson said in the modern era, new techniques were being introduced in agriculture. Staking is such a method in the cultivation of vegetables, by adopting which farmers can earn good profit. By using this method, profits and crop yields are also high.He said separate grants were being given for bamboo stacking and iron stacking. The state government is providing grants ranging from Rs 31,250 to Rs 56,250 for bamboo stacking costing Rs62,500 per acre and Rs 70,500 to Rs 1,26,500 for iron stacking at a cost of Rs 1,41,000 per acre. He said the maximum grant area on both types of stacking was one to 2.5 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/subsidy-on-bamboo-iron-stacking-for-veggie-farming-in-haryana-326371
19-10-2021||---||Half-marathon held in Bahadurgarh to motivate people||Jhajjar, October 18Pareeksha half-marathon was organised by the Running Lion Group in Bahadurgarh town here on Sunday in order to motivate the people to take up sports to keeping themselves physically fit.Around 600 persons participated in the marathon which started from HL City Society campus and culminated at the same place via Noona Majra village.The marathon was flagged off by Superintendent of Police (SP), Rajesh Duggal. He exhorted the people to spare some time every day to do exercise, yoga or play games as these were necessary to keep physically and mentally fit.Duggal also gave away the prizes to the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/half-marathon-held-in-bahadurgarh-to-motivate-people-326372
19-10-2021||---||Kalpana Chawla medical college gets nod for two new MD courses||Karnal, October 18Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has been given the nod by the National Medical Commission (NMC) to start two new MD courses in pharmacology and forensic medicine subjects. Both subjects will have two seats each. Earlier, the KCGMC has four seats each – MD anatomy, MD microbiology and MD biochemistry. With these two subjects, the KCGMC has MD course in five subjects. Apart from it, the KCGMC already has postgraduate courses of diplomate of national board (DNB) in the subjects of surgery, orthopedics, anesthesiology, general medicine and gynaecology.“We have received the permission to start two new courses. The students can get admission in these subjects from 2021-22 session,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director KCGMC. With the starting of these courses, the students will not have to go to other institutes for admission, he said. “We are hopeful that the KCGMC will be the prime choice of the students in these subjects in the coming days,” the Director said.Counselling for sr residents, demonstratorsFor the first time, the KCGMC on Monday conducted counselling for senior residents and demonstrators for all government medical colleges in the state. Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, said on the first day, 120 candidates appeared for counselling and as many would appear on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalpana-chawla-medical-college-gets-nod-for-two-new-md-courses-326373
19-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Arrival of paddy from Uttar Pradesh unchecked in Karnal mandis||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 18Even though the state government has put a ban on the arrival of paddy from other states in the grain markets of Haryana, paddy from Uttar Pradesh continues to arrive in various grain markets of the district.It is evident with the fact that several vehicles loaded with paddy from UP have returned only from Karnal grain markets in the past four to five days, with market fee being imposed on arhtiyas where the paddy was lying.Keeping a vigilSince there is a ban on the arrival of paddy from UP in the grain markets of Haryana, we are keeping a vigil on the arrival from UP regularly. I sent back 20 vehicles loaded with paddy from UP from the Karnal grain market. Chander Parkash, Secretary, Karnal grain marketThe situation is similar in other bordering mandis, including Gharaunda, Kunjpura, Indri and Gheer.Last week, an FIR was registered against 28 arhtiyas and four employees of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) for the ‘illegal’ purchase of paddy from other places.Meanwhile, the Karnal Arhtiya Association have demanded the government to allow the purchase of paddy of those farmers of Haryana who have cultivated paddy in UP.“We have hundreds of farmers of the district who have taken money from the arhtiyas of Karnal. Their crops have been harvested, but the authorities are not allowing them. We request the government to allow these farmers to sell paddy in the grain markets of Haryana,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiya Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrival-of-paddy-from-uttar-pradesh-unchecked-in-karnal-mandis-326374
19-10-2021||---||68 dengue cases reported in Rohtak||Rohtak, October 18Cases of viral fever and other seasonal infections are on the rise in Rohtak and nearby areas, with the number of dengue cases also recording a rise this year.As per the official record of the Health Department, 50 cases of dengue were detected in Rohtak last year, while 68 cases have already been detected so far this year.Deputy Civil Surgeon (Malaria) Dr Anupama Mittal said a special micro plan had been prepared to carry out anti-larva activities in the district.“Our teams are scanning various localities in the district for mosquito larvae. As many as 4,479 notices have been issued to the owners of the premises where mosquito larvae were found to date,” she said, adding that residents had been told that a fine ranging from Rs 200 to Rs 3,000 would be imposed on them in case larvae were found at their houses again.Meanwhile, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar has exhorted residents to be cautious and prevent the spread of dengue, malaria and chikungunya.The DC directed the local health officials to expedite the fogging process and advised residents to observe dry day once every week, during which all water tanks and coolers in the house must be cleaned.Probe children’s death: Ex-ministerChandigarh: Former Minister Karan Dalal on Monday demanded an inquiry into the death of several children due to a mysterious disease and sudden spurt in dengue cases in Palwal. In a letter to the Governor, Dalal alleged that the deaths occurred due to the negligence of the Health Department and lack of infrastructure. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/68-dengue-cases-reported-in-rohtak-326375
19-10-2021||---||Won’t admit poor pupils if dues not cleared: Private schools||Ambala, October 18Demanding reimbursement of dues for teaching poor students under Rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rule, and an increase in compensation, private schools have threatened to deny admissions to poor meritorious students if their demands were not met.Rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rule provides 10 per cent quota to kids from economically weaker sections in private schools.Covid crippled functioningCovid has crippled the working of schools in the past one and a half year. The government has decided to invite fresh admissions under Rule 134A, which is unrealistic as half of the session is over. How will the new students cope in new schools? Prashant Munjal, State vice-president, Haryana progressive schools conferenceA delegation of the Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) and the Integrated Private School Welfare Society (IPSWS) submitted a memorandum to the District Education Officer today.In the memorandum, the associations stated that the government had not paid schools the fee of students for the past couple of years and it was difficult to admit more children if previous outstanding dues were not cleared.“The compensation is also not as per the Right to Education. Only meritorious students were to be given admissions under Rule 134A, but the procedure to select meritorious students is not fair and most students allotted to private schools are not meritorious,” the associations said.Raising the issue of fake income certificates, the associations said the spirit of giving free education to poor students had totally been compromised.“As there is no proper procedure to make income certificates, deserving poor meritorious students are unable to get admission and all quota is consumed by people who obtain certificates fraudulently,” the associations added.Saurabh Kapoor, president, IPSWS, said: “The associations have requested the department to stop admissions for the session 2021-22, clear outstanding dues, make the admission system transparent and then invite applications next year. If all these measures are not undertaken, then in protest, schools will deny admission to students.”Last date for online registration extended||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-admit-poor-pupils-if-dues-not-cleared-private-schools-326376
19-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Om Prakash Dhankar, Om Prakash Chautala join campaign trail||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 18Prominent political parties have intensified their campaign from today in Ellenabad Assembly segment in Sirsa which is set to go to the polls on October 30.BJP leaders led by state president Om Prakash Dhankar and JJP state president Nishan Singh held a public meeting in Kagdana village in the segment today.However, a group of about 200 farmers staged a protest there. They were standing at some distance atop vehicles carrying black flags.Dhankar hit out at INLD leader Abhay Chautala alleging that rival parties have launched a negative campaign against the BJP.INLD leader Om Prakash Chautala too has hit the campaign trail in the segment and toured about 10 villages including Malekan and Keshupura. He stated that the outcome of this byelection would give a new direction to the political scenario in Haryana.Meanwhile, the star campaigners of the Congress too are expected to arrive in Ellenabad in a couple of days. Kumari Selja who has been canvassing for party candidate Pawan Beniwal was accompanied by Ashok Arora.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda will also camp in Ellenabad for two days from Wednesday. His son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda, Kiran Choudhry, Kuldeep Bishnoi too have chalked out their programmes for canvassing.The records of the Ellenabad Assembly polls in the past indicated that the Lok Dal had won the seat nine times while the Congress could win the seat twice. The BJP was never in the scene except in 2019 and 2014 when its candidate was runner-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-dhankar-om-prakash-chautala-join-campaign-trail-326377
19-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Ellenabad bypoll: INLD’s last-ditch effort to remain relevant in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala-led INLD is making a last-ditch effort to remain relevant in Haryana politics by fielding its secretary general Abhay Chautala, who is seeking his fourth term in the October 30 Ellenabad byelection.In fact, it will be the first test of popularity for the INLD since the October 2019 Haryana Assembly elections where the party clocked its worst performance polling just 2.4 per cent votes and winning only one seat.New direction to state politicsThe INLD win in Ellenabad will give a new direction to state politics as the BJP-JJP legislators would leave the alliance government after the bypoll, necessitating midterm election in the state. Om Prakash Chautala, former Chief MinisterAbhay, who was the only party legislator after the 2019 Assembly poll, had resigned in January this year in solidarity with farmers protesting against three farm laws.Observers feel that since Ellenabad byelection would the first election after the release of INLD supremo Chautala from jail after completing his sentence in the JBT recruitment scam, the result of the election would be a virtual referendum on the popularity of the former Chief Minister.Chautala today exuded confidence that the INLD win in Ellenabad would give a new direction to state politics as BJP-JJP legislators would leave the alliance government after the bypoll, necessitating mid-term election in the state.The INLD was the principal opposition after the 2014 Assembly elections polling 24 per cent votes and winning 19 seats in the 90-member Haryana Assembly.However, a split in the party leading to the formation of the JJP in 2018 made the new party the kingmaker after the 2019 Assembly poll. Later, the JJP, which won 10 seats, cobbled together an alliance with the BJP.Traditionally, Ellenabad has been an INLD stronghold with Chautala winning the seat in 1970 and 2009. Abhay, who first won from this seat in the 2010 byelection, has retained the seat in 2014 and 2019. He now hopes to make it four times in a row.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-inlds-last-ditch-effort-to-remain-relevant-in-haryana-326378
19-10-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Water shortage hits Sonepat localities||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 18Acute water shortage has hit several localities in the eastern part of Sonepat town. Residents allege that almost all localities in half of the town are without water for the past three days.Though the corporation officials claim that they have handled the situation by supplying water through tankers, the residents alleged that all alternative arrangements are insufficient and thousands of people are without water in these localities.The problem occurred three days ago, when the three motors and pumps at Jajal village, where the Reniwell project was established to supply potable water in the city, failed to pump up water.The water supply has been badly hit in various localities, including vegetable market, old city, Halwai Hatta, Mashad Mohalla, Kachey Quarter, Old DC Road, 4-marla, 8 marla, Delhi Camp, Model Town, Tara Nagar, Jeewan Nagar, Pancham Nagar, Anand Nagar, Shadipur, New Jeewan Nagar, New Tara Nagar, Kabirpur colony, Murthal road, Sikka Colony and others.One- day stock leftWe have stock of water for one day and all my family members are facing a lot of problems. Mahabir Singh, a resident of Tara Nagar2 motors repairedAll three motors and pumps along with impellers were worn out. Two motors have been temporarily repaired and officials have been asked to supply diesel for the generators Rajiv Jain, former media adviser to CMWill take 8-10 daysIt will take 8-10 days to resolve the problem completely, as the impellers of the pumps have to be brought from Pune, so it will take time. Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, SMCThe people were inconvenienced as the water supply was completely shut for the past 48 hours. Deepak of New Jeewan Nagar said he brought drinking water from the market for his family.Mahabir Singh, a resident of Tara Nagar said, “We have stock of water for one day and all my family members are facing a lot of problems.”The pumps and their impellers at the reniwell project at Jajal have stopped working due to improper maintenance. sources said.Besides, former media adviser to Chief Minister Rajiv Jain along with Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, SMC; Superintending Engineer Ashok Rawat and XEn Nijesh Kumar visited the Reniwell project premises at Jajal village.After visiting the village, Jain said all three motors and pumps along with impellers were worn out. Two motors have been temporarily repaired and officials have been asked to supply diesel for the generators.Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, SMC said the water supply was hit due to some technical problems in the pumps at Jajal village.Water in the areas will be supplied through water tankers, tubewells on alternate days to deal with the situation, he said.It will take 8-10 days to resolve the problem completely, as the impellers of the pumps have to be brought from Pune, the Commissioner maintained.Affected areasVegetable market, old city, Halwai Hatta, Mashad Mohalla, Kachey Quarter, Old DC Road, 4-marla, 8 marla, Delhi Camp, Model Town, Tara Nagar, Jeewan Nagar, Pancham Nagar, Anand Nagar, Shadipur, New Jeewan Nagar, New Tara Nagar, Kabirpur Colony, Murthal Road, Sikka Colony and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-shortage-hits-sonepat-localities-326379
19-10-2021||---||76.3% seropositivity recorded in Haryana after third round||Chandigarh, October 18Haryana recorded 76.3 per cent seropositivity in the third round of sero survey. It had recorded 8 per cent in the first round and 14.8 per cent in the second round.The sample size in the third round was 36,250.Seropositivity means having the presence of antibodies in blood serum.Health Minister Anil Vij said, “Haryana is working on a war footing to vaccinate the eligible population against Covid. During the third round of the sero survey, an assessment was made regarding the efficacy of the vaccination programme in the state.”Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said, “One of the major challenges before the Health Department was the enlarged sample size of 36,520 in the third round. Secondly, it was a task to test all samples at the District Civil Hospital Lab, Panchkula.”In urban areas, the sero-positivity was 78.1 per cent, while in rural areas, it was 75.1 per cent.Arora clarified that the impact of aggressive vaccination supplemented to higher sero-prevalence.“The results of the third round are somewhat near to the level of achieving herd immunity, but large proportion of population is still vulnerable. Therefore, enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour is still a priority,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/76-3-seropositivity-recorded-in-haryana-after-third-round-326381
19-10-2021||---||Rail roko: Five trains cancelled in Ambala, two in Hisar||Ambala/Karnal/Hisar/Palwal/ Panipat/Sonepat, October 18Farmers squatted on rail tracks today morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour “rail roko” protest, demanding the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The stir disrupted the movement of trains in the state, causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for long hours with their baggage.Protests were held at Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Sonepat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal, Hisar and Palwal.Protesting farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led government and demanded the arrest of Mishra. Security was deployed at railway stations in the wake of the protest.In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s three agricultural laws, said “protests will be intensified until justice is secured” in the Lakhimpur Kheri case.SKM Leaders arrested, detainedLeaders were detained and arrested at several places during the rail roko protest. Thousands of farmers peacefully participated to demand the dismissal and arrest of minister Ajay Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Samyukt Kisan MorchaCentre trying to sabotage stirFarmers have been protesting on the roads the past for 11 months. Instead of accepting their demands, BJP leaders have been trying to crush the agitation.Shamsher Singh Nambardar, farmer leader from HisarFarmers won’t bow down to govtThe Centre has been stubborn. Its intention is clear. It wants to safeguard the interests of capitalists. Farmers will not bow to the undemocratic attitude of the Centre. Rachna Sangwan, BKU (Charuni) memberIn the Ambala division, five trains were cancelled, and several others were partially cancelled, regulated and short-originated.Kalka-Ambala Express, Ambala-Kalka Express, Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, New Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi Express and Ambala-Saharnpur train were cancelled.During six hours of the protest, 17 mail express and passenger trains were halted at different stations under the Ambala division. A couple of goods trains and a military special train were stuck at the Ambala Cantt railway station because of the farmers’ protest.Meanwhile passengers were harried. One of them, Gagan, said: “I was on my way from Delhi to Chandigarh for some official work. Since the train was halted at the Amabla railway station, I will catch a bus for Chandigarh.”Ambala BKU (Charuni) chief Malkit Singh said, “Justice is impossible till Union Minister Mishra is not removed from the Cabinet.”In the Hisar division, the train services were affected on the Rewari-Sirsa-Rohtak section, Bathinda-Hanumangarh section, Rewari-Sadulpur section, Sadulur-Ratangarh section and Sadulpur-Hanumangarh section. As a result, two trains were cancelled and 13 partially cancelled. The route of one train was changed.Shamsher Singh Nambardar, a farmer leader from Hisar, said: “Farmers have been protesting on the roads for 11 months. Instead of accepting their demands, BJP leaders have been trying to crush the agitation.”In Karnal, farmers blocked the Delhi-Amritsar railway track, which is one of the busiest tracks of the North India. Several passengers were stranded at the railway station in the rain.At 10 am, farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) core committee member Jagdeep Singh Aulakh reached the railway track, raising slogans “Har Har Mahadev”, “Allah hu Akbar” and “Jo Bole So Nihaal”.“We blocked the track on the SKM’s call, demanding justice for victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The Centre must remove Mishra from the Union Cabinet,” he said.Farmers squatted on the tracks at three places in Sonepat — the city railway station, Ganaur and Gohana — and three places in Panipat — near TDI flyover on the Panipat-Ambala railway track, near Bhalsi village and in Israna.Around 3,000 passengers were stranded at the Panipat railway station for six hours as three trains — Shaheed Express, Jan Shatabdi Express and a passenger train — were halted.In Palwal district, farmers blocked rail traffic near Antoha village. Heavy police force was deployed near the protest site to prevent any untoward incident. Rattan Singh Sorot of the BKU said the agitation would continue till the farm laws were withdrawn.‘Pink City’ bus to rescue In PanipatPanipat: The local roadways depot plied a special “Pink City” bus for passengers stranded at the railway station so that they could catch a bus for their destination. It made around 20 rounds between the railway station and the bus stand, ferrying commuters free of cost. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rail-roko-five-trains-cancelled-in-ambala-two-in-hisar-326383
19-10-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Fear for family’s safety: Victim’s sister||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 18Raped twice by Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and her brother murdered by his henchmen on July 10, 2002, a 45-year-old woman has been living in constant fear of being harmed again by the sect head and his followers.Deserved deathHe (dera chief) should be hanged. Deserves nothing less than capital punishment… enjoys powers despite being in prison. Victim’s sisterGuarded by armed policemen at her late father’s three-storeyed house in Kurukshetra, the victim burst into tears when told the dera chief had been convicted for killing her brother, in a trial lasting almost two decades. “He should be hanged. Deserves nothing less than capital punishment,” she says, her voice choking with emotions. Sexually abused in 1999 and 2000 on the pretext of “purification” on the dera premises in Sirsa, the victim was one of the two witnesses in the rape case in which Ram Rahim was convicted in August 2017.Claiming Ram Rahim wields great power despite being in prison, she says, “Several of his followers still have blind faith in him… I have a family. I fear for their safety.” Regretting her parents died awaiting justice, she recounts how her brother, a staunch dera follower since childhood, came to her rescue when she confided in him after being raped the second time.“Ram Rahim’s utterances would be the last word for my brother. In fact, our entire family was deeply devoted. I regularly visited the dera for ‘sewa’ and joined as a full-time ‘sadhvi’ (nun) in 1999,” she says.Such was the blind faith that nobody could question the dera chief. “If anyone dared to speak against him, he would be brutally beaten and left to die without food... There were several rape victims, but their parents didn’t trust them. I too would have died there had my brother not rescued me (in April 2001),” she says, tears rolling down her cheeks again.The victim, who got married in October 2001, says her brother came to meet her nine days before being murdered.“He told me dera men were threatening him over the circulation of an anonymous letter alleging sexual exploitation of women followers inside the dera. My case was specifically mentioned in the letter,” she says, expressing gratitude to her husband and daughter, her biggest strengths in her fight for justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fear-for-familys-safety-victims-sister-326318
19-10-2021||Amit Bathla||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, 4 others get life term for killing sect follower in 2002||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 18A special CBI court in Panchkula on Monday sentenced Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and four others — Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil Singh — to life imprisonment for murdering dera follower Ranjit Singh. The latter was shot dead on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra.Also read: Fear for family’s safety: Victim’s sisterThe court slapped a Rs 31 lakh fine on Ram Rahim. Half of this amount will go to the victim’s family.Sabdil was told to pay a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh, Krishan Lal and Jasbir Singh Rs 1.25 lakh each and Avtar Singh Rs 75,000. The victim’s son, Jagseer Singh, said he was happy with the verdict.“My family fought a 19-year-long battle and had to go through a lot. We have finally got justice,” he said, speaking to the media outside the court. All convicts, except Ram Rahim, were present in person.The Dera chief is serving a 20-year sentence at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail for raping two women disciples. CBI special prosecutor HPS Verma said Ram Rahim’s life sentence would run concurrently with the life term awarded to him in the journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case in 2019. Verma and Senior Public Prosecutors DS Chawla and KP Singh had sought death penalty for the convicts. “The court maintained that the case did not fall in the category of rarest of rare,” Verma said. The dera chief had sought leniency in view of his contribution to social causes.CBI pleaded for deathAlthough CBI prosecutors had sought death penalty for Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four other convicts during the arguments on quantum of sentence, the special CBI court handed them down life sentences, saying the case didn’t fall in the category of “rarest of the rare cases”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-4-others-get-life-term-for-killing-sect-follower-in-2002-326319
19-10-2021|| Kurukshetra||Still fearing for life, says rape victim sister of Sirsa dera follower who was murdered||She was sexually abused twice by Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, and her brother was murdered.A special CBI court in Panchkula sentenced Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four other convicts to life imprisonment for murdering a sect follower in 2002 on Monday.Also read: Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, four others get life imprisonment for murdering followerSitting inside her three-storey parental house in Kurukshetra district, despite being guarded by armed policemen, the 45-year-old victim, in her soft low-decibel voice, said, “I still live in fear. I have a family. He (Ram Rahim) can do anything despite being inside the jail. I lost my brother. My father and mother passed away while waiting for justice. Death sentence should have been given,” she said, as the portraits of her brother, father and mother hung on the wall of the drawing room.    She was one of the two witnesses in the rape case where Ram Rahim was finally convicted after 18 years of the crime in August 2017. For conviction in her brother’s murder case, she had to wait for more than 19 years. Due to a large following of devotees, Ram Rahim had been influencing poll outcomes in Punjab and Haryana, she alleged. Top politicians across the political spectrum keep approaching him for votes.   The rape victim’s brother was a staunch follower of Dera Sacha Sauda since childhood. Ram Rahim’s utterances used to be like orders for him.“Our family had deep faith in the dera and I also used to go there for service. So, I joined there as ‘sadhvi’ (nun) in 1999,” she said. She was 23 at that time.  She revealed that sadhvis used to go to his ‘gufa’ (den) in the night one at a time. She was also called on August 28, 1999, inside his den and was violated in the name of purification, as he claimed he had right over her body. In 2000, she was again called to the den. She was told that if she didn’t go, she wouldn’t get food. She was violated again. She was called the third time too, but this time, she successfully resisted. She had lost faith. “Initially, I thought I was wrong as there was an atmosphere of fear and blind faith in the dera. Had you uttered anything negative, they would have broken your limbs. My brother’s faith in him was far more than mine. He used to call him ‘Pitaji’ (father),” she said while breaking down. She thought about running from the dera many times. Youngest of the siblings, she was close to her brother and one day mustered courage and told him everything. Her brother withdrew her, along with his two daughters, from the dera in April 2001.  “Had my brother not trusted me, I would have got rotten inside the dera. There were several victims but their parents didn’t trust their allegations due to blind faith. Some had no other place to go,” she said. However, she had revealed the names of some women who had left after being abused by the Dera chief. She got married in October 2001. Just nine days before his murder, her brother came to meet her at her in-laws’ house on July 1, 2002. He told her that Dera men had threatened to kill him as they suspected him to be behind an anonymous letter, alleging sexual exploitation of women followers inside the Dera which specifically mentioned her case too.  “They wanted him to apologise by falling at Ram Rahim’s feet. He told them to do whatever they liked to.” Her brother was shot dead on July 10, 2002, when he was returning from his fields. During those days, she was pregnant and delivered a child. When her father got to know about the truth, he decided to fight the case. “My father said he will fight till death. He knew that my brother died for truth,” she said. Till now, her husband didn’t know about her story. “My father had suggested it to him. But I had to talk to him in detail. He told me to do whatever my father was saying. My daughter supported me too. She is like my friend,” she said. “After I recorded statements against Ram Rahim and the trial started, there was a lot of pressure on the family for a compromise,” she said while breaking down again. While pointing towards the top floor of the parental house, she said, “When this house was being constructed, my brother asked Ram Rahim for his blessings. He asked my brother to build a special portion for him. Such was the faith that my brother altered the design for him.” “Ram Rahim was like a ‘Ravana’ (demon king in Ramayana) and my brother became a cause for his end just like Lord Rama or Lord Krishna,” she said, breaking down again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/still-fearing-for-life-says-rape-victim-sister-of-sirsa-dera-follower-who-was-murdered-326204
19-10-2021||Panchkula||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, four others get life imprisonment for murdering sect follower||A special CBI court in Panchkula sentenced Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four other convicts to life imprisonment for murdering a sect follower in 2002.The CBI (prosecution) had sought death penalty against Ram Rahim and four other convicts in the case.Also read: Still fearing for life, says rape victim sister of Sirsa dera follower who was murderedThe court of special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg on October 8 had held Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil Singh guilty under Sections 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.Further, Sabdil Singh and Jasbir Singh were held guilty under the Arms Act.The caseThe victim was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra district.According to the CBI charge sheet, the dera chief had suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter, highlighting sexual exploitation of his female followers in the dera.As per the statement of Khatta Singh (Dera chief’s former driver and prosecution witness) before the court, on June 16, 2002, he had hatched a conspiracy to kill him.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 31 lakh on Ram Rahim, half of which will go to the victim’s family. A fine of Rs 50,000 each levied on remaining convicts.The victim’s son expressed satisfaction over the verdict in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-four-others-get-life-imprisonment-for-murdering-sect-follower-326194
19-10-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh/Jaipur||Rail Roko: Farmers squat on rail tracks, train services hit in Punjab, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan||Farmers squatted on rail tracks at several places on Monday morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour ‘rail roko’ protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, hampering train movement in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.The stir affected 150 locations in the Northern Railway zone and hindered the running of 60 trains causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for long hours with their baggage.In the North Western Railway (NWR) zone, rail traffic was affected in some sections in Rajasthan and Haryana with 18 trains cancelled, 10 partially cancelled and one diverted due to the protest.Agitations were held at Punjab’s Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Moga, Patiala and Ferozepur, and Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal and Hisar.In Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) workers halted the Amritsar-Delhi and the Jalandhar Express trains by staging a dharna on rail tracks.Trains were halted at Meerut and Greater Noida’s Dankaur stations by the protesters, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. In Ghaziabad’s Modinagar, farmers staged a demonstration in front of a goods train which already reached its destination. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s Agri laws, had said, “To press for its demand for Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, SKM has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko programme.” SKM had put out a call to stop rail traffic between 10 am and 4 pm.Protesting farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led government and demanded the Ajay Mishra’s arrest. Security was deployed at rail stations in the wake of the protest.In Punjab, farmers sat on rail tracks in several sections, including the Ferozepur-Fazilka section in Ferozepur city and the Ferozepur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal in Moga, officials said.In Rajasthan, farmers held a protest on the tracks in Hanumangarh district and raised slogans against the Central and the Uttar Pradesh governments. In Jaipur, SKM members staged a protest at the entrance of the railway station.State joint secretary of SKM Sanjay Madhav said, “We have not been allowed to enter the Jaipur junction so we have started the dharna at the entrance.”The trains that have been affected in the Northern Railway zone include the Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express. Its scheduled departure from Ludhiana was 7 am, but has been stranded there due to a blockade in the Ferozpur-Ludhiana section, its chief public relation officer said.The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station due to blockades near Sahnewal and Rajpura. “About 25 passenger and short-distance trains have been cancelled,” the officer said.In Rajasthan, the agitation affected train movement in Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar of the Bikaner division.A North Western Railway (NWR) spokesperson said rail traffic on Bhiwani-Rewari, Sirsa-Rewari, Loharu-Hisar, Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Rohtak-Bhiwani, Rewari-Sadulpur, Hisar-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Sadulpur and Sri Ganganagar-Rewari sections was affected.Eighteen trains, including the Firozpur-Hanumangarh Special train, Ludhiana-Hisar Special train, Bathinda-Sriganganagar Special train, Bathinda-Lalgarh Special train, Phulera-Rewari Special train, Rewari-Jodhpur Special train, Ratangarh–Churu special train and Churu-Bikaner special train, were cancelled on Monday, he said.Ten trains have been partially cancelled due to the stir.The route of Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special train has also been changed, the NWR spokesperson said, adding the train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday will run via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra.At Ludhiana railway station—one of the busiest in Punjab—a person headed for Jodhpur rued that he came to know about the protest after reaching the station.He appealed to farmer leaders to lay siege to the residences of politicians rather than harassing the common man. “They should think about the public.” A man waiting for his train at Ludhiana station with his family said they have to rush for Gonda in UP as one of their relatives has died.At Patiala station, Dinesh Joshi searched frantically for milk and hot water for his child as the train he was travelling in had stopped due to farmers’ protest.A group of protests put up a banner with ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ written on it in front of a train forced to stop at Moga. They also carried photos of four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur violence.In West Bengal, those belonging to Left parties protested at some railway stations, while in Madhya Pradesh, farmers squatted on the tracks near Bamnia station in Jhabua.Demanding the arrest of Ajay Mishra, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the KMSC will hold protests at 20 places in 11 districts of Punjab.Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles.The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver.Farmers have claimed that the minister’s son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and the father. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rail-roko-farmers-squat-on-rail-tracks-train-services-hit-in-punjab-haryana-up-rajasthan-326159
