20-10-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Dengue cases cross 2,400 in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19After remaining below the 2,000-mark for three consecutive years, dengue cases in Haryana crossed 2,400 today. The number of patients testing positive has shown no signs of abating. Panchkula on topFrom 1,377 cases reported last year, the number of dengue patients has nearly doubled this year and stands at 2,427 this year. However, in recent years, the highest number of patients (9,921) and 13 deaths were reported in 2015. So far, there has been no death due to dengue this season.The most-affected districts in the state include Panchkula with 315 cases, Sirsa with 264 cases, Gurugram with 180 cases, Nuh with 175, Faridabad with 169, Sonepat with 163 and Fatehabad with 156 cases. The remaining 15 districts have cases less than 100 while Karnal (38) and Panipat (39) have the least number of cases so far.While 177 patients are still admitted to government or private hospitals, 179 new cases were reported today of whom 66 patients were admitted today.All hospitals, government and private, have been asked to draw up a list of blood donors of all blood groups. “We held a video-conference of all civil surgeons and told them that no death should happen because of shortage of platelets. While platelets are being administered free of cost in government hospitals, we have asked the civil surgeons to procure these, if need be, from private hospitals. The hospital will be reimbursed the charges,” Director, Vector-borne diseases, Dr Usha Gupta, explained.Stating that the Centre had already warned the states that there could be a spurt in the number of dengue and H1N1 influenza cases this season, Gupta said that the spurt in dengue cases is not just limited to Haryana but Punjab and Chandigarh have also seen a rise in the total number of cases being reported.She added that intermittent rain over an unusually long period resulted in creation of tiny puddles of water, leading to the spurt in dengue cases.Sources maintained that the staff, especially ANMs and multipurpose workers (male), were also diverted to the immunisation programme, resulting in shortage of manpower.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dengue-cases-cross-2-400-in-haryana-326885
20-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Civil hospital, KCGMC grapple with rising demand for platelets||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 19With an increase in the number of dengue cases in the district, demand for platelets has also shot up.Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has two platelets units, of which one is lying non-functional amidst the increase in demand.30-40 units needed dailyWe are receiving a demand of around 30 to 40 units of platelets daily. The non-functional machine will be made operational in a day or two. Dr Sachin Garg, blood bank in charge,  KCGMCAccording to the official figure, the district has recorded 38 dengue cases so far, but as per sources, the number could be higher as several people are being treated at private institutions.“We are receiving a demand of around 30 to 40 units of platelets daily. The non-functional machine will be made operational in a day or two,” said Dr Sachin Garg, blood bank in charge, KCGMC.KCGMC director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the staff of the blood bank had been directed to remain vigilant.The blood bank at the Civil Hospital is also witnessing a demand of around 20 to 30 units daily, said Dr Sanjay Verma, Regional Blood Transfusion Officer. “We are trying our best to meet the demand,” he added.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said they had been conducting door-to-door surveillance check the breeding of larvae. “So far, our teams have detected larvae in 4,971 households,” he said, adding that anti-larvae activities and fogging in various parts of the district were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-civil-hospital-kcgmc-grapple-with-rising-demand-for-platelets-326886
20-10-2021||---||49% targeted population fully vaccinated  in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 19The district health authorities have achieved the target of fully vaccinating around 49 per cent of the eligible population (above 18 years of age) against Covid-19.Over 16.26 lakh persons have been given the first dose under the mass vaccination drive that was launched in January this year.Awareness campaign helpedA total of 16,28,859 persons have received their first dose and around 7,49,490 have got their second dose too so far. The number of persons receiving their first dose is almost 100 per cent. The vaccination drive has proved highly effective in curbing the infection rate. — Dr Vinay Gupta, Civil Surgeon, FaridabadA senior official of the Health Department said a total of 23,78,394 doses of vaccination (first and second doses) have been given in the district. The total number of villages in the district is 152 and the vaccination drive has been going on through over 50 sites. Though the total population of the district is estimated to be around 23 lakh, the eligible number (18 years and above) of people for the vaccination drive comes to 68 per cent.A total of 16,28,859 persons have received their first dose and around 7,49,490 have got their second dose too and have been declared as fully vaccinated so far, said Dr Vinay Gupta, Civil Surgeon, Faridabad. He said the number of persons receiving their first dose is almost 100 per cent. “The vaccination drive has proved highly effective in curbing the infection rate or the spread of Covid-19,” Dr Gupta said.The target population for vaccination is around 16 lakh, which is 68 per cent of the total population in the district. Dr Man Singh, Nodal Officer for Vaccination, said 59 sites were functional for carrying out the drive. These include 49 government and 10 private sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/49-targeted-population-fully-vaccinated-in-faridabad-326887
20-10-2021||---||Paddy purchase resumes in Karnal after 2 days, 70% lifted||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 19Paddy procurement restarted in various grain markets of the district after a gap of two days. Karnal and other grain markets witnessed a heavy rush of the farmers this morning.Clear farmers’ payment in 72 hrs: DCDeputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Tuesday inspected Indri, Biana and Kunjpura grain markets and talked with farmers and arhtiyas. He directed procurement agencies to clear farmers’ payment in 72 hours of procurement. He also ordered the mandis to speed up the lifting process.Owing to slow lifting, the district administration had restricted paddy procurement for a couple of days in various grain markets on Sunday and Monday. On Sunday, farmers did not get the space to unload their paddy and had to wait on the service lanes of the NH 44, owing to which services lanes remained chocked.As per the information all grain markets and purchase centres have recorded an arrival of 68,29,926 quintals of paddy so far, of which around 92 per cent (62,97,230 quintals) has been purchased. A total of 44,03,574 quintals (around 70 per cent of the purchased paddy) of paddy have been lifted so far.“The two days paddy procurement was on hold, the administration got time to push the lifting process through agencies. We have sufficient space in almost all grain markets and purchase centres now to continue procurement,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the situation had now became normal in all grain markets and purchase centres, adding that around 70 per cent of the procured paddy had been lifted. The agencies concerned had been directed to lift the remaining paddy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-purchase-resumes-in-karnal-after-2-days-70-lifted-326888
20-10-2021||Karnal||Singhu lynching a conspiracy: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today reiterated that the Singhu lynching appeared to be steeped in a conspiracy to distract attention from the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre. It needs urgent investigation.Also read: ‘Secret’ meet: Money offered to vacate Singhu dharna site, claims Nihang leader Baba Aman SinghSamyukt Kisan Morcha’s 32 farmer unions in huddle“While sacrilege in any religion is not acceptable and needs to be condemned, SKM appeals to all citizens, who are part of the farmers’ movement, not to fall prey to dangerous distractions being planted in the movement. They should continue to intensify their resistance to secure the key demands of the movement,” said SKM.New reports have emerged about a leader of a Nihang Sikh group meeting Union Cabinet Minister for Agriculture and Minister of State for Agriculture in July, ostensibly for the resolution of the farmers’ agitation. This leader is from the same group which was involved in the Singhu border lynching, the SKM leaders claimed.In a joint statement, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah and Yogendra Yadav said the rail roko call received widespread response. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-lynching-a-conspiracy-skm-326889
20-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  bypoll: To stop inflow of liquor, drugs, security beefed up at borders||Tribune News ServiceSirsa, October 19The police and securities agencies are on alert regarding the attempts to influence the electorate with drugs and liquor in the Ellenabad byelection.18 additional checkpoints set upThe police of three states including Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan held a meeting to tighten the vigil on the borders to restrict the movement of smugglers involved in drug trafficking in the district. Police sources informed that they have set up 18 additional checkpoints (nakas) in addition to the 16 regular checkpoints along the Rajasthan border adjoining the entire stretch of the Ellenabad Assembly segment.The sources said that the region is known as a problematic zone due to high drug addiction and illicit liquor smuggling. As electioneering has picked up, the use of drugs and liquor cannot be ruled out in influencing voters.A perusal of the records of Ellenabad and Nathusari Chopta police stations, which are part of the Ellenabad Assembly segment, revealed that almost half of the criminal cases registered here in last couple of weeks are related to the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Haryana Amendment Bill), 2020 and the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985.A police official said that smuggling of drugs is prevalent in the region due to high demand among addicts. “Narcotics, including poppy husk, ‘chitta’, smack, ‘bhukki’ are brought from Rajasthan and Punjab areas. Besides, there is the notorious practice of hooch in the region as some elements are involved in manufacture and sale of hooch,” the official said, adding that around 15 cases had been registered in less than a month under these two Acts at these two police stations.Meanwhile, a joint meeting of Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab Police was held yesterday in Sirsa district. Sirsa SP Arpit Jain, Hanumangarh SP Preeti Jain Bathinda SP Major Singh, Mansa SP Sandeep Garg and the SHOs of the five police stations which have their area of operations in the Ellenabad Assembly constituency were present at the meeting.SP Arpit Jain said that every vehicle and person passing through police checkpoints should be checked. A close watch on suspicious people has to be kept. “Police officers of all the three states should cooperate in order to conduct the Ellenabad byelection in a fair and free manner,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-to-stop-inflow-of-liquor-drugs-security-beefed-up-at-borders-326890
20-10-2021||---||By quitting, Abhay forced byelection on people: Ajay Chautala||Tribune News ServiceSirsa, October 19Campaigning for BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda in the Ellenabad byelection, JJP supremo Ajay Singh Chautala has urged the people to enjoy the fruits of power by voting in favour of the ruling coalition.Addressing public meetings in several villages of Ellenabad segment today, he said that INLD candidate Abhay Chautala had forced the bypoll on the people unnecessarily by resigning from the Assembly. “Now, he is seeking re-election by joining the fray,” he said, adding that public representatives could help the public in resolution of their grievances by raising the issues in the Assembly.Ajay Chautala said that the byelection is an opportunity for the people to get a share in the government by sending the candidate of the ruling coalition to the Assembly.The JJP national president said that the problems of the people could be solved by becoming a participant in power and that resigning did not solve problems.He said that the BJP-JJP coalition government has been continuously fulfilling its election promises, including 75 per cent reservation for Haryana residents in private sector jobs, by ensuring 50 per cent participation of women in Panchayati Raj Institutions and 33 per cent women’s share in ration depot operations.He said that the Haryana Government is making the maximum purchase of 11 crops at MSP.Ajay Chautala alleged that “arrogant” attitude is responsible for the decline of the INLD and urged the people to elect a candidate who is friendly with the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/by-quitting-abhay-forced-byelection-on-people-ajay-chautala-326891
20-10-2021||---||43 more commercial units sealed in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 19Continuing its drive against property tax defaulters, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) authorities have sealed another 43 commercial units for not paying their property tax to the tune of Rs 40.53 lakhs in the past two days. With around 159 units sealed earlier under the ongoing drive, the number of such units in the city has gone up to 202 so far.Aim is to recover Rs125 CRore duesThe target of the drive is to recover around Rs125 crore pending for the past several years. Three units which cleared the pending amount of Rs1.93 lakh on the spot were spared from the sealing action on Tuesday. The units may be de-sealed as soon as these clear the dues. — Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCFRevealing the details of the sealing action carried out on Monday and Tuesday, an official of the civic body said 36 units owing property tax dues to the tune of Rs 29.77 lakh were sealed on Tuesday. These include 15 units in the NIT zone, 16 in Ballabgarh zone and five units in Old Faridabad zone of the Municipal Corporation. Besides these a total of seven units which have failed to clear their pending dues of around Rs 10.76 lakh were sealed on Monday. Claiming that the sealing drive will continue till the recovery of all dues, Yashpal Yadav , Commissioner, MCF said the target of the drive was to recover around Rs 125 crore pending for the past several years. He said three units which cleared a pending amount of Rs 1.93 lakh on the spot were spared from the sealing action on Tuesday. The units may be de-sealed as soon as these clear the dues, he added.It is reported that while the number of total units sealed so far in the ongoing drive has gone up to 202 till date, the total amount pending towards these units is Rs 2.41 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/43-more-commercial-units-sealed-in-faridabad-326892
20-10-2021||---||Karnal Municipal Corporation serves notices on 20 property tax defaulters||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 19In continuation with its drive against property tax defaulters, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has served notices on 20 property tax defaulters, who have allegedly failed to deposit their dues, asking them to deposit their dues in seven days, otherwise the KMC will seal their establishments.As per the authorities, these 20 property tax defaulters owe around Rs 1.5 crore to the KMC.Among them, two Malls situated in Sector 12, including Super Mall and K3C Mall have been issued notices, which have an outstanding amount of around Rs 51 lakh jointly since 2010-11. Both the Malls have around 99 commercial units inside their premises, said Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC.“We have issued notices to 20 property tax defaulters under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994, Sections 128, 129 and 130. They have been directed to deposit their dues in seven days, otherwise sealing process would be initiated,” said the Commissioner, adding that the process to recover property tax from the remaining defaulters would be initiated soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-municipal-corporation-serves-notices-on-20-property-tax-defaulters-326893
20-10-2021||---||Tardy lifting affecting farmers, says Bhupinder Hooda||Chandigarh, October 19Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed concern over the condition of the farmers who reached the mandis with their crops as it got drenched in rain.“Their crops are getting drenched in the rain and the government is watching as a mute spectator. Lakhs of quintals of paddy got soaked in two days of rain and the crops bought by agencies are also getting impacted. Farmers are suffering because of the delay, negligence and mismanagement of the BJP-JJP government,” he said.Attacking the government over its negligence, Hooda alleged that the government neither arranged tarpaulin to cover the crop in the mandis nor were the crops lifted on time. “There was a deliberate delay in starting the procurement earlier by the government and now the lifting and payment are being delayed. Farmers have not even been given compensation for the crops damaged due to bad weather for the last several seasons.”“It seems that the government is not at all sympathetic to the condition of the farmers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-lifting-affecting-farmers-says-bhupinder-hooda-326894
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula-Morni road plan sent to Centre||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said the Panchkula-Morni road project would give further impetus to the Panchkula metropolitan development. This will provide better facilities to people and tourists of the Morni area, he added.The Chief Minister, while presiding over the sixth meeting of State Wildlife Board held today, also accorded approval to send the proposal regarding the widening of the road from Panchkula to Morni to the Union Government.Notably, about a 17-km-long road from Panchkula to Morni is to be widened and strengthened. This road comes under the area of Khol-hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary in Panchkula. The approval of the National Board of Wildlife of the Central Government is mandatory for this.During the meeting, the Chief Minister said there should be no delay in the proposals related to forest area, wildlife and environment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-morni-road-plan-sent-to-centre-326895
20-10-2021||---||Haryana Governor exhorts teachers to improve students’ skills||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 19Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has called upon educationists to make students proficient in terms of skill and innovation as per local requirements along with imparting them quality education. If the youth have skills and cutting-edge technical knowledge, they will not face any problem in getting employment.Dattatreya said this while addressing teachers and students after inaugurating the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) on Tuesday. He also laid the foundation stone for the waterworks, inaugurated the newly constructed Vikram Sarabhai video conference room and unveiled the portrait of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the campus.“The purpose of education is not only to get a job but to contribute to the development of the region and the country by working on new ideas with newer skills. The youth should move ahead in life with an open mind and thoughts and by getting knowledge of new subjects from the university for which they should be grateful to their institution throughout their life,” said the Governor.He also interacted with research scholars and students of the pharmaceutical department besides reviewing the progress and future projects of the university. He asked the teachers to be updated with the latest technology.Prof SK Gakhar, Vice-Chancellor, IGU, made a powerpoint presentation, highlighting different aspects of the university and new initiatives taken to promote research work and to strengthen infrastructure of the university.The university students presented cultural programmess including yoga, mime, and patriotic songs while the Governor also honoured meritorious students on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-exhorts-teachers-to-improve-students-skills-326896
20-10-2021||---||Anil Vij launches ‘Swasth Haryana’ App||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij while affirming that the “Swasth Haryana” mobile app has been launched for peoples’ benefit specified that it will provide them relief from long queues at hospitals.Through this app, patients can get themselves registered at any Civil Hospital of the state. Vij said this during the launch of “Swasth Haryana” mobile app here today. He said that this app was also available on the Google Play Store.Vij said the government was consistently working to contain the spread of Covid and to augment it further, the Haryana State Health Systems Resource Centre (HSHRC) had developed this App.Among the salient features of this app are registration of patients in advance along with demographic information of patients, also the patients will have access to their past registration records and can visit any health institute and OPD of their choice. Furthermore, the patients will be able to download their test reports on their mobile phones and patients will also get information about the nearest blood bank through this App.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-launches-swasth-haryana-app-326897
20-10-2021||Gurugram||Lab operator robbed at gunpoint in Sohna||A lab operator was robbed at gunpoint by two masked robbers in Sohna in broad daylight today. An FIR has been registered.According to the police, the incident occurred around 1.40 pm today at the Arora lab in Sohna where Mubin was present at the reception of the lab. In the meantime, two masked men came into the lab and made querry about ultrasound. Mubin was asked to go the civil hospital but suddenly they held him hostage at gunpoint. In a few minutes they snatched Rs 15,000 cash and a mobile phone and fled from the lab.After this, the lab operator informed the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lab-operator-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-sohna-326898
20-10-2021||---||Congress workers protest in Rewari||Rewari, October 19Congress workers, led by former minister Capt Ajay Yadav, today organised a demonstration against the acute shortage of the DAP fertiliser, non-procurement of ‘bajra’ by government agencies, rising inflation and pitiable condition of roads in the district. They also submitted a memorandum to ADC Ashima Sangwan in this respect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-workers-protest-in-rewari-326899
20-10-2021||---||Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma faces farmers’ protest||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 19Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma faced protest by farm activists during his visit to Julana town in Jind district today. The farmers showed black flags and tried to block his way by lying in front of the cavalcade of vehicles of the MP when he was on the way back to Rohtak.The farmers, on getting information about the visit, gathered at the road carrying black flags. Though the police were deployed, the protesters broke the security cordon and reached in front of the vehicle of the MP.A protester lay down in front of the vehicle but the police removed him from the road and cleared the way for the MP’s cavalcade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-mp-arvind-sharma-faces-farmers-protest-326900
20-10-2021||---||Hodal ASI booked for corruption, harassment||Palwal, October 19An ASI has been booked on the charge of corruption and irregularities leading to undue harassment of a resident of Hodal subdivision of the district. No arrest has been made so far. The case has been booked on the directions of the local court.Complainant Arun Kumar, a resident of Aurangabad village, said the accused ASI, identified as Bharat Pal, who was posted at the police station in Hodal in 2018, had allegedly taken an amount of over Rs 2 lakh in the name of help after implicating him and his kin allegedly in false cases, till he filed a case in the local court in 2019. He claimed that the accused cop started harassing him and his family members after he had lodged a complaint against one Dharampal, a retired policeman living in his neighbourhood, who had assaulted him during a quarrel in 2018.He said while he had lodged a complaint with the IG (Rewari Range), the accused cop rejoined his duty after brief suspension, even though an inquiry against him was pending.Police said the accused might be arrested after the probe concludes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hodal-asi-booked-for-corruption-harassment-326901
20-10-2021||Hisar||District-level yoga competition in Hisar||Training camp on kitchen gardeningHisar: A three-day training camp on kitchen gardening was organised by Saina Nehwal Agricultural Training and the Education Institute of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University. Experts motivated unemployed youth and women to explore self-employment avenues. Giving information about training, the expert said mechanisation and value addition had a special role in increasing the production capacity of vegetable crops. About 30 per cent of the vegetables grown in the farmers' fields get spoiled due to lack of proper storage facilities. About 60 participants from different states of the country participated in the training.Course on vedic mathematicsFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad has organised a 10-day value-added course on 'vedic mathematics' .Conducted jointly by the departments of mathematics and computer engineering it is sponsored by the All-India Council for Technical Education. The National Secretary of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, Atul Kothari, was the chief guest. He said vedic mathematics was an ancient Indian technique based on logic and mathematical methodology, which made complex arithmetic calculations simple and interesting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/district-level-yoga-competition-in-hisar-326902
20-10-2021||The agency assigned to lay gas pipelines in the houses had dug up pits on roads in front of the houses at various places in Sector 12 part 2. This company has again dug up pits on the road in front of the houses to start the gas supply in these pipelines. Many pits have been dug on the road for the past several days||Roads dug up to lay gas pipeline not repaired in Karnal||Shakti Singh, KarnalOpen drain junction poses risk to passersbyThe enclosed picture shows the 45 years old open drain junction. The people above 50 years are witness that this road was repaired for the first time in near about 1976 or 77. Since then this hole has been lying open. At that time the office of the Municipal Committee was just quite adjacent to it which has now shifted near police chowki. Almost all the staff members of the Municipal committee pass this way as this is the most busy road of the city bearing the rush of committee bazaars, three schools, CHC, two banks etc. This is a death trap for many stray animals. Human beings are lucky enough to make hue and cry when they fall in it. You can imagine what happens when it rains heavily. Earlier also through this newspaper, I made a request to the authorities to cover it. If it is covered, it will not only reduce the risk of accidents but also the road will be broadened to facilitate the rush in peak hours.Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaSmoke from factories a Health hazardFactories in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, Panchkula are blatantly flouting the norms by emitting air pollutants without any purification. This poses severe health concerns for residents. Immediate action is the need of the hour.Minni Kalra, ZirakpurWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roads-dug-up-to-lay-gas-pipeline-not-repaired-in-karnal-326903
20-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||16-pt dip in gender ratio in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 19Haryana witnessed a 16-point dip in the sex ratio at birth during the first nine months of this year as compared with last year’s figure.It was 922 in 2020, which declined to 906 by September 30 this year. Thirteen of the total 22 districts have recorded sex ratio below the state average (906) this year. Putting up the best show, Rohtak recorded sex ratio of 955, an improvement of 43 points over the last year’s figure. It was followed by Charkhi Dadri (937), Panipat (930), Nuh (922), Jind (919) and Sirsa (919).Sonepat and Jhajjar districts were the worst performers with lowest sex ratio of 880. Among other districts, Fatehabad recorded sex ratio of 882, Ambala (891), Rewari (892), Karnal and Faridabad (both 896), Bhiwani and Kaithal (both 897), Palwal (899), Gurugram (901), Yamunanagar (902) and Mahendragarh (905).In all, 3,65,393 children were born in Haryana between January 1 and September 30 this year. Among them, 1,91,662 were male and 1,73,731 female.Dr Veena Singh, Director General (Health Services), could not be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts. Another officer maintained that the reasons behind the decline in sex ratio at birth would be ascertained after getting reports from the districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-pt-dip-in-gender-ratio-in-haryana-326774
