21-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Faridabad man along with friend kill wife, two others; arrested||Gurugram, October 21Suspicious of his wife’s character, a man with help of his friend allegedly shot her and two others dead.Neeraj Chawla along with his friend attacked the victims in their house in Faridabad’s Gothda Mohabatabad village in wee hours of Thursday.The assailants shot the woman, her mother and a friend of the woman’s brother. All died on the spot. Neeraj’s brother-in-law was injured and admitted to a private hospital.Neeraj, a resident of NIT Faridabad, and his friend Lekhraj, have been nabbed by police. They reportedly said they have no regret.Neeraj is a tailoring material businessman while Lekhraj works as a tailor with him. The police are interrogating them and an FIR has been registered under various sections of IPC and Arms Act at Dhauj police station.A police complaint was filed by injured Gomsi Galyan alias Gagan (26), who lives in a rented house at Gothda Mohabatabad village. He said he lived with his mother Suman, sister Ayesha and her 12-year-old son. Due to some marital dispute her sister was living with them for the last one year.“We had returned from Khatu Shyam two days ago and my friend Rajan Sharma was staying with us. On Wednesday night, I along with my friend and my sister’s son went to sleep on the first floor. Around 2.45 am, my brother-in-law Neeraj Chawla and his friend Lekhraj shot me and my friend and fled away. I made a call to my sister who was sleeping at ground floor with mother, but soon I heard gunshots. I called police who reached the spot. I found my sister Aayesha (30), mother Suman (47) and friend Rajan Sharma (35) dead. I got a bullet injury in my back. My brother-in-law Neeraj and his friend Lekhraj killed three persons as he was suspicious of my sister’s character and had some monetary dispute with me.”Following the complaint, police lodged an FIR and nabbed Neeraj and Lekhraj, who confessed to the crime.Police recovered two countrymade pistols and a motorcycle from their possession. The bodies were handed over to kin after the postmortem today.“Our DLF crime branch nabbed both accused within hours of the incident. Police commissioner Vikas Arora has rewarded the crime branch team with Rs 10,000 and first class citation. The accused will be produced in a city court by tomorrow,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson of Faridabad police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-man-along-with-friend-kill-wife-two-others-arrested-327611
21-10-2021||---||Farmers block border over ban of paddy from UP in mandis||Karnal, October 20Scores of commuters had to bear the brunt of a farmers’ protest on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border across the Yamuna River bridge this afternoon. Farmers were protesting the Haryana Government’s decision to not allow the entry of paddy from UP in Karnal’s grain market.Farmers said the state had put a ban on the arrival of PR paddy in the grain markets of Haryana from Uttar Pradesh, owing to which, scores of tractors and trailers loaded with paddy had been stopped at the border.Waiting for a weekMany farmers of Karnal have their land in UP. But now, we can’t sell our paddy produce here. We have been waiting on the border for a week and our produce is rotting. — Gursewak Singh, Nagla villageOnly PR paddy bannedBasmati varieties are allowed to cross the border, only the PR paddy is still not allowed. We will allow its entry as soon we receive orders from the administration. — Satpal Singh, Manglora police post“Most farmers belonging to Karnal district have their land in UP and have cultivated paddy there. But now, we are not allowed to sell it even in our district. We have been waiting here on the border for the past six to seven days. Our produce suffered damages in trailers. We demand the government to allow us to sell our produce in Karnal,” said Gursewak Singh, a farmer from Nagla village.Another farmer, Kirtpal Singh, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised a mandi system where farmers could sell their produce anywhere across the country, but despite that promise, the BJP government in Haryana was stopping them to sell their produce in the grain markets of Karnal.Farmers from UP said they had been selling their produce in Karnal for past several years. Their arhtiyas are also in Karnal, from whom they have taken advance. They demanded the Haryana and UP governments to develop temporary grain markets on Haryana-UP borders, where farmers could sell their produce in every season.Owing to the protest, commuters were a harried lot and blamed farmers for the inconvenience.“I was travelling from Meerut to Kurukshetra. I had luggage with me and could not cross the Yamuna River bridge in the traffic jam,” a woman said.Similarly, an ambulance driver said the concern of farmers was genuine but the ambulance should have been allowed to pass. “I was bringing a patient from Shamli who needed immediate treatment, but we were stuck in the jam,” the driver said.Manglora police post in-charge Satpal Singh told The Tribune: “We are in touch with the authorities of UP and Karnal. While the basmati varieties are allowed to cross the border, it is only the PR paddy that is still not allowed. We will allow the entry of the PR paddy as soon we receive orders from the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-border-over-ban-of-paddy-from-up-in-mandis-327386
21-10-2021||Sonepat||Lakhbir Singh booked on sacrilege charge||The Sonepat police have registered a case against Lakhbir Singh of Tarn Taran, whose semi-naked body was found hanging on an overturned police barricade near the main stage of the SKM at Singhu Border on October 15, allegedly for disrespecting the holy book.Nihang Baba Balwinder Singh of Udna Dal disclosed about the registration of the case late on Wednesday evening. Baba Balwinder Singh said they had given a complaint against Lakhbir Singh for disrespecting the holy book before surrender by Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet Singh on October 17. Following the complaint, the police registered a case of sacrilege.Besides, the SIT has mapped the crime spot where the hand of Lakhbir Singh was chopped off and police teams also collected blood stains from the spot, the sources said.Besides, the spot was very close to the tent of Baba Aman Deep Singh, where he was sleeping, the sources said. The sources said the team also collected the clothes of the accused, which they had worn at the time of the crime. DSP (Headquarters) Virender Rao, in charge, SIT, said the case of sacrilege was registered and the probe into the matter was under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lakhbir-singh-booked-on-sacrilege-charge-327388
21-10-2021||---||Nihangs call for ‘mahapanchayat’ at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 20Nihang Sikhs have given an open call for “mahapanchayat” at Singhu Border on October 27 to decide their next course of strategy after the recent brutal killing of a man at the border.The Nihangs have decided to get public opinion on their stay at Singhu Border at the “mahapanchayat”.Baba Balwinder Singh of Panth Akali Nirvair Khalsa, Udna Dal of Moya di Mandi said Baba Raja Raj Singh and Kulwinder Singh of Tarna Dal had decided to hold an all-religion mahapanchayat at the place.Baba Balwinder Singh said they had given an open call to various persons and bodies that included all intellectuals of the Sikh community and the sangat of all relegions for the meeting. Farmers and their leaders could also join the meeting as it was an open call, he said.The decision, which would be taken by the sangat at the ‘mahapanchayat’, would be acceptable to all. If the sangat would ask us to leave the border, we would leave from here, he said.We had come here for the security of the protesting farmers and we are not among those who run away. We have accepted what we have done and our men in the court have also accepted it, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nihangs-call-for-mahapanchayat-at-singhu-327390
21-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  bypoll: Hooda, Selja hit out at Abhay Chautala||Tribune News ServiceSirsa, October 20Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today embarked on a campaigning drive for the Ellenabad bypoll along with central party leader Vivek Bansal, state party president Kumari Selja and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhary.Addressing a series of public meetings in Kagdana, Jamal and Madho Singhana villages of Ellenabad segments, AICC incharge of Haryana affairs Vivek Bansal alleged that people had understood the BJP’s policy of dividing people in the name of caste and religion. Hooda trained the guns on INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who is seeking re-election saying that he had resigned from the Assembly against the three black laws. “The question is that the laws are yet to be withdrawn and the farmers’ agitation is still is going on. In such a situation, he should not have entered the electoral fray on the basis of morality,” he said.Kumari Selja accused Abhay of thrusting a byelection on people.Ahead of the October 30 bypoll for the assembly seat in Sirsa district, Selja attacked Chautala, saying he chose the easy way out rather than strengthening the Opposition's hands on farmers' issues. Terming the state government as “insensitive”, Kumari Selja alleged that the government was so ruthless that since January, it had not even spoken once to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-hooda-selja-hit-out-at-abhay-chautala-327391
21-10-2021||Sirsa||Abhay Chautala launches attack on BJP candidate’s allies||The INLD candidate in Ellenabad assembly segment, Abhay Singh Chautala, today said some people were campaigning in favour of the rival party candidate in the garb of “social workers” even though they were facing several criminal cases. And those who used to seek justice for the victim are now canvassing along with the accused.Defending his decision to resign in favour of the farmers’ agitation, Chautala said it wasn’t his “hobby” to resign, he did so to give strength to the farmers’ agitation. “And now, I have filed the nomination on the instructions of the people of Ellenabad,” he claimed.He said the BJP people, who used to hurt the sentiments of farmers by calling them terrorists and Khalistanis, are now trying to become their well-wishers.Meanwhile, the INLD has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission about the alleged violation of the model code of conduct by former BJP minister Krishan Lal Panwar. “On October 18, he used caste-based language to seek votes for the party candidate in Kagdana village. He tried to polarise people on caste lines during the campaigning,” the party has stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautala-launches-attack-on-bjp-candidates-allies-327393
21-10-2021||Sirsa||Ex-MLA Abhay Singh Chautala didn’t raise issues: Om Prakash Dhankar||Harping on the developmental plank, the ruling BJP today alleged that the previous INLD MLA, Abhay Singh Chautala, who is seeking re-election, neither raised the problems of Ellenabad in the Assembly nor took up the problems of people here with the government.BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar said the BJP government, during his first and second term, had carried out several development works. Besides, BJP MP Sunita Duggal also got several central schemes approved for Ellenabad from the Centre government, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-mla-abhay-singh-chautala-didnt-raise-issues-om-prakash-dhankar-327394
21-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||NHAI begins work on corridor to link UP airport, expressway||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 20The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started work to acquire land in 14 villages of Faridabad and Palwal districts for the corridor (expressway) project which will connect the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway with the upcoming International Airport at Jewar in UP, from here.Revealing that the project involves the acquisition of land in 18 villages of Haryana and UP, a senior official of the NHAI said while 14 villages fall in Faridabad and Palwal districts, land of four villages of Gautam Budh Nagar will also be acquired or the 30-km-long expressway corridor.With four interchangeable points, this road will start from Sahupura village of Faridabad district, from where the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway passes. Other entry and exit points will be located at Hirapur-Chhainsa (also in Faridabad) and two places on the Yamuna Expressway in UP.Officials said while 22-km-long passage will be in Faridabad and Palwal districts, the remaining 8 km will be in UP.The villages whose land will be acquired include Sahupura, Sotai, Chandawali, Bahbalpur, Fafunda, Panhera Khurd, Mahmudpur, Hirapur, Chhainsa, Mohna and Mohiyapur in Faridabad. Land of Begumpur and Jhumpa, located in Palwal district, has also been identified for the purpose. In UP, land of Vallabhnagar, Dayanatpur, Lena Bangar, Karoli Banger and Faleda Banger villages will be acquired. As the signal-free corridor will have a run of 22 km in Faridabad and Palwal districts, its height above the ground is proposed to be around eight feet.Several bridges and underpasses have also been planned to provide access to residents of the villages, said sources. The travel time from Faridabad to the Jevar airport through it will be around 20 minutes, claimed sources.“The design and the total cost of the corridor is expected to be revealed after the process of land acquisition, which has begun,’’ says Dhiraj Singh, a senior NHAI official, who added that the project was expected to cost Rs 1,000-1,500 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nhai-begins-work-on-corridor-to-link-up-airport-expressway-327397
21-10-2021||---||Report on illegal mining at Dadam Hills submitted||Bhiwani, October 20An eight-member joint committee led by Pritam Pal, former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and present chairman of the monitoring committee, has submitted its interim report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding the verification of facts with regard to illegal mining in the forest area and unscientific mining outside Dadam Hills in Tosham (Bhiwani) by Govardhan Mines and Minerals, Hisar.The committee was formed by the NGT in the matter of Kuldeep Singh vs State of Haryana and others.In its report, the committee concludes that illegal mining had been done in Aravalli plantation area (forest area). The committee also recommended that the Department of Forest shall recover the cost of the stones mined illegally.The report states the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will impose environmental compensation for causing damage to the ecology and ecosystem by carrying out illegal mining.The committee also concluded that no unscientific mining had been done in the Dadam Mine area and the project proponent would continue to conduct scientific mining based on the recommendations submitted by the Department of Mines Safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/report-on-illegal-mining-at-dadam-hills-submitted-327398
21-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra to promote crop diversification, micro-irrigation||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 20To improve groundwater level of Thanesar, Babain, Ismailabad and Pipli blocks, the district administration will be promoting micro-irrigation and motivate farmers to adopt crop diversification, as common measures suggested by groundwater experts, who have been preparing village-specific water security plans for 189 villages of Pehowa, Shahabad and Ladwa blocks under the Centre’s Atal Bhujal scheme.Under the scheme, 51 villages of Pehowa, 65 of Shahabad and 75 of the Ladwa block, identified as dark zones, were selected to improve the groundwater level.Water level to be improved in dark zonesAs per the information, the groundwater level in the district in 1974 was 10.55 metres but it has now dropped to around 40.38 metres in 2021.According to a survey report of June 2021, due to overexploitation of underground water, the situation has worsened in all seven blocks of the district. The groundwater level in Babain block was available at 41.92 metre, Ladwa at 33.42 metre, Pehowa at 39.54 metre, Shahabad at 44.39 metre, Thanesar 36.89 metre, Ismailabad at 45.36 metres, while Pipli at 41.17 metre.Focus on 189 villagesUnder the Centre’s Atal Bhujal Yojana, all focus is on 189 villages. The village-specific water security plans are being prepared on the basis of the scientific data collected by the team. But at the same time, the administration will also implement the common measures in the remaining four blocks. —Akhil Pilani, Additional Deputy CommissionerWhile, in June 1974, the groundwater level in Babain block was available at 11.92 metre, Ladwa at 11.50 metre, Pehowa at 5.95 metre, Shahabad at 9.51 metre, Thanesar 13.89 metre, Ismailabad at 10.42 metres, while Pipli at 10.63 metre.Dr Naveen Nain (groundwater expert) said during the study of well-inventory and well-monitoring data, it was found that the water level of 20 villages of Pehowa, which had been covered under the Atal Bhujal scheme, varied between 36.16 meter to 45.72 meter. It is clear that average water level of Pehowa block has dropped to nearly 40 meters. Village-specific water security plans for 20 villages have been prepared and now the data of other villages are also being collected to understand the water availability, water utilisation, water balance, and water budget.”Additional Deputy Commissioner Akhil Pilani, who has been monitoring the project, said “As many as 189 villages of Kurukshetra were identified and selected under the Centre’s Atal Bhujal Yojana and all focus is on these villages. The village-specific water security plans are being prepared on the basis of the scientific data collected by the team. But at the same time the administration will also implement the common measures in the remaining four blocks as well. I had a meeting with the team working on the Atal Bhujal scheme here and soon a meeting will be held with all district officials concerned. It will be ensured that all recharge pits are working effectively, micro-irrigation plans are implemented and farmers will be motivated to adopt crop diversification.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-to-promote-crop-diversification-micro-irrigation-327401
21-10-2021||---||Covid norms thrown to wind for festive shopping in Rohtak||Rohtak, October 20Repeated warnings about the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic notwithstanding, residents are thronging marketplaces for festive shopping, throwing Covid norms to the wind.With festival sales and temporary stalls coming up to lure customers, the number of shoppers as well as window shoppers is increasing by the day.“A majority of people have stopped wearing masks. Physical distancing is also not maintained in the markets. We can only request the customers to follow the prescribed norms,” says Gulshan, a local shopkeeper. A visit to the local marketplaces revealed that most of the shopkeepers as well as customers are not observing Covid-appropriate behaviour.The Rohtak Deputy Commissioner, Capt Manoj Kumar, has exhorted residents to be cautious to stay away from Covid-19, which had resurfaced after the festive season last year.“We should understand that even a little carelessness may prove dear. Covid has not vanished. The virus is still around and manifesting itself in different forms. Hence, we must be careful to avoid catching and spreading the infection,” he maintains.The Deputy Commissioner has also appealed to the residents to get themselves and their family members vaccinated to stay safe and healthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-norms-thrown-to-wind-for-festive-shopping-in-rohtak-327402
21-10-2021||Kaithal||68th session begins at RKSD college||Guest lecture organisedGurugram: In its endeavour to motivate students aspiring for civil services, the SGT University, Gurugram today organised a guest lecture by Dr Hanif Qureshi, Inspector General of Police, Indian Reserve Battalion, Bhondsi. Dr Qureshi, an IPS officer of 1996 batch, shared his experiences in the policing as well as at the time of preparation for the civil services with the students. He said focus was very important not only for success in civil services but for attaining any goal in life.Students bring laurelsAmbala: Students of MM International School, Sadopur in Ambala brought laurels for the school in various competitions organised by the District Child Welfare Council at Panchayat Bhawan in Ambala. Karanvir Singh of Class V bagged 1st position in handwriting competition, while Prachi Wadhera of Class VI got consolation prize in both solo dance and handwriting competitions. Kartik Tara of Class IX got third position in declamation. The school principal congratulated the winners for their achievement.Revised basic medical coursePanipat:Under the aegis of the National Medical Council, a three-day workshop-- Revised basic medical course -- was conducted at NC Medical College and Hospital at Israna in Panipat. The objective of this workshop was to sensitise and update medical teachers in accordance with NMC guidelines to train the MBBS students as Indian medical graduate who would meticulously learn the art of being a good doctor, as globally, it was mandatory for all medical students to know how to deal with patients in a community set up. As many as 29 medical teachers participated in the workshop from various disciplines. Dr Rakesh Mittal, professor, pharmacology, PGIMS, Rohtak was the special observer. Dr Veena Ghalout, principal, NC Medical College Hospital, concluded the session and distributed certificates to the participants.Programme on research ethicsKurukshetra: A special programme on research and publication ethics, organised by the faculty development centre and centre for continuing education and department of commerce, Kurukshetra University. At the concluding session, Prof Pawan Sharma, dean research and development said the programme would help in creating ecosystem for research. A dialogue with the scholars would help in developing an institutional culture for quality research. The event was attended by research scholars and teachers from all faculties of the university. Coordinator of the programme prof Tejinder Sharma thanked KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva for inspiring them to organise such events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/68th-session-begins-at-rksd-college-327404
21-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman booked for fake rape cases||Gurugram, October 20A social activist and documentary maker approached the police against a girl for allegedly honey trapping and looting men by getting registered fake rape cases.The woman, as per the complaint, has filed rape cases against seven men, accusing them all of raping her by promising marriage. Out of the seven cases, two have been proved false by the police.In her complaint given to police commissioner KK Rao, the complainant Deepika Narayan Bhardwaj said the accused was 20-year-old although her date of birth is different in different police complaints she has filed. She meets men at gyms, on social media etc, has consensual sex with them and then gets rape case registered against them to extort money or to pressurise them for marriage.“It’s came to my notice that she has filed six different rape cases on six different men at six police stations in Gurugram within just one year between 2020-2021. She has also allegedly got two police officials suspended for non-action in her cases as they understood her modus operandi and did not follow her directions,” read the complaint.A senior police officer said they were verifying the facts as per the complaint and action would be taken as per the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-booked-for-fake-rape-cases-327405
21-10-2021||Karnal||Ashes of Lakhimpur Kheri victims immersed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ashes-of-lakhimpur-kheri-victims-immersed-327407
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 5-crore aid announced for Uttarakhand disaster||29,000 bags of rice seized from godownsKarnal: A joint team of the CM flying, Food and Civil Supplies Department, HAFED and Haryana State Agricultural Market Board on Wednesday conducted a raid at three godowns in Kachwa village and seized around 29,000 bags of rice. An official said they were verifying the papers. TNSGovernor, CM greet people on Valmiki JayantiChandigarh: Governor Bandaru Dattatraya paid tributes to Maharishi Valmiki at Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the thoughts of Maharishi Valmiki would always inspire society. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-crore-aid-announced-for-uttarakhand-disaster-327409
