22-10-2021||---||Major fire breaks out at textile factory in Haryana’s Panipat||Panipat, October 22A major fire broke out in a textile factory on Jatal road here this morning.The factory is situated in a residential area.Fire brigade reached the spot to douse the flames.There was no immediate report of a loss of life. The loss in terms of goods gutted is being ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-fire-breaks-out-at-textile-factory-in-haryanas-panipat-328052
22-10-2021||Rewari||Women leave chores, students skip classes to get DAP fertiliser in Rewari, Gurugram||The acute shortage of DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) fertiliser has forced farmers, especially elderly ones, to rope in women members of their family and college-going children to line up at sale counters in the district to buy the fertiliser.Editorial: DAP shortage: Fertiliser crunch troubling farmersWomen are leaving household chores and students are skipping classes to help their parents in getting the fertiliser.Savita, a housewife from Khol village, said as only two bags of the fertiliser were being given against an Aadhaar card even while the requirement was much more, women were leaving their household chores and coming to the sale centres.“My father cannot stand in queue for a long time due to his age. So, I have come here to buy DAP fertiliser. But no system to distribute it has been developed here, leading to chaos. Not only me but several other students are coming here daily after skipping their classes but many of them have had to return empty-handed,” said Manisha, an undergraduate student.Naveen, another student, said elderly farmers had no other option but to rope in their family members to get DAP for mustard and wheat crops. “I came to the sale counter early in the morning but have not yet got the fertiliser. It is affecting my studies badly,” he added.Manju, another housewife, said she came here to help her husband who could not get DAP fertiliser yesterday due to heavy rush as there was no proper system for its distribution.Meanwhile, Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao visited grain markets in Rewari city and interacted with farmers who had lined up to get fertiliser.While Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh could not be contacted, Balwant Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said a system had been developed to ensure that every farmer could get DAP fertiliser.Gurugram: The shortage of DAP has left farmers of Nuh district harried. Their children are skipping school to queue up for the fertiliser.With no resolution in sight so far, farmers have now started queuing up outside shops in the wee hours. Many are even sleeping there at night with the entire family. Tokens are being distributed and only five farmers are being allowed at one time in a store and it takes an average of four to five hours to get a bag of this fertiliser. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-leave-chores-students-skip-classes-to-get-dap-fertiliser-in-rewari-gurugram-327909
22-10-2021||---||‘Vishram Sadan’ opened at cancer institute in Jhajjar village||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 21Prime Minister Narendra Modi today inaugurated the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at National Cancer Institute (NCI) in Badhsa village here through video-conferencing.Also read: Deepender Hooda not invited, Kuldeep Vatsa boycotts Vishram Sadan eventThe 806-bedded Vishram Sadan has been built at a cost of Rs 93 crore by the Infosys Foundation as part of Corporate Social Responsibility. It provides air-conditioned accommodation facility to the attendants of the cancer patients who have to stay in hospitals for a long duration.Speaking on the occasion, Modi said India now had a strong “protective shield” of 100 crore vaccine doses to combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years. India had achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid, as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. This achievement belongs to India and every citizen of India, he added.“Corporate sector, private sector and social organisations have continuously contributed in strengthening the health services of the country,” he added.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said his government vowed to establish a medical college in every district of the state. He also said that the state government had formed a CSR Trust so as to use this fund for public welfare.Haryana minister Anil Vij, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma were also present on the occasion.Meanwhile, Modi praised Khattar for being innovative in executing development works in Haryana.Police stop farmersA group of farmers intended to show black flags to CM Manohar Lal and other BJP leaders, but the police did not let them come near the NIC campus. They were stopped 300m away from the venue. The protesters shouted slogans against the BJP government from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vishram-sadan-opened-at-cancer-institute-in-jhajjar-village-327910
22-10-2021||Jhajjar||Deepender Hooda not invited, Kuldeep Vatsa boycotts Vishram Sadan event||The Congress MLA from Badli, Kuldeep Vatsa, boycotted the inaugural function of Vishram Sadan while Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda raised a strong objection to not being invited, stating that his voice could not be suppressed by such a “cheap act”.Vatsa said Deepender represented the region in the Lok Sabha thrice and he was the person who brought the NIC project to Badhsa when his father Bhupinder Hooda was the CM, hence he boycotted the function to register his protest against the BJP government for not inviting Deepender for it.“I would have appealed to the PM for setting up 10 other approved projects at the NIC had I been invited. The then UPA government had approved 11 health projects along with the NIC, but 10 of these are yet to be set up there,” said Deepender. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-hooda-not-invited-kuldeep-vatsa-boycotts-vishram-sadan-event-327911
22-10-2021||---||After Nissing rice haul, Karnal admn on alert||Karnal, October 21The recovery of a huge quantity of PR variety of rice from two godowns of the district in the past three days has put the district authorities on alert.The district administration suspects that rice meant for public distribution system (PDS) from UP, Bihar and other neighbouring states could be delivered as the custom milled rice (CMR) to the state, as the owners have failed to produce satisfactory documents.OFFICIALS maintain vigilWe’re checking the stocks of all rice mills to ensure the smooth delivery of custom milled rice to the state. Officials of procurement agencies are also keeping a vigil to curb malpractices being done to replace CMR with PDS rice. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCFollowing the huge recovery, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has put all agencies on alert, directing them to keep a vigil on such stocks in the different parts of the district. Besides, he directed to check the stock of rice mills regularly to ensure the smooth delivery of the CMR to the government.Notably, the Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department had seized around 61,760 bags containing nearly 36,800 quintal of rice from a godown in Nissing on October 17. The godown, as per the authorities, was sealed as the owner failed to produce satisfactory papers in support of the huge rice stock. On Wednesday, a joint team of the CM Flying Squad and other departments seized around 29,326 bags containing nearly 16,000 quintal of rice from a godown in Kachwa village. As per the authorities, the owner claimed that he had brought the rice from Bihar and UP for trade, the documents of which are being verified by the different agencies.“We think that the stock could have been meant for the PDS and might have been brought from UP and Bihar. We are investigating the papers of the stock,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-nissing-rice-haul-karnal-admn-on-alert-327913
22-10-2021||---||SC judge must probe Singhu murder: SKM||Sonepat, October 21The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday demanded a probe by a Supreme Court (SC) judge into the brutal murder of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border on October 15.This was decided at the general body meeting of the SKM held in the kisan andolan office at Singhu on Thursday.The SKM leaders said from the evidences and reports that had emerged so far, it was clear that the incident did not happen just like that and there was a conspiracy to give a bad name to the farmers’ movement. They demanded that Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Kailash Chaudhary, who were documented in pictures to have met the Nihang leader whose group was involved in the murder case, should immediately resign.The SKM has already clarified that the morcha had nothing to do with the Nihangs involved in this incident. “This is a farmers’ movement and not a religious one,” it added.Notably, after the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, a kisan mahapanchayat was announced in Lucknow on October 26, but has now been postponed to November 22, keeping in mind adverse weather conditions and the harvest season.Meanwhile, the 32 farmers’ organisations of Punjab met at Singhu on Wednesday. A five-member committee was also formed to submit a fact-finding report of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The meeting called upon the farmers of Punjab to strengthen the morchas by reaching out in large numbers to thwart the ongoing conspiracies of the government, an SKM leader said.It was also decided to take out ‘kalash yatras’ in the Majha, Malwa and Doaba regions of Punjab on October 24 to immerse the ashes of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims at Kiratpur Sahib, Goindwal Sahib and Hussainiwala.Call for nationwide protest on Oct 26The SKM called for a nationwide protest on October 26 to press for the sacking and arrest of MoS Ajay Mishra Teni in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and to mark the completion of 11 months of agitation at the Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-judge-must-probe-singhu-murder-skm-327916
22-10-2021||Parveen Arora||With 350 farm fires, Karnal tops in air pollution||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 21Karnal continues to lead the state in air pollution through burning stubble.As per the satellite data, Karnal has reported 350 cases of farm fires till Tuesday. However, the number of active fire locations (AFL) is less in comparison to last year, which was 584 till October 19, 2020.The department has recommended FIR against 28 farmers, while a penalty of Rs 4.30 lakh has been imposed on 171 farmers of the district.State reports 1,082 incidents“The satellite data has sent us report of 350 fire incidents, of them we have found 294 AFLs. We are keeping a vigil on fire incidents. Penalty is being imposed and FIRs recommended,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said teams had been deployed in village blocks and sub-division level to check stubble burning incidents. “I appeal to the farmers to not burn stubble, but instead utilise it for profit by managing it in a better way,” the DC said.294 active fire locationsThe satellite data has sent us a report of 350 fire incidents. Of them, we have found 294 active fire locations. We are keeping a vigil on fire incidents. Penalty is being imposed and FIRs being recommended. —Aditya Dabas, Deputy director, AgricultureThe satellite data says that Haryana reported 1,082 cases of farm fires in comparison to 2,811 till October 19, 2020.As per the experts, the air quality of cities of the state has turned poor. A relief was recorded after the rain on Sunday, but the quality deteriorated again.The data collected from the Pollution Control Board today till 4pm shows a grim picture of the state. Ballabgarh has 339 AQI, which falls in very poor category. Karnal (205), Rohtak (243), Jind (268), Hisar (202), Gurugram (235), Faridabad (224), Bahadurgarh (215) fall in poor category. Bhiwani has AQI of 176, Fatehabad 130, Kurukshetra 194, Panipat 167, Sirsa 109, Sonepat 153, Yamunanagar 156. They fall in moderate category.An official of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board said apart from stubble burning, factories, vehicles and other sources also contributed to air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-350-farm-fires-karnal-tops-in-air-pollution-327917
22-10-2021||Kurukshetra||Over Rs 2L fine recovered in Kurukshetra||The administration has recovered over Rs 2 lakh as ECC (environment compensation charge) in 155 cases in the district against the farmers who had set paddy straw ablaze.The Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) had reported 205 active fire locations, of which stubble burning was confirmed on 155 sites during inspection, while none on the remaining 50 places.A fall in the number of reported and confirmed farm fires has been registered this year. HARSAC, last year, had reported 450 active fire locations till the same period, of which at 182 were confirmed.Deputy Director, Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Pradeep Meel said, “Due to the government efforts and schemes, a fall has been registered in the number of farm fires this year. Farmers have been selling their paddy straw after converting it into bales. Besides, the incentive for making bales and farmers’ interest in the super seeder have helped in bringing the cases down.” “We have also been urging them not to burn straw, as it results in loss of plant nutrients and deteriorates the soil health.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-rs-2l-fine-recovered-in-kurukshetra-327919
22-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal farmers putting paddy stubble to good use||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 21Amid rising number of stubble burning cases, there are several farmers who have become stubble entrepreneur in the district and are collecting paddy straw from different villages. They are utilising it to earn profit by making bales and racks.These bales are sold for fodder purpose to various states such as UP, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, MP and Maharashtra and others. Besides, these bales are used in packing of different materials such as tiles, bathware glassware and sanitary items.Used as feeder for power plantsWe can use the stubble as feeder for the power generating plants. Moreover, these can be reused as packaging material for brittle items like glass, ceramics and marbles. Gujarat and Rajasthan are the leading states that procure stubble for using as packaging material. —Dr Anuj Kumar, Principal scientist, IIWBRBales sold to other statesWe collect paddy straw from farmers and make racks and bales with the help of pressing machine. After making bales and racks, we sell these to Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and other states. —Vikram Rana, A young entrepreneur of nigdhu villageAs per an estimate, there are around 100 such entrepreneurs who are not only helping in eradicating the menace of stubble burning, but also providing employment to rural population throughout the year. They also encourage other farmers not to burn the stubble but to sell crop residue to them for earning money as well as stubble management. They purchase paddy straw for Rs 100-150 per quintal and after processing it, they sell it for Rs 300-400 per quintal.Ram Niwas, an entrepreneur of Koer village who has been involved in the business of straw management for the last nearly 25 years, said the government is now extending full support to farmers for straw management. The farmers should come forward for the best utilisation of stubble. “We purchase stubble from farmers from different villages. The rate depends on the quality of paddy straw. After processing it, we sell it to different states,” said Ram Niwas.Similarly, Vikram Rana, a young entrepreneur of Nigdhu village who has been involved in this business since 1998, is providing job to around 40 persons throughout the year and nearly 150 persons in a season. “We collect paddy straw from farmers and make racks and bales with the help of pressing machine. After making bales and racks, we sell these to Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and other states,” said Rana, adding that they are purchasing paddy straw at Rs 170 per quintal and selling it between Rs 400 and 500 after making bales and racks from raw straw. However, after rise in fuel prices, they transport cost has become dearer.Another entrepreneur said on the condition of anonymity that farmers could earn good business from straw management instead of setting it on fire. “We are managing the straw in a better way, and encouraging the farmers to do so,” he added.Dr Anuj Kumar, Principal Scientist at the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), said how management of stubble could have multi-dimensional impact on the farm lifecycle and the farm economy. “In northern India, farmers mostly burn the stubble before starting a new crop. This practice has severely impacted the environment in the region, especially during the winter season. We must understand that there are now technologies that can translate stubble into immense wealth creation. The farmers just need awareness on these technologies and collaborate with the market ecosystem to sell the stubble, rather than burning it and polluting the environment,” he added."We can use the stubble as feeder for the power generating plants. These can be reused as packaging material for brittle items like glass, ceramics and marbles. Gujarat and Rajasthan are the leading states that procure stubble for using as packaging material," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmers-putting-paddy-stubble-to-good-use-327922
22-10-2021||---||UHBVN to redress complaints on Oct 25||Chandigarh October 21The Chairman, Consumer Grievances Redressal Forum (CGRF) of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam has scheduled the redressal of grievances/complaints of the consumers from 10 am to 4 pm on October 25 at the office of SE ‘OP’ Circle, UHBVN, Panchkula, SCO No 89, 2nd Floor, Sector 5, Panchkula.Giving information in this regard, an official spokesperson said the Chairman, Consumer Grievances Redressal Forum (CGRF) of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, along with the members of the forum would conduct the proceedings on October 25 regarding redressal of grievances, complaint of the consumers and entertain new complaints. He said the CGRF would take all grievances/complaints of consumers like billing problem, voltage complaints, problems in metering, disconnection and reconnection of power supply, interruptions, failure of power supply, efficiency, safety, reliability, noncompliance of Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission orders etc. However, cases of theft and unauthorised use of electricity offences and penalties as specified under Section 126 and Sections 135 to 139 of Electricity Act, accidents and inquiries under Section 161 of the Act would not be considered by the forum. All consumers are requested to avail the opportunity for the redressal of their grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uhbvn-to-redress-complaints-on-oct-25-327924
22-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  bypoll: Since 1967, three of Chautala family have won seat||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 21The political history of the Ellenabad constituency indicates the strong political hold of the Chautala family in the segment since its inception in 1967 after Haryana was carved out of Punjab as an independent state. Other candidates have managed to win twice — 1968 and 1991.Pratap Singh, eldest son of former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal and brother of INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala, was elected the first MLA from this segment on Congress ticket in 1967.Significantly, Om Prakash Chautala too made his political debut as Congress candidate in the 1968 Assembly elections. But he lost to Lal Chand Khod, a resident of Bhurantwala of Vishal Haryana Party (VHP).However, OP Chautala challenged the 1968 election in court alleging irregularities. The Supreme Court declared the result void resulting in a byelection held in 1970.OP Chautala joined the fray as a candidate of the NCJ and registered his first win in the 1970 byelection defeating an Independent P Raj. Khod did not contest the bypoll.In the next Assembly poll held in 1972, Devi Lal handpicked Brij Lal, a resident of Chautala village who won the poll on Congress ticket.However, the constituency was declared reserved for Scheduled Castes in the delimitation before 1977. Devi Lal fielded his protégé Bhagi Ram, a resident of Mithisurera village in Ellenabad who went on to win the seat five times — 1977, 1982, 1987, 1996 and 2000.But in 1991, the Congress’ Mani Ram got elected.In the 2005 Assembly poll, Sushil Indora of the INLD won the seat for Om Prakash Chautala. Afterwards, it was de-reserved and was classified as an open category seat.Om Prakash Chautala contested the poll in 2009 and won it. But when he resigned from Ellenabad to retain Uchana (Jind) Assembly seat, his son Abhay Singh Chautala was brought in to carry forward the political legacy of the family in Ellenabad.Abhay won the seat in 2014 and again in the 2019 Assembly poll when the party was reduced to just one victory following a split in the INLD. He has again joined the fray in 2021 after his resignation necessitated the bypoll.A member of the Chautala family said they have close family relations, aides and family friends in several villages in Ellenabad segment.Holiday on October 30Chandigarh: The government has declared October 30 as a holiday for all commercial establishments in the jurisdiction of the Ellenabad Assembly and for the employees in the state who are enrolled as voters in this constituency to enable them to cast their vote. An official spokesperson said a notification had been issued by the Labour Department in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-since-1967-three-of-chautala-family-have-won-seat-327930
22-10-2021||Hisar||Abhay Chautala hits back at Bhupinder Hooda, saffron party||The INLD candidate in the Ellenabad bypoll, Abhay Chautala, has accused the state of misusing the government machinery for the Ellenabad bypoll in favour of the BJP-JJP coalition candidate.Addressing a press conference in Ellenabad today, he said, “The government machinery is being misused blatantly and the poll code being flouted. The BJP government wants to create an atmosphere of panic by deploying heavy police and paramilitary forces”, he said while demanding that the Election Commission (EC) should immediately intervene in the matter and take action into the instances of violation of the Model Code of Conduct.Fight among farmers & capitalist forcesHooda had been acting as an agent of the BJP... This poll is a fight between capitalist forces and farmers. The INLD’s win will be farmers’ win. —Abhay Singh Chautala, INLD leaderThe INLD has lodged a complaint thrice to the EC regarding the violation of the code by the BJP-JJP leaders and workers. Chautala, however, maintained that people of Ellenabad would give a befitting reply to the rival parties.Visiting several villages today, he said, “There is a strong sense of anger and resentment against the ruling class among the electorate. Thus, the state CM and other BJP ministers are not able to muster the courage to enter the villages for canvassing.”Launching a scathing attack on Bhupinder Hooda, he alleged the Congress leader had been acting as an agent of the BJP. “Even if the Congress and BJP get together, the people of Ellenabad will ensure that their candidate loses the security deposits.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautala-hits-back-at-bhupinder-hooda-saffron-party-327931
22-10-2021||---||Region’s farmers make a beeline to Karnal institute for biofortified wheat variety DBW-303||Karnal, October 21Hundreds of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Western UP and other parts of North India have been flocking to the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), Karnal, to get the biofortified wheat variety DBW-303, which was developed by scientists of the institute last year and dedicated to the nation by PM Narendra Modi.The average yield of this variety is 81.2 qunital per hectare, and the maturity duration is 156 days. Scientists claim that it has resistance to yellow, black and brown rust diseases.DBW-303 varietyThe average yield of this variety is 81.2 qunital per hectare and matures in 156 days. It has resistance to yellow, black and brown rust diseases. Next year, we’ll arrange the home delivery of seeds. —Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBRAs per the data gathered from the IIWBR, around 17,000 farmers from across the region have got themselves registered on the portal to get the seed. Around 80% applied for the DBW-303, while the remaining 20% farmers requested for the DBW-187, DBW-222 and other varieties.Each farmer was given a bag of 10 kg for seed multiplication. The farmers were happy after getting the seed. “I came here in the morning to get the seed and got it in the afternoon. With the new variety, we are hopeful of good production,” said Jasmer Singh, a farmer from Patiala in Punjab.Rishipal, another farmer from Ambala, said the variety DBW-303 would be helpful in good production as it had resistance to all kinds of rust.Dr GP Singh, director, IIWBR, said they had been distributing the seed for the past three days, but the demand for the DBW-303 was high. “The average yield of this variety is 81 quintal per hectare in comparison to 65-67 quintal per hectare of the normal sown varieties,” he said, adding that it should be sown on October 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/regions-farmers-make-a-beeline-to-karnal-institute-for-biofortified-wheat-variety-dbw-303-327934
22-10-2021||---||Special concession to govt staff in Haryana on first e-vehicle||Chandigarh, October 21Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said that special concession would be given to government employees on the purchase of first e-vehicle.Besides this, a financial assistance of up to Rs 5 crore would be given for research and development in the field of e-mobility in the state/national or international-level institutes in Haryana.The Deputy Chief Minister, who also holds the portfolio of Industries and Commerce Department, shared this information on Thursday after a meeting on Haryana Electric Vehicle Policy-2021 with senior officers of various departments. He said that this policy would be released in next month.He said the policy was being formulated by the state government while focusing on e-vehicle manufacturers, users and people setting up charging stations. In it, special exemptions would be given to them.He said that the state government was emphasising on promoting two-wheeler, three-wheeler and four-wheeler e-vehicles. He said that while e-vehicles would be given exemption at the time of registration, those commercial vehicles that would be converted from petrol, diesel etc to electric would also be given concession.He said that the state government has a plan to have maximum e-vehicles in the state in 2022.Rs 5-crore Grant for e-mobility researchFinancial assistance of up to Rs5 crore will be given to the government employees for research and development in the field of e-mobility in the state/national or international-level institutes in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-concession-to-govt-staff-in-haryana-on-first-e-vehicle-327936
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Police martyrs remembered||On Police Commemoration Day-2021, DGP PK Agrawal on Thursday led serving and retired officers in paying tributes to police martyrs who laid down their lives while going beyond the call of duty at the memorial in Panchkula.Paying tributes to 377 martyrs of police and CAPF, who died last year, he said the supreme sacrifice made by the bravehearts for maintaining law and order and unity and integrity of the nation could never be forgotten.Agrawal said the nation would always be grateful to these bravehearts. The DGP also paid tributes to the slain Covid warriors.Hailing the efforts of the state, Agrawal said a special ex gratia of Rs 30 lakh was being given to the family of the martyred police personnel. In addition, assistance of Rs 65 lakh is being given to the next of kin of the deceased personnel under a special agreement of accidental death insurance cover with the bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-martyrs-remembered-327937
22-10-2021||---||Haryana Govt authorises HoD to release Rs 1L ex gratia||Chandigarh, October 21Taking an important decision in the matter of ex gratia, the Haryana Government has authorised the head of the department (HoD) concerned to give a lump sum grant of Rs 1 lakh to the family of deceased government employee.An official spokesperson said that the state government had implemented ex-gratia policy for government employees in the state on August 2, 2019. In it, families of deceased employee were covered under ‘Ex-gratia Rules 2019, Rule 16 (Ex-gratia Grant)’.A provision was made to give a one-time ex gratia grant of Rs 1 lakh within 15 days so that the family members can meet their immediate needs. Today, the state government has said that the head of the department would be the competent authority to release the ex gratia amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-authorises-hod-to-release-rs-1l-ex-gratia-327938
22-10-2021||---||Rohtak police get gym on Commemoration Day||Rohtak, October 21Glowing tributes were paid to policemen who laid their lives in the service of the nation on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day here today. Rohtak range ADGP Sandeep Khirwar was the chief guest on the occasion, while Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma presided over the function. DIG Shashank Anand was also present.A gymnasium hall equipped with modern facilities meant for police personnel and their family members was also inaugurated at the Police Lines to mark the occasion. The ADGP paid homage to the police martyrs and honoured their family members.“Police personnel work round the clock to ensure the safety and security of the people. They put their lives in danger and get injured or even killed while performing their duties,” he said, adding that the supreme sacrifice of the martyrs can never be forgotten. Sharma pointed out that on October 21, 1959, Chinese soldiers had attacked a unit of Indian policemen posted at a place named Hot Spring in Ladakh.”The policemen on duty laid down their lives while trying to save their post. Police Commemoration Day is observed across the country on October 21 to pay homage to those policemen and the others who sacrificed their lives for the country,” he stated. DSP Sajjan Kumar said Rohtak police officials Inspector Vijender Singh, ASI Jagdish Chander, ASI Narender Singh, EHC Ram Kishan, Constable Mahavir and Constable Raj Singh were among those policemen who had laid down their lives while discharging their duties.A two-minute silence was observed on the occasion. Saplings were also planted in memory of the police martyrs. ASP (Meham) Hemendra Kumar Meena, ASP (Sampla) Megha Bhushan, Line Officer Surender Singh and TASI Jagbir Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-police-get-gym-on-commemoration-day-327939
22-10-2021||Hisar||32 students of Guru Jambheshwar University get placements||Fashion contest at Hisar collegeHisar: IEthniso Friskey fashion competition was organised by the Indira Chakravarti Home Science College at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, on the occasion of Diwali. The final year students of the family resource management department of the college conducted the event. Dr Manju Mehta, head of the department, said the purpose of this competition was to show modern and traditional clothes and culture. She said in this competition, students of various colleges of the university took part wearing traditional and modern clothes from their homes. Videos and photographs were sent to the college through e-mail. Zeenat Rao bagged the first position while Kashish Nain stood second. Kalpana and Sunaina jointly secured third position in the competition.Isha Devi gets best cadet awardKarnal: NCC cadet Isha Devi of RKSD College, Kaithal has received the best cadet and welfare award (2020) given by Battalion 10, Ambala Cantt of NCC, Haryana. It is given at the regional level for outstanding performance in her NCC activities. On reaching the college, the student cadet was sent a congratulatory message by president Saket Mangal and Principal Sanjay Goyal and NCC Officers Capt RP Maun and Lt Prof Raghubir Lamba honoured her and gave her this amount. Principal Sanjay Goyal termed it as a great achievement and expressed hope that the NCC student cadets will also leave their mark in the national-level programmes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-students-of-guru-jambheshwar-university-get-placements-327944
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen should join Samarpan portal: Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has called upon all ex-servicemen to contribute towards public welfare schemes of the state government by rendering their services as volunteers. He asked the ex-servicemen to extensively participate in this by registering themselves on the Samarpan portal.The Chief Minister was directly interacting with the ex-Servicemen Cell of the Haryana BJP at his residence today. While interacting directly with the ex-servicemen, the Chief Minister said the BJP government had ensured that maximum facilities and services were provided to the soldiers. He added that the present government had also ensured that the ex-servicemen got One Rank-One Pension, which was pending for years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-servicemen-should-join-samarpan-portal-haryana-cm-khattar-327945
22-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civil secretariat to get solar plant||The Gurugram mini-secretariat will go completely eco-friendly with the installation of a 100 kilowatt solar power plant.An agreement was signed by DC Dr Yash Garg and representative of Ultimate Sun System, Gurugram, on behalf of the district administration. The DC said: “All expenses related to the installation and maintenance of this solar power plant will be borne by the company. ”— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-civil-secretariat-to-get-solar-plant-327946
22-10-2021||Hisar||Man found dead in Hisar village fields, honour killing suspected||In a suspected case of honour killing, the police recovered the body of a man, who had been missing for a week, from the fields in the district’s Budakhera village today.The deceased was identified as Vikash (35), aka Raju, a resident of Saniyana village in Fatehabad district.In his complaint, Vikrant, said his younger brother Vikash was beaten to death by Ugrasain Bhadu, his brother Banshi, uncle Radheshyam and two others. A case was registered under Sections 302, 506 and 34, IPC.The police said Vikrant said Vikas had worked as an accountant for six years with Ugrasain Bhadu before leaving the job over a year ago. “He said during the job, his brother allegedly had an affair with Ugrasain’s cousin and wanted to get married. But when the girl’s family came to know about the affair, they started threatening Vikash with dire consequences. Vikrant alleged that the accused had killed his brother.The police said attempts were being made to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-found-dead-in-hisar-village-fields-honour-killing-suspected-327948
22-10-2021||---||Man booked for ‘false’ plaints against officials||Hisar, October 21The police have registered two cases against a man for making false complaints against the Superintendent Engineer (SE) and Executive Engineer of the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED).The police said Superintendent Engineer TR Panwar and Executive Engineer SK K Tyagi lodged a complaint with the police that a person had made baseless allegations of corruption via email against them.The police lodged two FIRs against Sandeep Poonia under the IT Act and Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code.In the complaint, Tyagi said that on August 14 and October 3, he received an email from Suresh Poonia, in which he allegedly made baseless allegations against him to his higher officers and junior employees.Similarly, Panwar also received an email on December 8, 2020, and December 15, 2020, from Poonia. On January 24, 2021, he got an email from Vikas Poonia, while on January 26 and 28, and August 3 and 14, Ramesh Siwach had allegedly made baseless allegations against him. In another email received on August 14 and October 3, Poonia had accused Panwar of corruption.Panwar and Tyagi said they did not know the persons who had levelled allegations against them and suspected that the complaints were made with the intention of blackmailing them.Two FIRs lodgedThe police lodged two FIRs against Sandeep Poonia under the IT Act and Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-false-plaints-against-officials-327951
22-10-2021||The picture gives a clear cut account that eatables such as cucumbers||Eatables exposed to heat & dust hazardous to health||Ensure presence of consumer while replacing power metersThe UHBVN is currently replacing old digital electricity meters with the smart meters across Panchkula city. The whole task is being carried out without ensuring the 'presence' of the residents concerned, which is their right. Since these ultra-modern electricity meters are likely to be made operational only on 'pre-paid' (pay and use) basis, should the city's power consumers not have been duly apprised of various technical intricacies associated with the actual working thereof? —Vinayak G, PanchkulaChemist shops not open at night in AmbalaThe chemist shops remain close at night so it becomes extremely difficult when somebody is sick at home and one is not able to procure medicines on time. The government should make some policies so that at least one chemist shop remains open in one locality so that it can help save precious lives. —Rajeev Mukerjee, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eatables-exposed-to-heat-dust-hazardous-to-health-327955
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching: Haryana police SIT probing veracity of another video of victim||A Special Investigation Team of the Haryana Police is probing the veracity of a purported video of the Singhu lynching victim making some claims before his death, an official said on Thursday.“This video was circulating yesterday and we are working towards verifying the veracity of this clip in which the victim is heard telling the mob surrounding him that he was given Rs 30,000 by someone but for what purpose is not clear,” Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, Sonepat, Mayank Gupta said over the phone on Thursday.“Whether he is saying this under duress is also not clear,” added Gupta who is heading one of the two SITs former by the Haryana Police to probe the incident.While one SIT was formed to carry out the overall probe into the case, the Gupta-led SIT was constituted to investigate the videos of the incident circulating on social media.Gupta said in the fresh video clip, the victim is also heard sharing the phone number of a person with the mob.There are reports that one more video of the incident was circulating on social media and police were trying to verify that too, he said.“On the basis of various videos which were circulating, we have identified more people for their involvement in the incident. Further investigations are on,” he said.On Wednesday, the Punjab government had also constituted a special investigation team to look into the complaint of the sister of the Dalit labourer lynched at a farmers’ protest site in Singhu that he was “allured” and taken to the Delhi-Haryana border.She also demanded a probe into the matter.Lakhbir Singh, who hailed from a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was killed on October 15 and his body tied to a barricade at the Singhu border with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.So far, four people, members of the Sikhs’ Nihang order, have been arrested in connection with the gruesome killing.The case had sparked outrage and triggered calls for action to clear the protest sites on Delhi’s borders where farmers have been camping since last November to press for the scrapping of the Centre’s three agri laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has, however, distanced itself from the incident, saying it wanted to make it clear that “both the parties to the incident”, the Nihang group and the victim, have no relation with the morcha. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-lynching-haryana-police-sit-probing-veracity-of-another-video-of-victim-327594
22-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||No DAP supply, desperate farmers loot 100 bags outside Mahendragarh shop||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, October 20Acute shortage of DAP (diammonium phosphate) led to an ugly incident on Wednesday when farmers forcibly took away 100 bags from the shop of a private dealer at Ateli grain market here.The incident took place when farmers gathered outside a sale counter of HAFED, but it was shut due to holiday. Enraged, some of them started lifting fertiliser bags lying outside a shop nearby.Delay in sowing due to Fertiliser crunchA purported video of the incident showing men and women running away with DAP bags went viral on the social media.Rajender, SHO, Ateli police station, said, “Around 25 bags have been recovered. Four-five persons have been rounded up. A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC.”Sources said there was an acute shortage of DAP in Mahendragarh, Rewari, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts. It is the preferred fertiliser for mustard and wheat crops. Mahendragarh has not received any supply for the past several days, the sources said.Krishan, a distressed farmer, said, “We need the fertiliser to sow mustard. I and my family members start queuing up outside sale counters early in the morning. Despite that, we are not getting any supply.”Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Mahendragarh, said a total 6,000 MT DAP was required to meet the demand in the district. “We have already distributed 2,500 MT, while the supply of 550 MT will come tomorrow. The issue will be resolved soon,” he said. Former minister Capt Ajay Singh Yadav has asked the state to provide DAP to farmers without any delay. “The matter has again exposed the anti-farmer face of the BJP-JJP government. Farmers are being harassed. If they don’t get the fertiliser on time, it will affect the crop yield,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-dap-supply-desperate-farmers-loot-100-bags-outside-mahendragarh-shop-327253
