23-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Cabbie arrested for beating dog, cat to death in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 23Angry over noise created by a cat and a dog in DLF Phase-3 society, a cabbie thrashed them to death. He was trying to kill second cat when his neighbour shot a video and rescued the feline.An FIR has been registered at DLF phase-3 police station and police arrested the accused, identified as Raj Roy, a cab driver by profession.According to the complaint filed by Suraj Singh, “Around 3 pm on Friday I heard the sound of a dog and a cat. I saw that Raj Roy was beating a black dog in his balcony. He also thrashed a cat to death. I made a video as evidence and raised the alarm and rescued another cat he was going after. We called the police,” Singh told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the cab driver under Section 429 (mischief by maiming or killing cattle) of IPC and Section 11 of Animal Cruelty Act at DLF phase-3 police station. He was arrested.Sumit Kumar, the investigating officer, said the accused revealed during interrogation that he was upset as dogs and cats were making noise. He was released on bail. Probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cabbie-arrested-for-beating-dog-cat-to-death-in-gurugram-328673
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border lynching: Police remand of accused extended by two days||A court in Haryana’s Sonepat on Saturday extended by two days the police remand of the four men arrested in connection with the lynching of a Dalit labourer at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border of Delhi.Haryana Police had produced Sarabjit Singh, Narain Singh, Govindpreet Singh, and Bhagwant Singh before the court.The court extended the police remand of the four accused by two days, Sonepat Deputy Superintendent of Police Virender Singh said over the phone.Sarabjit, who was produced in a court on October 16, was sent to seven-day police custody while the three others, were remanded in six-day police custody.  Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh was brutally killed last week and his body was tied to a barricade at the Singhu border with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. The accused men had maintained that Lakhbir, who hailed from a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was “punished” over alleged desecration of a holy book.Initially, Sarabjit Singh was arrested for the murder. Later, Narain Singh, a key member of the Sikhs’ Nihang order, was held in Amritsar.Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib had “surrendered” before the Sonepat police. The Haryana Police had formed two special investigation teams in connection with the murder incident.One SIT had been formed to carry out the overall probe into the case and the second one was constituted to investigate the videos of the incident, which were circulating on social media. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-border-lynching-police-remand-of-accused-extended-by-two-days-328636
23-10-2021||Hisar||YouTuber booked in Hisar||The police have registered a case against a YouTuber for making false allegations of corruption in a report uploaded on social media in Hisar. The complainant, Chief Superintendent of Government Livestock Farm (GLF) LC Ranga, said that a YouTuber in collusion with former employees of the GLF made false allegations in a video on social media. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youtuber-booked-in-hisar-328184
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Discom detects 4,558 cases of power theft||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) caught 4,558 cases of power theft in the month of September and has imposed a fine of Rs. 16.41 crore.Besides, FIRs have been registered against the guilty consumers for not paying the fine on time.The managing director of the DHBVN, PC Meena, said under the campaign being run against power thieves, special attention was paid to houses whose connections were disconnected as there was a possibility of them being involved in power theft.He appealed to consumers to cooperate in preventing power theft and report defaulters at toll free number 1800-180-1011 or landline number 01662-221527. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discom-detects-4-558-cases-of-power-theft-328185
23-10-2021||---||Resume talks with farmers, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Chandigarh, October 22Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has again urged the government to find a solution to the farmers’ agitation.In a statement issued here, Hooda said farmers had been away from their homes and families for the past 11 months.“The demands of farmers are completely justified and yet the government is not ready to change its stand. The government should resume dialogue without delay and take a step forward in the national interest and honour of those who feed the nation,” Hooda said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resume-talks-with-farmers-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda-328186
23-10-2021||---||20 Faridabad units sealed for not paying property tax||Faridabad, October 22Continuing its drive against property tax defaulters, Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has in the past two days sealed 20 more commercial units for not paying property tax to the tune of Rs 25 lakh. The number of such units in the city has gone up to 222 so far.On the sealing action carried out on Thursday and Friday, an official of the civic body said that as many as seven units owing property tax dues to the tune of Rs 7 lakh were sealed on Thursday. All these units are in the NIT zone.On Friday, the drive resulted in the sealing of 14 units also located in the NIT zone of the Municipal Corporation. The defaulters are yet to clear pending house tax (property) to the tune of Rs 18 lakh, it is revealed.Stating that the sealing drive would continue till the recovery of all the dues, Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF, said that the target of the drive was to recover around Rs 125 crore pending for the past several years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-faridabad-units-sealed-for-not-paying-property-tax-328187
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||26 IPS officers transferred in Haryana||The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of 26 IPS officers and seven officers.Kala Ramachandran, Principal Secretary, Transport Department, with additional charge of ADGP/CAW, has been posted as Principal Secretary, Transport Department, with additional charge of ADGP/SVB (H).Bharti Arora, Ambala IGP, has been given an additional charge of IG Women Safety PHQ. Shiv Charan, DIG/State Crime Branch (H) has been posted as DIG, Hisar SVB.Kirat Pal Singh, DIG-cum-Commandant 4th Battalion, HAP, Madhuban, has been posted as DIG/State Crime Branch (H). Hamid Akhtar, Ambala SP, with additional charge of AIG Welfare, has been posted as SP, State Crime Branch (H).Rahul Sharma, Rohtak SP, has been posted at Sonipat SP. Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar SP has been posted at Palwal SP.Rajender Kumar Meena, Commandant, 5th Battalion, HAP, Madhuban, has been given an additional charge of SP (Traffic), Karnal.Abhishek Jorwal, Rewari SP, has been posted as SP, SVB (H). Deepak Gahlawat, Palwal SP, has been posted as SP, Charkhi Dadri. Jashandeep Randhawa, Sonipat SP, has been posted as Ambala SP.Sunil Kumar, Lokayukta SP has been posted at Commandant, 4th Battalion, HAP, Madhuban. Himanshu Garg, Kurukshetra SP, has been posted as SP, SVB(H).Wassem Akram, Jind SP, has been posted as Jhajjar SP. Rajesh Kumar, Fatehabad SP has been posted as Rewari SP.Narender Bijarniya, Nuh SP, has been posted as Jind SP.Udai Singh Meena, SP, Telecom, has been posted as Rohtak SP. Maqsood Ahmed, DCP, East Gurugram, has been given an additional charge of Commandant. 4th IRB, Manesar. Varun Singla, DCP, Manesar, has been posted as Nuh SP. Vinod Kumar, Charkhi Dadri SP, has been posted as DCP (South), Gurugram.Dheeraj Kumar, DCP, South Gurugram, has been posted as Kurukshetra SP. Surinder Singh, SP (Security), CID, has been posted as Fatehabad SP. Raj Kumar Walia, SP, Women Safety, has been posted as SP, CID (H).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-ips-officers-transferred-in-haryana-328188
23-10-2021||---||9 killed, 6 hurt in Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway accident||Jhajjar, October 22Nine persons, including eight members of a family, were killed and six others were injured in a road accident involving four vehicles on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway near Badli town here in the wee hours on Friday.The injured persons have been admitted to various nearby hospitals where their condition is stated to be out of danger.The incident took place around 3:30 am when an Ertiga car carrying 11 persons was on its way to Mainpur (Uttar Pradesh) from Rajasthan’s Bhadra town after visiting ‘Gogameri’ religious place there.The driver stopped the car behind a stationed truck to answer nature’s call. Another truck hit the car from behind leaving eight occupants dead on the spot and three hurt, said Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police, Jhajjar.He said that the car rammed into the stationed truck. A crane had to be called to extricate the car. The injured were rushed to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town. The deceased have been identified as Shiv Kumar, his wife Munni Devi, son Manoj and daughter-in-law Sweeti, daughter Khushbu, Shri, Priyanshu and Bablu.“In the meantime, an Ecco carrying seven persons stopped there to find out about the incident. It was also hit by another truck leaving one man, identified as Netrapal of Uttar Pradesh, dead on the spot and some others injured.“They too were taken to a nearby hospital by the police. The Ecco was returning from Jalandhar (Punjab),” said Duggal.The SP said that the kin of the deceased were informed about the accident. Efforts were underway to nab the drivers of both the trucks who managed to flee after the mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-killed-6-hurt-in-kundli-manesar-palwal-expressway-accident-328189
23-10-2021||Mukesh Tandon||National Green Tribunal notice to pollution board for waiving compensation of 24 units in Sonepat||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 22The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has served a notice on the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) for waiving the environmental compensation of 24 industrial units at the Barhi industrial area in Sonepat district.The NGT also ordered the HSPCB to file a reply within a month in this regard. Earlier, an environmental compensation of Rs 96 crore on these industries for extracting illegal groundwater was assessed by the HSPCB.Varun Gulati, an environmental activist, had filed a complaint in the NGT in 2020 against 29 industrial units at Barhi in the Gannaur area of Sonepat district.It was alleged that the units were discharging effluents in open drains and also extracting groundwater illegally. The NGT had sought a detailed report from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). Following the NGT’s direction, the HSPCB submitted a detailed report and said that 24 industrial units were found extracting groundwater without the permission of the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB).The HSPCB also calculated the compensation of Rs 96.01 crore for extracting groundwater. The HSPCB had sent the matter to Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat, to recover the environmental compensation. However, the compensation was waived arbitrarily by the then Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat, Gulati alleged. After that, Gulati again filed an execution application (EA) before the Green Tribunal in connection with the previous original application (OA). In this, he alleged that no remedial action had been taken and violations were continued. The compensation assessed instead of being recovered and spent for restoration had been waived arbitrarily for extraneous reasons, he alleged.Varun in his petition filed in the NGT, said that the Deputy Commissioner and Regional Officer, HSPCB at Sonepat, had waived the compensation of industries to Rs 1 lakh only, while it was in crores of rupees. No authority can waive the compensation without the prior information to the NGT, Varun said. Taking cognisance of the EA, the principal Bench, headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal, on Thursday served a notice to the HSPCB through email and directed to file the reply within a month.The state PCB may also put the affected parties to notice of these proceedings for their response, if any, within a month, the order read.Plaint on effluents, groundwaterVarun Gulati, an environmental activist, had filed a complaint in the NGT in 2020 against 29 industrial units at Barhi in the Gannaur area of Sonepat district. It was alleged that the units were discharging effluents in open drains and also extracting groundwater illegally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-green-tribunal-notice-to-pollution-board-for-waiving-compensation-of-24-units-in-sonepat-328190
23-10-2021||Karnal||National training programme||Online webinar on PCOSGurugram: The Department of Forensic Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Starex University, Gurugram, organised a webinar on 'Gynecologists' interaction with students and staff on PCOS - Save the fertility'. Dr Manisha Yadav, who is at present working with Matrika Hospital, located in Rewari was the key resource person for the webinar. He emphasised on an early consultation with doctor to manage PCOS. PCOS stands for poly-cystic ovary syndrome. It is a situation in which the ovaries produce an odd amount of androgens, the male sex hormones which may be commonly determined in women in small amounts.Workshop on skill developmentKaithal: The Literary Committee of RKSD College, Kaithal in association with the career guidance cell of the college organised a 10-day workshop on 'Skill development and employability' for the students of all streams. It was organised mainly for the purposes of writing skills, expression skills, analytical and interpreting skills and creating employability applications etc. A total of 40 students participated in it. Principal Sanjay Goel, while describing skill development as the need of the hour, cautioned the students that today's generation spoke English and other languages well, but their shortcomings was in writing style.GJUST signs PactHisar: A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed between Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar (GJUST) and Chimique (India) Limited, Siwani Mandi for working together in the area of food processing and technology and related services for skill development, outcome based training, placement, R and D services and other related services. The MoU was signed in the presence of Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor of the university by Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar and Prof Vinod Chhokar, dean, international relations on behalf of the GJUST and Rajesh Kedia, managing director and Ravi Aggarwal on behalf of Chimique (India) Limited.KU doctor awardedKurukshetra: Dr. Ashish Aneja, Medical Officer, working at Kurukshetra University Health Centre, has been selected for the 'Best diabetes care doctor award' given by Indian Diabetes Research Centre. On this occasion, KU VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated Dr Ashish Aneja for this achievement. Prof. Som Nath said during the challenging time of corona, Doctor Aneja continued to treat patients keeping in mind their problems and made them health conscious.Karnal boy excels in examKarnal: Paramvir Singh, a Class XII student of St Theresa Convent School, has scored 1,530 out of 1,600 in SAT exam for admission to undergraduate programmes in universities or colleges abroad. Paramvir Singh ranked among top 1 per cent students who appeared for the SAT exam across the world which was held on October 2. SAT is an entrance exam created by the College Board, USA, and is used by most colleges and universities in America and globally to make admission decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-training-programme-328191
23-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Waterlogged plots breeding ground for mosquitoes||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Waterlogged plots breeding ground for mosquitoesAfter the recent heavy rains, the situation is bad in many colonies of the Azad Nagar area in Hisar town. Due to waterlogging in vacant plots and low-lying areas, people are facing a lot of trouble as these 'ponds' have turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The meeting of Azad Nagar Sudhar Samiti regarding these problems was held which expressed concern over the prevailing situation. We demand that the blocked sewer lines and drains be cleaned. The administration is not paying attention to this. In vacant plots where water is filled, mosquito repellent and fogging should be carried out. Surender Sharma, HisarBlood separator machine non-functional at civil hospitalAbout two years ago, to provide better and prompt health services to the people, the government had provided an expensive blood separator machine. This machine is needed to separate platelets in blood for infusion to critical dengue patients to multiply the platelets count, which is essential to save precious lives. But, it's lying in disuse and needs another fifty lakh budget, to fix it on the floor to make its functional. Dengue is spreading fast in this region and to seek medical care from private hospitals, is very expensive and out of reach for the common men. The government must ensure that this valuable machine is made functional at the earliest . Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogged-plots-breeding-ground-for-mosquitoes-328192
23-10-2021||Mahendragarh||Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar’s statue unveiled at Central University of Haryana||Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore today unveiled the statue of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) here. He also inaugurated a new block of boys’s hostel having an accommodation facility for 315 students and laid the foundation stone of a water treatment plant to be built at a cost of about 13 crores on the university campus. Speaking on the occasion, Kishore said the installation of Dr Ambedkar’s statue in the university would inspire the younger generation.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-bhim-rao-ambedkars-statue-unveiled-at-central-university-of-haryana-328193
23-10-2021||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar felicitates IAS, IIT toppers||Chandigarh, October 22In a bid to ensure that no talented student belonging to a poor family loses a chance to pursue his/her dreams, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced free education for those whose verified family income was less than Rs 1.80 lakh per annum under the state government’s Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme.The Chief Minister made this announcement while interacting with students who had cracked the Civil Service Exam-2020 and JEE Advanced Exam -2021(Under Super 100 Programme) during a state-level felicitation programme held today in Panchkula.While boosting the morale of the 29 students coming from poor background who cracked the JEE Advanced 2021, the Chief Minister said, “All of you are a great example that if you have talent, no one can stop you from achieving your dreams, even if you belong to the poor background.”“Initially we are going to make an arrangement of imparting education from KG to PG in four universities. While Kurukshetra University has already started preparing for admission to be given under the KG to PG scheme from 2021-22 academic session ,” said the Chief Minister.Meanwhile, Devayani, who bagged rank 11 in the Civil Service Exam-2020, said she felt very proud that she belonged to Haryana and it was set to become a leading state in terms of academics.Free education for poorChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced free education for those whose verified family income was less than Rs 1.80 lakh per annum under the state government’s Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-felicitates-ias-iit-toppers-328194
23-10-2021||Our Correspondence||Online loan fraud racket busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 22The Gurugram police busted a fraud online loan providing cartel being run from a commercial building in Sector 58.The accused would provide loans up to Rs 5,000 for a week and harass takers if they failed to repay. They would circulate their pictures on their phone contacts declaring them fraudsters. The police nabbed two operators of the cartel who run their own call centre without any license and permission. A laptop and two mobiles were seized by the police. An FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station.The arrested accused are identified as Sanjay Kumar, resident of Fatehpur Biloch village in Ballabhgarh, Bharat, a resident of village Bijna in district Charkhi Dadri. The scam ran from Magnum tower-1, sector 58.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-loan-fraud-racket-busted-in-gurugram-328195
23-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Roads repair project likely to miss November 15 deadline||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 22The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) is likely to miss the deadline of November 15 to make all roads motorable in the city, due to fund crunch.The civic body is yet to get the fund to carry out repairs of over 1,000 kilometres of length of roads here. Sources in the MCF say the roads’ repair deadline has been pushed to November 30 from November 15. Even the deadline of November 30 may be missed, if the fund crunch persists and the tussle between the MCF and its contractors over non-clearance of pending payments continues.“The MCF Contractors’ Association has already announced the boycott of new tenders in view of the failure of the department concerned to clear the pending payments to the tune of about Rs 200 crores,” says Giriraj Singh, president of the association. “Though the civic authorities had announced last month that all roads will be repaired by mid November, no progress has been made so far,” says Yogesh Dhingra, a former municipal corporator.Describing the condition of the majority of roads as pathetic and a cause of inconvenience to commuters, SK Sharma, coordinator, Road Safety Organisation, said potholes and sloppy work had resulted in traffic bottlenecks and chaos. Ajay Bahl, a social activist, said dumping of rubble and soil-laden waste material to fill up the potholes on a temporary basis had only resulted in dust pollution. Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF said road repairs was the top priority and the work was expected to be over by November 30. The payments of contractors will be released soon. The civic body has been sanctioned a grant of Rs 166 crore to tide over the fund crisis, he said.Tussle between MCF, contractorsSources in the MCF say the roads’ repair deadline has been pushed to November 30 from November 15. Even the deadline of November 30 may be missed, if the funds crunch persists and the tussle between the MCF and its contractors over non-clearance of pending payments continues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roads-repair-project-likely-to-miss-november-15-deadline-328196
23-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala dairies to be moved out of residential localities||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 22The ambitious project to shift out all dairies from residential areas of the Ambala Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, which has been hanging fire for the past 18 years, is now expected to take off soon.The Haryana Government has given its nod to the proposal of shifting the dairies to Brahmin Majra village where a dairy complex having a capacity to keep over 5,000 animals will be established on a 21-acre land.A number of residents are into the dairy business since British Era in Ambala Cantonment.Proposal approved by govtShifting of dairies from residential areas is an ambitious project and the proposal sent by the MC has been approved by the government. Shifting of the dairies will not only improve the sanitary conditions in the city area but also provide several benefits to dairy owners, as they will get healthcare facility for their animals at the complex. Sachin Gupta, Administrator, MC Sadar zoneAimed at bringing these under one roofThe aim of the project is to shift all dairies being run at different locations and gawal mandis in Ambala Cantonment to one location. Officials have been directed to expedite the work and get all formalities completed at the earliest. Anil Vij, Haryana Home MinisterCow dung is dumped in the open and in nullahs which is the main reason behind the choking of drains, and poor sanitary conditions. In 2003, the then Chief Minister, Om Prakash Chautala, had told the district administration to shift out all dairies from residential areas, but it could not be done due to various reasons. Initially, it was proposed that dairy owners would be allocated land near Champa Rice Mill on the Jagadhri road. Later, the location was changed to Ugada Bada village but the project never took off.Earlier this year, the municipal council had identified 21-acre land and a resolution was also passed by the panchayat in this regard.As per a survey conducted by the municipal council, over 300 dairies are being run under the MC limit. Under the dairy complex project, the dairy owners will get the facility of a veterinary hospital, a rest house, dry fodder store, and a pond for cattle at the dairy complex. A biogas plant will also be setup.An official said the process to get the land of the village transferred in the name of the Municipal Council had been initiated.Additional Deputy Commissioner and Administrator, Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, Sachin Gupta said, “Shifting of dairies from residential areas is an ambitious project and the proposal sent by the council has been approved by the government. Shifting of the dairies will not only improve the sanitary conditions in the city area but also provide several benefits to the dairy owners, as they will get healthcare facility for their animals at the complex.”Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, who has been taking a keen interest in the project, said, “The aim of the project is to shift all dairies being run at different locations and gawal mandis in Ambala Cantonment to one location. Officials have been directed to expedite the work and get all formalities completed at the earliest.”300 dairies being run in MC limits||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-dairies-to-be-moved-out-of-residential-localities-328197
23-10-2021||New Delhi||Khori Rehabilitation: Collect upfront amount after issuance of final allotment letter, says SC||The SC today said the upfront amount for the economically weaker section (EWS) flats under the rehabilitation scheme for the eligible applicants of Faridabad’s Khori village, where unauthorised structures which came under the Aravalli forest area, were removed would be collected only upon the issuance of the final allotment letter.The counsel representing the Faridabad MC told the Bench that it appeared that some letters containing the clause for making payment had been issued inadvertently and those would be recalled forthwith.“The upfront amount will be collected from the allottees concerned only upon the issue of the final allotment letter,” the bench noted in its order. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khori-rehabilitation-collect-upfront-amount-after-issuance-of-final-allotment-letter-says-sc-328198
23-10-2021||---||4 mandi staff booked for fake gate passes||Karnal, October 22Days after the unearthing of nexus of alleged fake procurement at the Gheer purchase centre in Karnal district, a team of Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), has detected another racket of employees who were allegedly issuing gate passes from the office not from the entry gate of the Cheeka grain market.A case has been registered against four employees of the Cheeka grain market under Sections 409, 420, 464, 467 and 468 of the IPC. The accused have been identified as Himanshu, mandi supervisor, Parveen, mandi analyst, Sandeep, quality analyst, and Pawan, quality analyst.An FIR was registered on the complaint of District Marketing Enforcement Officer (DMEO) Kaithal, Abhinav Walia.Chief Administrator, HSAMB, Vinay Singh, along with team members, comprising DMEO Kaithal Walia and DMEO Karnal Ishwar Rana raided the grain market on October 20.The team members found that the gate passes were being issued from a room instead of the entry gate without the actual arrival of the PR paddy.“We found that several gate passes were issued without actual arrival. These employees were hand in glove with some arhtiyas. They were issuing gate passes for these arhtiyas in the name of some farmers,” said an official who was part of the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-mandi-staff-booked-for-fake-gate-passes-328199
23-10-2021||---||Clear farmers’ dues in 72 hours: Haryana Additional Chief Secretary||Karnal, October 22Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Devender Singh today visited the Karnal grain market and reviewed the procurement process.He directed the procurement agencies to clear the dues of the farmers in 72 hours. “The procurement is going on smoothly and so far, Karnal district has recorded the arrival of 8.38 lakh MTs of paddy. A sum of Rs 903 crore has been transferred in the accounts of the farmers, which is around 60 per cent,” said the ACS.He also inquired from the procurement agencies about any fund issue so that it would be raised before the government. He said the lifting of the paddy was also going on smoothly and around 72 per cent of the lifting had been done so far. The ACS emphasised on pushing the lifting process.About milling, he said there were 288 millers in the district, whose milling capacity was now double. The Central government had issued directions of procurement from the state where it is produced. The district administration has sealed the Haryana-UP border, banning the arrival of paddy from UP.About the issuance of the “fake procurement” at the Gheer purchase centre, he said some people made efforts to derail the system, but the procurement agencies were keeping a vigil on them.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, apprised the ACS of the procurement process.Later, he visited Western Yamuna Canal to review the Canal Front Development project. The DC-cum-CEO, Smart City Ltd, Yadav told him that the project would be completed by December.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clear-farmers-dues-in-72-hours-haryana-additional-chief-secretary-328200
23-10-2021||---||Kurukshetra: Life term for sexually assaulting daughters||Kurukshetra, October 22The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Manish Dua has sentenced a man (40) to rigorous life imprisonment under POCSO Act for sexually assaulting his two minor daughters.Deputy District Attorney Dr Bhupender Kumar said that a woman had lodged a complaint on August 5 last year at Thanesar Sadar police station alleging that her husband had been sexually assaulting their daughters.The woman had stated that she has five children, including three girls. Her husband sexually assaulted their 17-year-old daughter nearly one year ago and threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about it.Then on the intervening night of August 4 and 5 last year, he sexually assaulted their 10-year-old daughter. The girl raised an alarm and narrated the incident to her mother.A case was registered, statements of both girls were recorded and the accused was arrested. He was held guilty under Section 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 506 of the IPC. The court has also slapped a fine of Rs 62,000 on him.The DDA said the court has made a recommendation to the DLSA to assess and grant necessary compensation of Rs 1.5 lakh to the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-life-term-for-sexually-assaulting-daughters-328201
23-10-2021||---||Faridabad: Abducted minor girl found after 5 years, 3 held||Faridabad, October 22A minor girl, who was abducted from a locality here, has been returned to her parents after five years. Three persons, including two women, have been arrested.The girl was three months old at the time of abduction on June 4, 2016.A spokesperson of the district police said the incident happened after the mother of the girl had gone to the market with some neighbours, who befriended her on the pretext of helping her as she was from a poor background, for buying clothes for her daughter.Alleging that the abduction was a pre-planned move, the accused, identified as Udham Singh, an auto driver, kidnapped the girl after the mother had handed him the child at the time of shopping.It was, however, later reported that Singh was asked by Rekha, a resident of Uttam Nagar in Delhi, and her sister Komal, to abduct the child and hand her over to Rekha later. The sisters were living in the same colony as the victim at the time of the crime.Rekha, according to the police, was childless and wanted to adopt one but could not.The girl was recovered from Delhi on Thursday after the police raided a house and found the victim living with Rekha.The police zeroed on Singh on the basis of surveillance of his mobile number. He was arrested from Unchagaon village in Faridabad a few days ago. Upon interrogation, he revealed the location of the missing child.The girl is now five and half years old. She was placed in a shelter home of the Bal Kalyan Samiti (Child Welfare Council) before being handed over to her parents after legal formalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-abducted-minor-girl-found-after-5-years-3-held-328202
23-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Namaz disrupted again amid sloganeering in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 22While the administration managed to maintain peace for 15 days at the namaz site in Sector 47, protests erupted in Sector 12A today with local residents and Hindu outfits raising slogans of ‘Jai Shree Ram’ during a namaz being held in the ground.Namaz offered at allocated placesThis is just a political and publicity stunt. Namaz is being offered only at allocated. Some anti-social elements are trying to disrupt communal harmony and secular spirit of the Khattar government. Zakir Hussain, former Nuh MLAPermission given in ’18 for one time onlyIn 2018, we had agreed to allow to offer namaz on the occasion of Ramzan. The written orders read that the permission was granted for one day only, but it has been three years and now they have made it a permanent spot. It is time for them to vacate the land. Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, resident, Sec 12AClaiming the land to be a private property, protestors said they would not allow any private land to be encroached for the public prayer.The police reached the spot to pacify the protesters, but they continued to raise slogans and entered into arguments with the officials as the namaz was being offered in the background.“There is a three-acre land, which belongs to the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), just a few meters away from the property where the namaz was being offered. That space can be used to offer prayers but we will not allow it on any of our private land. Persons coming to offer prayers are not residents of the area,” said Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 12A.The protestors alleged that a huge crowd gathers at the time of namaz in the open area, which blocks the main road and disrupts traffic.Local MLA Sudhir Singla said he would meet with the Commissioner of Police on Saturday to ensure that communal harmony was maintained in the city.“The Chief Minister clarified that namaz could only be offered at allocated places. I will meet with the CP and try to find a solution,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/namaz-disrupted-again-amid-sloganeering-in-gurugram-328203
23-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Menace of encroachments on public properties rising: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the menace of encroachments on public properties was “creeping up” day by day and creating obstructions to the planned development of the nation. The Bench also made it clear that any attempt to regularise illegal construction was deplored by the Supreme Court (SC).The assertion by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on a petition filed against the state of Haryana and other respondents in a case allegedly involving illegal and unauthorised possessions over shamlat land.The Bench was told that the petitioners were found to be in illegal possession of shamlat land of a gram panchayat within the revenue estate of a village, following which Bhiwani assistant collector came to the conclusion that great loss had been suffered by the gram panchayat. Accordingly, he ordered the removal of the encroachments from the panchayat land.Bhiwani Collector dismissed their appeal by passing a detailed speaking order dated February 20, 2020. Maintaining the order on the removal of the encroachments, he recorded that full opportunity was provided to the petitioners. The revision filed against the orders, too, was dismissed by Rohtak Division Commissioner.The Bench asserted that the SC took note of the fact that village common land in large parts of the country had been grabbed by unscrupulous persons, using muscle, money and political power to the extent that such land existed only on paper in many states.It was held that the encroachers must be ordered to remove such constructions and hand over land possession to the gram panchayat even if they had built houses.Shamlat is for common useThe encroachers must be ordered to remove illegal constructions and hand over land possession to the gram panchayat even if they had built houses there. The gram sabha/gram panchayat land must be kept for the common use of the village residents, the court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/menace-of-encroachments-on-public-properties-rising-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-328204
23-10-2021||---||Major fire at carpet factory in Panipat||Panipat, October 22A major fire broke out at a carpet factory in a residential area on Jatal road in the city in the wee hours of Friday. Goods, machines and other material worth crores were destroyed in the fire.The factory deals in the export of carpets. The exact cause of the fire is not yet clear. The fire officials suspect that a short circuit could be the reason behind the fire. No loss of life was reported.The police had to evacuate over 500 people from their houses adjoining the factory due to high-rising flames.The fire broke out at around 4.30 am at the two-floor carpet factory ‘United Overseas’ owned by Rajesh Gupta and his brother Rajiv Gupta.Factory guard Jaswinder witnessed some smoke on the ground floor of the factory. He immediately informed the factory owners and fire control.The fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes and started dousing the flames. The police diverted traffic to provide passage to the fire tenders.Fire Officer Rameshwar Singh said that 12 fire tenders arrived at the spot within 10 minutes and were trying to douse the flames, he added.As many as 15 fire tenders of Panipat, Karnal, Gharaunda, Samalkha and NFL have made more than 300 rounds in around 15 hours to bring water, said Amit Kumar, fireman. Some houses and shops also got cracks due to the flames, he said.Inspector Yogesh Kataria said that the flames were so high that a wall of the factory fell down. People living in the rear of the factory were evacuated and sent to a safe area till the fire was controlled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-fire-at-carpet-factory-in-panipat-328205
23-10-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Development a major poll issue, says Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Underplaying the role of caste and farmers’ agitation against three farm laws in the October 30 Ellenabad byelection, Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar today asserted that development was major issue in the crucial election.“In Haryana politics, caste does play an important role. However, when a predominant issue such as development takes centrestage, voters tend to vote for development rather than other issues, including the caste of the candidates,” Dhankar said in a chat with The Tribune here today.On what moral ground is Abhay Chautala contesting the byelections? Have the farm laws been scrapped? Even farm union leaders are questioning Abhay’s decision. OP Dhankar, BJP ChiefDhankar, a former Haryana Agriculture Minister, was equally dismissive of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws as an election issue saying that certain persons were seeking to unsuccessfully make it an election issue.“Abhay Chautala, who resigned on the issue of the farm laws, had said he would not enter the Vidhan Sabha till the laws are scrapped. On what moral ground is he contesting the byelections? Have the farm laws been scrapped,” asked Dhankar.He asserted that the electorate was realising the importance of development in electoral politics and shunning the politics of casteism besides keeping criminal elements out of politics. In the backdrop of these factors, the BJP-JJP candidate is in the winning position at the moment, he asserted.Chautala refutes allegations of neglect||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/development-a-major-poll-issue-says-haryana-bjp-chief-op-dhankar-328206
23-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad Bypoll: Canvassing by parties a subdued affair||Tribune News ServiceEllenabad, October 22It’s business as usual for people busy in their respective occupations since the much-expected high-decibel electioneering is missing in the canvassing in the Ellenabad Assembly segment of Sirsa district which goes to the polls eight days later.Uncertainty about choice of peopleI think the campaigning will intensify in the next couple of days. There are clouds of uncertainty about the choice of people. While a section of people have made up their minds about their choice in the polling, there is a large chunk of voters that is still to take its decision. Jeet Singh, a trader in EllenabadHardly any posters, banners and flags are visible in Ellenabad town except at election offices of the three main political parties located on the Sirsa road in the town. Though the party offices of the BJP, INLD and Congress are abuzz with supporters, party workers expect that things will hot up in a couple of days.Jeet Singh, a trader in Ellenabad, stated that campaigning was rather subdued till now. “I think it will intensify in the next couple of days. There are clouds of uncertainty about the choice of people. While a section of people have made up their minds about their choice in the polling, there is a large chunk of voters that is still to take its decision,” he said, adding that besides the political issues or caste of a person, there were some other considerations to influence the voters.When asked about the issues in the byelection, a daily wager in the grain market Jagdish Kumar said that it’s important for him to get employment in the grain market daily to earn a living. “My granddaughter is looking for a job after completing college. I will be happy if there are more employment opportunities for the younger generation,” he said, stating that roads and other civic amenities were secondary issues in this election.Deepak Kumar, a tea seller in Ellenabad, maintained that though the candidates and their supporters were making visits to the market and holding public meetings, shopkeepers and workers did not want to get engaged in politics. “The shopkeepers don’t like the road blockades in the market due to public meetings by political parties. Business is more important for them,” he said.In Malekan village, Vakil Singh, panchayat member, who is busy in agriculture in the fields along with his family stated that it’s harvesting season for cotton, guar and paddy. “Politiking can wait. First, I have to ensure that I earn enough to feed my family till the next farming season,” he said. “Definitely, I will cast my vote with my family, but agriculture is my priority right now.”The byelection is being termed as a litmus test for the INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala who is seeking re-election whose resignation necessitated the bypoll. Other candidates are Gobind Kanda of the ruling BJP and the Congress’ Pawan Beniwal.Low profileHardly any posters, banners and flags are visible except at poll offices of the political parties located on the Sirsa road. Though the party offices are abuzz with supporters, party workers expect that things will hot up in a couple of days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-canvassing-by-parties-a-subdued-affair-328207
23-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal to supply paddy straw to ethanol plant||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 22The ethanol plant of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) in Panipat will utilise around 2 lakh tonne of paddy straw of Karnal district, which has been seeing the highest stubble-burning cases in the state.The plant will begin the processing from April 2022, but the authorities will start collecting the straw this season. The agency that will collect the stubble from the farmers will be finalised soon.2l tonnes for biofuelOf 1,508 farm fires this season in state, Karnal reported 494Since the plant has the capacity to utilise around 2.20 lakh tonne of straw, around 20,000 tonnes will be taken from farmers in Panipat district. Karnal district administration and IOCL senior officials held a meeting on Thursday, chalking out the plan for the smooth supply of straw to the plant.The company will not pay the farmers for the straw, but the initiative will help them save the expenditure incurred on straw management.Karnal district has 13 clusters, and Class-1 officers have been deputed to monitor each cluster, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, Nishant Kumar Yadav said.“The government is extending support to farmers for stubble management, but some are still burning it, adding to the air pollution. The plan to collect paddy straw from farmers and utilise it in the ethanol plant will help check the menace of stubble burning,” said the DC. Karnal generates around 6 lakh tonnes paddy straw in a season, of which 2 lakh tonne is used in nine industrial units, while 2 lakh tonnes is decomposed in the soil by farmers. The remaining 2 lakh tonnes will now be utilised by the IOCL, said the DC.Karnal is leading the state in stubble burning, reporting 494 farm fires this season (from September 15) till Friday. Haryana has reported 1,508 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-to-supply-paddy-straw-to-ethanol-plant-328172
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Major reshuffle in Haryana, 26 IPS officers transferred||In a major reshuffle, the Haryana government on Friday issued transfer and posting orders of 26 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including several district police chiefs, with immediate effect.Kala Ramachandran, principal secretary, Transport Department with additional charge of ADGP, Crime Against Women, has been given additional charge of ADGP, State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), according to an official statement.Bharti Arora, IGP, Ambala, has been given additional charge of IG, Women Safety, the statement said.Shiv Charan, DIG, State Crime Branch (H) has been posted as DIG, SVB, Hisar.Ambala Superintendent of Police (SP) Hamid Akhtar has been posted as SP, State Crime Branch (headquarters).Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma has been posted as SP of Sonepat, and Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal has been posted as SP of Palwal.Rajender Kumar Meena, Commandant of 5th Battalion of Haryana Armed Police (HAP), MBN with additional charge of 2nd Battalion of HAP has been given additional charge of SP Traffic, Karnal.Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal has been posted as SP of SVB(H).Palwal SP Deepak Gahlawat has been posted as SP of Charkhi Dadri.Sonipat SP Jashandeep Randhawa with additional charge of STF Sonipat has been posted as SP of Ambala.Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg has been posted as SP, SVB (headquarters).Jind SP Wassem Akram has been posted as SP of Jhajjar.Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar has been posted as SP of Rewari.Nuh SP Narender Bijarniya has been posted as SP of Jind.SP, Telecom, Udai Singh Meena has been posted as SP of Rohtak.Charkhi Dadri SP Vinod Kumar has been posted as DCP of South Gurgaon. He replaces Dheeraj Kumar, who has been posted as SP of Kurukshetra.Surinder Singh, SP Security CID, has been posted as SP of Fatehabad.The government also issued transfer and posting orders of seven Haryana Police Service officers with immediate effect. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-reshuffle-in-haryana-26-ips-officers-transferred-328136
23-10-2021||Gurugram||Friday namaz disrupted yet again in Haryana's Gurugram||Several fringe Hindu organisations disrupted Friday namaz prayers in Gurugram’s Sectors 12 and 47 on Friday.Such protests against the public offering of namaz have now become a weekly event, with protesters, chief among them fringe Hindu outfits, chanting Jai Shree Ram. Protesters in Sector 47, which saw protests after a two-week gap, have been claiming the designated prayer is private land that cannot be “encroached upon”.On Friday, protesters continued to chant Hindu slogans and protest public prayers even while police tried to intervene. Protesters claim that the prayers could cause “law and order problems”, an allegation that several, including former Nuh MLA Zakir Hussain, deny.  “This is just a political and publicity stunt,” Hussain, the administrator of Haryana Waqf Board and a leader of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Bharatiya Janata Party, said. “Namaz is being offered only at places allocated and there is no traffic or law and order situation. Some disgruntled elements are trying to attack communal harmony and the secular spirit of the Khattar government. This is a violation of one’s right to practise one’s religion.”Local MLA Sudhir Singla said he would hold a meeting with the police commissioner over the dispute.“The chief minister has clarified that namaz could be offered at allocated places to ensure there is no disturbance or law and order problem,” he said. “I will meet the police commissioner and try to work out a solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/friday-namaz-disrupted-yet-again-in-haryanas-gurugram-328115
23-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||9 killed in road accident involving 4 vehicles in Haryana’s Jhajjar||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 22Nine people, including three women and a child, were killed and several others injured in a road accident involving four vehicles on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway near Bahadurgarh town here in the wee hours of Friday.The injured have been admitted to nearby hospitals.The mishap took place around 3.30 am when an Ertiga car carrying 11 people was on its way from Rajasthan to Uttar Pradesh.The driver stopped the car behind a stationary truck between Badli and Farukkhnagar to answer the nature's call. Meanwhile, a truck hit the car from behind leaving its eight occupants dead and three others injured, said Om Prakash, the investigation officer.Sources said that later, an ECCO car carrying seven people stopped there to find out about the accident. It was also hit by another truck from behind. One of its occupants died on the spot while some others were injured.The deceased are yet to be identified. The police have started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-killed-in-road-accident-involving-4-vehicles-in-haryanas-jhajjar-328051
