25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Bihar man nabbed for ‘raping and murdering’ 5 year old girl||Gurugram, October 25The Gurugram Police have nabbed a 22-year-old Bihar native for allegedly raping and murdering a minor in Bhondsi area.The accused was produced in a city court on Monday and sent to judicial custody.According to the complaint filed by the father of the victim, the accused, Raja Mandal, lived in their neighborhood.“Raja took the girl on the pretext of getting her chocolates. When she did not return home for a long time, my wife along with another woman searched for her and found her lying in fields while the accused was standing beside her. Police were called and she was taken to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” the father of the victim told police.An FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and POCSO act.“We handed over the body to kin after the postmortem conducted by a board of doctors. The accused was produced in a city court and sent into judicial custody”, said inspector Jagbeer Singh, SHO of Bhondsi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bihar-man-nabbed-for-raping-and-murdering-5-year-old-girl-329484
25-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Rain, wind flatten basmati crop in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 24Rain accompanied by strong wind that lashed the region on Sunday afternoon flattened the basmati crop in the fields. It has exposed the arrangements made in different grain markets of Karnal as rain soaked the paddy in the mandis.Board given ordersI have given directions to the officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board to make arrangements to cover produce. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCUntimely rainRain was not required at this time. Rain and heavy wind have flattened the basmati crop. It will result in less yield. — Naresh Kumar, Farmer of Nilokheri blockMost stock coveredA majority of the stock was covered and under the sheds. So, there was no loss due to the rain. But it has delayed things. — Diler Singh, secretary, Market committeeFarmers said untimely rain has flattened the paddy crop which will result in damage to the grain as well as less yield.As per the information available, the area under paddy cultivation in the district usually remains 1.7 lakh hectares, comprising 60 per cent non-basmati and the remaining under basmati. But this year, the area of basmati was reduced to 35 per cent and the area under non-basmati varieties was increased to 65 per cent. Around 80 per cent of the PR paddy has been harvested so far, but the basmati varieties are at the maturing stage.Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said that the rainfall has highlighted the poor arrangement in the grain markets by the authorities. The paddy bags lying in the open got soaked in the rain water due to improper arrangements.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said that around 80 per cent of the procured paddy has been lifted from the grain markets. It was the duty of the arhtiyas also to provide polythene and sheets to the farmers to cover their produce. “I have given directions to the officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board to make arrangements,” he added.The situation was almost the same in Panipat and Sonepat districts. In Sonepat, hailstorms were also reported in some villages — Rohat, Nakloi, Kakroi, Bhatgaon, Fatehpur, Kharkhoda, Khanda and others due to which the crop got damaged. Untimely hail and rain at the peak of the paddy harvesting season have left farmers worried.As the crop was ready for harvesting, it had got heavy. Due to wind and rain, the crop got flattened in the fields.In Panipat, the main paddy crop is of basmati and the harvesting would have started in a week. The actual report of crop loss would come to the fore on Monday morning, he added.In Ambala, unwanted rainfall has not only drenched the paddy stock, but has also affected harvesting in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-wind-flatten-basmati-crop-in-haryana-329241
25-10-2021||---||Centre nod to 6 more rakes of DAP for Haryana||Chandigarh, October 24Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there would be no shortage of DAP in the state. He said although DAP available in the market this year was 11,00 metric tonnes more in quantity than last year, in view of the demand of the farmers, he had spoken to the Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, over phone to increase six additional rakes of train to which the Union Minister had agreed.Shortage will be overcome, says CMAt present, 24 rakes of DAP were available to the farmers of the state and five more rakes would be received. After speaking to Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister, 11 more rakes would be available to the state by October 31 after receiving six additional rakes.Appealing to the farmers to be patient, Khattar said at present 24 rakes of DAP were available to the farmers of the state and five more rakes would be received. After talking to the Union Minister today, a total of 11 more rakes would be available to the state by October 31 after receiving six additional rakes. Directions had also been given by the Chief Minister to take strict action on the borders of the state to keep a check on the black marketing of DAP from Haryana to other states.The Chief Minister chaired a high-level meeting of officials this evening in which the availability and demand of DAP were discussed. He directed the DCs and superintendents of police of the border districts of Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Nuh and Jhajjar to check the vehicles going out of the state by setting up nakas in their respective areas so that DAP was not taken out of the state illegally.The CM has appointed administrative secretaries in charge for the mentioned six districts with immediate effect to keep a close watch on the situation arising out of the demand of DAP. They will be present in the respective districts from October 25 to 27 and will keep an eye on the DAP distribution.The CM directed the officials that according to the farmers who have registered for rabi crops on the “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal, DAP should be distributed to them so that it could be made available to the real farmers on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-nod-to-6-more-rakes-of-dap-for-haryana-329242
25-10-2021||Karnal||Rotten wheat being given to poor: Pundri MLA Randhir Singh Gollen||Randhir Singh Gollen, Pundri MLA and Chairman of the Haryana Tourism Corporation, has trained guns on officials of Kaithal district, alleging that issues raised by him are not being paid heed to by the officials.He alleged that damaged wheat is being supplied to the people under public distribution system (PDS). He threatened to raise the issue with CM Manohar Lal Khattar.On the sidelines of a programme organised at Pundri in Kaithal district to celebrate two years of being MLA on Sunday, he told mediapersons that rotten foodgrains — which cannot be eaten by cattle — are being supplied to the poor. I took up the issue with the Kaithal DC, but no action was taken on my complaint,” said Gollen, adding that he has filed a written complaint in this regard with the DC.Without naming any official, he said that there was a problem at the district level. Around one month back, he had raised the issue that officials were not listening to the issues raised by public representatives. He had even threatened to withdraw support from the government.On the other hand, Kaithal DC Pradeep Dahiya denied the allegations and said that action was taken soon after the complaint was received. “An explanation was called through DFSC from the officials responsible for the distribution of foodgrains. The foodgrains were also replaced immediately after the complaint was received,” said DC Dahiya. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rotten-wheat-being-given-to-poor-pundri-mla-randhir-singh-gollen-329243
25-10-2021||Mahendragarh||45 medicinal plants identified at Dhosi Hill in Narnaul||A survey recently conducted by a team of scientists led by Dr Saurabh Panday from Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, has identified 141 species of angiospermic plants at Dhosi Hill in Narnaul town. Among those, 45 species are used to prepare medicines for the treatment of cancer, respiratory and cardiac diseases, ulcer, liver and kidney infections.The survey carried out in association with the Haryana State Biodiversity Board and NH Consultancy Private Limited was at exploring the biodiversity of the region and find out rare species of plants so that they could be preserved.Dr Panday who is a former Principal Investigator at the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), Delhi, maintained Dhosi hill was the place where ‘Chyawanprash’– a paste of 46 herbs – was discovered by Rishi Chyavana and all these herbs are available there.Dr Kavita Saini, an entomologist, said the survey helped them discover significant traditional varieties and breeds of flora and fauna which were on the verge of extinction. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-medicinal-plants-identified-at-dhosi-hill-in-narnaul-329244
25-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad  bypoll: Last 12 polls saw just four women contest; secured 2,149 votes||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 24The electioneering in the Ellenabad Assembly byelection has indicated surprisingly lesser participation of women political workers as well as women voters across the segment.So much so that in the past 12 elections held in this Assembly segment, there had been only four women who had filed nominations to contest from here, drawing a total of 2,149 votes.Savita kajal lone ranger this timeThis byelection has only one woman candidate, Savita Kajal, among 19 contenders who has filed the nomination as an independent. She hails from the Bawani Khera region of Bhiwani districtThis byelection has only one woman candidate, Savita Kajal, among 19 contenders who has filed the nomination as an independent. She hails from the Bawani Khera region of Bhiwani district.The Election Commission records showed that in the 1991 Assembly elections, Rajinder Kaur had contested the poll as an independent candidate and polled just 87 votes. In the 1996 Assembly elections, two women, Savitri Devi and Gomati, had filed their nomination papers as independent candidates. However, they too managed to draw only a paltry 490 and 219 votes, respectively.A newly floated political party — Samast Bhartiya Party — had fielded woman Kusum Chaudhary as its candidate in the Ellenabad byelection held in 2010. Local residents said she had canvassed extensively during the campaigning. But she too had to be content with 1,353 votes.A youth of Chaharwala village, whose wife is a panchayat member, said: “Most of the work of picking in the cotton fields is carried out by the women. Besides, they work equally with men in the fields, especially to take care of the cattle. But they are not interested in politics. The men of the house ask them to cast their votes for a particular candidate which they oblige,” he stated.Admitting that his wife never attended the panchayat meetings of the district administration, he said women rarely venture out of the houses to partake in administrative works in this region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-last-12-polls-saw-just-four-women-contest-secured-2-149-votes-329245
25-10-2021||---||Notice to Faridabad civic body on overflowing sewage||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 24The Haryana Right to Service Commission (HRSC) has issued a notice to the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) regarding the alleged delay in resolving the complaint of the overflowing sewage in the residential area of Sector 8 here.Problems not being attended toDespite several complaints lodged with the civic officials, the problem of overflowing sewage waste into the green belt adjoining several houses in Sector 8 has not been attended to. — Hemant Aggarwal, ResidentThe MCF has been directed to submit an action taken report by October 28 in this regard.The notice comes after a complaint lodged by a local resident Hemant Aggarwal. He has alleged that despite several complaints lodged with the civic officials, the problem of overflowing sewage waste into the green belt adjoining several houses in the sector has not been attended to. It is claimed that the overflowing sewage water from the drain has not only damaged the green belt, but also resulted in waterlogging, leading to unhygienic and poor sanitary conditions.“As the issue was taken up four months ago, the failure of the civic authorities to resolve it made us take up the matter with the CM window in July and with the HRSC in September this year,” said Aggarwal. He added that while the complaint lodged with the CM window also failed to provide any relief, a complaint was again lodged with the HRSC on October 4, which responded with a show-cause notice to the MCF.The notice issued by the Commission on October 12 has directed the MCF to take necessary action regarding the complaint of the overflowing sewage which, it says, was a notified service under the Urban Local Bodies Act and submit the status report by October 28. “The failure to send the report to the Commission will invite an action as per the provisions of the Haryana Right to Service Act- 2014,’’ added the notice.The overflowing sewage has adversely affected plants and green belt adjoining as many as 59 houses in Sector 8, according to the complaint. The problem started in June this year due to the choking of the sewage line which started overflowing its discharge into the green belt. This has not only damaged greenery, but also caused poor and unhygienic conditions, it was claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-faridabad-civic-body-on-overflowing-sewage-329247
25-10-2021||---||Geeta Phogat wins gold in Haryana Senior State Wrestling Championship||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 24International wrestler Geeta Phogat of Charkhi Dadri clinched the gold medal in the 59-kg weight category (freestyle) of the Haryana Senior State Wrestling Championship held at Ladrawan village here today.Manju of Hisar and Kusum won silver and bronze, respectively, in the same category.Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal felicitated the wrestlers.Abhishek Chillar, organiser, said 500 wrestlers from across the state participated in 30 events of freestyle and Greco-Roman categories in the championship.The position holders will now participate in the national wrestling championship to be held in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, in November.Shefali of Rohtak, Priyanka of Charkhi Dadri and Sumit Kumari of Mahendragarh won the first, second and third position, respectively, in freestyle 65-kg weight category. Ritika of Rohtak secured gold, Honey of Sonepat bagged silver and Nisha of Bhiwani won bronze in the 72-kg weight category (freestyle).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/geeta-phogat-wins-gold-in-haryana-senior-state-wrestling-championship-329248
25-10-2021||---||Khattar calls on alumni to make universities self-reliant||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 24Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has called upon the alumni to contribute towards making universities self-reliant.Addressing the alumni meet of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here last evening, he said the alumni should adopt their alma-mater and make it a zero government-aided university. The CM said the universities would have to adopt the traditional gurukul system in which such institutions used to mobilise their resources through guru-dakshina (donations by students for their teachers). “Similarly, the universities have to activate the role of alumni to mobilise financial resources for which a separate alumni cell with a database should be set up ,” said Manohar Lal who claimed that the universities could be made completely or partially free from government aid, if alumni resources were mobilised properly. Describing the alumni as the capital of educational institutions, he said it would help in ensuring that the benefits of government grants reached the needy. The CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds should be used to pay the fee of poor students. On the call of Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar, the alumni and entrepreneurs present on the occasion contributed Rs 1 crore to the university and committed to contribute over Rs 5 crore soon.Earlier, the CM laid the foundation stone of Deendayal Upadhyaya Knowledge Resource Centre on the university campus. It will come up at a cost of Rs 13 crore. The Chief Minister was apprised of the development activities and ongoing projects which included the upcoming second campus of the university on the Faridabad-Gurugram road. Certificates were also given to the alumni who had completed their bridge course recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-calls-on-alumni-to-make-universities-self-reliant-329249
25-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Research on extending shelf life of platelets to seven days at Karnal hospital||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 24The Karnal Regional Blood Transfusion Centre of Civil Hospital is going to begin research work on extending the shelf life of platelets storage from five to seven days.Stored for 5 daysPlatelets are usually stored for up to five days prior to the transfusion, but we are going to start a research work to increase its shelf life to seven days. — Dr Verma, Regional blood transfusion officerA PhD student, Anju Singh, of Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh, Punjab, will begin the research work in the centre under the guidance of Dr Sanjay Verma, Regional Blood Transfusion Officer, for which the Health Department has given permission.The authorities claimed that extending the shelf life would help in reducing the wastage of platelets and providing it to more patients in need.“The study may also help in using blood platelets to any patient irrespective to their blood group status by studying the molecular characterisation of platelets. Besides, during the research work, the increase in platelet count on fixed intervals of three, five and seven days on different patients, and study for platelets count, PH, size of platelets, culture to check infection and other developments will also be conducted,” said Dr Verma.“Platelets are usually stored for up to five days prior to the transfusion, but we are going to start a research work to increase its shelf life to seven days by adopting platelet-additive solutions. We are hopeful to achieve the target in this study in a year,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/research-on-extending-shelf-life-of-platelets-to-seven-days-at-karnal-hospital-329251
25-10-2021||Ambala||Two held for selling MTP kits in Naraingarh||A team of the district Health Department conducted a raid and held two persons for allegedly selling MTP kits illegally in the Naraingarh block on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Ashraf (45) and Ravi Kumar.Deputy Civil Surgeon Ambala Balwinder Kaur said following a tip-off, a decoy customer was arranged and raid conducted.Ashraf confessed that he procured MTP kits from a nearby chemist shop, following which Ravi was arrested after a raid there. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-selling-mtp-kits-in-naraingarh-329252
25-10-2021||---||Wanted criminal arrested from Palwal||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 24The Special Task Force (STF) of the police has arrested a wanted criminal carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on him. The accused was convicted in a murder case. Inspector Satish Deswal, STF incharge, said the accused had been identified as Dharmender alias Shastri. Deswal said we got a tip off that Dharmender had to come to Palwal to commit some crime. After getting the information, the team laid a trap and he was arrested from Palwal. The accused was on the run from July 2015 after getting parole from the Bhondsi jail. The court had sentenced him to life term in the murder of Ajit of Rewara village in the Sampla area of Rohtak district in February 2003.The Rohtak police had registered a case against him and announced Rs 25,000 reward on his arrest in July 2015. The accused hid himself in Bihar after committing crime in Haryana, Delhi, UP and Rajasthan by changing his identity and religion. He was living in Damalbari of Kishanganj in Bihar and changed his name to Sultan. He also got married (nikah) to a woman Ansari Begum alias Nisha, Deswal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wanted-criminal-arrested-from-palwal-329253
25-10-2021||Panipat||Carpet unit fire victims seek relief||The people of Mukhija Colony have sought help and demanded compensation as their houses and shops got damaged due to the massive fire at the United Carpet factory on Jatal road on Friday. Sanjay Bhatia, MP, along with MLA Panipat Urban Pramod Vij, DC Sushil Kumar Sarwan, SP Shashank Kumar Sawan and MC Commissioner RK Singh on Sunday visited the area. The DC directed the officials to make reports of the loss to the people due to the fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carpet-unit-fire-victims-seek-relief-329254
25-10-2021||---||Don’t appoint vigilance officers on your own: Govt tells UHS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 24The Haryana Government has categorically told the authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, not to exceed their brief on the appointment of vigilance officers at Rohtak PGIMS.In a letter addressed to the UHS Vice-Chancellor, Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research) has asserted that the appointments of Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) for PGIMS and all other officers exercising powers assigned to the CVO are under the domain of the government. “It has come to the notice of the government that on a few occasions, such appointments, including the appointment of Additional CVO, have been made at the level of authorities other than the government, including the Vice-Chancellor. The government views such appointments to have been made without valid authority,” states the letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Tribune. The Additional Chief Secretary has asked the UHS Vice-Chancellor “to ensure that in future, utmost care is taken by all authorities not to exceed their jurisdiction in making/authorising any such appointments/assigning such responsibilities.”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-appoint-vigilance-officers-on-your-own-govt-tells-uhs-329255
25-10-2021||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Poor response to car-free day||PM’s praise ends speculationJhajjar: The praise showered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the inaugural function of Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at National Cancer Institute (NCI) at Badhsa village put to rest all speculation about the change of guard in the state. The speculation surfaced after the change of Chief Ministers by the BJP in Gujarat and Uttarakhand. In his address, Modi described Khattar as the most efficient, honest and innovative Chief Minister. “It was sufficient enough to send a clear message that the party is not contemplating any change of guard in the state,” said a political analyst.JJP leader trains guns on MLAKurukshetra: Known for being vocal against local BJP MLA Subhash Sudha, JJP leader Yogesh Sharma trained his guns on the local MLA again and termed him a property dealer, after a dispute cropped up between a coloniser and the residents of a private colony over a passage. Taking a dig at the MLA, the JJP leader said it would have been better if some attention was paid toward the poor condition of roads in Kurukshetra instead of developing new properties. The JJP leader said though both parties were in alliance, he could not keep mum over the local issues.YouTubers flood EllenabadHisar: A large number of YouTubers have flooded the Ellenabad Assembly segment in view of the bypoll. They are carrying mics, giving an impression that they belong to various electronic media channels. This has taken candidates and the poll managers of the INLD, BJP and Congress by surprise. Though the residents were initially surprised to see the influx of the ‘media’ in this largely rural segment, they, too, have started realising the reality of this ‘media’. The oft-repeated questions to carry out ‘surveys’ have now started to annoy residents and politicians. Surprised to find over two dozen mics in front of him two days ago, a senior leader asked another leader based in Chandigarh whether he had seen so many electronic media mics in any press conference in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-poor-response-to-car-free-day-329257
25-10-2021||Karnal||United Nations Day||Workshop on computer toolsFaridabad: A five-day online workshop on ICT tools and techniques for non-teaching staff was organised by the computer science department of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh recently. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said the main objective of the workshop was to enhance IT skills of non-teaching staff of the college. He said the IT skills were an essential component of the functioning of the college administration and its development. Head of computer science department, Dr Sachin Garg in his address stressed on the importance of office automation, excel, data retrieval, internet for the non-teaching staff. Meetender Kumar provided tips and tricks about certificate making, hardware, networking, troubleshooting, office automation, and use of the Internet with Google Apps etc.Talk on creative writing skillsFaridabad: The "Young women's writers club" of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, held a talk on "Creative writing skills". According to Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, the lecture was addressed mainly by Dr Sudarshan Ratnakar, storyteller and senior writer who has been given the best woman writer award by the Haryana Sahitya academy. In her lecture, Dr Ratnakar spoke in depth about several skills and techniques to hone creative writing at a young age. Around 50 students and the staff members, including convener of young women's writes club (YWWC) Kamal Tandon were present.Four girl students shineKarnal: Four girl students of M Com final year of evening session of RKSD College, Kaithal, have made the college proud by getting four places in the first 10 places of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Purnima Goyal, a final year M Com student, has secured first place, Chahat Ahuja has secured third, Urvashi Mittal has secured seventh position and Riya Chugh has secured ninth position. Along with them, Monica Jindal, a final year student of B Com honours, has also brought laurels to the college by securing third position. President Saket Mangal and other managing committee office bearers blessed and congratulated the students and gave the credit of this achievement to the hard work of the teachers and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/united-nations-day-329258
25-10-2021||A deep pit on the Jhajjar Road||Uncovered pit poses threat to commuters||Deepak Rathi, RohtakRTA has poorly maintained road at its entryThe photograph captured outside the office of DTO-cum-Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Sector 5, Panchkula, speaks of the bumpy and stone studded entry visitors have. How come t the authorities concerned have not maintained the road leading to the office of the RTA being a key public utility area. One also wonders as to why this matter was not so far taken up by its chief, with the city administration?Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaFallen tree on road not removed in FaridabadA fallen tree has been lying on the road for several days near Angels Public School in Sector 21A, Faridabad. The garbage hasn't been cleaned up yet. Residents of the sector and commuters are facing traffic hazards. The Municipal Corporation Faridabad has given the contract for garbage lifting to a company. But the garbage was not removed from the road opposite Maitri block. The Municipal Corporation should get the tree lying on the road removed at the earliest.Yugal Kishore Sharma, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uncovered-pit-poses-threat-to-commuters-329259
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Concessions for electronic vehicles hailed||Review CM’s security: SecretaryChandigarh: Apprehending mischief in view of the increased aggression by farmers, Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan has asked the Home Department to review CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s security. TNS1 held for doing gender testsChandigarh: A team of the Health Department of Mahendragarh and Rewari districts with the police raided a diagnostic centre and succeeded in arresting a person. The raid was conducted on a tip-off. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/concessions-for-electronic-vehicles-hailed-329260
25-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||In Gurugram, dengue cases at six-year high||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 24The ongoing rapid survey has traced 800 patients suffering from fever in the district with 122 from urban areas and 680 from rural areas.Rapid surveyA Health Department team has been going door to door looking for patients suffering from fever to identify any possible cases of dengue, which are at a six-year high in the city.According to officials, a majority of the patients with fever in urban areas were consulting a doctor or were under medication, while those in rural ones were treating themselves at home. They have been asked to get themselves tested and given medication.“People in villages are yet to take dengue seriously as many have not sought medical intervention despite having fever. We are providing them medicine at the doorstep,” said a survey official.“So far, the dengue situation is under control in the city. The fever survey is a proactive approach which has helped us identify many dengue patients well in time. We are providing diagnostic and treatment facilities to these people and keeping a close watch. The district is faring well in fever and dengue management,” said CMO Virender Yadav.The cases are concentrated in six major hotspots and repeated fogging is being done in these areas.“We have alerted all practitioners to ensure that every patient with fever gets tested for dengue. We are also keeping an eye on the number of beds in hospitals,” added Dr Yadav.The city has so far reported 212 positive cases, but no deaths. The figure is the highest since 2015, when 451 cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-dengue-cases-at-six-year-high-329125
