27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports no Covid death, 15 new cases||Haryana reported no new coronavirus-related death, even as it added 15 fresh infections on Wednesday, pushing the case count to 7,71,204, according to an official bulletin.The death toll remained unchanged at 10,049, the health department’s daily bulletin said.Among the districts, nine fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Gurugram and three from Faridabad district.The total active cases in the state were 110 while the overall recoveries was 7,61,022.Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-no-covid-death-15-new-cases-330473
27-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll will change fate of constituency: Khattar||Tribune News ServiceEllenabad, October 26The byelection is set to reshape the destiny of people of the Ellenabad Assembly constituency, stated the Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, saying the outcome of the bypoll would pave the way for the development of the region.Welfare policies priorityThe government has implemented policies to root out corruption and bring in welfare policies with an inclusive approach. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has been appreciative of the achievements of the Haryana Government. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMAddressing a public meeting in favour of BJP candidate Gobind Kanda in Randhawa village on Tuesday, Khattar said his government had worked to win the trust of the people by providing a transparent and honest governance.“The government has implemented policies to root out corruption and bring in welfare policies with an inclusive approach. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has been appreciative of the functioning and achievements of the Haryana government,” he stated.The CM said the bypoll was a golden opportunity for the people of Ellenabad to use their discretion and get a share in the government to pave the way for the development of the Ellenabad area.The CM said the election would end the “unfair” tradition of dominance of certain people in the politics. The myth is set to get busted in this bypoll. Politics should not be allowed to overrun and spoil brotherhood, he added.Khattar said there was no BJP MLA in Sirsa district. Despite this, his government had carried out development works worth Rs 700 crore in seven years and works of worth Rs 250 crore were still going on.The development projects were pending because the Ellenabad MLA never raised the issues in the Assembly, resulting in delay in the completion of works.State Cabinet Minister Ranjeet Singh said the wheels of development that had started in the Ellenabad region will never stop. The JJP supremo targeted his brother and INLD candidate Abhay Chautala, stating “his arrogant attitude was responsible for the decline of the INLD”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-will-change-fate-of-constituency-khattar-330188
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana slipping on all parameters: Bhupinder Hooda||Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has described the BJP-JJP government in the state as the “most corrupt, inefficient and worthless government in the history of Haryana”, which has pushed back the state on every developmental parameter.Demands probeWhy no action has been taken against the culprits by conducting a high-level probe into scams, including liquor, registry, paper leak, recruitment, paddy procurement and mining?Bhupinder Singh Hooda, LOPAddressing a press conference, here today, on the completion of seven years of the BJP and two years of the BJP-JJP alliance, Hooda said the alliance partners had not fulfilled even a single promise during their term.Announcing that the second ‘Vipaksh Aapkay Samaksh’ programme would be held in Jind on November 14, Hooda said the event was a success because the state had no time for people and their grievances. “It became clear from the programme that people are upset with inflation, unemployment, corruption, crime, water and power shortage, non-purchase of paddy as well as millets and breach of promises by the leaders of the ruling parties. Due to this sentiment in the constituency of the CM, the turnout was higher than expected,” he said.He said the BJP and the JJP had forgotten their election manifestos. “The coalition government did not provide pension of Rs 5,100 and did not implement the old pension scheme. The farmers were not given free tubewell connections and the promise of 24-hour electricity supply was not fulfilled,” he said.Hooda asked seven questions from the alliance for completing seven years. He sought to know why farmers were being disrespected, why the state was running away from investigation into scams. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-slipping-on-all-parameters-bhupinder-hooda-330189
27-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Top Haryana officials visit Tikri, say border shut by Delhi cops||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 26Top state officials, including Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora and DGP PK Agrawal, Bahadurgarh industrialists and protesting farmers together visited Tikri on Tuesday and found that the border had been sealed by the Delhi Police.The state authorities will now talk to the Delhi Police for opening one side of the Delhi-Rohtak highway that’s blocked for the past 11 months.“The visit happened after farmers and industrialists at a meeting held in Bahadurgarh town here blamed the Delhi Police for sealing the border and urged the officials to verify the fact by going to Tikri. Thereafter, the officials went there and found multi-layered barricading done by the Delhi Police. Later, they returned to the meeting venue and resumed the dialogue with the farmers,” said sources.After the meeting, Arora said: “We will have to talk to the Delhi Police to open one lane from both the sides. There is a possibility of opening one lane if the blockade from the Delhi side is removed. Before talking to the Delhi Police, we wanted to ensure that the road is open from our side hence today’s meeting was convened to discuss it with the farmers.”Sources said six delegates each of farmers and industrialists attended the meeting that lasted for around four hours. “The farmers also raised the issues of potable water, power supply and poor sanitary conditions.”“After the Tikri visit, the officials admitted that the Delhi Police have sealed of the border hence now it is the responsibility of the state to mount pressure on them to remove the barricades as industries are paying a hefty price,” said Narendra Chhikara, senior vice-president, Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/top-haryana-officials-visit-tikri-say-border-shut-by-delhi-cops-330190
27-10-2021||Karnal||11 months of agitation: Farmers’ leaders in no mood to relent||The movement against the Centre’s three farm laws at the Delhi borders completed eleven months on Tuesday.Protest over kheri incidentOn the SKM call, farmers under the BKU on Monday staged dharnas outside the mini-secretariats in Karnal and Kaithal, seeking action against MoS Ajay Mishra Teni in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. They handed over memorandums to the district officials for the President.During these months, farmers had been protesting across the country, demanding the repeal of the three laws along with a law that guarantees MSP, the SKM leaders said in a joint statement.They said the historic farmers’ movement running in India since November 26, 2020, at the Delhi borders had completed eleven months. “Farmers have been demanding that their livelihoods be protected from ‘corporate loot’ in unregulated markets,” they added.The farm leaders reiterated that they won’t go home until their demands were fulfilled.Meanwhile, the SKM leaders said the Monday protest call received a good response across the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-months-of-agitation-farmers-leaders-in-no-mood-to-relent-330191
27-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Opposition to namaz in open intensifies in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 26The ongoing row and tension over namaz being offered at public places is intesifying day after day here.In a fresh move, the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti has called on the administration and said henceforth, there would be no tolerance to namaz in the open in Gurugram.We cannot allow illegal use of public spacesWe kept quiet during the pandemic, but now they need to act. We cannot allow illegal use of public or community spaces every week causing trouble to residents. We will no longer take it and want an immediate ban on the same. — Mahaveer Bhardwaj, President, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh SamitiA man can offer namaz anywhere, in Vidhan Sabha or parksA man can offer namaz anywhere, in Vidhan Sabha or parks or malls. These are 10 or 12 persons working in an area or living in the same area. They get together for 15 minutes and what harm does it cause to anybody? The places where the namaz is being held are all legally allotted. Even the Chief Minister has clarified that. — Zakir Hussain, Former MLA and Haryana WAQF Board Chairman“They asked us for three-week time to resolve the issue and we gave them the time and maintained our cool but our patience cannot be considered to be our weakness. In 2018, we were asked to adjust and allow namaz in some open grounds as it was Ramzan and the administration needed time to allot new sites. We agreed for just that month and now, it is over three years. We kept quiet during the pandemic, but now, they need to act. We cannot allow illegal use of public or community spaces every week causing trouble to residents. We will no longer take it and want an immediate ban on the same,” said the president of the samiti, Mahaveer BhardwajFor the past few weeks, residents and Hindu outfits have been up against what is being termed as ‘land jihad’ and protests are being witnessed across the city almost every Friday at different namaz sites. two days ago, a local maulana even went to the police claiming he was stopped and heckled on his way back home after namaz and made to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. This has led to fear among muslims and clerics who are now demanding clarity and permanent allocation of land to them.“I was conducting namaz when these people barged in shouting slogans. The police were there but we were scared to leave for home. I kept looking over my shoulder to ensure nobody was following me back home. We want a list of places where we can offer namaz so that we don’t feel threatened,” said Maulvi Razak Khan,a Rajiv Nagar resident.Some root the key issue to increasing muslim population in the city which stood at 5 per cent in 2011 but has increased to around 10 per cent due to heavy influx from Bengal. Of Gurugram’s 10 official mosques, eight lie in the older areas and remain largely inaccessible to the Muslim migrants settled on the other end of the district. Some travel the long distance nevertheless. Many of them head to their nearest empty ground —park, pavement, parking lot— during lunch time on Fridays. In 2018, such namaz was being held in 73 spots till following a row in Kanhai village, the district authorities in consultation with both communities, reduced the number of approved public sites for namaz from 73 to 37.Taking a strong stance against the ongoing chaos, former MLA and Haryana Waqf Board Chairman Zakir Hussain said this communal tension was politically motivated.“A man can offer namaz anywhere, in Vidhan Sabha or parks or malls. These are 10 or 12 persons working in an area or living in the same area. They get together for 15 minutes and what harm does it cause to anybody? The places where the namaz is being held are all legally allotted. Even the CM has clarified that. Till date, we have not received even a single evidence to support the claim of any public inconvenience by people offering prayers. If anything of this sort happens, the law will take its course but this needs to be stopped,” said Hussain.“The CM has allotted them land, now, the same should be used for namaz rather than encroaching public places every week,” responded Bhardwaj.Meanwhile, the administration on each Friday seeks the help of the police and finds a temporary solution to the problem, as it is waiting for the state’s intervention to find a permanent solution to the ongoing problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/opposition-to-namaz-in-open-intensifies-in-gurugram-330192
27-10-2021||---||CM Khattar reviews work progress of Hisar airport||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 26Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held an impromptu meeting of officials to review the work of second phase of Maharaja Agrasen Airport in Hisar today.The CM landed at the airport and was scheduled to go to Sirsa for campaigning in Ellenabad byelection. He visited the extension of runway and directed officers of the departments concerned to ensure that all work related to the airport was completed within the stipulated time frame.The officials of the Civil Aviation Department and district administrative officials attended the meeting. Divisional Commissioner, Chander Shekhar, Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni and officials of the Civil Aviation Department apprised the Chief Minister about the progress of the work done so far.Captain Rajesh Pratap Singh, senior member, Joint Working Group of the Integrated Aviation Hub project, apprised the Chief Minister of further action being taken after completing all formalities required for the expansion of the runway and other construction works.The Chief Minister was apprised of various other works going on, including shifting of Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam high tension power line, setting up of 33 KW sub-station on two acres of airport land, construction of alternative route from Barwala road, observation home shifting, cat lighting works, shifting of the water supply channel and terminal. Work is being done at an accelerated pace to complete other projects, including building of boundary wall on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-reviews-work-progress-of-hisar-airport-330193
27-10-2021||---||Health Dept under-reporting dengue cases in Rohtak, say pvt doctors||Sunit DhawanTribune News ServiceRohtak, October 26A huge discrepancy seems to be there in the actual and official number of dengue cases in Rohtak.Hundreds of dengue patients are undergoing treatment at different private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes across the district. Meanwhile, the latest official figures furnished by the Health Department put the total number of dengue cases in the district at 122. “The number of dengue cases is being grossly under-reported. The figure given by the Health Department is not even 10 per cent of the actual number of dengue cases. As per the official data, 122 dengue cases have been reported in the district till date, whereas nearly 50 patients have tested positive for dengue so far at my hospital alone,” says Dr Ravi Mohan, a leading doctor of Rohtak. Contacted for comments, Dr Anupama Mittal, the Deputy Civil Surgeon (Malaria) in Rohtak, who looks after the dengue wing also, maintains that the Health Department considers only those cases which have been confirmed by ELISA test, while the private practitioners consider the cases reported positive in the card-test as well.However, the private practitioners point out that the number of dengue cases confirmed in ELISA tests is also much higher than that being cited by the Health Department. “We recommend only ELISA test for the confirmation of dengue. The data of the patients found positive for the disease is duly sent to the Health Department. Still, the number of cases being reported by the Health Department is much lower than the actual number,” stated Dr Joginder Arora, president of the Rohtak unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).Doctors also assert that the reports of the card-test are also accurate and if the number of cases found positive in card-tests is also included, the number of dengue cases would be much more higher than the official figures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-dept-under-reporting-dengue-cases-in-rohtak-say-pvt-doctors-330194
27-10-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypol: It’s me versus others, says Dushyant Chautala||Tribune News ServiceEllenabad, October 26Giving a new twist to the ongoing poll fight in the Ellenabad Assembly, which is seeing a byelection, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala took the field in favour of the BJP-JJP candidate, who sought to project the poll as him (Dushaynt) versus others.Works will be doneDon’t think that Gobind Kanda is contesting, it’s me, who is in a political fight. I make a commitment to get the works of the people of this segment done. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMAfter carrying out a bike rally in various villages, Dushyant addressed a rally in Tarkanwali village of the Assembly constituency today. Without naming INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, Dushyant urged people to get rid of fear.Dushyant virtually pitted himself against his uncle Abhay Singh Chautala in the bypoll, while asking the voters to vote for him (Dushyant) via BJP candidate Gobind Kanda. He claimed Ajay Singh Chautala used to be the chief campaigner in the previous elections when the INLD won the Ellenabad seat. Taking an indirect dig at Abhay Singh Chautala, he said, “Delusion about his own strength led to the decline of the INLD from 32 seats in 2009 to 20 seats in 2014, and just one in 2019.”Without naming him, the Deputy Chief Minister said it was easy to resign from the Assembly and take an escape route. “However, the real challenge lies in striving for the welfare of people. Previously, you elected a person, who never bothered to raise the issue of the constituency and was swayed by his own whims and fancies,” said Dushyant, adding that it was time to get rid of the politics of fear, and enjoy a share in power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypol-its-me-versus-others-says-dushyant-chautala-330195
27-10-2021||---||Nalhar hospital gets 100-bed Covid care unit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 26The Haryana Government has set up a 100-bed Covid ICU at the Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar, Nuh. The hospital will cater to the patients from the adjoining NCR, reducing the burden on health institutes in the area.An official spokesperson said as per the instructions of Government of India, triple layer oxygen planning had been done in medical colleges and the constituent hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nalhar-hospital-gets-100-bed-covid-care-unit-330196
27-10-2021||Ambala||Those celebrating nation’s defeat can’t be Indian: Anil Vij||Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said the DNA of those who celebrate India’s defeat in a game and burst crackers can’t be Indian.Speaking to mediapersons, the minister said, “Win and loss are part of a game, but the DNA of those who celebrate India’s defeat and burst crackers can’t be Indian. Be careful of traitors hiding in our own house.”He also targeted J&K former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti and said, “Her own DNA is defective, and she has to prove how much of an Indian she is.”Notably, Mufti in a tweet had stated: “Why anger against Kashmiris for celebrating Pak’s win?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/those-celebrating-nations-defeat-cant-be-indian-anil-vij-330197
27-10-2021||---||Main accused in Karnal mowing incident held||Tribune News serviceKarnal, October 26The police arrested the main accused of mowing down a family in Hafed Colony in Butana village on October 10.In the incident, two members of the family were killed, while several others were injured, following which residents blocked a road in Karnal on October 11.The accused has been identified as Aman of Butana Dera in the Nilokheri block. The police have already arrested three persons, including Ajay of Bhenikhurd, Tushar of Nilokheri and Rajesh of Anjanthali, for giving him shelter last week.“We arrested Aman from Kurukshetra today. Aman will be produced in a court, from where we will try to take him on police remand, as we have to determine the involvement of others in the case. We are yet to arrest his father, who is also an accused in the case,” said Himandri Kaushik, ASP, Indri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/main-accused-in-karnal-mowing-incident-held-330198
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij hits out at Opposition||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today hit out at the Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, saying his vision was “myopic” because of his precarious position in the Congress today.Vij said the Health Department’s budget, which used to be Rs 1,600 crore under Hooda’s regime, had now increased to Rs 5,500 crore. He said the doctors and paramedical staff of the Health Department had worked during the Covid period, putting their lives at risk. He said we have administered the Covid vaccine to 2.54 crore beneficiaries and Hooda seemed to be unaware of this and appeared to be living in a strange world.Vij said Hooda had the old habit of presenting incorrect data. In fact, the law and order situation had improved to a great extent since the state government had started Dial 112. About 600 vehicles had been deployed in the field for the safety of the people, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-hits-out-at-opposition-330200
27-10-2021||Karnal||3 get notices for poor supply of wheat||The District Food and Supplies Controller, Kaithal, has served notices on three workers of the Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department over supply of poor quality wheat to depots of Pundri in Kaithal under PDS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-get-notices-for-poor-supply-of-wheat-330201
27-10-2021||---||Ex-director of PGIMS-Rohtak Dr Rohtas Yadav to be put on notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 26The Haryana Right to Service Commission has sought a response from Dr Rohtas Yadav, former director of the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, for misrepresentation in a case related to the non-issuance of death certificates within the stipulated time. Along with this, it has also been decided to issue suo motu notices against five doctors of the institute in this case.Secretary of the Commission Meenaxee Raj said all officials and employees, who were found to be negligent in this case, would be given notice by the commission. She said the doctors against whom the commission had issued suo motu notices, mainly responsible for keeping these files pending, included doctors Ajay, Anjali, Pema, Sakshi and Amarnath.The commission has also sought the mail ID and mobile numbers of these doctors so that notices could be issued to them personally as to why they should not be fined up to Rs 20,000 each for not providing timely service as per the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-director-of-pgims-rohtak-dr-rohtas-yadav-to-be-put-on-notice-330202
27-10-2021||Karnal||106-ft tall national flag inaugurated at DPS Karnal||Start-up contest organisedFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has launched a state-level 'start-up contest 2021'. According to officials, the main aim of the programme is to encourage and motivate young minds to innovate and excel in various fields to realise the dream of attaining self-reliance. It is claimed that a supportive platform will be provided to the participants. The contest will have four themes, including digital technology, health and wellness, smart cities and sustainability. The themes are further divided into sub-themes based on technological innovation. The participants will have to register themselves with a brief synopsis of their proposed start-up idea by November 15. The final round of the contest will be held on November 26, wherein all finalist teams and participants will present their business proposals before the jury panel. The results will be declared on November 27. The winner of the contest will be rewarded on November 30, with the prizes of Rs 10 lakh for the first position, Rs five lakh for the second and Rs three lakh for the third spot.Cadet wins gold medalKarnal: Dyal Singh College, Karnal, has added another feather in its cap through its NCC (Army wing) cadet Santosh Kumar securing first position (gold medal) in shooting (3P) at the directorate level held at Mhow, Indore, Madhya Pradesh. He also succeeded in clinching a place among top five shooters at the national level. Before that, Kumar secured the top position among 200 cadets at the battalion level in Sainik School, Kunjpura, Karnal, and at the group level in Ropar (Punjab). After obtaining training at Ropar, Kumar participated in the competition, in which170 cadets from 17 directorates of India were in the field. Santosh Kumar, putting in his hard work made it possible to grab the top position.scientific & social researchSirsa:Professor Ajmer Singh Malik, Vice- Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa while interacting with the university research scholars at the seminar hall of the university, said that higher education institutes should focus more on scientific and social research. A good researcher is a good learner and always tries to develop new theories and models. Research problems should be contemporary and society oriented so that outcomes and findings of the research should make a qualitative change and ensure the development of the nation.Cleanliness drive at NDRIKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), organised a special swachhta campaign at Karan Lake, in which around 200 faculty and students participated by dividing themselves into three groups and covered the premises of Karan Lake. The staff of the lake also participated. The face masks printed with NDRI logo were also distributed to all visitors and participants. The faculty educated the tourists and visitors about cleanliness, non-use of single use plastics, non-spitting on the road and public places, putting the water bottles and other wastes in dust bins, wearing face masks while going out and in public places and adhering to all Covid-19 guidelines.Joint meeting of IQAC, NAAC cellKaithal: A joint meeting of internal quality cell (IQAC) and NAAC cell of the college was organised at RKSD College, Kaithal, in view of the proposed visit of the NAAC team for 2022. Principal Sanjay Goyal chaired the meeting and changed the format of the annual report and self- study report and new possibilities arising out of it were discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/106-ft-tall-national-flag-inaugurated-at-dps-karnal-330203
27-10-2021||These days||Overflowing sewers in Faridabad a cause of worry for residents||Kartik Sharma, FaridabadStray dogs' menace continues in ShahabadIn Shahabad Markanda, stray dogs' menace continues. Dogs are seen roaming in streets, posing a threat to commuters, especially children. Stray dogs have become a problem for all in the city. The administration should think how to get rid of the stray animals and provide a safe and hygienic atmosphere for all residents in the town.Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overflowing-sewers-in-faridabad-a-cause-of-worry-for-residents-330206
27-10-2021||Sumedha Sharma||In Mewat village, two schools, 30 houses sans electricity for 30 years||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 26In yet another tale of neglect from Mewat, around 30-odd houses and two schools at Bhurwas village of Nagina block have been awaiting electricity for 30 years.Ray of hopeHaving learnt to live with darkness, the villagers now see a ray of hope as the department recently installed a transformer in the area. Sayed Quam, a local farmer, said, “The village started as cluster of homes in fields and has grown after that, but basic infrastructure still evades us. I am 80 and have waited my entire life for electricity.”The villagers, many of whom had made peace with the situation, recently started making efforts to get power infrastructure, mainly for the primary and middle schools, which too are without electricity even 30 years after their establishment.Sabila Begum, a villager, said, “One transformer was installed recently, but only about 20 of 50 houses were benefitted. Our girls can’t leave home after evening. Many homes don’t even have a toilet.” Isa, former sarpanch, said, “Our village could never benefit from Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon scheme. The department has now promised to light up the village by the year-end.”The XEN office in Nuh said while one transformer was installed, another along with poles would be installed soon to light up the entire village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-mewat-village-two-schools-30-houses-sans-electricity-for-30-years-330127
