28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Sacha Sauda head not to be taken to Faridkot: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday ordered that Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh will not be taken to Faridkot in pursuance of a production warrant.The single Bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj also asked the Punjab Police that it can question the dera head in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail over the 2015 desecration case.Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is lodged in the Rohtak jail since his conviction in a rape case. A court in Punjab’s Faridkot on Monday had issued a production warrant against him in the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. He was to be produced before the court on October 29. “The court today ordered that the petitioner will not be taken to the Faridkot court,” said Ram Rahim’s counsel Kanika Ahuja. The court also said if the Punjab Police wanted to investigate the case, it can go to the Sunaria jail to question the petitioner.The court’s directions came after the Dera Sacha Sauda chief through his counsel had moved the high court against the production warrant. Ahuja said a petition was filed in the court seeking quashing of the production warrant. A second plea was also submitted to seek anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest in the FIR No. 63, pertaining to the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in 2015. The counsel of the petitioner argued that the production warrant could not be issued for arresting him while contending that the application filed by the Punjab Police special investigation team for the production warrant was “not only illegal, but politically motivated” keeping in view of the Assembly elections in Punjab.Three more dera committee members Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler had also been booked in this case but they are absconding.In February this year, the CBI on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had handed over the documents and files related to the 2015 incidents to the Punjab Police SIT.The previous SAD-BJP government had handed over the three cases—theft of a “bir” (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from a Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara; putting up of handwritten sacrilegious posters in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala; and torn pages of the holy book found at Bargari—to the CBI for probe.The Punjab government had handed over the probe to an SIT of the state police in September 2018 after the state Assembly passed a resolution withdrawing consent to the CBI to investigate these cases, noting lack of progress in the investigation. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-sacha-sauda-head-not-to-be-taken-to-faridkot-hc-331005
28-10-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman burns live-in partner for lusting after her teen daughter in Faridabad||Unable to take her live-in partner’s objectionable behaviour towards her 13-year-old daughter, a Faridabad woman burnt him alive.The accused, identified as Kiran, is a native of Punjab and worked in a private company. She first sedated the deceased and then took him to a deserted place in an auto before setting him on fire.The police are currently questioning the woman and will take her on remand after producing her in a city court tomorrow.According to the police, the deceased is identified as Pawan Kataria (38), resident of Bhatia Colony, Ballabhgarh. He was a software engineer and father of two daughters.It was on October 16 when he went missing in suspicious circumstances and his brother lodged a missing report at City police station, Ballabhgarh.Next day, a half-burnt body was found abandoned in Sector 75 but police mistook it to be a Nigerian’s body and kept it in mortuary. The brother of the deceased told police about the live-in relationship of Pawan.When contacted, his live-in partner Kiran said Pawan came to the house in the morning but left after dropping his car and laptop.The crime branch Sector 65 and police station team started joint investigation and finally nabbed Kiran who confessed that she had killed Pawan as he had bad intentions towards her daughter.“I had hatched a plan some days ago and arranged petrol in a bottle when I discovered his lust for my teen daughter. On October 16 night, I gave him sleeping pills in dinner and soon he fainted. I called an auto and told the driver that he is my husband and rushed him to a hospital in Delhi. After two hours, I returned to Sector 75 and when auto driver went away, I poured petrol on him and set him ablaze and came home,” the woman told police in her confession.The police said that the accused woman, mother of two daughters, was working with a private company in IMT, Faridabad. She had got this job after her husband died due to blood cancer in 2018. In 2019 she met Pawan and they fell for each other.“We have nabbed the woman who confessed the same. She claims that the deceased had bad intentions towards her daughter so she took this step. We will take her on remand for questioning after being produced in court tomorrow,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson of Faridabad police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-burns-live-in-partner-for-lusting-after-her-teen-daughter-in-faridabad-330988
28-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No efforts by administration to save paddy drenched in rain at Narwana||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com No efforts by admn to save paddy drenched in rain at NarwanaThousands of quintals of paddy lying in heaps got drenched in recent rains at the main grain market in Narwana. Since, bardana wasn't supplied in time, it couldn't be filled in bags and the arhtiyas didn't have sufficient number of tarpaulins to cover the entire stocks, it aggravated the scenario manifolds. The arhtiyas and farmers, both are a worried lot, as they will get the payments, only when the entire stocks are shifted to the godowns which may take a lot of time. The entire procurement system seems to have collapsed. The government should control the damage done. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaImprovecondition of roads in AmbalaThe condition of Tundla-Kallarheri road is back breaking. The repair of roads, after digging for laying the sewerage pipelines, has been tardy and very poor. Most of the lane roads of the Defence Colony are undulating and caving in with inspection chambers jutting out. People are suffering silently, experiencing jumps, jerks, and falls. As veterans, we at least deserve a smooth ride on the roads. The authorities should please come on ground and improve the quality of work being done by contractors. Col RD Singh (retd ), Ambala CanttMindless dumping of household wasteSome residents, living near the Civil Dispensary in Sector 8, Panchkula, refuse to behave in a civilised manner. They continue to use its outside wall as some convenient dumping ground of their household garbage and waste building materials. Since the old habits die very hard, the sanitation wing of the MC should urgently identify and take appropriate action against all such chronic defaulters. Vinayak G, PanchkulaShopkeepers collect funds, get stinking place cleanedA spot was stinking with accumulated garbage thrown by residents and some irresponsible safai karamcharis till a few days ago in Kaithal town. However, failing to persuade the council administration to keep it clean, the shopkeepers in Patel Bazar took the initiative, collected funds, removed accumulated garbage, washed the stinking space and put up a few benches and also constructed a toilet. However, now the place is neat and clean and the market association has put a notice board, warning action against those who throw garbage on the spot. Satish Seth, Kaithal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-efforts-by-administration-to-save-paddy-drenched-in-rain-at-narwana-330758
28-10-2021||Ambala||Students take part in NSS camp||National training programmeKarnal: A 21-day national training programme on chemical and microbiological quality assessment of milk products was concluded at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI). Dr Sudhir Gupta, senior vice-president, Cotecna Inspection, Mumbai, and an NDRI alumunus emphasised on the importance of the quality and safety of milk and milk products and shared his views on how to continuously strive for them. Dr MS Chauhan, Director and Vice Chancellor, NDRI also addressed the participants and indicated that such training programmes also provided opportunity to NDRI scientist to display their technologies and also to learn the emerging problems of Dairy Industry. In this training programme, there were 25 participants and they were from Dairy Industry, allied Industries, ICAR institutes and students.Tributes paid to Dr Mangal SenRohtak: Tributes were paid to Dr Mangal Sen, the former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana, by speakers in a programme organised on Wednesday at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) under the aegis of Dr Mangal Sen Chair. The speakers highlighted the contribution of Dr Mangal Sen to the society and Haryana. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh read out the message of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on the occasion, in which he stated that Dr Mangal Sen was a real karmyogi, a social reformer, and a true patriot. During his entire life worked for the welfare and interest of Haryana, said the CM in his message.Training for farmersKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), organised a kisan sangoshthi-cum-training programme and exhibition for rabi season in Chandsamand village under the Farmer First Programme to double the income of the farming community by implementing the scientific interventions. There were total 350 participating farmers in the various activities of this programme. An exhibition depicting various activities and achievements of the project were also displayed on this occasion to motivate and inspire the other farmers for diffusion of successful technologies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-take-part-in-nss-camp-330755
28-10-2021||Chandigarh October 27||Waste management scheme notified||The government has notified the ‘Assistance for waste management scheme’ for the industrial sector under which incentives will be provided to industries for carrying out waste management activities, which is is economically viable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waste-management-scheme-notified-330754
28-10-2021||---||International Saraswati festival from February 3||Chandigarh, October 27The International Saraswati Mahotsav-2022 will be organised at the Pehowa Sarasvati Teerth from February 3 to 5, 2022 in Kurukshetra.An official spokesperson said a committee had been constituted for the preparations for the said festival, in which the Subdivisional Officer of Pehowa had been appointed as the nodal officer.He said the committee would ensure timely completion of preparations for cultural programmes, publicity and all other works to be done regarding the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-saraswati-festival-from-february-3-330753
28-10-2021||Karnal||Eve teasing: Victim’s kin protest at Karnal mini secretariat||Demanding the arrest of the remaining accused in the alleged thrashing and eve-teasing case in Bir Badalwa village, the kin of the victim staged a dharna outside the mini secretariat gate on Wednesday evening.As per the police, three accused have already been arrested, while, as per the family, five others are still absconding.“My family members were attacked a few days ago and I faced eve-teasing, but the accused are still roaming free,” said the victim, adding that they had filed a police complaint. “It is a case of brawl among two shopkeepers. We have registered an FIR and three accused have been arrested. I have assured them to arrest the remaining accused in a couple of days,” said DSP Jagdeep Singh.The DSP, tried to pacify the protesters, but they stayed put till the filing of the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eve-teasing-victims-kin-protest-at-karnal-mini-secretariat-330751
28-10-2021||Gurugram||Cricket scam: Nine more suspects told to join probe||In the ongoing probe into the ‘cricket scam’, the names of nine more possible suspects have come to the fore and they have been asked to join the investigation.The new list includes BCCI ex-officials, IPL organising members and officials of the Bihar Cricket Association (BCA). The suspects have been identified as Sarvpreet Singh (operation cricket Delhi & District Cricket Association), Baljeet Joban (cricket coach), Omprakash Tiwari (conveyor of BCA), Sanjay Kumar Singh (working committee of BCA), Sanjeev Ratan Singh (BCA ex-treasurer and Bihar Cricket League chairperson), Mahim Verma (Secretary of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) and former vice-president of BCCI), Aman Singh (CEO of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand and assistant venue operations manager of IPL 2021), Praveen Sinha (coach from Bihar) and Sonu Kumar. “We served notices on many persons, including the nine suspects, and some have even sent their replies to us. Further probe is on and we are now preparing the chargesheet first,” said IO Sub-Inspector Umesh Kumar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cricket-scam-nine-more-suspects-told-to-join-probe-330750
28-10-2021||---||20 units sealed for evading Rs 28L property tax||Faridabad, October 27The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has sealed another 20 commercial units on Wednesday for not paying property tax to the tune of Rs 28 lakh. The number of units sealed in the city has gone up to 266 so far.An official of the civic body said as many as 15 units in Old Faridabad zone and five in NIT zone, here, were sealed. The officials spared two units, which deposited the pending amount of Rs 4.44 lakh on the spot.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said out of 266 units sealed so far in the ongoing drive started last month, as many as 72 units had cleared their pending dues to the tune of Rs 64.45 lakh till Wednesday. He said the remaining 194 defaulters, whose units had been sealed, would be issued a notice for auctioning the properties, if they failed to clear the dues within the given time frame. He said the target of the drive was to recover around Rs 125 crore lying pending for the past several years.The officials have been instructed to execute the proceedings against the defaulters, who fail to pay the amount for the current financial year and the pending dues by March 31, 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-units-sealed-for-evading-rs-28l-property-tax-330749
28-10-2021||---||Haryana Govt tells farmers to use organic fertilisers||Chandigarh, October 27Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said there would be no shortage of fertilisers in the state. The state will soon get six more rakes of DAP fertiliser from the Union government.While interacting with mediapersons in Chandigarh, Dalal said the farmers should be prepared for sowing the next crop. He urged the farmers to use organic DAP fertiliser and said they would get fair price for crops and vegetables sown using it.The Agriculture Minister said during for the next Rabi crop (2021-22), about 11 lakh MT of urea was required in the state. He said about 2.60 lakh MT of urea was already available with the state, out of which, more than 90,000 MT had been made available to the farmers.The Agriculture Minister said about 3 lakh MT of DAP fertiliser was required for the next Rabi crop. Till date, about 1.38 lakh MT of DAP manure was available, of which 1.10 lakh MT had been provided to farmers.3 lakh MT of DAP fertiliser neededAgriculture Minister JP Dalal said about 3 lakh MT of DAP fertiliser was required for the next rabi crop. Till date, about 1.38 lakh MT of DAP manure was available, of which 1.10 lakh MT had been provided to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-tells-farmers-to-use-organic-fertilisers-330748
28-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||Tenders invited to run tourist facilitation centres in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 27Facing a shortage of manpower, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has invited bids from private agencies to run the Tourist Information and Facilitation Centres in Kurukshetra.To be opened on November 12After getting approval from the higher authorities, tenders have been floated to hire agencies. The tenders will be opened on November 12. Anubhav Mehta, Chief Executive Officer, KDBCentres to provide good servicesLakhs of tourists reach Kurukshetra to visit religious destinations every year from distant locations. The centres will help the board in providing good services and facilities to the tourists. They will also get the guide facility Mohan Chhabra, Honorary Secretary, KDBThe tourist information and facilitation centres were opened at three strategic locations at Pipli, near Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi and Brahma Sarovar at a cost of Rs 2 crore to facilitate tourists who reach Kurukshetra from across the country, but in the absence of manpower, the centres have been lying closed for nearly 19 months. A budget provided under the Krishna circuit was utilised in this project.Since the International Gita Mahotsav is approaching, the board now wants to reopen all three centres at the earliest.The centres were started a couple of years ago to give tourists information about the ‘tirthas’ situated in Kurukshetra. Initially, the KDB had agreed to run the centres but later, due to the lack of manpower, the board wanted the Tourism Department to run the centres. After discussing the issue with the Tourism Department, the board later moved a proposal to hire a private agency to run the centres, and after getting the nod from higher authorities the board has floated tenders, said an official.Honorary secretary KDB Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “Lakhs of tourists reach Kurukshetra to visit religious destinations every year from distant locations. The centres will help the board in providing good services and facilities to the tourists. They will also get the guide facility.”Chief Executive Officer KDB Anubhav Mehta told The Tribune, “After getting approval from the higher authorities, tenders have been floated to hire agencies. The tenders will be opened on November 12. The tourists will get facilities, including cloakroom, restroom, audio-video visual room where the tourists will be able to see informative videos about Kurukshetra, and canteen. All required infrastructure and furniture is already there and the agencies will maintain the centre besides providing all these facilities. It will also help in generating revenue for the board. All efforts are being made to resume the centres at the earliest as the International Gita Mahotsav is also approaching.” Were to give info on ‘tirthas’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tenders-invited-to-run-tourist-facilitation-centres-in-kurukshetra-330747
28-10-2021||Panipat||Two get life term in honour killing case||A court of the District Sessions Judge Manisha Batra on Wednesday awarded rigorous imprisonment (RI) for life to two persons in an honour killing case in Panipat. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the two convicts.The incident took place on the night of January 1 this year. Neeraj (25) of New Ramesh Nagar in Tehsil Camp was brutally stabbed to death at Bhawna Chowk.Gulshan, father of the deceased, in his police statement, said Neeraj had married Komal (belonging to another caste) of Vijay Nagar around 45 days ago against the wishes of Komal’s family members.He alleged that Vijay, alias Chhota, of Vijay Nagar, along with his cousin Pawan, of Jawa Colony had murdered his son. The Quilla police registered a case against the accused and arrested them after two days of the incident and also recovered the weapons they had used in the crime. Komal, victim’s wife, deposed that her brother Vijay and cousin Pawan had murdered her husband as she married him against their wishes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-get-life-term-in-honour-killing-case-330716
28-10-2021||Ellenabad||Vote against BJP in Ellenabad bypoll, says Rakesh Tikait||SKM leader Rakesh Tikait urged the voters to ensure the defeat of the BJP candidate in the Ellenabad bypoll by voting against him.He was addressing a public meeting held by the SKM in Nathusari Chopta in the segment. Tikait, who had recently met INLD supremo OP Chautala, however, claimed that he had not made any appeal in support of any particular candidate. Tikait said: “I am not asking you to vote for any particular candidate, but you must have understood my reference point.”Similar bitter treatment would be meted out to the BJP in UP in the next Assembly election, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vote-against-bjp-in-ellenabad-bypoll-says-rakesh-tikait-330715
28-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Women panel for SIT probe in ‘fake’ rape cases||Gurugram, October 27The Haryana State Commission for Women has taken cognisance of the complaint by social activist Deepika Narayan Bhardwaj and written to the DGP and the CM for the formation of a SIT to look into multiple rape cases filed by a woman at different police stations in Gurugram in the past one year.A thorough probe in the matter should be conducted to see that the provision of laws made for women aren’t misused. Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, Women panel chairpersonThe Tribune had through these columns highlighted the complaint. Interestingly, the same girl had recently filed another rape case at the DLF phase 3 police station.The social activist and documentary maker Narayan Bhardwaj moved the police against the woman for allegedly honey trapping and looting men by registering fake rape cases.The accused, as per the complaint, has filed rape cases against seven men, accusing them all of raping her by promising marriage. Out of the seven cases, two have been proved false by police.In this case, Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, chairperson, State Commission for Women Haryana, has expressed her concern over this case and requested a thorough investigation in the matter to see that the provision of laws made for women were not misused.The complainant said the girl had filed seven rape cases against seven different men within one year at different police stations in Gurugram. She has accused a man of rape on promise of marriage despite marrying a man through similar threats in August 2021. Two of her rape cases have been proven false, but she continues to file more rape complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-panel-for-sit-probe-in-fake-rape-cases-330714
28-10-2021||New Delhi||Crackdown on farmers backing Lakhbir Singh’s family||The Delhi Police launched a late-evening crackdown on hundreds of farmers gathered at Narela near the Singhu border here to support the family of Lakhbir Singh, recently killed by a Nihang.Several protesters, belonging to Muzaffarnagar-based Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti, were reportedly injured and several taken into preventive detention by cops, who lathicharged the farmers after they insisted on performing a ritual at the site where Lakhbir was killed recently.The farmers had gathered in solidarity with Lakhbir’s family, which was also present at Singhu today to perform havan. On the behalf of the family, which belongs to Punjab, samiti members, demanded Rs 50 lakh compensation and a government job for the deceased’s kin.The agitating group, which clashed with the cops, said if the Punjab Government could give relief to the deceased farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri, why not to the farmer who belonged to Punjab and was “subjected to untold torture before being killed”?Lakhbir’s family also sought justice and support from the Punjab Government. — TNSCo-accused in Tikri rape surrendersJhajjar: Ankur Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri village, a co-accused in the Bengali woman’s rape case at Tikri surrendered before a court in Bahadurgarh here on Wednesday. “Ankur has been taken on one-day remand,” said a police spokesman. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crackdown-on-farmers-backing-lakhbir-singhs-family-330713
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda poses 7 questions on seven years of BJP govt||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda has asked seven more questions to the government on the completion of seven years of the BJP and it’s coalition with the JJP in Haryana.In a press statement, he sought to know how many posts were lying vacant in different government departments and why these aren’t being filled. He said the government should tell how many people lost their lives during the Covid period due to the shortage of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds and why it had not taken any steps to identify such victims. He questioned the difference between the official Covid toll and the actual number of deaths during this period.At a press meet on Tuesday, Hooda had announced that he will ask seven questions from the government. In keeping with that announcement, he issued the list of questions in which he also asked why big projects like Rail Coach Factory and Meham Airport, approved during the Congress regime, moved to other states and why the state government didn’t oppose their shift.He sought information on the steps taken by the state government to give relief to the public from the rising prices of diesel and petrol. Hooda said though no major project, industry, institute, new Metro or railway line came up in Haryana in the seven years of this government, the debt burden on the state increased from about Rs 60,000 crore to about Rs 2.5 lakh crore.The former CM also asked the government to explain how a power-surplus state saw a decline in its generation and what steps did it take to find a positive solution to protest by farmers against the three laws. — TNSCONG WORKERS PROTEST IN KARNALKarnal: On the completion of seven years of the BJP government, the Congress district unit on Tuesday protested and burnt the PM’s effigy here. Trilochan Singh, State Minority Commission ex-chairman, said: “The BJP has started the ‘Saat Saal, Saat Kamal’ drive to highlight its achievements, but we have asked the CM seven questions about his govt’s failures.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-poses-7-questions-on-seven-years-of-bjp-govt-330712
28-10-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Ellenabad bypoll: 6 candidates with criminal cases in fray||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 27The Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Sirsa district has the maximum number of candidates in fray with criminal cases against them from among 30 constituencies across 14 states, where bypoll is slated to take place on October 30.Ellenabad, from where Abhay Singh Chautala, scion of the Devi Lal clan, is seeking re-election, also flaunts the presence of maximum number of “crorepatis”, with Abhay Singh Chautala himself declaring a fortune of Rs 65 crore in his assets affidavit.According to the data compiled by election watchdog body Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR), out of 19 candidates from the constituency, six have criminal cases against them. Topping the list is Independent candidate Savita Kajal, who has four cases pending against her, including one charge related to obscene acts and songs (Section 294 of the IPC) and multiple charges related to extortion and criminal intimidation.Independent candidate Prithvi Singh has four cases pending against him, including causing hurt by dangerous weapons and means (Section 324 of the IPC).Independent candidates Bharat Singh and Vikal Pachar, INLD candidate Abhay Singh Chautala and BJP nominee Gobind Kanda are other candidates with charges against them.According to the ADR, charges against Vikal Pachar include assault or use of criminal force on woman with intent to disrobe (Section 354B of the IPC).Abhay Singh has two old CBI cases pending against him. BJP’s Gobind Kanda has been booked under the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963.The case is under investigation.Besides throwing a strong electoral challenge to three-time Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh, Kanda has also matched the INLD nominee in terms of wealth, as he has declared total assets worth Rs 65 crore.While Abhay Singh, who has listed his profession as “businessman and agriculturist,” declared an income of over Rs 1.19 crore in the last financial year, Kanda declared making Rs 11.99 lakhs in 2020-21.Kanda’s liability has been given as over Rs 24 crore against Rs 1.56 crore declared by Abhay.Pawan Beniwal of Congress, Sant Dharamveer Chotivala (Independent), Captain Mahavir Prashad of BJP and Dalbir (People’s Party of India-Democratic) are the other “crorepatis” contesting from Ellenabad.‘Crorepatis’ to battle it out too||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-6-candidates-with-criminal-cases-in-fray-330711
28-10-2021||---||Ellenabad bypoll: Election campaign comes to an end||Ellenabad, October 27The heat and dust of campaigning settled in the Ellenabad Assembly constituency, with the canvassing coming to an end at 6 pm today.The electorate is set to cast vote on October 30 to elect their representative in the byelection necessitated due to the resignation of the INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala.While Chautala re-entered the fray, the BJP’s Gobind Kanda and the Congress’s Pawan Beniwal are among 19 candidates in the poll battle. Abhay Chautala, who was the lone MLA of the INLD in the Assembly, had tendered his resignation on January 27 in support of the farmers’ demand for the withdrawal of the three farm laws.The farmers’ agitation is stated to be the biggest factor in this bypoll. Caste equations and factors like the shortage of irrigation facilities in about 20 villages in the Nathusari Chopta region, besides the issue of waterlogging in certain segments are also at play in the bypoll.Interestingly, the BJP’s ally in the government, the Jannayak Janata Party, led by Ajay Singh Chautala and his son Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, have taken potshots at the INLD candidate Abhay Singh Chautala during the campaigning while holding him responsible for the decline of the INLD.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Anish Yadav said today asked all political parties and candidates to follow the election model code of conduct and not to hold any procession, rally, roadshow after 6 pm on Wednesday.He said the political leaders and workers who had come to Ellenabad from outside the Assembly constituency, and were registered as voters of the constituency, could not be present in the constituency, asking them to immediately leave the segment as per the directions of the Election Commission.“The presence of outsiders could undermine the environment to conduct free and fair elections. If any outsiders are found indulging in campaigning, action will be taken against them as per rules,” he said.3 main contendersINLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala has re-entered the fray, while the BJP’s Gobind Kanda and the Congress’ Pawan Beniwal are among 19 candidates in the poll battle. Chautala, who was the lone MLA of the INLD in the Assembly, had tendered his resignation on January 27 in support of the farmers’ demand for the withdrawal of three farm laws||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-election-campaign-comes-to-an-end-330710
28-10-2021||Sonepat||Nihangs decide to stay put at Singhu border||All nine Nihang groups at the Singhu border decided at a mahapanchayat on Wednesday to stay put at the protest site while the SKM distanced itself from the meeting. Nihangs claimed they arrived at the the decision after taking public opinion in the matter both online and offline.The four-hour mahapanchayat held at Bharat Plaza in Singhu was attended by jathedars of various Nihang groups among others, said Baba Balwinder Singh of Panth Akali Nirvair Khalsa, Udna Dal.The decisions of the mahapanchayat would be formally announced tomorrow at a press meet, he added. The Nihangs also decided that Baba Aman Singh, who was seen with the Union Minister of Agriculture in a photograph, would stay at the Singhu border till the court decision in the Lakhbir lynching case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nihangs-decide-to-stay-put-at-singhu-border-330520
28-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||National Highway shut at Tikri, Haryana to fix 15 other roads to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 27As many as 15 alternative roads leading to Delhi from Bahadurgarh and Badli towns in the district will be repaired or recarpeted to facilitate commuters facing trouble with the Rohtak-Delhi national highway blocked at Tikri border for the past 11 months.Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia disclosed this at a meeting of officials with protesting farmers and local industrialists in Bahadurgarh yesterday. Both farmers and industrialists had demanded an improvement in the condition of roads.These potholed roads pose a risk to commuters who have no option but to take these alternative routes due to the sealing of the Tikri border. A large number of people from Jhajjar, Rohtak, Jind and Bhiwani districts commute every day to Delhi for work. Moreover, a considerable number of industrial workers and officials travel daily from Delhi to Bahadurgarh.“The Rohtak-Delhi highway is also the main line for transporting raw material and manufactured products. Now, we are forced to use alternative routes that are in a pitiable state,” said a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-highway-shut-at-tikri-haryana-to-fix-15-other-roads-to-delhi-330524
