29-10-2021||Gurgaon||Around 30 people detained for attempting to disrupt Friday namaz in Gurugram||Around 30 people were detained by police for allegedly gathering to disrupt Friday namaz offered by Muslims in Sector 12 area here.Amid a heavy police presence in the area, the protesters, mainly from various Hindu outfits, gathered and raised ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans even as the members of the Muslim community were arriving at the spot to offer prayers.Carrying placards in their hands, they also raised slogans against the administration for allowing the Muslim community to offer namaz at designated open places in the city.Though the situation remained peaceful, a police official said that around 30 protesters had been taken into preventive detention.Talking to reporters, Sub Divisional Magistrate of Gurgaon Ankita Choudhary said, “On this place people have been offering namaz for the last two years”.                 “There were some people from other groups who were trying to stop them. So we asked them not to create nuisance and (affect) law and order situation. When they didn’t listen to the administration and the police even after repeated warnings, they were detained just to maintain order,” she said.They were detained as a precautionary measure, she added.Asked who those who had been detained were, she said an investigation is ongoing in this regard.Earlier in the day, police personnel had been deployed in strength following threats from some Hindu groups to disrupt public order if prayers are offered in the open.Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in the city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz, after which there were protests by some Hindu groups.A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays during this month. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/around-30-people-detained-for-attempting-to-disrupt-friday-namaz-in-gurugram-331504
29-10-2021||---||Barricades removed at Tikri border||Jhajjar, October 28Two days after a committee of senior officials visited the Tikri border, the work to remove the barricades on the border was started on Thursday evening.Also read: Farmers have right to protest but they can’t block roads indefinitely: Supreme CourtBarricades put up by Delhi Police, not farmers: BKU after SC order to unblock roadsThe Delhi police had blocked the National Highway-9 (Rohtak-Delhi) at Tikri by doing multi-layered barricading on the border around 11 months ago.Cement barriers yet to goFour out of the eight layers of barricades at the Tikri border have been removed. However, the cement barricades are still there and the road remains closed for commuters, an official said.Sources said a JCB machine had been used to demolish concrete barricades, while the number of Delhi police and paramilitary forces deputed on the border had also been reduced. The barricade removal work is likely to continue all night.Also read: Police start removing barricades at Ghazipur farmers’ protest siteFarmers have been staying put on the one side of the highway in Bahadurgarh town. The official panel, after visiting the Tikri border, also expressed the possibility of opening one side of the highway after talking to the Delhi police.The move comes days after a Supreme Court hearing that saw farmer unions arguing that the police were responsible for the blockade at the Delhi borders.The police had put multiple layers of barricades on the roads, complete with giant nails and huge concrete blocks as thousands of farmers had tried to cross Delhi borders in November last year.Four out of the eight layers of barricades at the Tikri border have been removed.However, the cement barricades are still there and the road remains closed for commuters, an officer said.In videos doing the rounds on social media, JCB machines were seen removing blockades at the Tikri border.Sources in the Delhi Police said that such exercise is likely to be launched at Singhu and Ghazipur border points in the coming days.Thousands of farmers have been camping at the three borders points, Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, protesting the Centre’s three farm laws since November 26, 2020.About the removal of blockades at the Tikri Border on Thursday night, a senior police officer said some layers of barricades that were placed by the police have been removed.“The arrangement at the Tikri border in terms of infrastructure has been reduced. Seven to eight layers of different types of barricades were placed earlier and we have removed some of them,” the officer said.This is done as a move to open the road for traffic soon, he said. “At present, there is no traffic flow as the roads are closed. Barricades will be completely removed soon to slowly ease the flow of traffic,” the officer added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/barricades-removed-at-tikri-border-331468
29-10-2021||It has become a routine for nearby residents to throw garbage and waste material on the road near the Industrial Training Institute on Thandi Sadak in Hisar town. The municipal authorities must take note of the problem and should take action on the personswho dump the waste in the open space.||Garbage, waste material being dumped on Thandi Sadak in Hisar||Narender Nagpal, HisarOverflowing sewage a nuisance for residents in jind townResidents of Sector 11 in Jind are facing problems due to overflowing sewage. Even after submitting complaints to the higher authorities, including in Chandigarh by the residents, nothing has been done. There are five points in the Sector11 where sewage is overflowing since last year. The whole line was choked. We demand the authorities to open the whole choked line to provide relief to residents.Randeep Singh Saharan, JindVehicles without number plates plying in FaridabadAlarge number of private and commercial vehicles are plying on roads without registration plates or documents. While the number of three-wheelers auto-rickshaws, which have become a most common form of public transportation, has been around 50,000, at least one third of these are sans any registration number plate or proper documents. Despite installation of traffic cameras, 80 per cent of the two-wheelers and three-wheelers do jump the red lights with impunity and with no punishment. The traffic police must curb the plying of vehicles in an illegal manner.Pratyush Sharma, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-waste-material-being-dumped-on-thandi-sadak-in-hisar-331299
29-10-2021||Sirsa||Chaudhary Devi Lal University signs pact||Hindi lecturer honouredKarnal: Dr Vijay Chawla, a lecturer of Hindi at Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Keorak, in Kaithal district, has been honoured by the District Education Officer Anil Sharma with individual excellence award for his digital e-book 'Khel Pitara'. He was given appreciation letter and a memento. The DEO informed that entries of new media/ICT, video/audio/animated video etc. were sought for the All-India Children's Education Audio-Video Festival by CIET, NCERT New Delhi. Dr Chawla from Kaithal had sent his case regarding 'digital e-book 'Khel Pitara' in New Media/ ICT category. He said for the individual excellence award, six from Delhi, five from Maharashtra, four from Andhra Pradesh, three each from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Orissa, two each from Manipur, Kerala, Assam and Karnataka, Telangana, Jammu and Kashmir and one contestant was selected from Haryana.Induction ceremony organisedFaridabad: Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised its annual induction ceremony for fresher of Commerce B Voc Retail Management recently. According to Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, the students were briefed and motivated about the use of the resources and facilities provided in the college. He laid emphasis on discipline and to keep their focus clear. He said the students were told about the importance of moral values and a positive outlook during their studies.JC Bose varsity signs MoUFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has signed an MoU with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi, an organisation working in the field of education and culture in India. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar said the new National Education Policy (NEP) was introduced with an aim to restore and re-establish 'Indianness' in the education system and emphasised on building the personality of a student.800 saplings plantedKarnal:The Red Ribbon Club and the Red Cross Society of RKSD College, Kaithal under the convenership of Dr S P Verma planted 800 saplings under the campaign, Infection free Haryana. During this, Principal Sanjay Goyal and the staff members took pledge that protecting nature was the key to protecting human lives from infections spreading from various diseases. Goyal said the time had come to protect nature and environment. If every citizen joins this campaign, then surely the number of trees will increase and life will become happy. Keeping our environment clean-whether at home, work, college, school or the hospital-is an important way to prevent infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaudhary-devi-lal-university-signs-pact-331298
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue record rooms in Haryana districts to be ready by Nov 15||The work to build modern revenue record rooms at all district headquarters will be completed by November 15. About 97.94 per cent of the total documents have been digitised till date. This was stated by Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, while presiding over a review meeting of SVAMITVA scheme with the DCs via video conferencing, here.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revenue-record-rooms-in-haryana-districts-to-be-ready-by-nov-15-331255
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Examinations of Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra, postponed||The examinations of Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra, Haryana, which were to start from November 15, have been postponed. Among the postponed exams are diploma in pharmacy (ayurveda) – first year, BHMS – first & BAMS first prof.Sharing information in this regard, an official spokesperson of the university said the admission of the students of the 2021 batch was delayed due to the corona pandemic. In such a situation, the students made requests to postpone the examinations so that they can get more time to study. Considering these requests, the university administration has postponed the examinations to be held from November 15. The new date sheet for the examinations will be released soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/examinations-of-shri-krishna-ayush-university-kurukshetra-postponed-331254
29-10-2021||---||Bihar man gets life term for minor girl’s murder by setting her on fire||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 28The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sumit Garg has awarded rigorous imprisonment for life to a man for murdering a 13-year-old girl by setting her on fire.The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh upon the convict identified as Rajeev Kumar, alias Rajbeer, of Katihar in Bihar.District Attorney Rajesh Kumar Chaudhary said the police had registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC and Section 12 of the POCSO Act earlier but after the victim’s death Section 302 was added. Besides, the court had also awarded a two-year sentence to Rajbeer under the POCSO Act and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on him, the District Attorney said.“In case the convict fails to pay the fine to the victim’s family, he will have to undergo further imprisonment of two years,” he added.The incident was reported on August 10, 2017. The victim girl used to live in a rented accommodation at Pasina village in the Sewah area along with her parents.In her statement before the magistrate, the victim had said Rajbeer was disturbing her for a long time. She said she was cooking rice, when the accused entered the room and poured petrol on her. As she turned, he lit a matchstick and threw it on her. She further alleged that Rajbeer had also thrashed her parents.The girl succumbed to the burn injuries on August 13, 2017, at the PGIMS, Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bihar-man-gets-life-term-for-minor-girls-murder-by-setting-her-on-fire-331253
29-10-2021||---||2-day 'Haryana-Africa Conclave' aims to boost trade||Chandigarh, October 28To further strengthen diplomatic connections and bilateral relations, ambassadors, senior embassy officials from 12 African nations, ministers and bureaucrats from Haryana came together for a two-day ‘Haryana-Africa Conclave, Series-1’ which began here today. It focused on boosting bilateral trade and connectivity between the two regions.Also read: African delegation visits Pinjore gardensThe conclave titled ‘Transforming Haryana through a Go-Global Approach’ is being organised by Foreign Cooperation Department, Haryana, under the aegis of Haryana Government at Chandigarh in consultation with the Ministry of External Affairs.It saw the participation of ambassadors, senior embassy officials from 12 African nations namely Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania, Madagascar, Nigeria, Eritrea, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Senegal, Kenya, Ethiopia and Ghana as a part of Series-1.On the first day of the conclave today, the state government hosted a cultural night at Panchkula. On the second day of the conclave, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will address the delegation and dignitaries along with a discussion session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-day-haryana-africa-conclave-aims-to-boost-trade-331252
29-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Decline in farm fires, Palwal air quality improves||Tribune News ServicePalwal, October 28With a sharp decline in the incidents of stubble burning this paddy harvest season in the district, the air quality index has also shown a remarkable improvement in comparison to the last season.According to the officials of the Agriculture Department here, a total of only 16 farm fires have been reported in the district till Monday evening. “The number is minuscule in comparison to the incidents recorded in the corresponding period last year, when around 90 cases of farm fires had surfaced till October-end,” said a senior official of the department.He said an “environment compensation” had been imposed in all cases, the total amount of which was around Rs 42,000 so far. The total number of cases of farm fires recorded last year was 105. More than 210 incidents had surfaced in 2019 and the authorities had imposed a penalty of about Rs 3 lakh besides registering FIRs against 47 persons for burning stubble that year.Though according to officials the extended rainy season could be a factor for the decline in farm fires this season, sources in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board said it had a positive impact on the environment as the air quality index had improved.Against the average of about the PM-2.5 level (particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms hanging in air) of 212 in October last year, this time it is 114,according to the data collected by ‘Sameer’, the official app of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The PM-2.5 (air quality) recorded in October this year has been between 77 and 151 while it was between 129 and 295 in the corresponding period last year, which was almost double.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decline-in-farm-fires-palwal-air-quality-improves-331251
29-10-2021||New Delhi||Nuh among 48 dists with lowest 1st dose coverage||Nuh in Haryana is among the 48 lowest-performing districts on the Covid vaccine coverage nationally.Government data collated for the conference of state health ministers held here on Wednesday to discuss the gaps in the national inoculation drive revealed that 28 of 48 districts reporting less than 50% coverage of the first dose are in the north-eastern states.Nuh has covered only 23.5% of the eligible adults with the first Covid dose since January 16 when the inoculation drive began. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-among-48-dists-with-lowest-1st-dose-coverage-331250
29-10-2021||Karnal||Youth issued challan for Rs 13K, ends life in Karnal||An 18-year-old youth committed suicide on Wednesday evening by consuming some poisonous substance. The family members have alleged that he took this extreme step after his bike was impounded and a challan of Rs 13,500 was issued by the police.They alleged that he was harassed by the police personnel on duty who said he was riding a “stolen” bike. The deceased was identified as Mohit, a resident of Mangal Colony part-II.Demanding action against the police personnel, the family members refused to take the body from the post-mortem house till the filing of this news. They camped outside the mini secretariat.Meanwhile, activists of BKU also extended support to the family members.City Magistrate Abhay Kumar Jangra, DSP Abhilaksh Joshi and other officials also reached there and assured a fair investigation, but family members remained adamant on their demand of action against the police personnel.The post-mortem examination was conducted by a board of doctors and the complete process was videographed.Jagdish Chand, father of the deceased, accused police personnel of harassing Mohit.SP Ganga Ram Punia said that appropriate legal action would be taken after verification of allegations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-issued-challan-for-rs-13k-ends-life-in-karnal-331249
29-10-2021||New Delhi||Wrestler’s murder: Supplementary chargesheet filed||The Delhi Police today informed a court here that it has filed a supplementary chargesheet against the remaining accused in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case involving Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar.The first chargesheet which was filed by the police on August 2 named 13 accused, including Sushil Kumar as the “main” accused. There are a total of 17 accused in the murder case, officials said.Kumar, along with others had allegedly assaulted former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar and his friends at the stadium in May over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar later succumbed to injuries.In the first chargesheet, the police had said that the brawl at the stadium was the result of an alleged conspiracy hatched by Sushil Kumar, who wanted to re-establish his supremacy among younger wrestlers. Kumar’s bail was rejected earlier this month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestlers-murder-supplementary-chargesheet-filed-331248
29-10-2021||Karnal||Kaithal farmers protest DAP shortage||Scores of farmers on Thursday blocked the road near Pehowa Chowk in Kaithal city to protest the shortage of DAP.They alleged that the black marketing of DAP was going on and the fertiliser was being sold at Rs 1,550 per bag, instead of Rs 1,200. The situation remained tense for a couple of hours and after SDM Sanjay Kumar’s assurance over the availability of DAP, farmers lifted the blockade.The farmers alleged some dealers were responsible for the crisis as they had stocked DAP and were now indulging in black marketing. “We demand the authorities to take action against such people and also ensure DAP availability for us.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-farmers-protest-dap-shortage-331240
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Government staff to get October pay today||The Haryana Government has decided to give salary for October to government employees and pension and other allowances to retired employees on October 29 due to public holidays on October 30, 31 and November 1. This information was given by a spokesperson of the Finance Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-staff-to-get-october-pay-today-331235
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Government clarification on job quota||The Haryana Government has clarified that the children and the grandchildren of the freedom fighters would be eligible for 2% quota in government jobs against vacant posts reserved for ex-servicemen and backward classes. According to an order of the Chief Secretary, the quota would be admissible for posts reserved for ex-servicemen which could not be filled due to the non-availability of suitable candidates. Similarly, it would also be admissible for posts reserved for backward classes which remained non-filled on account of the non-availability of suitable candidates. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-clarification-on-job-quota-331211
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gang promising jobs in Haryana Vidhan Sabha busted||A gang promising jobs in the Vidhan Sabha by demanding money has been busted with the arrest of its kingpin on Wednesday.Jitender of Ambala’s Rachheri village has been sent to police remand for eight days.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta told reporters here that the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat had advertised certain posts, including junior engineer, reporter (English) and (Hindi), telephone operator and typist. The “cash for job” racket came to light when the roll No. of one of the candidates for the post of reporter (English) was found to be suspicious during the interview.When Jitender was called by the Vidhan Sabha security staff on October 26, he reportedly confessed to having helped the candidates secure jobs for a consideration. He was reportedly posing as a government employee and was carrying three fake identity cards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-promising-jobs-in-haryana-vidhan-sabha-busted-331210
29-10-2021||---||Chaos at MC meeting over cleanliness in Panipat||Panipat, October 28The ruling party councillors today pulled up officials of the Panipat Municipal Corporation (MC) over poor cleanliness condition in the city.The General House meeting witnessed uproarious scenes when some senior BJP councillors blamed JBM, a private company, for poor cleanliness in the city.The councillors alleged that the MC was giving crores of rupees to the JBM every month for cleanliness, but the condition of the city was getting worse, with heaps of garbage seen everywhere.Senior deputy mayor Dushyant Bhatt chaired the meeting, while commissioner RK Singh, along with the other officials, was present at the meeting. MP Sanjay Bhatia, MLA Pramod Vij, BJP district president Dr Archna Gupta were also present at the meeting, which was held in the mini-secretariat.The ruling party councillor Ashok Kataria raised the issue of the JBM and said the company had spoiled the city. He said the company was only collecting money in the city and even no fine had been imposed upon it.BJP councillor of Ward 10 Ravinder Bhatia said the sweeping machine was not seen on roads at night which amounts to corruption and demanded that its tender of Rs 94 lakh should be cancelled. The MC has its own machine, which should be used, he said.BJP councillor Lokesh Nagroo of Ward 20 demanded penalty upon the JBM company.MP Sanjay Bhatia said that though the tender was allotted on the directions of Supreme Court and on the guidelines of the NGT, but not to support the company. JBM is a big issue in every house meeting, because work of the company is not visible. Earlier some people who were less literate were able to make the city clean and now the company which has a computerised office is not able to work properly, Bhatia said and suggested the councillor to make a committee, would cancel the agreement.The councillors also gheroed the MC officials over street light management and alleged that the city is lying dark. MP Sanjay Bhatia also announced to give Rs 1-1 lakh for street lights in all wards.Commissioner RK Singh said that all agendas including 6 main agendas have been passed unanimously.The main agendas - seeking permission for better cleanliness after dividing the city in four zones; the service lanes should be maintained by NHAI and L&T company; HSVP roads to be constructed; to control the spreading of illegal colonies in the MC area and others have been passed in the meeting, the Commissioner maintained. Councillors raised some issues related to their wards in the meeting, which would be resolved accordingly, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaos-at-mc-meeting-over-cleanliness-in-panipat-331209
29-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Drain to be remodelled to stop waterlogging in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 28Aiming at strengthening the drainage system of the city, the Karnal Municipal Corporation and Irrigation Department will jointly work on remodelling of drain1 from Karnal city to Kairwali village. The authorities claim it will help in overcoming the waterlogging problem in the city during the rainy season.Total length of the project is around 39,000 ft, of which around 12,000 ft will be constructed by the KMC, while the remaining will be built by the Irrigation Department.During the rainy season, waterlogging becomes a major issue for the administration as well as the residents. As per the information, most of the rainwater drains through the Mughal Canal, but with the passage of time and increase in population, the canal drain has exceeded its capacity, resulting in flood-like situation during heavy rain in most parts of the city.For the smooth implementation of this project, the Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, has constituted a committee led by the KMC Commissioner, Manoj Kumar, comprising SDM, Karnal, Gaurav Kumar, SDM Gharaunda, Pooja Bharti, SE KMC, XEN Irrigation, XEN Public Health, XEN HSVP, and GM, Karnal Smart City Ltd. The committee members have already held a meeting two days ago in the city and discussed the major points for strengthening the drainage system of the city.The remodelling of the drain will start from the point near the NH-44 in Sector 4. Besides, several water recharging systems will also be constructed under this project which will help in water recharging, said Navtej Singh, XEN, Irrigation Department.“We are preparing the design for the most efficient drainage system as the need of the sewerage has increased manifold in the past couple of decades,” said the XEN.Gaurav Kumar, SDM, Karnal, who is also a member of the committee, said this project would help in ensuring proper drainage of water.Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC, said the width of the drain number 1 is asymmetric as at some places it is wide while at some places it is narrow. At a couple of places, it has become a bottleneck, due to which a new plan is being prepared based on the capacity of the Mughal Canal.The encroachment at the drain site will also be removed, he said, adding that a survey with the help of drone will be conducted.Mughal Canal drain has exceeded capacityNew plan being made based on capacityThe width of the drain number 1 is asymmetric as at some places it is wide while at other places it is narrow. At a couple of places, it has become a bottleneck due to which a new plan is being prepared based on the capacity of the Mughal Canal. Manoj Kumar, commissioner, KMCDesign for efficient drainage systemWe are preparing the design for the most efficient drainage system as the need of the sewerage has increased manifold in the past couple of decades. Navtej Singh, xen, irrigation department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drain-to-be-remodelled-to-stop-waterlogging-in-karnal-331208
29-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||454 rooms of 85 Faridabad schools await repairs||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 28Repair of 454 rooms in as many as 85 government schools in the district is yet to begin. Three years ago, these rooms were declared unsafe in a survey. The district has around 370 schools (primary, middle, high and senior secondary).Sources in the Education Department said in many schools, classes were either being held in damaged rooms or in open. As per the sources, while the PWD had declared 220 rooms in about 34 government schools as unsafe, the District Education Office (DEO) had revealed in a response to an RTI application that a total of 454 rooms were lying dilapidated in as many as 85 government schools in the district.Recently, in a letter to the Chief Minister and the Principal Secretary, Education, Haryana Government, Ashok Aggarwal, president, All India Parents’ Association (AIPA), has highlighted the problems faced by the students. “In the absence of proper and safe rooms, students are forced to either sit in corridors or in open. Earlier, a detailed report of the dilapidated rooms had been prepared and submitted by the AIPA.Claiming that a budget of Rs 11.85 crore had been sanctioned for the repair of 106 rooms in 16 schools in the district, Ritu Chowdhary, DEO, said the work was expected to be taken up shortly. She said the buildings of five schools located at Anangpur, Mohna, Tigaon, Gonchhi and Faridpur villages in the district were already under-construction. A report of 348 school rooms had been submitted to the higher authorities, the DEO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/454-rooms-of-85-faridabad-schools-await-repairs-331205
29-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Why 16 probes against MPs, MLAs incomplete, HC asks Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Just about seven months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made clear its intent to fast lane the cases involving sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Bench has asked the State of Haryana to specify why investigation had not been completed in 16 cases. The Bench has also called for the details of the cases.“On the last occasion, the State of Haryana had stated that only in 16 cases, the investigation was yet to be completed. “The State of Haryana is directed to file an affidavit giving the specifics of those 16 cases and why investigation has not been completed,” the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Alka Sarin asserted. For the purpose of submitting the details, the Bench set November 9 as the deadline and the next date of hearing in the case.The Bench was hearing suo motu case, “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs”, for monitoring the progress of matters pending against the MP/MLAs.” The assertion came in reference to a status report by way of an affidavit filed by Haryana Inspector-General of Police, Administration and Law & Order, Sanjay Kumar.Among other things, it said latest reports regarding 44 under-investigation cases had been obtained from all concerned. Out of the total, final reports had been submitted in 30 cases after the completion of the investigation. Out of these 30 cases, challan was submitted before the trial court in seven cases. In another seven cases, cancellation report was submitted before the trial court. In 16 cases, untraced report had been written and final report submitted before the competent Court of law.The affidavit added a case dated September 1, 2018, for cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120 B of the IPC and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Kherki Daula police station in Gurugram could not be reported inadvertently. A sitting MLA was accused in the matter, along with others.Besides, an FIR, dated May 21, was registered at Gurugram’s Sector 65 police station against an ex-MLA along with some other accused. One more FIR dated June 18 was registered at the Sector 14 police station in Gurugram against the ex-MLA, along with some other accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-16-probes-against-mps-mlas-incomplete-hc-asks-haryana-331203
29-10-2021||Ellenabad||Ellenabad bypoll: INLD accuses BJP-JJP of code violation, demands EC action||The INLD has complained to the Chief Electoral Officer on Thursday accusing the BJP-JJP supporters of influencing voters by distributing money in the Ellenabad constituency.In a letter, INLD office secretary said the BJP-JJP candidate supporters with the help of the police were found distributing money at the house of a local, Krishna, in Hazira village on Monday morning.Seeking action by the Election Commission, the INLD alleged that the ruling party was influencing the voters with cash. He alleged that BJP-JJP supporters were violating the model code of conduct in Hazira village, Bakriyanwali and ward number 4 of Ellenabad city. The ruling coalition was misusing its official position with the help of the police and paramilitary forces, it alleged.Meanwhile, a day after the campaigning came to an end on Wednesday, the candidates on Thursday carried out door-to-door canvassing by meeting locals at their houses and interacting with shopkeepers in the markets of the constituency.BJP candidate Gobind Kanda and his family members, including brother and Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda, marched across the town, seeking support. Gopal’s wife Saraswati, son Lakhram Kanda and Gobind’s son Dhawan visited several localities in the town.Similarly, Congress candidate Pawan Beniwal embarked on a public contact programme on Thursday. Pawan said he was overwhelmed with the love and support of the people and claimed that he was going to win the bypoll. “Various sections of society, including farmers, traders, youth, are upset with the BJP government.”INLD leader Abhay Chautala, however, said Ellenabad was like his home and thus he would win the seat for the fourth time in a row. “My victory will further strengthen the ongoing farmers’ agitation and I am sure that they will be successful in getting their demand of the withdrawal of the three laws fulfilled,” he said, adding that the BJP and Congress were slugging it out for the second place in Ellenabad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-inld-accuses-bjp-jjp-of-code-violation-demands-ec-action-331201
29-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||Tikri incident rekindles bad memories of Lakhimpur Kheri: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 28Punjab farmers staying put at the Tikri border are stunned by the incident in which a truck ran over three women in Bahadurgarh town here on Thursday morning.They said the incident not only rekindled the bad memories of Lakhimpur Kheri but also raised serious questions over the way it happened.“The wounds of Lakhimpur Kheri are yet to be healed and another gruesome incident has caused us more pain, as we never imagined that such an incident would take place at Tikri as well. It has also raised a serious question mark over the safety of protesting farmers as heavy vehicles pass from this place round the clock. The elderly women were waiting for an auto-rickshaw on the road divider when the speeding truck hit them,” said Lakhvinder Singh, a Punjab farmer.Buta Singh, a BKU leader, said the incident had left several doubts on their minds, hence besides the police, they too were probing the case at their level from various angles. “We visited the incident spot and were informed that initially, the truck was not in a high speed when it mowed down the women. It was seen stationed some distance away from the spot,” he added.Meanwhile, Jhajjar SP Waseem Akram said since the main highway remained closed at the Tikri border, it was the only route for heavy vehicles to enter Delhi. However, some way out of the issue would definitely be found out.Also, a delegation of the All India Kisan Sabha, led by its state secretary Sumit Kumar, rushed to Bahadurgarh and interacted with eyewitnesses. “It’s hard to believe that it is an accident. A fair probe is needed in the case. The truck bearing Haryana number was seen parked nearby just before it came speeding and jumped the divider and ran over the sitting group of women there,” said Sumit, adding that a fair compensation should be given to kin of the deceased.Restrict movement of heavy vehiclesThe district administration should restrict the movement of heavy vehicles at the protest site to avoid such incidents. — Jaspreet Singh, a farmer at Tikri border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikri-incident-rekindles-bad-memories-of-lakhimpur-kheri-farmers-331198
29-10-2021||---||Rewari gangrape: 3 pronounced guilty, 5 let off; sentence today||Mahendragarh, October 28A Narnaul court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Mona Singh today held three main accused, Nishu Phogat, Pankaj Fouzi and Manish, guilty of raping a 19-year-old college girl at a village under Kosli subdivision of Rewari three years ago. It acquitted five co-accused — Sanjeev, Deen Dayal, Abhishek, Manjeet and Naveen. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced tomorrow. The case hogged media attention as the victim was Rewari district’s CBSE topper in matriculation. The crime was committed on September 12, 2018, when the victim was going to Kanina town in Mahendragarh district to get coaching for a competitive examination. Nishu, Pankaj and Manish waylaid her and gave her water laced with a sedative. She reportedly fell unconscious and then the three took her to a tubewell room in a village field and raped her there.The three dumped the victim in an unconscious state near a bus stop in Kanina. An SIT was formed to probe the incident, which arrested eight accused in the case. As many as 33 witnesses were examined during the trial.Co-accused Sanjeev was a registered medical practitioner who was called by the three accused to the crime spot when the victim’s condition deteriorated after the gang-rape. He faced the charges of facilitating the accused and not informing the police about the crime. Abhishek and Manmeet were accused of providing shelter to Pankaj and Manish after the crime. Deen Dayal was the owner of the tubewell room, said Karan Singh Yadav, the victim’s advocate.Victim was waylaid||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-gangrape-3-pronounced-guilty-5-let-off-sentence-today-331010
29-10-2021||Jhajjar||3 Mansa women run over by truck at Tikri||Three women protesters — Sukhvinder Kaur (60), Amarjit Kaur (58) and Gurmail Kaur (60) of Khiwa Daluwala village in Punjab’s Mansa district — were run over by a speeding truck carrying construction material near the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border here on Thursday morning. Two others sustained injuries.Also read: Tikri deaths: Farm unions allege foul play, seek judicial probeLost husband 18 yrs ago, Tikri victim Amarjit Kaur raised kids aloneTikri incident rekindles bad memories of Lakhimpur Kheri: FarmersThe women were reportedly sitting on a road divider waiting for an auto to reach the railway station when the truck crashed into them.While two of them died on the spot, the third succumbed to her injuries at the Civil Hospital. Suspecting foul play, BKU leader Buta Singh demanded a thorough probe.“There was enough light at the time of the incident. The truck stopped at some distance before ramming into the divider,” he claimed, adding they would decide the next course after discussing the matter with the SKM.The Punjab Government has announced Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Waseem Akram, SP, called it an accident. He said the driver had been arrested. “We held a meeting with the farmers to make them aware of the investigation so far. They seemed convinced,” he added. — TNSBarricades removed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-mansa-women-run-over-by-truck-at-tikri-331009
29-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||Haryana’s Nuh among 48 districts with lowest first Covid dose coverage||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 28Nuh in Haryana is among the 48 lowest performing districts on Covid 19 vaccine coverage nationally.Government data collated for the conference of state health ministers held here on Wednesday to discuss the gaps in the national inoculation drive reveals that 28 of the 48 districts reporting less than 50 pc coverage of the first dose are in the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh (six districts); Assam (one), Manipur (eight districts), Meghalaya (four districts), Mizoram (one), Nagaland (eight districts).Kangpokpi district in Arunachal Pradesh has the lowest percentage of eligible adults covered with the first dose – 17.1 pc. The national average for first dose coverage if 76 pc.Haryana’s Nuh has covered only 23.5 pc of the eligible adults with the first Covid dose since January 16 when the inoculation drive began.Delhi’s northwest district (48.2 pc covered with first dose); Bihar’s Araria (49.6 pc) and Tamil Nadu’s Tiruvallur (43.1 pc coverage) are also among the lowest performers on first doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-nuh-among-48-districts-with-lowest-first-covid-dose-coverage-330999
29-10-2021||Ravinder Saini||3 Punjab women run over at farmers' protest site at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 28Three elderly women from Mansa district in Punjab were run over by a truck at the farmers' protest site on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Thursday morning.Two other women were injured. One of them has been referred to the PGI, Rohtak.The deceased have been identified as Chhinder Kaur, Amarjeet Kaur  and Gurmel Kaur. They had been participating in the farmers’ protest for the past few days.The incident took place around 5.45 am when the women were sitting on a  divider on the Jhajjar road  waiting for an auto-rickshaw to go to railway station at Bahadurgarh to catch the train for Mansa.The speeding truck hit them. Two of them died on the spot while another succumbed to her injuries at Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh.Nar Singh, SHO, Sector 6, Bahadurgarh, police station, said the dumper driver fled the spot after the mishap while statements of eyewitnesses were being recorded.Meanwhile, the Punjab government announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to kin of the three deceased women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-punjab-women-run-over-at-farmers-protest-site-at-tikri-border-330889
