30-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Farmers face difficulty in getting DAP fertiliser||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Farmers face difficulty in getting DAP fertiliserFarmers from adjoining villages start coming to cities early in the morning so that they might get DAP easily. When they were told that the railway rake of DAP might come the next morning, they stayed at the police station complex throughout the night, in queues, without any water or toilet facilities. Finally, when no rake arrived the next day, they had no option but to visit offices of different fertiliser companies again where they were turned away with 'no stocks' boards outside their main gates. The government must get DAP readily available to the farmers. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRoads with deep potholes need immediate repairDeep potholes on the Yamunanagar-Chhachhrauli road from Tikoni to Manakpur, where a truck and an auto overturned during the day, need urgent repairs. Similar pitiable condition is on the Jagadhri-Kail bypass. The government must undertake urgent repairs so that commuters do not face any problem in future. Babu Ram Dhiman, Pinjore||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-face-difficulty-in-getting-dap-fertiliser-331782
30-10-2021||Karnal||NSS volunteers to educate Kaithal residents to save water||27th international conferenceKurukshetra: Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Haryana said mechanics of solids was an important subject of research in view of advancements of different types of materials. He was speaking as a chief guest at the inauguration of 27th International Conference of International Academy of Physical Sciences (CONIAPS XXVII) on "Recent Advances in Solid Mechanics and Seismology" organized by the department of mathematics, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. He exercised the role of mathematical modelling in 2D materials as that is relevant to the planning and sustainability of any system.Workshop on art and craftFatehabad: A three-day workshop on art and craft was inaugurated at CMG Government Women's College at Bhodia Kheda village in Fatehabad. Inaugurating the workshop, Principal of the college, Dr Rajesh Mehta said students should actively participate in such workshops at the college level. Art and craft teacher Seema Sardana got different types of candles, POPs, pot making and lamp decoration done on the college premises.BTech admission at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad has invited online applications for admission on leftover/vacant seats in various BTech courses, by November 15. The director (admissions) Dr Maneesha Garg informed that the dates for physical counselling would be declared after November 20. The candidates admitted in first and second counselling would have to apply afresh for admission on these seats. The vacant seat position for various BTech courses will be declared after November 10, and will be made available on the university website www.jcboseust.ac.in.Identifying fake newsKurukshetra: School students were taught how to analyse any information mindfully and wisely identifying any kind of misleading and fake news. The event was organised at Senior Secondary Models School on the Kurukshetra University campus under the media information literacy week being organised globally on the call of United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO).Orientation programmeHisar: Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) Professor BR Kamboj said students needed to strike a balance between challenges and opportunities for success in career and in life. The Vice-Chancellor was addressing the orientation programme organised for the newly arrived students at HAU as the chief guest. The programme was organised by the College of Agriculture, in which the students of Hisar, Kaul (Kaithal) and Bawal (Rewari) of four years and six year B Sc Agriculture (hons) courses participated. The VC welcomed the new students and said they were fortunate to be part of a university of international repute.Start-up Workshop organisedAmbala: Government PG College, Ambala Cantonment organised a one-day workshop on entrepreneurship/start-up "Udaan" under the aegis of Department of Higher Education "Aatamanirbhar Haryana campaign". This workshop also marks the 25th year of establishment of the college. In his address, Principal Arun Joshi motivated the participants for registering themselves for the programme. He advised students to visit the DHE website to gather information regarding start-up policy of the government. The workshop received an overwhelming response from the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nss-volunteers-to-educate-kaithal-residents-to-save-water-331781
30-10-2021||---||Haryana Govt extends last date of farm scheme||Chandigarh, October 29The Haryana Government has extended the last date of uploading the purchase bills of the equipment used in crop residue management under the Centre’s In-Situ Crop Residue Management Scheme to November 2, 2021, on the departmental portal www.agriharyanacrm.com .Earlier, the last date was October 9, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-last-date-of-farm-scheme-331778
30-10-2021||Hisar||Three-year jail for Rampal in 7-year-old case||The court of Judicial Magistrate in Hisar has sentenced Rampal who is undergoing life imprisonment in a murder case, to three years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5000 in a seven-year-old case of seizure of 408 LPG cylinders and 2,600 litres of diesel in Satlok Ashram in Barwala town.The police could not prove the charges of cheating and thus, the court acquitted Rampal on the charges of cheating.On November 28, 2014, the Barwala police registered a case against Rampal under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and the Essential Commodities Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-year-jail-for-rampal-in-7-year-old-case-331776
30-10-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Two die in road mishap||Man found hanging from treeKurukshetra: A man was found hanging from a tree at Tau Devi Lal park near Pipli in Kurukshetra on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Gurnam Singh, a resident of Ladwa. Gurnam’s family said he was missing for nearly 10 days. TNS5-yr-old raped, murderedGurugram: A five-year-old girl was raped and murdered in a village under the jurisdiction of Bhondsi police station on Friday. The accused is identified as Raja Kumar Mandal and lived in the victim’s neighbourhood. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-two-die-in-road-mishap-331774
30-10-2021||Faridabad||20 more Faridabad units sealed over property tax||The Faridabad Municipal Corporation sealed 20 more commercial units today for not paying property tax to the tune of Rs 34.35 lakhs.The number of units sealed in the city has gone up to 311.As many as six units in the NIT zone, nine units in the Old Faridabad zone and five units in the Ballabgarh zone were sealed. One of the units which deposited an amount of Rs 1.30 lakh on the spot, was spared. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-more-faridabad-units-sealed-over-property-tax-331773
30-10-2021||---||Prepare database of unorganised labour: Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala presided over the first meeting of the Haryana State Social Security Board at Haryana Niwas here today and directed officers to prepare a database of the unorganised labourers of the state so that they could be empowered by giving them the benefits of various government schemes.He also called for registration of unorganised labourers by ensuring maximum publicity regarding the e-Shram portal of the Central Government for the registration of unorganised workers.He said the portal was developed by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, GoI, in which a national register of unorganised workers would be created so that they could avail the benefits of social security schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prepare-database-of-unorganised-labour-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-331772
30-10-2021||---||Drain rainwater from fields, demands Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 29Alleging neglect of farmers, former Chief Minister and the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda urged the state government to ensure the speedy disposal of the standing rainwater in about 28 villages in Jind district so that the farmers could sow the rabi crops in the next season.Hooda visited waterlogged areas in Poli village in Julana town of Jind district and also went to the grain market to take stock of the prevailing situation. The former CM said while kharif crops had got damaged due to the flooding, he apprehended that the farmers would not be able to sow the next rabi crops if the standing water was not discharged immediately.Hooda alleged that farmers were reaching the mandis with paddy in large numbers, but the procurement was not being done by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drain-rainwater-from-fields-demands-bhupinder-singh-hooda-331771
30-10-2021||Gurugram||Somalian national dies in Gurugram brawl||A 42-year-old Somalia man, who came from Delhi to Gurugram to party with friends, was allegedly murdered. Seven friends of the youth have been accused of murder following the complaint of the brother of the deceased. A case was registered at Sector-50 police station.The police handed over the body to the family members after postmortem today, however, no arrest has been made in this case so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/somalian-national-dies-in-gurugram-brawl-331770
30-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Case registered for spreading false info against Haryana Government on social media||Gurugram, October 29A case of spreading false and misleading information against the Haryana Government has come to the fore on social media. On Thursday, on the complaint of the Public Relation Officer, the police registered a case at the cyber police station and started investigation.As per the complaint filed by the official RS Sangwan, wrong and misleading information is being spread on social media regarding increase in old-age pension which has lead to a mass misunderstanding. Apart from this, the model code of conduct is in force due to the byelection in the Ellenabad assembly seat of the state and no decision has been taken by the Haryana government regarding the increase in pension. In this regard, the Information, Public Relations and Languages Department, Haryana, has also issued a refutation that no increase in pension has been made in the state.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/case-registered-for-spreading-false-info-against-haryana-government-on-social-media-331769
30-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram Municipal Corporation staff thrashed for stopping illegal C and D dumper||Gurugram, October 29A Municipal Corporation employee was brutally thrashed with rods for stopping an illegal dumper of C and D waste. An FIR was registered at the Sector 53 police station.According to the complaint filed by Bhopal Singh, an employee of the vender agency of the MCG that it was on Wednesday evening he was at the Kanhai red light with the staff, a tractor loaded with C and D waste was spotted and they stopped the driver.“The tractor had no number plate and the driver did not have any permission to carry C and D waste. On asking, the driver went on a rampage and called his friends. Soon, seven persons came there carrying hockey and iron rods and attacked my team. In this attack, my colleague Surender and I got injured as they hit on our heads with iron rods”, Singh told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the tractor driver, identified as Salamuddin, and others under various sections of the IPC at the Sector 53 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-municipal-corporation-staff-thrashed-for-stopping-illegal-c-and-d-dumper-331768
30-10-2021||---||Armymen from Hisar Cantt trek to Mini Pangarchulla peak||Hisar, October 29A team of 20 mountaineers from the Army’s Fulcrum Brigade under the aegis of Dot on Target Division of Sapta Shakti Command of Hisar Cantonment successfully trekked across the Mini Pangarchulla peak at an altitude of 14,500 feet. An Army spokesperson said the aim of the expedition was to promote preservation of nature, spread awareness about eco-tourism as well as promote spirit of adventure.The team led by Major Kartik Saxena, comprised of three officers, three junior commissioned officers and 14 other ranks who undertook this one of the most fabled trails of Garhwal Himalayas. “The success demanded careful selection and focused training. The trekking expedition was flagged off by General Officer Commanding, DOT on Target Division on September 30 and flagged in on October 22 after successful conduct.The General Officer Commanding congratulated the team for demonstrating tenacity and fortitude. Mini Pangarchulla is one of the highest peaks in the Joshimath region of Uttarakhand and adorns the famous Lord Curzon circuit trail. The peak is famous for its grand views of upper Himalayas. Mountaineering is very popular adventure activity in the Indian Army. Mountaineering is the best possible nursery for development of camaraderie, espirit-de-corps and leadership skills among soldiers. Adventure always remains closest to training the military persons and this one really served the cause, the spokesperson stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/armymen-from-hisar-cantt-trek-to-mini-pangarchulla-peak-331767
30-10-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram: 30 detained for protesting against namaz in the open, FIR registered||Gurugram, October 29The Gurugram police detained around 30 persons, who protested against namaz being offered in an open area in Sector 12 A. An FIR also has been registered against the protesters under precautionary sections of the IPC.Made to feel out of placeIt’s poor people who work in the market nearby and come here to pray for 15 minutes. They do not encroach or grab the land. We are being made to feel out of place, so we want the administration to officially give us the site and save us the torture. — A clericAdmn should allot land to themWe put out legal and valid points to them last week so there should not be public prayers in this area. If the administration wants it to continue then they should legally allot them a land till then no namaz in public areas will be our motto. We had warned them a day prior but they again came for namaz. — Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, AdvocateIt’s peaceful hereEverything is peaceful here. We have detained people who were here to disrupt namaz. We tried to negotiate with them over the last few weeks, but took swift action on Friday. — Anita Chaudhary, Gurugram SDMThe group led by advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj had also protested last Friday. They had issued an ultimatum against namaz being offered in the open today. They came shouting slogans and held placards that read “Gurugram administration, wake up from your sleep”. The police on the spot first tried to reason with the group consisting of Hindu outfit members but as they refused to listen they detained them and took them to the Bajghera police station. The detainees kept shouting that they were being targeted for opposing ‘land jihad’. heavy police deployment was seen across the city and namaz was offered at 37 sites. The members of the Muslim Community has moved the administration seeking allotment of land in Sector 12, be it the current site or some other place nearby for namaz on Fridays.“It’s poor people who work in the market nearby and come here to pray for 15 minutes. They do not encroach or grab the land. We are being made to feel out of place, so we want the administration to officially give us the site and save us the torture,” said a cleric who conducted prayers.“We put out legal and valid points to them last week so there should not be public prayers in this area. If the administration wants it to continue then they should legally allot them a land till then no namaz in public areas will be our motto. We had warned them a day prior but they again came for namaz ,” said the advocate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-30-detained-for-protesting-against-namaz-in-the-open-fir-registered-331766
30-10-2021||Nitish Sharma||School kids to be educated on waste segregation in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 29To instill the habit of waste segregation among residents and reduce the household waste under the limits of Ambala City Municipal Corporation, the corporation has decided to educate schoolchildren about the importance of waste segregation.To instil habitSchoolchildren are the future of the nation. To instil the habit of waste segregation, the corporation has decided to educate and motivate school students. Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ambala CityMotivated to use different binsChildren and teachers will be motivated to use different bins for dry and wet waste, and start composting. Municipal Corporation OfficialThe children will be asked to motivate their families to start segregating waste at the source level. Besides educating the school staff and students, the corporation will also issue ratings to private and government schools for their performances in waste segregation and composting.As per corporation official, nearly 140 to 160 tonnes of waste is generated in a day under the limits of Ambala Municipal Corporation. The waste segregation will not only reduce the total amount of waste that goes for waste management but also reduce the amount of waste generated by households.The MC official said children and teachers would be motivated to use different bins for dry and wet waste, and start composting.Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, Ambala City Municipal Corporation, said “Schoolchildren are the future of the nation. To instil the habit of waste segregation, the corporation has decided to educate and motivate school students. Not only the students but we will also train the school teachers and give ratings to the schools for composting and segregation being done them. There will be competitions as well. The schools will be inspected every week and after three months, the rating will be issued. Not only the schools but we will also educate all stakeholders in a holistic manner. After schools, we will cover hospitals, resident welfare societies, and business establishments and they will also be issued ratings.”“Different NGOs, Saksham Yuva, and master trainers of the Ambala Municipal Corporation will work in this project under the Swachh Bharat Mission. A workshop on the ‘Role of educational institutions in waste management’ was held with the school representatives on Thursday and we have got a good response. Some school principals who have already been doing composting at their home will also join the corporation as volunteers in this project starting from November 1”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/school-kids-to-be-educated-on-waste-segregation-in-ambala-331765
30-10-2021||---||Three firms booked for Rs 16.8 crore bank fraud||New Delhi, October 29The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) today said it has booked two Panipat-based firms and a Chandigarh company in three separate cases in connection with an alleged bank fraud and conducted searches at 16 locations.Searches conducted by CBISearches were conducted on the premises of the accused in connection with the cases registered against two Panipat firms, a Chandigarh firm and others including unidentified bank officials. Senior CBI officialOfficials in the agency said searches were conducted in Panipat, Gurugram and Chandigarh in three separate cases related to bank fraud of Rs 16.8 crore.“Searches were conducted on the premises of the accused in connection with the cases registered against two Panipat-based private firms, a Chandigarh-based private firm and others including unidentified bank officials,” a senior CBI official said.The accused allegedly caused loss to UCO Bank and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) in separate cases on different allegations, he said.“The first case was registered on a complaint from UCO Bank, Karnal, against a Panipat firm and others including borrowers, guarantor and their chartered accountants (CA), unidentified bank officials of UCO Bank, Panipat branch, on the allegations of causing loss of Rs 3.44 crore to the bank,” officials said.The second case was registered on a complaint by the same bank against another Panipat-based private firm and others including borrowers, guarantor and their CAs, unidentified bank officials on the allegations of causing loss of Rs 4.97 crore to the bank, they said.The third case was registered on a complaint from SIDBI, Chandigarh, against a Chandigarh-based private firm and others including borrowers, guarantor and their CAs and unidentified bank officials on the allegations of causing loss of Rs 8.39 crore to the bank, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-firms-booked-for-rs-16-8-crore-bank-fraud-331764
30-10-2021||---||Panipat girl killed for ‘honour’||Panipat, October 29A 16-year-old girl was allegedly murdered by her parents in Purkhas village of Gannaur in Sonepat district and also cremated in the wee hours on Thursday.The deceased was a Class XI student.Cremated in the wee hoursDuring the preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the parents had murdered their daughter by giving her some poisonous substance at night and to remove the evidence, they cremated her in the wee hours. Sunil Kumar, SHO, GannaurSuspecting it to be a case of “honour killing”, the police registered a case against the father and mother of the girl and arrested them.The police produced the accused in court on Friday and the court sent them on one-day police remand.Rahul Sharma, Superintendent of Police (SP), said it was a case of “honour killing”. The girl’s father was suspecting that his daughter had relations with a boy in the village and after that, they murdered her, he said.Though the body of the deceased was burnt completely, the FSL team collected the remains and ashes of the deceased from the cremation ground to conduct forensic and DNA analysis, the SP said.The matter came to light when the Gannaur police got a tip-off that a man of Purkhas village, along with his family members, had murdered their 16-year-old girl under suspicious circumstances and they had also cremated her at 5 am on Thursday.After getting this information, a police team, along with the FSL team, reached the spot and collected information about the incident.The FSL team also visited the cremation ground where the parents had performed the victim’s last rites, but the body was burnt fully.The police registered a case against the girl’s parents under Sections 302, 201 and 120-B of the IPC on the complaint of SI Amit Kumar.Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, Gannaur, said the victim’s had been arrested for allegedly murdering their daughter.It was revealed during the preliminary investigation that the parents had murdered their daughter by giving her some poisonous substance at night and to remove the evidence, they had cremated her in the wee hours, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-girl-killed-for-honour-331763
30-10-2021||---||Karnal: Cops booked for youth’s suicide||Karnal, October 29After the registration of a case against unidentified police personnel, an assurance of a job at DC rate and a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the family members of Mohit (18), who ended his life on Wednesday evening allegedly over the issuance of a challan of Rs 13,500, the family members took the body from the mortuary of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) on Friday evening.The family members along with BKU activists, relatives and community members had spent the night outside the mortuary, demanding action against the police personnel who allegedly harassed Mohit, a job to the family members and a compensation of Rs 25 lakh.They were assured by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia at a meeting.ADC Yogesh Kumar went to the mortuary and assured of the implementation of all the promises after which the family took the body for cremation.“We have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against the unidentified police personnel as the complainant did not name anyone. Names will be ascertained during the course of the investigation,” said SP Punia.“We will send a case on their demand of a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to the family to the Chief Minister,” said DC Yadav.Earlier, the family members received support from all sections of society when they reached outside the post-mortem house on Thursday evening. In the meanwhile, a BJP leader had to face opposition from the protesting people when he reached there.Mohit was a resident of Mangal Colony part-II and he worked in a mattress factory. Mohit’s father Jagdish Chand alleged that Mohit consumed some poisonous substance after his bike was impounded by the police and he was issued a challan of Rs 13,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-cops-booked-for-youths-suicide-331762
30-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Video clip not always useful to ascertain person’s absence: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29In a significant judgment on placing reliance on video clips to refute the presence of an accused at the time of the occurrence of an offence, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the CCTV footage or recording might be useful for ascertaining the presence of a person at the scene, but not his absence. The ocular version of the eyewitnesses, under the circumstances, could be of use to prove the presence of the accused.Ocular version of eyewitness handyThe ocular version of the eyewitnesses could be of use to prove the presence of the accused to re-enact crime scene. Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill, Punjab & Haryana HCTaking up a bunch of two petitions filed in connection with a murder case, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the High Court made it clear that the non-appearance of an accused in the video recording might be of no significance. Referring to a statement of a witness in the case in hand, Justice Gill observed it showed that she was video recording an alleged occurrence on her mobile phone, but was threatened by an accused not to go ahead. Apprehending the worse, the witness went inside a room along with her mobile phone.Justice Gill asserted the fact that the video recording did not show the presence of the accused might be insignificant, keeping in view the consistent statements of the residents of the locality and the fact that recording could not “always completely capture the entire area where some activities/action is going on as some persons/articles/portion would always be out of frame”.Justice Gill added: “While it may be said that the CCTV footage/video recording can be used for positive evidence for ascertaining the presence of a person at the place of incident, video recording/CCTV footage may not always be useful for negative evidence ie for discounting the presence of a person at the place of incident.”Elaborating on the reasons, Justice Gill asserted that the person at a given point of time may be out of the camera frame. Besides, some part of the occurrence may have taken place a little out of the camera frame. “In such cases, it is the ocular version of the eye-witnesses which would came in handy to re-enact the occurrence,” Justice Gill added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/video-clip-not-always-useful-to-ascertain-persons-absence-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-331761
30-10-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||13K applicants of family ID scheme untraced in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 29As many as 13,500 applicants of Parivaar Pehchan Patra (PPP) in the district are untraced. The district administration has launched a drive to verify the authenticity of such applicants. A total of over 5.69 lakh families have been issued PPP so far.A senior official of the district administration said that a large number of applicants of the PPP scheme have not been found on the address provided by them. He said that it had necessitated further verification as wrong addresses have given rise to doubts over the correctness of the applications itself.The details of the untraced applicants have come to light after the members of the Local Area Committee (LAC) set up for the purpose visited the addresses provided in the applications, it is learnt.Claiming that while 205 educated youths have been hired on temporary basis to involve them in the PPP verification drive, Satbir Maan, ADC, Faridabad, said that teams of such youths known as ‘Saksham Yuva’ were being trained to carry out the work in a proper manner.He said 335 youths against a monthly honorarium up to Rs 9,000 are proposed to be engaged for the drive, adding that a total of 1.8 lakh PPP applications have been found improper as these are unsigned and not updated. The applications would be processed further only after these are updated with signatures, he said.“Launched in July 2019, the primary objective of PPP is to create authentic, verified and reliable data of all the families and keeps the basic data in a digital format,” said ADC Maan.He said the eight digit family ID is linked to the birth, death and marriage records to ensure automatic updating of the data from time to time. The Family ID, he said, would be linked to existing schemes like scholarships, subsidies and pensions so as to ensure consistency and reliability and at the same time enabling automatic selection of beneficiaries. More than 90 per cent of the eligible families have already been covered under PPP, it is added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13k-applicants-of-family-id-scheme-untraced-in-faridabad-331759
30-10-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal farmers who have grown paddy in UP in a fix||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 29Hundreds of farmers of the district who have cultivated paddy in Uttar Pradesh are worried about their crop.They have harvested it, but they cannot bring it to the grain markets of the district due to restriction by the government.Admn abiding by govt’s directionsSo far, the government has imposed restrictions on purchase of paddy from other states. We are abiding by those directions. Gagandeep Singh, Zonal Administrator, HSAMBHarvested crop getting damagedI have harvested paddy crop on 25 acres, but haven’t been able to bring it to the mandi in Karnal due to the restrictions. Bagga Singh, a farmerA number of farmers tried to cross the border through Meerut road, but were sent back by the police as the PR varieties from other states are not allowed in the grain markets of the district on the directions of the government, the farmers alleged.Bagga Singh, a farmer and commission agent of Sector-5 who has his land in Sundernagar in Chausana in UP, said that he has harvested paddy crop on 25 acres, but he hasn’t been able to bring it to the mandi in Karnal due to restrictions by the government. “As the crop has been harvested, it is getting damaged day by day at home in UP,” he said.He said that he got his crop registered on Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal, but the e-kharid portal has not been opened for UP farmers.Similarly, Gurpreet Singh, a farmer of Karnal city, has already harvested paddy on 80 acres and has stored it in Shamli district. “The portal hasn’t been opened for UP farmers. We are not getting any message on when we have to bring our crop to which grain market in Haryana,” he said, adding that daily, several farmers try to cross the border through Meerut road, but are sent back by the police.“I demand that the government should open the portal and allow all farmers to bring their crop to any grain market of the district to fulfil the promise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that a farmer can sell his produce anywhere in the country,” said Sartaj Singh, a farmer of Karnal who along with his family had cultivated and harvested paddy of 32 acres in UP. The portal should be opened for farmers, he said.Gagandeep Singh, Zonal Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), said that so far, the government has imposed restrictions on purchase of paddy from other states. “We are abiding by those directions,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmers-who-have-grown-paddy-in-up-in-a-fix-331758
30-10-2021||---||Project at Jind village to tackle water woes||Jind, October 29In an effort to overcome water shortage, 50 acres of land in Barodi village have been demarcated by the administration on e-bhoomi portal to provide potable water to the residents of the Jind town.Rainwater was still in 50 villagesDue to heavy rains, rainwater remained still in the fields of about 50 villages. We have made arrangements for drainage. Naresh Narwal, Municipal Council DCAddressing a press conference in Jind today, Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal said the work to construct the waterworks would start soon after the completion of technical and official formalities for taking over the possession of the earmarked land. With the construction of the waterworks, Bhakra waters will be made available for domestic supply in the town.He said the administration was working on preparing an action plan for the development of the town, keeping in view the basic requirements of education, health, sports and child development.The Deputy Commissioner said the Municipal Council was carrying out a drive to make the town free of stray cattle. He said according to the government data, there were around 6,000 stray cattle in the town.When asked about the problem of waterlogging in many villages, the DC said: “Due to heavy rains in the past, the rainwater was still there in the fields of about 50 villages of the district. We have made arrangements for water drainage and except some villages, the situation is normal now,” he claimed.The DC also said that a special girdawari had been done in the district for the crops damaged due to rain so that the farmers could be compensated for the loss.He also mentioned about the record arrival of paddy procurement and said that till now more than 15 lakh quintals of paddy had been procured in the district by various agencies.Meanwhile, the district administration has come under criticism when local MLA of the BJP Krishan Middha alleged official apathy towards the basic facilities in the town while raising doubts of corruption in development works.Development to get boost with project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/project-at-jind-village-to-tackle-water-woes-331755
30-10-2021||---||Talks to open Tikri border inconclusive||Jhajjar, October 29A joint meeting of police officials of Jhajjar and Delhi, farmers and industrialists held in Bahadurgarh town here today over the opening of one side of the National Highway-9 (Rohtak-Delhi) at the Tikri border for vehicular traffic remained inconclusive as farmers raised objection over the district administration’s proposal of letting four-wheelers ply on the highway, citing security reasons.SAFETY RISKWe are ready to give 5-ft path to two-wheelers and ambulances to cross the Tikri border, but cannot allow opening up one side of the highway for four-wheelers, as it may pose a threat to safety of farmers. The issue will now be discussed at the SKM’s meeting on November 6 and till then, the border remains shut as usual. Buta Singh, farm leader“We are ready to give 5 feet path to two-wheelers and ambulances to cross the Tikri border, but cannot allow opening up one side of the highway for four-wheelers, as it may pose a threat to safety of the farmers who have been staying put along the highway for the past 11 months. The issue will now be discussed at the Samyukt Kisan Morch (SKM)’s meeting scheduled on November 6 and till then, the border remains shut as usual,” said Buta Singh, a farmer leader, after the meeting.He claimed that officials of Haryana and Delhi had different opinions over the issue. “The Delhi police do not want people from the Haryana side to enter Delhi from Tikri, but are ready to let people from the Delhi side enter Haryana while the Haryana officials want the opening of the highway from both sides,” he added.Singh maintained that farmers might insist on marching towards Delhi after the opening of the border, hence all these issues would be discussed at a proposed meeting of the SKM before allowing the authorities to open the border.Shyam Lal Punia, Deputy Commissioner, said the farmers were given the proposal of allowing only non-commercial vehicles on the highway, as a large number of people daily travel to Delhi in their cars, but they did not agree and sought time to discuss the proposal with the SKM.Police remove barricades at GhazipurNew Delhi: The Delhi Police on Friday started removing the barricades and concertina wires, which they had put in place at the anti-farm laws protest site at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/talks-to-open-tikri-border-inconclusive-331753
30-10-2021||Mahendragarh||Rewari Gangrape: 20-year rigorous imprisonment for all 3 convicts||A Narnaul court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Mona Singh today awarded 20-year rigorous imprisonment each to all three convicts, Nishu Phogat, Pankaj Fouzi and Manish, for raping a 19-year-old college girl in a village under the Kosli subdivision in Rewari district three years ago.Editorial: Rewari gangrape: Heinous crimes need deterrenceIt also slapped a penalty of Rs 20,000 each on them. As per the verdict, the victim would be given Rs 5 lakh compensation through the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA), said Karan Singh Yadav, advocate of the victim. The court held the trio guilty of committing the crime yesterday while five co-accused Sanjeev, Deen Dayal, Abhishek, Manjeet and Naveen were acquitted in the case.The case hogged media attention as the victim was Rewari district’s CBSE topper in matriculation. The crime was committed on September 12, 2018. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-gangrape-20-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-all-3-convicts-331581
30-10-2021||Hisar||3-way contest in Ellenabad, Abhay Singh Chautala eyes another victory||The Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Sirsa district is all set to witness a triangular contest in the bypoll tomorrow as Abhay Singh Chautala of the INLD, Gobind Kanda of the BJP and Pawan Beniwal of the Congress are being considered as main contenders of the 19 candidates in the fray.The bypoll was necessitated after Abhay resigned from the seat on January 27 over the three central farm laws. After winning the bypoll in 2010, Abhay retained the seat in 2014 and 2019.Gobind, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and MLA Gopal Kanda, had joined the BJP recently and has been fielded by the BJP-JJP combine. Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous Assembly poll against Abhay, recently switched to the Congress from the BJP.DC Anish Yadav said all arrangements were in place. He said of the 211 polling booths, 121 had been declared sensitive and hyper-sensitive. Hisar (range) IGP Rakesh Kumar Arya said 34 companies of paramilitary forces and Haryana Police had been deployed. — TNSTight security arrangements121 of 211 booths sensitive and hyper-sensitive34 companies of paramilitary and Haryana Police deployed1,85,873 voters, including 86,639 female||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-way-contest-in-ellenabad-abhay-singh-chautala-eyes-another-victory-331583
