August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Kovai photographer enters record books for clicking 67 forms of a butterfly species||When Darshan M Trivedi, a government employee from Coimbatore, developed a keen interest in photography, he never imagined in his wildest dream that he would one day hold a record for clicking the maximum number of patterns of a species of butterfly. He has a collection of over 7,000 pictures of butterflies, and also a name in the India Book of Records for capturing 67 different forms of a single butterfly species. Darshan, who moved to Coimbatore from Gujarat in 2013 for professional reasons, was inspired by the natural surroundings of the city to take up photography. He purchased a digital camera and pursued his hobby over the weekends. He says, “I used to visit the botanical garden at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University every Sunday for two years, where I would spot butterflies, dragonflies and birds in abundance. I met the head of The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS) and also got to know a bunch of people from the Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS). We had common interests and I started joining them on their nature trails. I became a member of the groups, too; we also support the forest department in keeping bird and butterfly census.” His butterfly walks would begin at 5am every Sunday and end by noon. “While I used to click all the species, the Common Evening Brown caught my fancy. A few species of butterflies have two forms — wet season form and dry season form. They change their pigmentation during different seasons. The wet season form of Common Evening Brown is common throughout India, but the dry season form depends on a lot of factors, including humidity and the surrounding environment. The colour pattern on the wings will be completely different during the dry season, and it’s called morphology. It also changes its form when it lays eggs, and it actually requires deep research to understand this phenomenon. I didn’t realise I had clicked so many patterns of the species until this February,” he recalls. When Darshan found out that he had over 50 different pattern designs and colours of the same butterfly, he decided to apply at India Book of Records. “In total, I had 67 different forms of the same species. So, I first showed my collection to the members of TNBS and CNS, who were intrigued. I then submitted my record to the India Book of Records. The officials asked for a recommendation from an environmental organisation and also asked me to provide them with the date and time when I clicked these pictures. In April, they confirmed that nobody in India has clicked these many forms of Common Evening Brown in the country. I received my certificate and medal in July,” he beams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-photographer-enters-record-books-for-clicking-67-forms-of-a-butterfly-species/articleshow/77290624.cms||Sidharthan Venkatramesh
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Heavy downpour irks commuters in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: A 15-minute heavy downpour inundated Secunderabad Cantonment area on Friday evening, causing massive traffic jams due to waterlogging on the main roads at Saibaba Colony, Marri Ramireddy colony and Sitharampuram Colony. Other main roads at certain areas in Karkhana, Trimulgherry and Bowenpally also slightly inundated and commuters have faced inconvenience. They criticised Cantonment Board officials’ apathy over attending the facelift of the damaged roads and pothole filling, before the onset of monsoon. Residents of abutting to a century-old Ramannakunta Lake at Bowenpally are in a panic, regarding overflowing of sewer water from this lake and inundating their houses, in case heavy rains occurred. “We are facing this problem during every rainy season and SCB authorities have turned blind to facelift the lake,” Chandra Reddy, a resident of Sitarampur Colony told TOI. Meanwhile, the SCB health and sanitation wing officials are closely monitoring water levels at Ramannakunta lake, Hastmathper lake and Tirimalagiri Lake, and taking precautionary measures, to avoid overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-heavy-downpour-irks-commuters-in-secunderabad/articleshow/77291937.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 1, 2020||Goa||After remarkable stint with Chennaiyin, Owen Coyle set to join Jamshedpur FC||PANAJI: After failing to make it to the top four for three successive seasons, Jamshedpur FC have now put all their trust in Owen Coyle, a coach who did the remarkable at Chennaiyin FC last season by steering the team to the final. Jamshedpur joined the Indian Super League (ISL) along with Bengaluru FC in 2017. But while Bengaluru have since then made it to the final twice, and won the title in 2019, the Tata-owned club have been left behind. Not that Jamshedpur didn’t try. The appointment of Steve Coppell – who lost the 2016 final with Kerala Blasters – seemed a step in the right direction, but neither he, nor two other coaches - Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo – have been able to make it to the all-important playoffs. "We have two coaches on the final shortlist and Owen Coyle is one of them. At this moment, I cannot confirm or deny anything. You know how it works during transfers. Unless someone signs on the line, the deal is not done," a club official told TOI early this week. Sources, however, confirmed that the former Burnley and Bolton Wanderers manager is convinced that his future lies at Jamshedpur and has settled for an attractive two-year deal. Coyle’s move to Jamshedpur will not go down well with Chennaiyin fans after he won their admiration with a remarkable turnaround last season. Taking over a team who were stuck at the bottom of the table with just five points and four goals in six matches under the title-winning John Gregory, he transformed them into a winning unit. Coyle did the unthinkable as he not only steered the team to the playoffs but also put it across league toppers and free-scoring FC Goa in the semifinals. Chennaiyin FC succumbed to the might of ATK, now ATK Mohun Bagan, in the final. Remarkably, he did all this with a midfield duo of two Indians. While every other coach in the league put their faith in foreigners, Coyle settled for Anirudh Thapa and Edwin Vanspaul, or Germanpreet Singh. "Jamshedpur FC are betting big on their coach this season and there’s no better candidate than Coyle at the moment. He’s proved himself in good measure last season with Chennaiyin FC and remains the safest bet. There is no reason to believe he cannot succeed at Jamshedpur," said another official who has been tracking the development. Jamshedpur have also consciously avoided signing contracts with foreign players without the coach’s approval. Spaniards Aitor Monroy and David Grande are the only international players to have an existing contract with Jamshedpur FC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-remarkable-stint-with-chennaiyin-owen-coyle-set-to-join-jamshedpur-fc/articleshow/77291854.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 1, 2020||India||57,000+ cases on Friday as July count tops 11 lakh||NEW DELHI: India recorded its single-day highest jump in Covid-19 cases with over 57,000 fresh infections on Friday, the last day of July, capping the deadliest month of the pandemic in the country that saw 11.1 lakh cases and 19,122 deaths. Cases in July were nearly 2.8 times the number recorded in the previous month, which had around 4 lakh cases. Likewise, fatalities in July were 1.6 times higher than the deaths recorded in June (11,988). As the pandemic continued to surge, the second half of July saw around 7.3 lakh new infections, nearly twice the number reported in the first half. Coronavirus pandemic live updatesFourth straight day of daily cases above 50,000The death toll in the second half of July was over 11,600, nearly 60% of the month’s total count. On Friday, 57,151 fresh cases were reported in the country, taking the total caseload to 16,94,918, as per data collated from state governments. This was the fourth straight day of daily cases above 50,000. The toll too stayed above 750 for the fourth day running, with 766 deaths reported on Friday. Read AlsoDelhi: Second sero survey from today, 15k samples targetedNEW DELHI: The second round of the serological survey in the capital will begin on Saturday, with the authorities targeting to cover nearly 15,000 people to analyse the prevalence of antibodies in Delhiites in different districts. The tests will have to be completed by August 7. All arrangementsAndhra Pradesh reported 10,376 new cases, higher than Maharashtra’s count (10,320) for the second time in the past three days. With this, Andhra Pradesh has recorded 10,000-plus cases on three successive days. The state’s overall caseload crossed 1.4 lakh as it overtook Delhi to take the third position among states with the highest cumulative cases, behind Maharashtra (4.2 lakh) and Tamil Nadu (nearly 2.5 lakh). Andhra was also among eight states that recorded their highest single-day jump in cases on Friday. The others were Uttar Pradesh (4,453 new cases), Bihar (2,986), Bengal (2,496), Assam (2,112), Telangana (1,986), Kerala (1,310) and Punjab 665. A day after Maharashtra added the highest number of Covid-19 cases, the state’s tally dropped marginally to 10,320 on Friday, its third highest addition so far. This is the second day in a row that the state has added over 10,000 cases. Active cases in the state crossed the 1.5-lakh mark. Watch 57,000+ cases on Friday as tally count crosses 16 lakhs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/57000-cases-on-friday-as-july-count-tops-11-lakh/articleshow/77293702.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||Monsoon 10% deficient in July, driest in 5 years||NEW DELHI: After a wet start to the season in June, the southwest monsoon stuttered in July. The month ended with a countrywide monsoon deficit of 10%, making it the driest July in five years, as most parts of northwest and central India received poor rains during the month. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department, the country’s official weather agency, updated its monsoon forecast for the second half of the season on Friday, which pointed to the possibility of heavy rains in September. IMD said the second half of the monsoon season (August-September) is likely to see rainfall at 104% of the long period average (which means rains are expected to be 4% above normal). For August, the agency said rainfall could be 97% of LPA. “September is likely to get heavy rainfall as La Nina conditions are expected to develop in the Pacific, which generally aids the Indian summer monsoon. Overall, the monsoon is expected to be normal,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD chief. Last year, India had experienced its wettest September since 1917, leading to floods in many parts of the country. At the halfway stage of the current season, the monsoon is neither in deficit nor in surplus. June had a rain surplus of nearly 18% while July, normally the wettest month of the year in India, ended with a 10% deficit. Low-pressure system didn’t form in JulyIMD’s forecast update does not preclude the possibility of above-normal rainfall in the second half of the season. “The probabilistic forecast suggests rainfall over the country during the second half will most likely be normal (94-106% of LPA). However, the probability of above normal rainfall (106% of LPA) is also higher than the corresponding climatological probability,” the forecast states. IMD had predicted normal rainfall in July at 103% of LPA. Officials said the absence of any low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal depressed the monsoon. “Not a single low-pressure system formed in the Bay during July. Normally, three to four such systems form during July, which then move inland over the eastern coast, bringing rain to central India and the north. Also, the monsoon trough remained close to the Himalayan foothills for long periods, which is not conducive for rainfall,” said D Sivananda Pai, head of IMD’s long range forecasting. Watch India faces 10% monsoon deficient in July, driest in 5 years: IMD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-10-deficient-in-july-driest-in-5-years/articleshow/77294003.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
August 1, 2020||Business||Apple vendors, Samsung line up for mobile production||NEW DELHI: Taiwanese giants Foxconn, Wistron and Pegatron — contract manufacturers for Apple and other electronics makers such as Xiaomi — along with Samsung have submitted applications for the government’s ambitious Rs 41,000-crore production-linked incentive scheme (PLI) for mobile phone manufacturing in India, while homegrown Lava, Dixon Electronics, Karbonn, Optiemus Infracom, and Micromax have also evinced interest. But Chinese manufacturers, such as Oppo and Vivo are said to have refrained from joining the fray amid recent tension due to the LAC standoff in Ladakh, resulting in investment checks on companies from the neighbouring country. Companies that submitted their proposals by the deadline on Friday are promising fresh investments and jobs in the Indian electronics manufacturing space as the government looks to boost local production over the next few years, not just to reduce imports but also to turn the country into a production hub for exports. “We have received a strong response and hope to finalise the winners – who will be positioned as champion companies in the mobile phone manufacturing – very soon,” a highly-placed source told TOI. Read AlsoGovernment licenses TV imports to support local productionIn a move aimed at promoting domestic manufacturing, the government on Thursday decided to license the import of fully-built televisions sets by putting them on the “restricted” list. The move will make it difficult for shipments worth Rs 7,000 crore coming in from China, Vietnam, Malaysia and otherFoxconn had submitted two applications – under Hon Hai Precision and Rising Star. Similarly, on the Indian side, Dixon Electronics and Lava have submitted two applications. An empowered committee (EC), which includes NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, and other senior officers, including secretaries for IT, economic affairs secretary, expenditure, revenue and industry apart from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) will now consider the applications, as found eligible by a project management agency under the scheme. Telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said that the scheme, that would provide incentives of 4-6% on incremental sales over the base year of 2019-20, is aimed at giving a fillip to the government’s flagship Make-in-India programme and the recently launched Atmanirbhar Bharat. These companies will create 3 lakh direct while close to 9 lakh indirect jobs. The benchmark for international comp… https://t.co/f9RR613S7c— ANI (@ANI) 1596269932000The government plans to select five Indian companies and five international giants for the scheme, and these would be positioned as the engines that would promote the growth of Indian mobile phone manufacturing not only within the country, but at the global level. The idea of the scheme is to position India as a strong competitive manufacturing base when compared to countries such as China and Vietnam, which have so far been attracting massive investments. Read AlsoAfter ban on 59 Chinese apps, government blocks 47 moreThe government has banned 47 more Chinese apps which are apparently clones of the 59 applications banned earlier, news agency PTI reported on Monday. The IT ministry said the apps have been banned because they are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of India. The banned apps“The enthusiasm towards this ‘champion policy’ will see India surging towards global leadership in mobile phone manufacturing and exports,” Pankaj Mahindroo, Chairman of India Cellular & Electronics Association, said. The recent tensions between China and the US, which have escalated after the coronavirus outbreak, are also seen as an opportunity to attract global investments. Foxconn has already earmarked fresh investments of up to $1 billion in India for boosting the manufacturing for Apple, while Pegatron has just entered and is lining up new investments. The companies are seen to be reducing their dependence on China. According to industry estimates, mobile manufacturing companies have the potential to get an incentive of around Rs 7,500 crore if they scale up production by about Rs 1.5 lakh crore over the next five years under the PLI scheme. The government expects to generate a cumulative manufacturing revenue potential of Rs 10 lakh crore through the PLI scheme and other ones such as those promoting electronics clusters and component manufacturing, ministry officials said. Watch Apple vendors, Samsung line up for mobile production||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/apple-vendors-samsung-line-up-for-mobile-production/articleshow/77294254.cms||Pankaj Doval
August 1, 2020||India||UPA was victim of ‘sabotage’ by ex-CAG Vinod Rai: Manish Tewari||NEW DELHI: A day after Rahul Gandhi loyalists in Congress charged that UPA-II was responsible for the fall in party fortunes post-2014, Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari strongly defended the UPA government saying it was a victim of internal sabotage via the then CAG Vinod Rai who gave a “fake report on 2G”. “Was UPA responsible for decline in fortunes of Congress in 2014 is a valid question — must be gone into? Equally valid is was UPA sabotaged from within? 2019 defeat must also be analysed. No charge against UPA has stood the test of law six years on,” he tweeted. “…. ex CAG Vinod Rai and his fraudulent 2G report. What would be interesting to find out someday is not that the report was FAKE but who set him to it,” he added. The claim came in the backdrop of a clash between party functionaries over what was behind the continuing slide in Congress popularity with people. Young MP Rajeev Satav said any review will have to go back to the UPA-II. He argued that performance of the Congress-led government and neglect of organisation after 2009 had saddled the party with negatives which continued to hobble it. Tewari told TOI that all-round transformative changes in social sector brought in by UPA were responsible for the uplift of the poor and they should not be lost sight of. Watch UPA was victim of ‘internal sabotage’: Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/upa-was-victim-of-sabotage-by-ex-cag-vinod-rai-manish-tewari/articleshow/77294353.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||Rajasthan Congress shifts MLAs to Jaisalmer to ‘prevent poaching’||JAIPUR: Fearing poaching by its dissident group and the opposition BJP, Rajasthan Congress on Friday shifted its MLAs from a luxury hotel in the city, where they had been staying for the past 19 days, to another luxury resort in Jaisalmer. They were flown in three charter planes making five flights between 1pm and 6pm. The legislators will stay in Jaisalmer until the assembly session begins on August 14 even as the ministers remain in Jaipur to attend to their official duties. The new arrangement will be flexible, with the movement of ministers being permitted between the two cities on a rotation basis over the next fortnight. "It is important to save the government. You are witnessing how the government of India and its department (home) are after us. The people of Rajasthan are supporting us," chief minister Ashok Gehlot said at Jaipur airport before flying to Jaisalmer with the last batch of MLAs on Friday evening. "I repeatedly name home minister Amit Shah because he remains at the forefront in toppling governments, be it in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Manipur or Arunachal Pradesh. I would ask him — what has happened to you Amit Shahji? Day and night, sleeping or awake, you think of toppling governments. If elected governments keep falling like this, how will democracy survive in the country?" said Gehlot. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi accompanied the CM. Gehlot and some ministers were expected to return late on Friday, while others might return after the three-day government holiday on Tuesday. Even as some MLAs said they were moving out to break the monotony of being in the Jaipur hotel since July 13, minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the shifting was part of Gehlot’s strategy to ensure that not a single legislator breaks out of the fold. Gazi Fakir, a religious leader and father of minority affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, not only holds sway in Jaisalmer but is also a trusted man of Gehlot, prompting the party to see it as a "safe" location. Being closer to the international border, the district already has stricter regulations in place to check movement and communication modes. Referring to alleged poaching efforts by the rival camp, Gehlot said once the governor announced the date for convening the assembly session, legislators and their families started receiving phones calls with "threats and pressures". "What will happen to the nation if money ranging from Rs 10-15 crore to an unlimited amount is offered for horse-trading of MLAs. The MLAs were going through mental agony. They will not have to go through this in Jaisalmer," said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-congress-shifts-mlas-to-jaisalmer-to-prevent-poaching/articleshow/77294568.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Four COVID tests in 48 days: Students chronicle their evacuation journey from Italy to Kolkata||Even a few months ago, the virus was just an intriguing piece of news from faraway lands that unassumingly dropped in their conversations. Little did Debodeep Banerjee and Trina Sahoo, both students of data science at the Sapienza University of Rome, know of the coronavirus outbreak and its impact when they decided to go on a trip to Florence on February 21, after their first semester. Their journey back to Kolkata from Italy turned out to be one nightmarish roller-coaster ride. It took them a journey of 48 days and four COVID-19 tests — all negatives — to finally reach home to their families. Recalling how it all started, Debodeep said, “When we went to Florence with our friends, things were pretty normal. We were aware about China, but there was no alarm in Italy. On February 23, I suddenly got a call from my flatmate, who insisted that I return as soon as possible. He informed me that there was a surge in COVID-19 positive cases in Milan and the area was under lockdown. We headed back immediately.” Even then, there was no rush for them to get back to Kolkata. Recalling her ordeal, Trina said, “It was on March 8, when suddenly the ministry declared a countrywide lockdown and we got very scared. By the time I wanted to buy tickets to get back to Kolkata, the airfare skyrocketed. Soon, India imposed a travel ban and my chances of going back home started appearing bleak. Our parents were also very tensed.” Elaborating on the lockdown scene in Rome, Debodeep said, “While every shop, barring the essentials, was shut down, we could see trams and buses plying on the roads. However, there were no passengers.” In the next few days, the Indian Embassy in Rome took the students on an evacuation mission to India. “That was the first time I took the test. Many tested positive. Only the students who tested negative were flown back to New Delhi. We were not taken close to the airport. We were asked to disembark on the runway, then taken to a makeshift immigration office to stamp our passports and moved to Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp, Chawla — the quarantine centre. There, despite showing a negative result after 14 days, we had to take another test and another phase of quarantine because there was a positive case on another floor,” Trina said. Almost 95% of the passengers from the evacuation drive were students. “We hired a car. We had all the documents ready as we embarked on the road trip to Kolkata and never wanted to take another test," said Debodeep. However, things didn't go as planned. "After crossing UP and Bihar, we were stopped at the last police station of Jharkhand border before entering Bengal. We were told that we couldn’t enter without taking another test at the border. We had to put up in a hotel and went for another test the next day and waited till the reports came. Later, the Asansol cops dropped us home. I must say, the experience that we gathered during the trip is priceless,” said Debodeep. Meanwhile Debodeep and Trina have no idea when or how they will get back to Italy. "In February, we were told to expect a complete shutdown of the university. And it did shut down in no time. Now, we are doing online classes. We have to wait till everything settles down. I'm sure that day will come soon," Trina said with a hint of hope in her voice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-covid-tests-in-48-days-students-chronicle-their-evacuation-journey-from-italy-to-kolkata/articleshow/77294588.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||June Aunty in isolation after father tested Covid positive||Ushashie Chakraborty, aka June Aunty of Sreemoyee, is under isolation after her father, politician Shyamal Chakraborty, was tested Covid positive. Septuagenarian Shyamal was shifted from a north Kolkata Nursing home to a Covid hospital on Thursday. He was initially admitted with respiratory trouble. Meanwhile, Ushashie, who admitted her father and was with him during this period, went into self isolation for at least 10 days. According to sources, she is constantly in touch with doctor. Ushashie is currently working in Sreemoyee as an important character, June aunty. How will the team cope? The maker, Leena Gangopadhya said, “It shouldn’t be a problem. Ushashie has sought leave for her father’s health. Now that he is tested positive, she has to be in isolation. Our shooting will go on as per usual schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/june-aunty-in-isolation-after-father-tested-covid-positive/articleshow/77294635.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gyms add sanitization charges to membership fee||KOLKATA: Battered and bruised by the pandemic, several gym-owners are staring at high monthly expenses for sanitization activities when they reopen next week. Some have already revised membership fees, adding a new head — sanitization charge. “There has been zero revenue in the last four months and even when we reopen, we will have to invest heavily on sanitization on a daily basis, which will be difficult for us to pay all by ourselves. Hence, we have decided to charge a sanitization fee from the members and in exchange of the payment, there will be token gifts — a high-quality mask and a bottle of sanitizer,” said Tuhin Bhattacharya, partner-director of Core Gym. Gyms at Sector V rue that the extra expense on deep cleaning and fogging, apart from regular sanitization, will hurt them further as they do not see a large number of members back soon because most of them are IT professionals who are now working from home. “There will be additional expense of at least Rs 20,000 a month for sanitization after a huge first-time expense is borne. There will be a meeting of gym owners on Sunday to discuss the modalities of these additional costs and fresh set of rules and guidelines will be drawn up,” said Saptarshi Mandi of Aventus Fitness. Though the health ministry-prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for gyms and yoga centres are yet to come out, most have devised a set of SOPs by their own and have started taking necessary measures, that includes spacing of equipment, dividing members into multiple time slots and heavy sanitization. “We will allow a maximum of 10 people in a 1000 square feet space. Gyms that are bigger will proportionately increase the numbers they will allow at a time,” said Tapas Maity, who runs six gyms in the city. “We have formed WhatsApp groups of our members and are giving them appointments so that there is no clash and extra numbers do not land up at the same time. We will not allow anyone to spend more than an hour,” he added. Even on the gym floor, members will be spread out into different “groups” doing different regimen. Every alternate treadmill will be empty. “We have been told that we will be given which exercise set will be rationed for which day,” said Satyendra Prasad, a gym member at Upohar.  “We have told our clients to bring their own towels and water bottles, so that there is minimal chance of infection,” said Ajay Sarkar, lifestyle trainer of Soul Fitness at New Town and Yogam at Salt Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gyms-add-sanitization-charges-to-membership-fee/articleshow/77291490.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 1, 2020||Patna||13 doctors in Bihar die of Covid-19 in 18 days||PATNA: The coronavirus has claimed the lives of 13 doctors, including Samastipur civil surgeon Dr RR Jha, in Bihar so far. And, they all died within 18 days in July itself, raising concern in the medical fraternity. The doctors who died in Bihar had an average age of around 67 years. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said they have requested the government many times to exempt doctors above 60 years from handling Covid-19 cases and allow those above 65 years to provide services from home. “But no decision has been taken yet,” he said Dr Sunil. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar alleged that the PPE kit provided in government hospitals were of very low quality. “Even the team from the centre which had visited NMCH earlier disapproved of the quality of PPE kit. Government must provide safety gears to doctors,” said Dr Ajay. State IMA former president Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said elderly doctors should be used in other works, like in emergency wards or taking care of old-aged patients. He also said health workers should be tested for Covid-19 periodically. The first doctor to succumb to the virus was Dr Ashwani Nandkuliyar from Gaya on July 13. He was 58. Noted ENT specialist Dr NK Singh died the next day. Dr Singh (69) was involved in sample collection at PMCH. The 70-year-old Dr Kalyan Kumar died on July 20, followed by Dr Jha and Dr GN Shah (70) from Araria on July 22. Three doctors died on July 24, including Dr Awadhesh Prasad Singh, who used to charge only Rs50 as a fee from patients. Others who died that day were Dr Mahendra Choudhary and Dr Mithilesh Kumar Singh. Dr D N Choudhary (65) of Munger died on July 25. Four doctors died on July 30, including Dr Nagendra Prasad from East Champaran and Dr K Rajan of Jehanabad. Both were government doctors. The third one was retired Dr (major) AK Singh. Dental surgeon Dr Govind Prasad died the same day. All the 13 doctors, except one, died at AIIMS-Patna. Its nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 22 to 25 doctors were already undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. “Every day, two to four doctors are admitted here. One doctor of IGIMS was admitted on Thursday. So far, more than 70 doctors have been admitted at our hospital,” he said and added that over 40 nurses, lab technicians and paramedics were also admitted there after testing positive for Covid-19. Apart from doctors, three lab technicians also died due to Covid-19 in Bihar. They were Shiv Kumar in his late 30s from Chhapra, Pramod Kumar from Buxar and Faqre Alam of Patna. They were working on contract. Bihar Anubandhit Lab Technician Evam Paramedical Karamchari Sangh president Surjeet Kumar said more than 30 of his colleagues have been infected with coronavirus. “We are paid around Rs 32,000/month only for fighting the virus from the front. Neither has any incentive been given nor has our demand to conduct interviews and make us permanent has been fulfilled. Just calling us warriors will not help our family members after we die. What will happen to our families?” asked Surjeet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-doctors-in-bihar-die-of-covid-19-in-18-days/articleshow/77290250.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||From locked-down Presidency College campus, students upload slices of history||A durwan at Presidency College gave up his life defending the college during the April riots of 1926. The students, staff and public installed a plaque in his memory. A group of students grieved by the passing of a classmate in September 1924 decided to install a plaque in his memory. Robert Henry Halfard, appointed to teach at the college in May 1940, was so fond of using long words — and probably not a big believer of exercise — that, when asked by the head of another institution to preside over a prize distribution ceremony, he declined saying, “I am a vegetable being, averse to locomotion.” Students of third-year English and other humanities departments in Presidency University have sought out the history of the numerous plaques, paintings and monuments, documenting the stories and interpreting the legacy of the 203-year-old institution. While some of these reflect the global reach of Presidency, others depict the teacher-student bond. “The statues and plaques at Presidency University are gateways into the past, as well as a call to read history in infinitely many ways. The statues and plaques — many of them of individuals who came from distant lands and left their mark on the institution — are proof of the global reach of the then Hindu College,” said Sourav Chattopadhyay, project leader and student of UG III, English. The digital archive, available online, is an attempt to tell these stories, most of which trace their origin to the Colonial past. The project leaders also stumbled upon something interesting in terms of gender index in the college which allowed women students only in 1944. The first woman professor joined in 1959. “We found no commemoration of the history of women’s presence on campus,” said Sohini Sengupta, project leader and student of UG III, English. Some of the earliest plaques on the campus were designed by P Swaries & Company, with offices at 69, Bentinck Street. They were famous for organizing funeral services. Gravestones designed by them can still be found in the Scottish Cemetery and the Greek Cemetery. “The many plaques, paintings and statues in Presidency have rich stories to tell about the university and the history of Bengal. The Presidency Plaques Project (PPP) takes one on a journey back in time that is nevertheless important for appreciating our present,” Souvik Mukherjee, assistant professor and head of the department, English, writes in the foreword.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-locked-down-presi-campus-students-upload-slices-of-history/articleshow/77291552.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 1, 2020||Business||SBI Q1 net profit jumps 81% to Rs 4,189cr||Mumbai: SBI reported a net profit of Rs 4,189 crore for the quarter ended June 2020 — an increase of 81% over the Rs 2,312-crore profit it recorded in the year-ago period. The better-than-expected profit resulted in the bank’s share price gaining 3% on Friday even as the sensex closed in the red. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said about 9.5% of the bank’s borrowers by value had opted for the moratorium. Kumar said the bank’s efforts at making provisions quarter after quarter have paid off and there were no large stressed borrowers that it would have to provide for. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of the total advances declined to 5.4% at June-end, from 7.5% in the previous year. Net NPAs also declined to 1.8% in June 2020 compared to 3% a year ago. “It is safe to presume that, as on June 30, SBI is asymptomatic and has built good immunity,” Kumar said, referring to the bank’s preparedness to deal with stress arising out of the Covid-19 economic crisis. He said the moratorium portfolio was not entirely a reflection of stress among borrowers as, out of the 9.5% of borrowers that sought to defer payments, 2% were AA- and AAA-rated corporates that wanted to preserve cash. Retail borrowers made up 4.2% and the remaining 3.3% were private companies. The bank saw an exceptional 16% surge in deposits to Rs 34.2 lakh crore from Rs 29.5 lakh crore in the previous year. This is nearly a fourth of the total deposits in the country. In the April-June quarter, the lender added fresh deposits of over Rs 1.8 lakh crore, which is equivalent to the entire deposit base of smaller banks. Loan growth was sluggish with year-on-year growth in advances at less than 8%. The bank’s loan book stood at Rs 23 lakh crore. Kumar said there were opportunities to lend with proposals for Rs 1-lakh-crore worth project loans. He added that although the bank had taken approval to raise Rs 20,000-crore equity capital, it had not decided on when to hit the market. “SBI delivered a sturdy show at the core in Q1 FY21, characterised by robust net interest income growth, resilient fee performance, restricted cost growth and prudent utilisation of higher operating and treasury income towards augmenting provision coverage on NPAs and the standard portfolio,” said Yes Securities lead analyst Rajiv Mehta. He added that a key positive surprise was the substantial expansion of margins driven by a sharp fall in the cost of deposits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-q1-net-profit-jumps-81-to-rs-4189cr/articleshow/77292589.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Business||India biggest country for Amazon in investments||Bengaluru: India is the biggest country for Amazon’s new investments even as the Seattle-based tech giant has accelerated its push for Prime benefits for subscribers, according to company chief financial officer Brian Olsavsky. The development comes at a time when the e-commerce major has swung into quarterly profits of $345 million for the first time in its international business (which includes India) in the last five years, led by a pickup in demand. A year ago during the quarter ending in June, Amazon’s overseas business saw a loss of $601 million. Net sales grew by 38% to over $22 billion for the same period. “What’s going on internationally is we have some very healthy established countries that we’ve been in a long time. And we have probably accelerated their adoption of Prime benefits,” Olsavsky said during a call with analysts. Prime subscribers globally get access to a next-day to a two-day delivery, its streaming platform and deals on products. Globally, it has over 150 million Prime subscribers. Amazon does not disclose country-wise break up of Prime subscribers. “But what you also see are investments in new countries. Obviously, India is the biggest one, but also, to a lesser extent, the Middle East, Brazil, Turkey and Australia are recent additions. So there’s always an element of expansion going on there,” he added. Olsavsky did not give out investment numbers and Amazon India did not comment on it either. The local arm of the Seattle-based e-tailer has invested $7 billion and committed another $1 billion earlier this year to digitise small businesses. In India, it has now more than doubled the number of local or kirana stores on its platform to 11,000 since the launch in April. “I think what’s great about a place — all geographies with a place like India — is we’re really focused on digitising the Indian sellers,” said David Fildes, director of investor relations at Amazon. To capitalise on the momentum, the company now aims to clock 4 times the daily sales volume in India in the upcoming Prime Day event, according to Amazon’s brief to merchants. While it has postponed Prime Day globally, it will hold the sale event next month as order volumes are on the rise. Globally, Amazon saw record sales of $89 billion during the quarter along with a record quarterly profit of over $5 billion as the pandemic accelerated e-commerce sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-biggest-country-for-amazon-in-investments/articleshow/77292813.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Varanasi||‘Angvastram’ being sent to PM for ‘bhoomi pujan’||Varanasi: An ‘angvastram’ (stole) is being sent for Prime Minister Narendra Modi from his parliamentary constituency for the special occasion when he would be laying the foundation stone of Ram Mandir at Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya on August 5. A master weaver of GI-tagged Banarasi saree, Bachchelal Maurya, has prepared the silken stole with calligraphy inscription’ Jai Shri Ram, Ayodhya Pavitradham’ and an image of ‘dhanush’ (bow). GI expert and president of Human Welfare Association (WHA) Dr. Rajni Kant handed over the stole to divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal on Thursday with a request to send it to chief minister Yogi Adityanath so that it could be presented to the PM during ‘bhoomi pujan’ (foundation laying ceremony) at Ayodhya. The stole, which took 15 days to be made, was prepared under the guidance of Kant. The weaver, Mayura, of Chhahi village prepared the 22x72 stole using calligraphy technique with yellow ‘tana’ and red ‘bana’. “The logo of GI (Geographical Indication) has also been inscribed on it,” said Kant, adding, “We have urged the commissioner to send it to the chief minister so that it can be presented to the PM.” “I am happy that I got an opportunity to prepare the ‘angvastram’ for the PM for special occasion of foundation laying ceremony of Ram Mandir,” said Maurya, who had also prepared similar gift items for the PM and other distinguished persons in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/angvastram-being-sent-to-pm-for-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77292588.cms||Binay Singh
August 1, 2020||Madurai||‘Exempt Aug 2 from lockdown for Adiperukku’||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI), has urged the Tamil Nadu government to give an exception to the complete lockdown on Sunday (August 2), as it falls on one of the auspicious day of Adiperukku, which is celebrated by people and trade organisations. In a statement, president of the chamber, N Jegatheesan and senior president S Rethinavelu said Aadiperukku is an important auspicious day for manufacturing units across the state, which had remained closed due to the lockdown. They had proposed to restart business on this day with special pujas and rituals. General public are also planning to offer worship on this day, hence relaxation should be given from complete lockdown on this day. This would not affect the coronavirus prevention and control activities of the state. They also urged the chief minister to do away with e-passes for travel within the state. People would not travel to high-risk areas where there is a high case load. They are also well aware of the standard operating procedures and would follow them, they said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/exempt-aug-2-from-lockdown-for-adiperukku/articleshow/77293234.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Swollen Burhi Gandak wreaks havoc in Samastipur||Samastipur/Darbhanga/Bagaha/Motihari/Khagaria/Sitamarhi: Swollen rivers continued to wreak havoc in 14 north Bihar districts on Friday as lakhs of people struggled to meet their daily needs. In Samastipur, the water level of Burhi Gandak has been rising day by day. The water level crossed red line by rising 2.56 metres above it on Friday. DM Shashank Shubhankar said water level of Burhi Gandak is nearing the mark of the worst-flood that had happened in the Samastipur area in 1987. The water level currently stands at 48.29 metres. It is being said that the river has more water this time than the floods in 2017 and earlier. Fresh rainfall on Thursday added to the woes of flood victims. Flood water entered houses in Sirsiya village in the river belt of Hasanpur. Sirsiya Dam and Rahmani Mosque were proving to be the main refuge for flood victims. In the Belsandi panchayat of Bithan block, nearly 15 houses collapsed. In Kalyanpur block, due to increased water level of Bagmati river, several villages have been affected. In Darbhanga, altogether 186 panchayats spread over 14 blocks of the district are under floodwaters. According to officials in disaster management department, 16.29 lakh families from 809 villages have been affected. Altogether 530 community kitchens are being run to feed 1.93 lakh people. In West Champaran, engineers of water resources department at Pipara-Piparasi embankment and Valmikinagar MLA Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Rinku Singh had to face the ire of villagers when they reached the embankment on Friday to take stock of the situation. The irate villagers threw muddy water on the face of the MLA and shouted ‘go back’ slogans. The agitators were angry because of delayed arrival of the MLA. A police tam reached the spot along with engineers and pacified the agitators. In East Champaran, turbulent Gandak showed a receding trend on Friday, but the situation deteriorated in 250 villages under 15 blocks. ADM and district disaster management incharge said floodwaters of Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Lalbakeya and its tributaries have inundated 250 villages and affected seven lakh people in the district. Around 62,000 marooned people have been evacuated and nearly 40,000 displaced people were taking shelter on embankments and other safer places in 15 blocks since last 10 days. Altogether 90 boats, including eight motor boats and 31 government boats, have been pressed into rescue and relief operations. In Khagaria, swollen Kosi and Bagmati rivers entered more villages, submerging large swatches of cultivable land and damaging standing crops over hundreds of acres of land. The daily flood bulletin issued by the district administration on Friday stated that floodwaters have inundated at least 95 villages in 36 panchayats, affecting 80,900 people. Altogether seven community kitchens are running in the flood-affected areas where 7,288 people are being fed. In Sitamarhi, reduction in intensity of rainfall in the last 36 hours has eased flood situation. Major rivers, such as Bagmati, Lalbakeya, Jhim, Rato, Marar, Marha, Adhawara group and Lakhandei are showing receding trend. The road connectivity between Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi-Sheohar have not been restored yet as floodwaters are flowing above them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/swollen-burhi-gandak-wreaks-havoc-in-samastipur/articleshow/77290962.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Cong flays K’taka government for lapses in Covid management||Mysuru/ Karwar: Congress legislators H P Manjunath, Yathindra Siddaramaiah and R Dharmasena on Friday criticised the state and the Union governments for their alleged failure to contain Covid-19. Speaking to reporters here, they condemned the governments for not releasing one-time cash relief that was announced for auto drivers and others in the unorganised sector who have been during the lockdown. Hunsur MLA Manjunath took strong objection to the “poor functioning” of the district administration with regard to Covid-19 management. Varuna MLA Yathindra expressed his displeasure for promulgating an ordinance on Land Reforms Act, bringing amendment to APMC Act and privatisation of power sector, saying they are not in the interest of farmers. MLC hints at huge scam The BJP government in Karnataka has taken corruption to another level in its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, alleged MLC BK Hariprasad here on Friday. Participating in the ‘Speak Up, Karnataka’, Hariprasad questioned the lack of coordination between the various departments in the government, and the ministers in tackling of the crisis. The MLC questioned the state government’s silence on allegations of irregularities in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other healthcare accessories in the fight against the pandemic. Accusing the ministers of the BJP and legislators of swindling funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore, Hariprasad sought a detailed probe into these allegations. He further accused the central and state governments of looting the money in the PM’s Covid Care Fund. “Why has the government asked private tempos, trucks to pay road tax and insurance although they have not been plying for the past four months?” he asked. Questioning the silence of Anna Hazare, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Pondicherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, who had led the anti-corruption movement at the turn of the decade, on the scam, he said, “They were outsourced by the BJP to discredit the then UPA government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cong-flays-ktaka-government-for-lapses-in-covid-management/articleshow/77289306.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of civic polls, Ambala City MC to have 20 wards||Jaskaran Singh | TNN Ambala: Haryana government urban local bodies department (ULBD) on Thursday notified 20 wards of Ambala City municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday. In July 2019, Ambala Sadar municipal council (MC) was separated from the MC and 12 villages were added to the jurisdiction of the civic body to maintain its eligibility as a corporation. General elections of the Ambala City MC have been due for over an year now. Under the ULBD notification, out of 20 seats at the notified wards of Ambala city MC, seven are reserved for women candidates with two women of scheduled caste (SC) category, five for SC, two for backward class (BC) and six for general category. Punjab and Haryana high court advocate and legal analyst Hemant Kumar said, “According to the notification issued by ULBD on Wednesday, under the relevant sub-sections of Section 11 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Rule 3 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Ward Delimitation Rules, 1994, there will be a total of 20 wards in Ambala City MC.” The ULBD notification states that the population of Ambala City MC is 3,03,850, of which the SC population is 71,940. Rules make it mandatory for the MC to have a minimum population of 3 lakh. Due to this, after the removal of Ambala Sadar zone from the city MC last year, Dangdeari, Nizampur, Manakpur, Lohgarh, Kalu Majra, Liharsa, Ghel Kalan, Ghel Khurd, Kanwala and Kanwali, Devi Nagar and Dadiana villages were included in the MC. In March 2020, ULBD notified 31 wards in Ambala Sadar Zone municipal council and the population was shown to be about 1.5 lakh. Hemant said after notification of 20 wards in Ambala City MC, exercise of delimitation (warding) of these wards will begin and after that, limits of all the above wards will be fixed. Their draft (format) will be published in a gazette notification. “As per rules, after the draft of delimitation is prepared, notices will be issued to the public to register their objections with the Ambala deputy commissioner. People can send their objections through the Ambala deputy commissioner to the administrative secretary or director-general of ULBD within 10 days of publication of the delimitation draft. After considering objections, the final delimitation of the ward will be notified,” said Hemant. On which of the 20 wards would be reserved for women, SC or BC, he said they will be selected by a draw system and a notification will be issued. “After this process, the state election commission will start the process of conducting the general election. It may take up to six months to complete the whole process,” said Hemant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ahead-of-civic-polls-ambala-city-mc-to-have-20-wards/articleshow/77291739.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||DGP: Mumbai cops urged to cooperate||PATNA: DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Friday said the Mumbai counterparts had been requested to provide facilities to the Patna police team, which is there to investigate Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case. Sushant’s father K K Singh has lodged an FIR with Rajeev Nagar police station against actress Rhea Chakraborty and his family members of abetting Sushant to commit suicide and his unlawful confinement, cheating and criminal conspiracy. Pandey was replying to a question that why Patna police team was not even provided transportation facilities in Mumbai as surfaced in the videos and photographs. The Patna police team members were seen hiring and moving in an autorickshaw as Mumbai police allegedly did not extend necessary support to the team for carrying out investigation. Sources said actress and former girlfriend of Sushant, Ankita Lokhande, and his another friend had provided their chauffeur-driven vehicles to the Patna police team. Sources said the Patna team on Friday met Sushant’s former staff who were allegedly replaced by Rhea. When asked, IG (central range) Sanjay Singh said that police on Thursday night had recorded the statement of the doctor who was treating Sushant. “Patna police had already recorded the statements of Sushant’s sister and Ankita Lokhande besides some of his staff who were associated with him till his death,” Singh said. “Presently, the team is collecting as much as evidence as it can and record statements of relevant people for investigation,” the IG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dgp-mumbai-cops-urged-to-cooperate/articleshow/77290865.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Accused in bribe case gets bail||Chandigarh: The special CBI court granted bail to Bhagwan Singh, accused in the bribe case involving suspended SHO of Manimajra police station, Jaswinder Kaur on Friday. Jaswinder Kaur surrendered in court and has been remanded in judicial custody. Bhagwan Singh was released after furnishing personal bonds of Rs 1 lakh and was directed to furnish surety bonds within 14 days. The accused said that he has been falsely implicated in the case. It was pointed out that he has cooperated with CBI and his custody is no longer required. Opposing the bail plea, CBI stated that he does not deserve the concession as the allegations against him are serious and he might try to create hindrances in the trial if allowed to be released on bail. The accused was arrested on June 30. The complainant, Gurdeep, alleged that two policemen came to his house on June 5 and told him that Manimajra SHO Jaswinder Kaur had called him to the police station. Gurdeep said the SHO told him that Randhir Singh of Manimajra had accused him of duping him of Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of providing a government job to his wife. On June 10, Gurdeep went to the police station and found Randhir Singh, Bhagwan Singh and one Nirpinder Singh sitting in the SHO’s office. He said the SHO abused him and told him to pay bribe to Bhagwan Singh before July 1. Gurdeep claimed that he gave Rs 2 lakh to Bhagwan Singh in Sangrur on June 19. On June 26, Gurdeep approached CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-in-bribe-case-gets-bail/articleshow/77291716.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Business||IOB board gives nod for capital raise||Chennai: Board of Indian Overseas Bank, on Thursday, gave its approval to raise capital for FY 2020-21. According to its statement, the capital raising plan includes issuing equity shares to a maximum extent of 500 crore shares via public offer or rights issue, which will be open for participation from GoI, qualified institutional buyers, its employees, on preferential basis to LIC and other insurance companies, or mutual funds, QIBs, after obtaining the approval of the shareholders. In one or more tranches the bank will also raise Tier ii capital by issue of Basel III compliant Tier ii bonds upto a maximum extent of Rs 1,500 crore via public issue in domestic or overseas market. This mode will take place with or without applicable green shoe options for the retail segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iob-board-gives-nod-for-capital-raise/articleshow/77292176.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Business||Tata Motors loss more than doubles to Rs 8,444 crore in Q1||MUMBAI: Losses at Tata Motors, the flagship of the Tata Group, widened to Rs 8,444 crore in Q1FY21 from Rs 3,680 crore a year ago. Revenue almost halved to Rs 31,983 crore due to production and retailer shutdowns for most of the quarter, due to the Covid pandemic. The company expects demand for new vehicles to remain “frail” for the rest of the fiscal with infections continuing to rise and intermittent lockdowns in many countries. Expenses fell 41% to Rs 38,777 crore as it kept a tight lid on costs. Employee benefit expenses declined 26% to Rs 5,694 crore due to government grants received by its UK subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). The British unit, which accounted for 86% of Tata Motors revenue, received grants of Rs 1,168 crore (124 million pounds). JLR’s revenue fell 40% to Rs 27,374 crore and it made an operational loss of Rs 3,495 crore in Q1FY21. The management doesn’t expect JLR to return to profitability in Q2FY21, indicating that the flagship’s performance would weigh on the $113-billion Tata group. Tata Motors’ automotive debt increased to Rs 62,000 crore from Rs 48,000 crore in the March quarter of fiscal 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamo-loss-more-than-doubles-to-rs-8444cr-in-q1/articleshow/77292773.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Business||JSW Energy scraps deal to buy GMR plant||MUMBAI: Five months after it inked an agreement to acquire GMR’s power plant in Odisha for Rs 5,321 crore, JSW Energy said it has terminated the deal due to uncertainties triggered by Covid-19. This is one of the first merger and acquisition transactions involving domestic consolidation that has been scrapped due to the pandemic. JSW Energy said that with the elapsing of long stop date, the two parties have mutually agreed to terminate the transaction. The development pushes JSW Energy and GMR Group back to square one — for JSW in terms of its expansion play, and for GMR in terms of its debt pile. JSW Energy had said in February that the acquisition of GMR’s 1,050MW thermal power plant would increase its total electricity generation capacity to 5,609MW. The deal would have also expanded the company’s presence in the eastern belt of the country and further diversified its fuel mix and offtake arrangements. GMR will now have to find a new buyer for the Odisha power station to lower its debts. Incorporated in December 2007, the coal-fired Odisha power plant had a revenue of Rs 2,195 crore in fiscal 2019. JSW Energy had valued the Odisha unit at Rs 5,321 crore, including its debt of Rs 3,951 crore. India’s power demand declined about 16% in Q1 FY21, compared with the over 7% growth in Q1 FY20, due to weak economic activity and coronavirus-related business restrictions. Power demand in the near term is expected to be muted due to Covid-19-induced conditions, said JSW Energy, which reported a 13% decline in profit for Q1 FY21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-energy-scraps-deal-to-buy-gmr-plant/articleshow/77292627.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 1, 2020||Patna||Ramp up tests, Nitish asks health dept as cases mount||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the officials concerned to further increase the number of Covid-19 tests in all the districts and start rapid antigen tests of people taking shelter in flood relief camps. At a review meeting convened by the CM, principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said the department would launch a mobile app on Saturday through which people can register and take information regarding nearest testing centre, test reports and queries related to home isolation. Amrit said 22,742 samples were tested on Thursday and the number would increase in the days to come. The CM said those keen to get themselves tested for Covid-19 should not face hassles. “There is no dearth of rapid antigen test kits anywhere in the state,” the CM said. He asked Patna divisional commissioner to increase number of Covid-19 tests in Rohtas, Nalanda and Patna districts. The CM also asked the officials concerned to make all facilities available at Vardhman Institute of Pawapuri so that patients could get proper treatment there. The CM appreciated the efforts taken by the Gaya district administration in providing medicine kits to those in home isolation and taking feedback from all the positive patients daily via phone call. He asked other districts to follow the Gaya model. The CM also asked the officials to equip ICUs of all hospitals where Covid patients are treated with ventilators. “The doctors and paramedics should visit the hospitals without fail,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ramp-up-tests-nitish-asks-health-dept-as-cases-mount/articleshow/77290133.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Duo trying to sell tiger pelt held||Mysuru: The Mysuru Forest Mobile Squad arrested two persons and seized a tiger pelt from them on Friday. DCF AT Poovaiah who led the team told TOI that they arrested Akash Rao and Vishnu, who are in their twenties, and seized the tiger pelt. Both are from Santhemala near KRS in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district. “As we had some information, we were tracking the two persons from the past two months. Recently, we got information that they are trying to sell the pelt. We went in the disguise as buyers and arrested them near Sri Chamundi Wild Animals Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at Koorghalli,” he said. “We suspect that there are a few more people involved in the crime. We are tracing the contact details of the arrested duo,” he said. Forest authorities have registered a case under Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and other acts. They are yet to confirm whether the arrested were acting as middlemen or were also involved in hunting the tiger. They have seized the car which was used for the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/duo-trying-to-sell-tiger-pelt-held/articleshow/77290215.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Police recover two bodies||PATNA: Police recovered the partially charred body of an unidentified 25-year-old youth from a garbage dump on Tarkeshwar Path near T P S College under the Kankarbagh police station area in the city in the wee hours of Friday. SHO of Kankarbagh police station Ajay Kumar said the body was spotted by a police patrolling team. He added the youth was probably murdered and his body burned to hide his identity.  “We are going through CCTV camera footages of several localities in the neighbourhood to crack the case,” Kumar said. In another incident, police found the body of an unidentified 60-year-old woman from Badshahi canal near Chamanchak under the Ramkrishna Nagar police station area in the city on Friday. SHO of Ramkrishna Nagar police station Manoj Kumar Singh said the woman was probably mentally challenged. “Locals have told police that she had been roaming in the area for the last few days. It seems the woman drowned after falling in the canal while trying to cross a narrow temporary bridge. Her body was sent to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-recover-two-bodies/articleshow/77290950.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Surat||‘Prepare map to give Surat better lungs’||Surat: The Nature Club Surat (NCS), an NGO working for the protection of environment, has urged the state government to come up with an afforestation policy by developing urban forests in the city areas. In a letter to CM Vijay Rupani, NCS stated that the mega city like Surat with a population of around 70 lakh needs at least 15% tree cover as per geographical area. According to the Gujarat forest department survey report published in 2011, Surat has the lowest tree density of 3% among eight municipal corporations in the state. The tree cover in urban areas in Surat is only the gardens managed by SMC, which provide less than 0.5% of the tree cover in Surat. NCS states that the limits of SMC has been expanded by 146 sqkm taking the total area of Surat city to 472 square kilometres. At the time of the draft town planning scheme, plots for afforestation can be reserved. Snehal Patel, president of NCS told TOI, “The government can start creating micro forests in the small plots of the huge swathe of land at Navsari Agriculture University (NAU) in Ghod Dod Road. The land allotted to NAU can be utilised for developing urban forest, which would act as lungs for the city. We have proposed to extend our help in developing these micro forests in the open spaces across the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/prepare-map-to-give-surat-better-lungs/articleshow/77292048.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Projects worth Rs 2k crore in abeyance||Ahmedabad: With imposition of the force majeure clause in contracts, AMC will put in abeyance running projects cumulatively worth about Rs 2,000 crore. Various big-ticket projects like the smart city project in Vasna, and the Ahmedabad Jan Marg will be affected. AMC’s standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt had on Thursday said that the AMC was reviewing big infrastructure projects due to shortage of funds. Civic body officials said that Rs 1,200 crore was the project cost for purchasing 300 electric buses for Clean and Green Ahmedabad, and this will be put on hold as the fleet was not operating on 100% strength. Also, the contract of buses hired by AMC will be affected and the civic body will not be liable to pay 100% of charges according to contract terms. The AMC pays Rs 54 to Rs 60 per kilometre for BRT buses and pays an average of Rs 40 per kilometre for buses hired by AMTS. The civic body has now decided to pay 30% of the rate fixed for each bus in the contract. Officials said after imposition of the force majeure clause no contractor can sue the corporation or make claims for higher amounts. An AMC officer said the financial situation of the corporation was concerning and it is running only on property tax income. The state government is also facing shortage of funds and has asked the AMC to re-plan its budget with current priorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/projects-worth-rs-2k-crore-in-abeyance/articleshow/77291732.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Remote control: Streetlights to be fitted with sensors||Ahmedabad: The AMC has begun a project to install sensors on streetlight poles in the city. This will help the AMC to monitor each pole from the control room.Deputy municipal commissioner Nitin Sangwan said the project will immensely help to save labour and electricity. Earlier, one needed to physically visit each streetlight to see if was functioning or not, but now with the sensors, non-functional lights can be identified from the control room.Civic body officials said currently the AMC has to keep the lights on during the day to check if the lights were functioning or not. This will also become easy as the sensors will detect the intensity of sunlight and power on or off accordingly, thus optimizing power use. The official said that with these censors, the AMC will also save money as it will not be required to keep the light open for inspections. Moreover, the manpower thus saved will be used in other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remote-control-streetlights-to-be-fitted-with-sensors/articleshow/77291780.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘No shortage of lifesaving drugs, avoid panic buying’||By- V K TripathiPATNA: Though authorities concerned have claimed there is no shortage of lifesaving drugs being prescribed by the doctors for Covid patients, pharmaceutical suppliers said there has been some short supply of medicines such as Remdesivir and Actemra 400. Though there was no direct complaint from patients’ attendants or hospitals, some panic buying of these medicines had created huge rush on G M Road, the hub of wholesale medicines, a couple of days ago. The district administration and Bihar Chemists and Druggists Association (BCDA), Patna branch, have stepped up monitoring to discourage panic buying. Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Friday said he has asked the assistant drug controller to ensure there was no scarcity of the two medicines – Remdesivir and Actemra 400 – and also ensure their availability on the price fixed by the company. Ravi said he already had a meeting with the company representatives and local licensee and asked them to increase supply for meeting the requirements of individual patients and government as well as private hospitals. BCDA joint secretary Krishna Murari Santhalia said there was no shortage of any medicine, but one-time buying of all the six vials of Remdesivir put pressure on stocks leading to temporary shortage. “This medicine is usually administered once a week and people were advised not to get two vials at a time,” he said. “Sudden rise in the number of positive patients across the country also led to limited supply of these medicines. There was no shortage of Vitamin C tablet – Celine 500. It was supplied to all retailers of the state as per their requisitions,” he said. Santhalia said the BCDA was deeply concerned with the people’s miseries due to the pandemic and it was monitoring supply of all other medicines needed for treatment of other seasonal infections. Basant Kumar Lenka, executive of a depot of a pharmaceutical firm in Patna, said there was short supply of Remdesivir and Actemra 400. “We receive 200 to 300 vials per day against the total demand of 500 vials,” he said. “There are three authorised dealers in Patna. Two of them, both on G M Road, have been given these medicines. Another dealer on Bypass Road was supplied 30 files of Ramdesivir five days ago,” Lenka said. He added the price of six vials of Ramdesivir is Rs 20,500, while that of Actemra 400 it is Rs 28,000 for one vial and the dealers were already instructed to sell them on doctor’s or hospital’s prescription and Aadhaar card of the patient. “All records and bills are maintained with the drug dealers. Other agencies getting these medicines in lower numbers are based in Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Begusarai and Purnia,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-shortage-of-lifesaving-drugs-avoid-panic-buying/articleshow/77290069.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Total lockdown in parts of Gaya for another week||GAYA: The district administration on Friday decided to extend the ongoing complete lockdown in parts of Gaya by another week beginning Saturday. While the complete lockdown in Gaya town, sub-divisional headquarters of Sherghati, Tekari and Neemchak Bathani and Bodh Gaya Nagar Panchayat area has been extended by a week, the block headquarters have been kept out of the lockdown purview.  Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said the decision to extend the lockdown by another week has been taken to consolidate the gains of the ongoing lockdown. “The situation will be reviewed after a week and relaxations, if any, will accordingly be made,” he said. The DM said that Covid-19 cases have come down in the district and vigil has to be maintained. He also made it clear that Baqrid namaz will not be allowed in mosques or other public places and people have been advised to offer the prayers at home. “Field officials have been directed to remain vigilant during Baqrid and Rakshabandhan to strictly enforce the order on the closure of places of worship, social distancing, mask wearing and other regulatory measures,” said Singh. Asked about the status of containment zones, the DM said that as per an order issued by the Union health and family welfare ministry on July 29, containment zone related ban order will remain in force for 14 days after the last positive case is reported from the area. “If no fresh infection is reported from the GB Road containment zone, the area will be de-notified on August 8,” the DM added. Meanwhile, in a welcome move, the district administration, late on Thursday evening revived the practice of the providing daily status report on the Covid situation. As per latest statistics released by the public relations department, altogether 23,158 tests have so far been conducted in the district. Of these 1967 positive cases have been detected. According to the official figures, the number of active cases in the district was 816. Of these 39 cases are symptomatic while the number of asymptomatic cases was 777. All the 39 symptomatic patients are admitted in the Covid special Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH). As on date, 617 asymptomatic patients are in home Isolation. The remaining asymptomatic patients have been put in institutional isolation. Number of officially confirmed Covid deaths in the district is 17. According to Dr NK Paswan, deputy superintendent-cum nodal officer (Covid treatment) at ANMMCH, three persons died in the hospital on Thursday. “Test reports of the dead are awaited,” Dr Paswan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/total-lockdown-in-parts-of-gaya-for-another-week/articleshow/77291353.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s virtual rally on August 7 postponed||PATNA: The JD(U) on Friday postponed the August 7 virtual rally, which was to be addressed by chief minister and party’s national president Nitish Kumar. JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh said the decision was taken in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and floods in state. The fresh date will be announced later, Singh said. Nitish was supposed to sound the party’s poll bugle through the rally as the state assembly election is due in October-November. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the prevailing situation is not conducive for the rally. “That’s why it was decided to postpone it,” he said and added that preparations for the rally, however, were completed. Senior JD(U) leaders and MPs, MLAs, ministers and functionaries have already addressed the grassroots party workers in the 243 assembly constituencies between July 18 and 30. Separate teams were set up for the purpose, he said. The virtual rallies addressed by the senior leaders of JD(U) and BJP in state so far have received flak from opposition RJD and Congress. In a statement, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “Wisdom finally prevailed on some senior JD(U) leaders, who decided to postpone it.” Mishra said the state was reeling from coronavirus and floods, but JD(U) and BJP leaders were busy in holding virtual rallies of party workers in the run-up to the assembly polls. “It’s time to save people from coronavirus and floods and not to address rallies through videoconferencing,” he added. Mishra also hoped the Election Commission (EC) would sooner or later realize the situation prevailing in the state due to surge in Covid-19 cases and floods in major parts of the state. “We are not in favour of conducting elections at the cost of risking the lives of electors, polling personnel, security forces, contestants and political party leaders. The election dates should be extended for six months as per the provisions in the Constitution,” the Congress MLC told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitishs-virtual-rally-on-aug-7-postponed/articleshow/77290954.cms||Ramashankar
August 1, 2020||Patna||SSR case: More BJP members, Ram Vilas Paswan join demand for a CBI probe||DELHI/PATNA: More BJP leaders, as also LJP’s Ram Vilas Paswan, have joined their colleagues’ campaign seeking justice for the family of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide in his Mumbai flat on June 14. While some like Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy and Lok Sabha MP Nishikant Dubey have been demanding a CBI inquiry, the campaign seeking justice for the actor was endorsed by BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav, power minister R K Singh and Paswan on Friday. “A spontaneous debate has begun in society after the suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput, who made a name in the cine world after coming out of Bihar. Many questions, including the evils of nepotism, have been emerging from society. We are all together in bringing justice to Sushant’s family,” Yadav, who is BJP’s incharge for Bihar affairs, tweeted. Demanding a CBI investigation, Paswan tweeted, “There’s a confrontation between two states and no FIR has been registered yet in Maharashtra. Chirag had spoken to CM Uddhav Thackeray that there should be a CBI probe.” R K Singh, too, said there should be a CBI inquiry. He told TV channels that if Mumbai police was not making progress in the investigation, then the case should be handed over to the CBI. Rajput’s father has filed an FIR in Patna. In a tweet on Thursday, Swamy said, “In my latest letter, I have requested the PM to direct the Enforcement Directorate and the NIA to investigate the circumstances leading to the mysterious death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Subsequently, we can have an SIT consisting of CBI and these two national agencies.” Dubey, Lok Sabha MP from Deoghar in Jharkhand, said Rajput’s death smacked of a larger conspiracy with possible involvement of terrorism, mafia and drug peddling. “One day, a CBI inquiry will certainly happen … the actual culprits will not escape,” he added. Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi also tweeted, “BJP feels that the CBI should take over the case for investigation. The Mumbai police is putting obstructions in the way of a fair probe into Sushant’s death case by the Bihar police.” BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal also accused the Mumbai police of non-cooperation in the investigation into the actor’s suicide. HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Majhi said the postmortem report should be analysed by a team of doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi. “Mumbai police is working under pressure from some people having links in the underworld,” he alleged. Congress MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh sought the PM’s intervention. On Thursday, Bihar minister Maheshwar Hazari had said the “CM is willing to recommend a CBI probe into the case”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-bjp-members-paswan-join-demand-for-a-cbi-probe/articleshow/77290710.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hubballi||Mental health experts to keep Covid-19 patients in good spirits||Hubballi: Although much has been said and written about the toll that being diagnosed, and subsequently undergoing treatment, with Covid-19 takes on one’s mental wellbeing, there have been few efforts undertaken by the authorities concerned to address the problem. Eager to ensure that Covid-19 patients remain in the cheeriest of moods and their spirits buoyant, the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health Sciences (Dimhans) has launched an initiative aimed at pumping confidence into those confirmed infected. Doctors at Dimhans will make regular calls to Covid-19 patients, and ensure that they are not overwhelmed by fear or dread. In addition to this, the doctors will, by debunking myths and misconceptions commonly associated with the pandemic, help patients stay positive. As many as 10 doctors at Dimhans have been entrusted with the key responsibility. The initiative got under way on Wednesday, with 50 patients having been counselled on the first day. Dimhans director Dr Mahesh Desai said that the doctors came up with the initiative following reports of many Covid-19 patients struggling with bouts of anxiety. “We were keen on keeping them calm and hopeful. Above all, the patients need to be made to see that contracting the infection does not mean the end of life,” Dr Desai told TOI. He said that the experts at Dimhans would strive to explain to the patients hat Covid-19 was a disease that could be cured. “There are also plans to broadcast speeches made by mental health experts at all Covid Care Centres and wards. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil and district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar were both pleased with the plan and gave their nod,” Dr Desai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mental-health-experts-to-keep-covid-19-patients-in-good-spirits/articleshow/77290728.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 1, 2020||Allahabad||HC turns down plea to ease Covid-19 norms for Bakrid||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has dismissed a PIL seeking relaxations in the state government guidelines dated July 12, which contemplate weekend lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic as according to the petitioner, the festival of Bakrid or Eid-ul-Zuha is falling on Saturday, August 1. Dismissing the PIL filed by Dr Mohammad Ayub, who claimed himself to be a surgeon and member of Peace Party, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Dr Yogendra Kumar Srivastava observed, “The counsel for the petitioner is unable to establish before us as to in what manner the restrictions imposed in terms of the guidelines issued by the state government in the light of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic impinge upon any of the fundamental rights of the petitioner or of any person especially in these unprecedented times of Covid-19 pandemic which casts an onerous obligation upon the State to take measures to secure the health and lives of its citizens”. “The right to freedom of religion guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution thus cannot override the interests of public order, morality and health and is also subject to other provisions contained under Part III,” the court further added. “Having regard to the aforementioned facts and circumstances, we do not find any element of public interest in the present petition so as to persuade us to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,” the court further added. The petitioner had preferred this petition in public interest alleging that qurbani (sacrifice) is mandatory on the festival of Eid-ul-Zuha which is falling on July 31, 2020. He submitted that the festival is actually on Saturday, 1st of August, 2020. The petitioner, therefore, prays that for the purposes of qurbani on the said day of festival relaxations may be provided in the guidelines of the state government dated July 12, 2020, which contemplated for a two days’ lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic on every Saturday and Sunday. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the lockdown, which is applicable on every Saturday and Sunday, infringes with the fundamental right guaranteed under Articles 21 (right to life and personal liberty) and 25 (religious freedom) of the Constitution of India. Rejecting the plea of the petitioner, the court observed, “Fundamental Rights as contained under Part III of the Constitution have always enjoyed a special and privileged place in the Constitution and occupy a unique place in the lives of the civilised societies. They have been held to be transcendental, inalienable and primordial. However, the Fundamental Rights under Part III are not of an absolute nature, and the same are subject to reasonable restrictions. Article 25 secures to every person the freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion.” “The entitlement to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion is, however, subject to public order, morality and health and to other provisions of Part III. The right to freedom of religion guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution thus cannot override the interests of public order, morality and health and is also subject to other provisions contained under Part III,” the court further observed. “It is pertinent to mention that guarantee of the Fundamental Rights has been made subject to reasonable restrictions which may be imposed by the State. The power to impose reasonable restrictions may be necessary in the interest of public order, morality and health provided the restrictions so imposed are not unreasonable and arbitrary,” the court added. Hence, while rejecting the pleas of the petitioner, the court observed, “We, in such a situation, where the restrictions imposed have neither been shown to be arbitrary or unreasonable, find no reason whatsoever for relaxing the conditions contained under the guidelines.” The court gave this judgment on July 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-plea-to-ease-covid-19-norms-for-bakrid/articleshow/77289787.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Pratyaya reviews JLNMCH facilities||BHAGALPUR: State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who assumed charge on Tuesday, visited the Covid-dedicated JawaharLal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur on Friday. During his visit, Amrit interacted with patients and also gave several directions to the hospital administration. He also made an on the spot verification of the isolation ward at JLNMCH, emergency and intensive care unit (ICU), Covid center, Covid control room, besides other facilities. He lauded the doctors, paramedics and other staff for their determined efforts to check the spread of the pandemic. He also visited several other government hospitals in the town to review the healthcare facilities in the backdrop of sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the region. While directing the officials, Pratyaya also sought suggestions as how to further improve medicare facilities to tackle Covid-19. Assuring to provide more facilities soon, the official said that no laxity in providing medical services to the poor and the needy would be tolerated. Pratyaya was accompanied by Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha, medical superintendent Dr Ashok Bhagat and heads of different departments of JLNMCH and other doctors. Some patients, happy with the sanitization of the entire JLNMCH premises on Friday, made a cryptic remark saying that it is their earnest wish that the principal secretary should make a visit every fortnight, so that the hospital premises can remain neat and clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pratyaya-reviews-jlnmch-facilities/articleshow/77290961.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 1, 2020||Hubballi||Union ministry wants Hubballi-Chitradurga stretch expanded by September||Haveri: The Covid-19 crisis has slammed the brakes on various ongoing infrastructure projects, among which are expansion and improvement of national highways. The stretch of one such national highway, the expansion of which has been delayed owing to the crisis is the Hubballi-Chitragurga road. The 215km-stretch is being upgraded to a six-lane road, but following the enforcement of the lockdown, work on the ambitious project was halted. Now, the Union ministry of road transport and highways has directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to ensure that work on the project is wrapped up by September. Sources said that work on major bridges and grade separators remained to be completed, which NHAI authorities hoped to finish before the deadline. “Funds to the tune of Rs 3,600 crore were earmarked for the project. Roughly 114km of the entire stretch was widened to a six-lane in July 2019, but pace has slackened since,” a source said. NHAI project director for Chitradurga Srinivas Naidu admitted to completion of the project being delayed owing to the lockdown and the Covid-19 crisis. “But work is proceeding apace in Chalageri and Chatra in Haveri district, and in parts of Chitradurga and Davanagere. The project was scheduled to be completed by July 23, 2020. But owing to circumstances beyond our control, work has been delayed,” Naidu said. NHAI project director for Hubballi SB Pothadar added that heavy rain in August and October last year too had played a role in delaying the project’s completion. “Work on bridges in Shiggavi, Tavarumellalli, Varur and Kundagol has picked up pace after the lockdown was lifted. We are confident of completing the project soon and meeting the revised deadline,” Pothadar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/union-ministry-wants-hubballi-chitradurga-stretch-expanded-by-september/articleshow/77292492.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
August 1, 2020||Patna||All railway projects in state fast-tracked: ECR||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) general manager L C Trivedi on Thursday said railways has chalked out certain plans to compensate its revenue losses caused by Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. “Though railways is passing through a critical time, it has taken several steps like running special trains and bringing back migrant workers during the lockdown,” he said. Addressing media persons through a virtual session, Trivedi said railways has now decided to double its goods loading target. “ECR has also worked out a plan to reduce the number of waitlisted passengers and provide them accommodation in long distance trains,” he said. The ECR GM added all ambitious projects of the railways would be completed on priority and within the stipulated time. “Railways was spending about Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 crore on its projects earlier. It is now spending about Rs 1.5 lakh crore on the projects for their early completion. Thus, there is no dearth of funds in railways to complete various ambitious projects,” he said. According to the GM, railways has invited private players to run several pairs of high-speed trains on different routes of the country, including Bihar. “If everything goes well, railways will run private trains from March 2023, providing world-class facilities to people,” he said, adding there was no proposal to hike passenger fare in the private trains. The GM said though capital investment will increase manifold with the introduction of private trains for the first time in the country, it will also create ample job opportunities for people. “Railways has already set up a business development unit to assess and provide job opportunities to the needy people in the state. ECR has taken steps to provide temporary employment to migrant workers in railway projects under ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojna’ of the government,” he said. Lauding the achievements of the ECR during the lockdown period, Trivedi said the ECR headquarters and its five divisions have completely adopted e-office platform to work fast maintain ‘social distancing protocol’ in each office by eliminating movement of physical files.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-railway-projects-in-state-fast-tracked-ecr/articleshow/77290994.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Property dealer shot in Hajipur||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead a property dealer at Diggikhurd under Sadar police station at Hajipur in Vaishali district on Friday. The deceased, Manoj Rai (30), was on a morning stroll near circuit house when the criminals shot him dead between 4.30am and 5am. No one saw it happening. Police received information around 5.30am after some commuters spotted the body. Vaishali Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal said Manoj had a property dealing business. He had purchased several plots in Diggikhurd area. “Earlier, he was involved in farming,” he said and added: “He used to go on a morning walk around 4am and collect flowers for worship. The criminals knew about his daily movement. No one had saw how many criminals were there and in which direction they escaped.” He said Manoj was shot five times. “Four of the bullets were pumped into his chest and one in the head. Three empty cartridges used generally in countrymade pistols were recovered from the spot,” he said. “The way he was killed indicates that it was an act of revenge either for personal enmity or over property dispute. The case is being investigated from both the angles,” he said. Dayal said flowers were also found lying beside the body, indicating that he was on way back home when the criminals intercepted him. The SDPO said locals along with his family members staged protest with the body for some time, but they were pacified and removed later. “We are awaiting a written complaint from the family members for registering an FIR in connection with the killing,” Dayal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/property-dealer-shot-in-hajipur/articleshow/77291047.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Rajkot||Driver ends life due to harassment||Rajkot: A 34-year-old man committed suicide in Khavdi village near Jamnagar, allegedly because of harassment by his father-in-law's younger brother and his son. Babu Vaghela, a driver by profession, had consumed poison on July 29 and died in Jamnagar's GG Hospital on Thursday night. His brother Manoj lodged a complaint naming Vaghela's brother-in-law (wife's brother) Jigar and his father Rama Parmar. Police said Parmar had purchased a dumper around two-and-a-half-years ago on loan taken from a private finance company in the name of Vaghela. Around six months ago too, they purchased a dumper on loan and Vaghela had stood as a guarantor. However, the father-son duo did not pay the installments and instead asked Vaghela to to pay. "The finance company also started frequenting Vaghela's house asking him to pay the installments since the first loan was taken in his name and he was the guarantor in the second," said DS Vagher, police sub-inspector, Meghpar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/driver-ends-life-due-to-harassment/articleshow/77291154.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Victoria Memorial Hall, Indian Museum focus on virtual exhibition during Covid times||KOLKATA: While most national monuments and museums under the Union ministry of culture have been thrown open, two major museums with high footfall — Victoria Memorial Hall and Indian Museum — have gone virtual to keep alive the interest in the public mindscape and to catch the fancy of GenZ who are currently confined to their homes. It started with a virtual programme on World Museum Day at Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH). There was something for everyone, with children learning how to engage with museums. “We cannot let these pandemic times disconnect museums from people. Thanks to technology, we have been able to bridge that gap. We are holding virtual programmes and we will continue with our virtual programmes till things normalize,” said VMH secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta. Enthused by the response of World Music Day, VMH has now organized a virtual exhibition in collaboration with the Delhi Art Gallery, christened ‘The Inheritance of Imaginations’. It will highlight the works of the three siblings of the Tagore family — brothers Abanindranath and Gaganendranath and sister Sunayani Devi. Starting August 7, on the 150th birth anniversary of Abanindranath, the exhibition will be on till September 4. Not only will people get a chance to see a range of original works by the siblings, they will also get a chance to listen live to art historian Tapati Guha Thakurta and curator of the exhibition, Kishore Singh. On the same lines, the pandemic gave Indian Museum (IM) an opportunity to revamp its virtual tour altogether, with a huge number of students taking the tour on a daily basis. The virtual tour was designed with the support of Google Art and Culture. Earlier, it was rarely used. But with many people starting to take the tour and asking hard questions, it needed an upgrade, said Indian Museum director Arijit Dutta Chowdhury. IM has curated a series of lectures on stories of world culture. Vasant Shinde, a Harappan civilization expert, gave six lectures on Harappan culture. IM, being one of the biggest repositories of Harappan artefact, engaged a large audience through these lecture series. IM’s Harappan Gallery has been closed for the last 15 years. The lecture rekindled the interest among youngsters about the exhibits of Harappan Gallery, said Bhattacharya. IM bridged the gap between tangible heritage of innumerable art and craft and intangible heritage of different ancient dance forms came alive through the performance of Dona Ganguly, Tanushree Shankar and Ruma Mazumdar. Italy’s famous artist Pietro Ruffo did a painting for IM live with amazing music in the background. There was a virtual exhibition on numismatics and live commentary by Dr Reham Ahmed Similarly, on World Music Day, VMH organised an online lecture by historian Lakshmi Subramanian, who spoke on the importance of music in general and bhajans in particular in the life of Mahatma Gandhi and how it firmed up his spirituality, which was reflected in his political thinking of tolerance and oneness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/victoria-indian-museum-focus-on-virtual-exhibition-during-covid-times/articleshow/77291508.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 1, 2020||Patna||Patna mayor defeats no-trust motion comfortably||PATNA: Patna mayor Sita Sahu succeeded in retaining her post on Friday as just four votes were cast in favour of the no-confidence motion moved against her by 40 councillors, including deputy mayor Meera Devi. In the 75-member Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) board, 38 votes were required for the mayor to defeat the motion. A special board meeting of ward councillors was held at S K Memorial Hall here for the floor test. Altogether 63 councillors attended the meeting and deputy mayor Meera started chairing it. However, in a dramatic turn, 27 councillors, including Meera walked out of the hall. Later, councillor of ward number 67 Munna Jaiswal chaired the meeting. Meera said she “postponed” the meeting as the mayor did not reach on time. “Continuing floor test in absence of councillors is against democracy,” she said. However, a press release issued by PMC said as per Section 50 (2) of Bihar Municipal Act 2007, if quorum is not formed, the chairperson can postpone it. The press release said Meera had started chairing the meet only after quorum was formed and later left the hall. Ward 48 councillor Indradeep Chandravanshi said the opposition intentionally left the hall as they were running short of votes. As the proceeding began, councillors Raj Kumar Gupta (ward 35), Tara Devi (ward 62) and Kiran Mehta (ward 53) spoke in favour of the motion, while mayor was defended by ward 38 councillor Ashish Sinha and Chandravanshi. Chandravanshi said four votes were cast in favour of the motion and four against it. “Voting against the motion was just a courtesy. Other councillors supported the mayor by not favouring the motion. Those who left knew well they won’t not be able to oust the mayor.” Talking to TOI after winning the no-trust motion, Sahu said, “This is not my victory. People of Patna have won. All the allegations against me were baseless. For the first time in the history of PMC, elected members and officials are working in close coordination. The allegation of favouritism against me was completely baseless. For me, the entire city is important. Some councillors, who are only interested in politics, had misled others.” Ward 40 councillor Asfar Ahmad criticised some of his colleagues for moving no-confidence motion against the mayor at a time when the city is reeling from Covid-19 pandemic. “It is time to work together and not to do politics for personal gains,” Asfar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-mayor-defeats-no-trust-motion-comfortably/articleshow/77290930.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 30 years on, Araria has no crematorium||ARARIA: Locals on Friday alleged bodies of Covid victims remain undisposed for as long as 48 hours due to lack of crematorium in Araria town. “Araria was upgraded as a district in 1990. Thirty years on, the town does not have a proper crematorium. As a result, the administration is finding it difficult to dispose of bodies of Covid victims,” said Devendra Mishra, former president Araria District Bar Association. Two bodies could be disposed of scientifically after a great deal of difficulties last week. Waterlogging in several areas of the town has also made disposal of bodies difficult. Araria DM Prashant Kumar C H had recently asked civil surgeon Dr Shyam Nandan Singh to ensure quick and proper disposal of bodies of Covid patients and fix an amount to be incurred for the same. The civil surgeon, after consultation with members of the district health committee, has fixed a sum of Rs 6,000 for disposing of each body. However, where the bodies will be disposed of is still a million dollar question in the town. Araria Municipal Council chairman Ritesh Rai said he has been seeking land from the district administration for setting up a crematorium for past many years, but to no avail. “The old crematorium is being rehabilitated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30-years-on-araria-has-no-crematorium/articleshow/77291474.cms||L P Nayak
August 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Give Rs 20,000 to each flood-hit family, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA/MOTIHARI: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who visited flood-affected areas of Champaran on Friday, said the state government should provide financial assistance of Rs 20,000 to each of the affected family in north Bihar. “Rivers are overflowing and over 40 lakh people in 14 north Bihar districts have been affected by floods. People are staying either on rooftops or on the roads. The state government has set up just 19 relief camps in which only 26,000 people are staying. More relief camps and community kitchens should be set up,” Tejahswi said, adding people are dying of hunger and there are no medical facilities for them. Tejashwi once again criticised CM Nitish Kumar for not visiting flood-affected areas yet. “He has a helicopter and can easily visit these areas. He should come out to realise the sufferings of people.” The younger Yadav scion also interacted with people in different areas and distributed food packets, relief material and cash among them. “The government has forced people to spend nights on roads and under the sky,” Tejashwi said. This was his second visit to the flood-affected areas. On July 22, he had visited Darbhanga and distributed food packets among affected people. The ruling JD(U) has described Tejashwi’s visits to flood-affected areas as “a trick to get closer to people ahead of assembly elections”. JD(U) spokesperson Arvind Nishad said Tejahswi has no love for the poor and distressed. “The government is providing all possible assistance to the flood victims. Community kitchens have been set up for them and each of the affected family has got Rs 6,000,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-give-rs-20000-to-each-flood-hit-family/articleshow/77290983.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Rs 108-crore GST evasion by 2 liquor producers detected||Aurangabad: The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Nagpur unit, on Friday detected evasion of GST amounting to over Rs 108 crore by two liquor manufacturers from Aurangabad and Nanded districts in Marathwada.“The taxpayers have paid Rs 2.50 crore on the spot against the above liabilities. One of them has requested for payment in instalments over the next two months, which are being scheduled,” read the official statement released by DGGI additional director Pradip Gurumurthy. The action was taken following specific intelligence regarding massive evasion of GST, a DGGI officer told TOI. “The officers of DGGI, Aurangabad unit, had on Wednesday and Thursday carried out searches on the premises of grain-based liquor, molasses-based liquor and malt spirits at Nanded. Parallel searches were carried out at a distillery in Aurangabad-based manufacturer of alcohol, which is not fit for human consumption,” said the officer.“During the searches, it was found that the Nanded-based distillery was suppressing the clearances of malt spirits by clearing them under invoices with the classification ‘0000’ to other distilleries for manufacture of alcoholic liquor.”An official statement issued by the DGGI said: “The scrutiny of documents revealed that during the period July 2017 to June 2020, the taxpayer had cleared malt spirits valued at over Rs 70.03 crore without payment of GST of Rs 12.61 crore leviable thereon.”According to the DGGI press statement, the searches in Nanded revealed that the clearances of a very large quantity of alcohol not fit for human consumption were suppressed and such clearances were neither being reflected in the GSTR 3B returns filed by them nor was any GST being paid on such clearances.The scrutiny of the documents at the Aurangabad unit revealed that from July 2017 to June 2020, the manufacturer had cleared alcohol not fit for human consumption, other than malt spirits, valued at over Rs 476 crore, without payment of GST of Rs 85.68 crore leavibale thereon.“An ancillary aspect of evasion was also detected during the investigation that the taxpayers were clearing distillers grains with soluble by misclassifying these goods under heading 2302 (NIL GST) instead of under heading 2303 (5% GST). During the period from July 2017 to June 2020, the taxpayers had cleared these goods valued at over Rs 77 crore without payment of GST of Rs 3.85 crore” added the press statement.DGGI additional director Gurumurthy said, “A thorough scrutiny of records has further revealed that the Tran 1 credits availed by the taxpayers from central excise/service tax angle that taxpayers availed inadmissible credit of Rs 14.83 lakh on cesses, which is not allowed to be transitioned.” The DGGI statement said: “The total amount payable by the taxpayers under Rule 6 of the CENVAT credit rules, 2004, is approximately Rs 5 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rs-108-crore-gst-evasion-by-2-liquor-producers-detected/articleshow/77290337.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to visit Madurai on August 6||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will visit Madurai on August 6, to review the Covid-19 prevention and control activities, said minister for revenue, IT and disaster management, R B Udayakumar. He said that the chief ministerTamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswamiwill review the new facility for corona treatment, fever camps in Madurai and strategies being followed. The meeting venue and details of other programmes would be announced shortly, he added.  The minister visited the 1,000-bedded Covid care facility and treatment centre coming up at Elcot’s IT Park in Vadapalanji on the outskirts of the city, along with treatment facilities being provided at five specially-created centres in Madurai. Stating that four of the five Covid-19 care centres in Madurai have been established in educational institutions, he said that they were now looking for alternative places as the institutions are reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chief-minister-to-visit-madurai-on-august-6/articleshow/77293239.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Allahabad||AU extends last date for applying to courses till Aug 20||Prayagraj: Allahabad University (AU) extended the last date of submitting application forms for admission to its various courses to August 20 in view if the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Earlier, the last date for submission of forms was July 31. This is the third time that the varsity has extended the last date for applying to various courses offered by AU and its constituent colleges. The decision was taken during a meeting of the admission committee, which is headed by AU’s officiating vice-chancellor RR Tiwari and was attended by several faculty members including the director (admissions) Prashant Agarwal. The process for applying to various courses began on March 25. However, as the number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise in the city the process was discontinued a few days later. By then, 29,000 students had already registered themselves and over 300 had also deposited the fees. The admission committee convened a meeting on May 4 on the campus and decided to resume the admission process from May 10. The committee decided that the process would end on June 30, but the date was later extended to July 15. A few days later, the deadline for applying to the courses was again extended till July 31 and now it has been changed to August 20, said AU public relations officer (PRO) Shailendra Mishra. By July 30, 2,10,262 candidates had registered themselves online for various courses of AU. Of these, 1,08,923 candidates had filled the application form online, said the PRO. Director (admissions) Prashant Agarwal said, “We have announced the tentative dates for the entrance exam and have now also extended the last date for applying to courses offered by AU and its constituent colleges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-extends-last-date-for-applying-to-courses-till-aug-20/articleshow/77289803.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Drugs control department launches probe into black marketing of Remdesivir||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu Drugs Control Department on Friday launched an investigation into the illegal sale of Remdesivir, the anti-viral drug used to treat Covid-19 patients, in the black market for exorbitant prices. This follows a TOI expose of the nefarious practice in a report titled “Rs 3,000/vial Remdesivir sold for Rs 12,000 in TN” on Friday. The report had said that many ‘agents’ were sourcing and selling the drugs for Covid-19 patients seeking treatment in private hospitals. Director of the state drugs control department, K Sivabalan, told TOI that an investigation is on. “We have taken some action. But the investigation is still ongoing as we have to take it up further. More details will be revealed soon,” he said. The expose comes amid a shortage of not just Remdesivir, but other lifesaving drugs too like Favipiravir and Tocilizumab for Covid-19 treatment in the state. Private hospitals in Madurai said they have been finding it difficult to procure them. Says Dr P Saravanan, Thiruparankundram MLA who also practises in his own hospital, “A vial of Remdesivir costs Rs 3,000 and six vials are required for treating a patient. I managed to buy the dosage for Rs 66,000 as each vial costs Rs 11,000 in the black market.’’ Similarly, a dosage of Tocilizumab, which is producing good results in severe cases, costs Rs 68,000 in the black market against its original price of Rs 30,000 in the open market. Hospitals have now started exchanging drugs based on availability, returning the favour when they get the medicine. Doctors in these hospitals say they should be given at least 40% of the medicines, keeping 60% for government hospitals. Meanwhile, patients have been forced to shell out quite a fortune for the treatment. Kathiresan, whose 70-year-old father had been admitted to a private hospital, required the entire treatment protocol. ``I begged with the doctors to get the medicines at any cost. The dosage cost nearly Rs 2 lakh for the medicines alone but we did not think twice,’’ he said. Almost all patients come forward to pay for the drug, but it is not that easily accessible even in the black market. ``We have to place orders and get them in two or three days, which is late for some patients,’’ said Dr Saravanan. This was making Covid treatment beyond the reach of patients from poor families, said another doctor. ``Private hospitals tell patients that the treatment would be very expensive in advance, so that they could go to the GRH, ’’ he said. Wholesale pharmaceutical dealers in Madurai said that the drugs for Covid-19 treatment were in high demand. “We are unable to meet the required demand. When we ask manufacturers for ‘X’ number of vials of Remdesivir, we get only around 20%,” said the manager of a pharmaceutical on Naicker Street. However, Chemists and Druggists Association district president G Ganeshan claims there is no sale of drugs in the black market in Madurai. “ Besides, we do not keeping stocks of the medicines to prevent misuse and also because they have a short shelf life of just three months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drugs-control-dept-launches-probe-into-black-marketing-of-remdesivir/articleshow/77293244.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||Australia, China envoys to India spar over South China Sea||NEW DELHI: A Twitter spat between the Chinese and Australian envoys to India over the South China Sea highlighted regional tensions as China’s refusal to abide by the UNCLOS (United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea) arbitral award, and its recent aggressive actions in the area, have raised concerns among several countries in its neighbourhood. Responding to Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell’s remarks on Thursday expressing concern over Chinese actions, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong tweeted, “...China’s territorial sovereignty, maritime rights and interests are in conformity with international law, including UNCLOS. It’s clear who safeguard peace and stability and who destabilise and provoke escalation in the region.” Read AlsoBeijing warns UK: You have no future if you try to sideline ChinaLONDON: China 's ambassador to London bluntly warned the United Kingdom on Thursday that it had no future if it tried to decouple from the Communist state. "It is hard to image a 'Global Britain' that bypasses or excludes China ,O’Farrell responded, “I would hope then you follow the 2016 South China Sea arbitral award which is final and binding under international law, and also generally refrain from actions that unilaterally alter the status quo.” The award upheld the Philippines’s maritime entitlements and the status of features in the South China Sea and held China’s nine-dash line claim as having no validity under international law. Thank you @China_Amb_India. I would hope then you follow the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral Award which is final and… https://t.co/5bFy34t2WW— Barry O’Farrell AO (@AusHCIndia) 1596186337000On Thursday, the Australian envoy in a readout of his meeting with foreign minister S Jaishankar said about the situation on the LAC, “Australia opposes any attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, which only serve to increase tension and the risk of instability.” But he took a tougher stand on South China Sea. “Australia remains deeply concerned by actions in the South China Sea that are destabilising and could provoke escalation. On July 23, Australia lodged a note with the UN secretary general refuting China’s unlawful maritime claims... It rejects China’s claim...” Australia urges restrain at LAC & supports continued moves by India for de-escalation. In my meeting with EAM today… https://t.co/sZpcU1UG8t— ANI (@ANI) 1596108664000Australia has joined a number of other countries to comment on Malaysia’s claim in December 2019 regarding its continental shelf in the northern part of the South China Sea. China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and the United States have all responded. Watch Australia, China envoys to India argue over South China Sea||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/australia-china-envoys-to-india-spar-over-south-china-sea/articleshow/77294687.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 1, 2020||Madurai||GRH trauma care wing disinfected as 40 staff test positive for Covid-19 in a week||Madurai: After a small Covid-19 cluster emerged at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) with around 40 staff, including doctors and nurses getting affected in the last one week, hospital authorities have stepped up safety measures by disinfecting the triage area in the trauma care centre (TCC) block and shutting down operations for 48 hours. A majority of staff who tested positive were on duty at the triage area.At present, Covid-19 patients are treated at both the super speciality block (SSB) building and TCC block near Anna Bus Stand. “The TCC block building is cramped and doesn’t have much ventilation. When a number of colleagues started falling ill and tested positive, many of us started dreaded duty in the triage area,” said a GRH staff. Speaking to TOI, dean of the GRH, Dr J Sangumani said that regular disinfection is being carried out in Covid-19 wards, especially intensive care units (ICUs). “Safety of staff is considered seriously. We are carrying out intensified disinfection. We have also increased the number of doffing and donning areas for the staff and kept exhaust fans to avoid crowding and improve ventilation,” he said. Decongestion of beds was also done at the block.State president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA), Dr K Senthil said, “Steps have been taken to restrict patient attenders, who maybe asymptomatic carriers. We are trying to rectify some possible flaws like mobile phone covers which could be a reason for the spread. So, we have changed to using disposable covers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-trauma-care-wing-disinfected-as-40-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-a-week/articleshow/77293264.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Southern TN has 16K active cases, central districts 5,000||Madurai:/Trichy: The total number of deaths due to the pandemic rose to 684 in the ten southern districts on Friday with the addition of 34 more victims even as the central districts recorded three more deaths to take the regions toll to 149. This came on a day when 173 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Madurai taking the district’s total past 11,000 though it has only 2,349 active cases. However, in the southern districts, there were as many as 1,721 new cases and 16,522 active ones though the total so far stood at 51,378. Virudhunagar which had 357 new cases (total 7,865 and active 2,823) reported six deaths taking the district’s toll to 85 while Theni had 299 new cases (active ones 2,180), Tuticorin 284, Tirunelveli 222 new cases and three deaths. Madurai city wards now have only 108 active cases, indicating that it is the rural pockets which now have most of the cases. Kanyakumari district which recorded 169 new cases has 2,004 active ones while Tenkasi had 59 cases. All the other districts recorded less than 100 cases. As for the deaths, Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar had six each, Theni five, Madurai, Dindigul, and Tuticorin four each, Tirunelveli three and Ramanathapuram two. The total cases in the central districts touched 13,380 cases on Friday while the active cases were 5,021. Trichy district recorded 133 cases taking the total to 4,146 so far. Pudukottai recorded 112 cases, Thanjavur 97, Perambalur 55 and Nagapattinam district 50. Tiruvarur district witnessed 28 cases while Karur district reported 31. Ariyalur reported four positive cases though the district total was 918. Among them, only 147 were active. The total number of cases in Perambalur district touched 477 while tally of the positive cases was 735 in Nagappattinam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-tn-has-16k-active-cases-central-districts-5000/articleshow/77293248.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||96.5% pass in Madurai, 97.4% in Trichy||Madurai/Trichy: With a pass percentage of 96.5, Madurai district secured 19th spot in the state in Class XI board exams, a marginal decline compared to last year’s 97%. Girls outperformed boys by securing 3.1% higher while Thirumangalam educational district topped the four in Madurai with 97.7% pass. Trichy district came fourth in the state with 97.4% pass percentage, up from 10th place in the previous year. As many as 135 schools in Madurai secured 100% results, of which 106 were self-finance matriculation schools. Two corporation girls’ schools, Kasthuribai Gandhi Corporation GHSS and Avvai Corporation Girls HSS secured centum. Only one government school, Government Girls HSS, Karungalakudi, scored centum results. Out of the 19 Kallar schools in the district, six had 100% results this year. Subject-wise, 100% pass results were secured by students in 23 vocational subjects including Home Science, Political Science and Nursing. In Chemistry, 99.97% pass percentage was recorded, the highest in a subject among science and arts groups. For Language and English, students secured 99% and 99% pass percentage respectively. A total of 1,028 centums were scored across all subjects in Madurai district. Overall, the most number of centums were scored in agricultural science (454) and the least in Maths (2). 33 scored centums in computer science and 24 in Chemistry, but no centums were scored in Language, English, Physics and Biology. Among the 123 differently-abled candidates in Madurai, 118 cleared their Class XI board exams, including all 37 blind and 14 handicapped students who appeared for the exams. In the case of Trichy district, 32,183 students from 256 schools appeared for the board examinations, of whom, 31,356 including 17,148 girls cleared the examination. The district improved its pass percentage from 96.93 last year to 97.4 this year. Out of 256 schools in the district, 93 witnessed cent per cent pass, including 17 government schools. Among the 142 differently-abled students, 139 passed, improving the district’s rank to seventh rank across the district this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/96-5-pass-in-madurai-97-4-in-trichy/articleshow/77293274.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||With 94 fresh positive cases, Vadodara’s Covid tally climbs to 4,666; two deaths||Vadodara: The city and district registered 94 fresh Covid-19 cases since Thursday evening taking the total number of Covid-19 cases up too 4,666. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. The north zone of the city registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city as 23 persons there tested positive. This was followed by the south zone with 19 new cases and the west zone where 17 new cases were detected. The east zone registered 10 cases, the lowest in the city. The areas from where the cases were reported in the city included Manjalpur, Makarpura, Chhani, Ajwa Road, Waghodiya Road, Gotri, Panigate, Karelibaug, Navayard, Tandalja, Harni, Fatehpura, Navapura, Soma Talav, Nyay Mandir, Alkapuri, Subhanpura, VIP Road, Tarsali, Sun Pharma Road, Sama, Ellora Park, Gorwa and O P Road. Twenty-five cases were reported from areas of the Vadodara district outside VMC limits. These were from Dabhoi, Kayavarohan, Padra, Savli, Shinor, Khatamba, Bhayli, Sayajipura, Koyali, Ankodiya, Por and Karjan. The number of discharged patients saw a major rise with 192 patients being discharged from various hospitals in the city. These include patients who had tested positive for Covid-19, but died primarily due to other comorbid conditions. As many as 929 patients now remain under treatment in different hospitals or home isolation. These include 34 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 146 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/with-94-fresh-positive-cases-vadodaras-covid-tally-climbs-to-4666-two-deaths/articleshow/77291914.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: ‘Amdavad Model’ to go global on WHO platform||AHMEDABAD: The World Health Organization has evinced interest in the ‘Amdavad Model’ to fight Covid, spurring curiosity about the model across the world. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary of the forest and environment department — specially deputed to handle the Covid situation in Ahmedabad — said on Friday that the WHO was apprised of the model. “As part of the exercise to share the best practices of Covid management across the world, a detailed briefing about the Amdavad Model was given to the WHO’s chief scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan,” Gupta said. The briefing was presented to Swaminathan by Gupta himself and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar on Friday through video-conferencing. Gupta said Swaminathan told the AMC that many of its initiatives can be adopted by other cities. Among the services cited were Dhanvantari Raths (mobile clinics), 104 helpline (fever SOS), and Sanjivani Vans (care for patients under home quarantine). The AMC’s public-private partnership model of designating beds for Covid treatment at private hospitals was also stated to be an initiative worth emulating. Gupta said that the WHO will soon provide a platform for sharing the Amdavad Model with other cities in India and across the world. Swaminathan was appreciative of the strategy of using Aarogya Setu data for focused surveillance and testing. During the conference, Swaminathan said the app is a useful tool. She stressed the need to create a big army of contact tracers consisting of volunteers such as students, as has been done in countries such as the UK and Germany. AMC officials said that Dhanvantari Raths and Sanjivani Vans identify infected people and also provide medical services to those who are unable to access their physicians for routine problems. The officials said that active surveillance at the city’s entry points on highways and at bus stations has helped the AMC stop infected people from coming into the city. The officials said that since May the number of active cases in the city was hovering at 4,000 per day. They said that active surveillance and other measures brought down the number this week below 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavad-model-to-go-global-on-who-platform/articleshow/77291903.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Sero surveillance hits staff shortage hurdle in Pune||PUNE: Newly appointed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Friday said shortage of phlebotomists had hit the serological surveillance project in Pune that is expected to be completed by mid-August. Phlebotomists are healthcare workers trained in drawing venous blood for testing. “Survey team has reached out to us as they are falling short of phlebotomists. We are in talks with PMC health officials to help them out,” Rao told TOI. The study is being carried out by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with Savitribai Phule Pune University’s Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). It is funded by Persistent Systems. Director of SPPU’s Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences Aarti Nagarkar said they had collected 1,100 samples and were hoping to complete 1,500 samples by next week. “We are doing this project under the guidance of SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar and senior scientist from IISER LS Shashidhara and professor Aurnab Ghose,” she said. On the setting up of jumbo facilities, Rao said they would issue the orders for setting up two facilities on CoEP and SSPMS grounds near RTO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sero-surveillance-hits-staff-shortage-hurdle-in-pune/articleshow/77293247.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC nixes ban on private schools collecting fees||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday said it will set aside the clause in the government resolution prohibiting private schools from collecting tuition fees till they remain closed due to Covid. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala also asked the state government and the schools to negotiate the matter of fees again with an “open mind”. The judges said that the government should try to balance the interests of the schools with those of the parents. The HC also asked the schools to continue online classes, which had been stopped for a couple of days as a mark of protest against the government diktat. Mitul Shelat, the advocate representing the Federation of Self-Financed Schools, said the government’s ban on the collection of fees was unreasonable and questioned its power to issue such an order. The state government had on July 16 invoked the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act to impose restrictions on the collection of fees. The advocate for a group of parents, Vishal Dave, requested the HC to direct the government to ensure that the interests of parents are protected. Dave also wanted to have the schools restrained from charging for activities that are not taking place at present. The HC said it will pass an order and make observations to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are protected. To the HC’s queries about negotiations, the state government submitted that the schools were not ready to give any concession in their charges. The court reiterated that the negotiations should be reasonable. The federation then said that it was open to negotiations. The government insisted that the federation’s statement should be recorded considering its past actions. The HC insisted on negotiations because the government resolution had specifically mentioned that the harsh decision was necessitated by the federation’s July 16 letter curtly refusing to reduce fees. “Parents were unhappy when there was no fee committee,” said Manan Choksi, a trustee at Udgam School. “Now, when there is a fee committee, they have a problem. If parents don’t pay fees, how will schools run and how will we pay salaries to teachers and other staff members?” He went on to say: “As many as 80% of parents have paid fees. We are ready to extend support to the remaining who are not in a position to pay.” Deepak Rajyaguru, the spokesperson of the Federation of Self-Financed Schools, said: “Online education was not considered a part of the regular academic session. Then why is the government paying salaries to teachers for online studies?” Rajyaguru went on to say: “The court has said that it is a part of regular studies. This is not a question of win or loss but a question of survival of lakhs of teachers and other staffers.” The court’s decision has instilled hope in teachers and schools, Rajyaguru said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-nixes-ban-on-private-schools-collecting-fees/articleshow/77293302.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Nodal officers to help Covid patients find hospital beds in Pune||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Friday said area-wise nodal officers would be appointed to guide Covid-19 patients to hospitals having vacant beds. The nodal officers would receive Covid-19 test reports from the labs, including the private facilities. It would be their responsibility to find beds for patients testing positive. The area-wise nodal officers would be a part of the central command system, suggested by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “Before a Covid-19 patient is intimated about the test report, the nodal officers from each of the 15 wards in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits and the eight wards in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation would be intimated. It would help the officers have a thorough idea about the location of the patient. They can then coordinate with the person managing the dashboard and call up the patient to intimate about the report. Depending on the severity of symptoms, the nodal officer will coordinate the patient’s hospital admission too,” said Ram, adding that an order to this effect would have to be issued by the corporations. Saurabh Rao, the new Pune divisional commissioner, said these nodal officers would be in charge of their areas and they should have thorough knowledge about upcoming cases and patients’ requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nodal-officers-to-help-ncov-patients-find-hospital-beds/articleshow/77293241.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||13 corporators’ posts cancelled by KDMC chief||KALYAN: Posts of 13 corporators from 18 villages have been cancelled by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner on Thursday. It follows a state government decision last month to exclude 18 of 27 villages from KDMC. KDMC is likely to hold civic elections in October. The state election department had submitted a report to exclude the 18 villages. A new list of wards will be prepared for the elections. Villagers had opposed their inclusion in KDMC and demanded a municipal council. As the state agreed to exclude only 18, villagers said they will continue their protest. KDMC corporators will move the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13-corporators-posts-cancelled-by-kdmc-chief/articleshow/77293539.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 1, 2020||Pune||Startup to help streamline tests in Pune||PUNE: A city-based bootstrapped start-up Dingg said that it will soon provide its contact-less queue management and appointment booking system to several Covid-19 testing centres in Pune. Dingg is among the 54 start-ups nationally that have been shortlisted under the Centre for Augmenting War with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) initiative by the Department of Science and Technology, under the informatics segment. "People spend a lot of time at the testing centres and this can be potentially dangerous for them. So we are talking with authorities to deploy our services," said Akshay Poorey, Dingg co-founder. The company said that it will soon be providing it complete solutions that include contactless token system, online/app based appointments and queue management, to the most of the Covid testing centers in Pune. "Our solution also enables the testing centers to manage people by using check in / checkout facility that will keep track on the number of people visiting the centers also this will help testing centers to manage the crowd with social distancing and reduce the fear of visitors getting infected," the company said. Dingg serves over 200 vendors in the city and works on a subscription model. It has so far expanded to over a dozen cities in India and has served about 1 lakh bookings from 10,000 customer downloads. It has also received the first tranche of milestone-linked non-commercial funding under the CAWACH initiative. The initiative received 826 applications in various thrust areas such as PPEs, disinfectants and sanitizers, informatics, diagnostics and devices, ventilators and other medical equipments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/startup-to-help-streamline-tests/articleshow/77293249.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 1, 2020||Varanasi||Dist reports 145 fresh Covid cases, tally mounts to 2,767||Varanasi: Coronavirus continued to spread its tentacles, infecting more persons in the districts of eastern UP. While Varanasi reported 145 new cases of Covid-19 with seven death on Friday, the other districts also witnessed an increasing number of patients. With 145 new cases of Covid-19, the Varanasi district topped in the region with the total tally of 2,767. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that two patients died on Friday, while five deaths were reported on Thursday late night at the Covid-19 facility increasing the toll to 58 in the district. So far, 1,103 patients have recovered, while 1,606 are under treatment at different hospitals. In Ballia district, 46 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday increasing the total number to 1,694. According to Ballia DM Hari Pratap Shahi, so far 785 patients have recovered from illness and were discharged from the hospital, while 16 persons lost their lives. Presently, there are 891 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. The Azamgarh district reported 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday increasing the tally to 987. So far, 392 patients have recovered and 13 patients died. The district has 582 active cases of Covid-19 at present. In Mau district, 13 more persons were tested positive for Covid-19 increasing the tally to 489. Mau DM Gyan Prakash Tripathi said 323 persons have so far recovered, while six patients died. Presently, there are 160 patients under treatment at the hospital. Ghazipur district also reported 70 new cases of Covid-19 increasing the tally to 1,132. Earlier, 140 more persons were tested positive for coronavirus in Jaunpur district on Thursday night increasing the total number to 1,899. According to the Jaunpur DM DK Singh, of them 996 have recovered, while 30 patients died. Presently, the district has 873 active cases of coronavirus. The Chandauli district too reported 37 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday night, increasing the tally to 829. Of them, 556 patients have recovered, while eight persons succumbed to coronavirus. Presently, the district has 265 active cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dist-reports-145-fresh-covid-cases-tally-mounts-to-2767/articleshow/77293271.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Rohtang tunnel unlikely to provide winter connectivity||MANALI: The much-awaited Rohtang tunnel, which would provide all-weather connectivity to tribal Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi regions of Himachal Pradesh and to the Ladakh region, is almost ready for inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September but it will need months of work to make it an all-weather route as structures to protect the highway from avalanches are yet to be built. The project was proposed in 1983 and has faced several delays due to geological challenges which have pushed the deadline since the digging started in 2011. The approach roads to the tunnel on both the sides in Manali and Lahaul are prone to landslides and avalanches and need to be secured for safe and smooth traffic movement all year round. Traffic through the tunnel will be allowed from next month onwards but the road to the tunnel will get blocked frequently because of heavy snowfall and avalanches in winter. The 8.8km tunnel is equipped with latest safety features. Extreme cold and blizzards will have no impact on the tunnel. As its portals have also been protected by avalanche control structures, it is capable of allowing vehicular movement even during avalanches of any grade. The Solang-Dhundi (south portal) and Keylong-Gufa hotel (north portal) roads generally remain blocked with snow between 5ft and 20ft deep in winters. The tunnel will allow traffic in winter months only after both the highway on both sides is kept clear of snow and protected from dozens of avalanche-prone sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rohtang-tunnel-unlikely-to-provide-winter-connectivity/articleshow/77293337.cms||Suresh Sharma
August 1, 2020||Varanasi||Vidwat Parishad team to take puja items to Ayodhya||Varanasi: A delegation of Kashi Vidwat Parishad comprising Prof. Ram Chandra Pandey, Prof. Ramnarayan Dwivedi and Prof. Vinay Kumar Pandey will take part in the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya on August 5. They are also be taking puja (religious) articles like silver belpatra, kachchap, naag, vastu purush and panchratna with them as the prasad of Lord Vishwanath. These things of religious importance will be used in bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir, Ramnarayan Dwivedi told TOI on Thursday. He said these articles have been provided by the organizing secretary of KVP Pt. Rajneesh Sharma Ballu Maharaj. “The kacchapa (tortoise) is the base of the earth and the shesh naag (king cobra) is the deity of patal. It will be helpful in strong foundation of the grand temple, he explained. Besides, Ram-Ram inscribed belpatra and chandan will also be taken to Ayodhya for this purpose,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vidwat-parishad-team-to-take-puja-items-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77292641.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||31k Virtual Court||Kanpur.................3 Anant/virtual court Times News Network Kanpur: As many as 78 matters were heard by the judicial officials on Friday in virtual court of Kanpur Nagar district. Around 20 matters out of 78 matters have been disposed off by the judicial officials according to Mohd Saif Additional district judge Kanpur nagar. The advocates gave a warm response to virtual court and commented that it was beginning and was something was better than nothing. However, a section of advocates oppose it and they were demanding that virtual courts should be held from court premises..Kapil Deep Sachan advocate the general secretary Kanpur Bar Association persuaded them and work in virtual courts continued till schedule time 4 p.m. The proceedings at Virtual court commenced from hall of Government Inter college hall at the scheduled time at 10.30 a.m. All judicial officials who had been deputed for the hearing came on screen at their schedule time from their residence office and worked during their stipulated time. After first the day’s proceeding Mohd Saif ADJ XVII /chairman computer committee and trainer talking to T O I commented “ it was a good day.At least some judicial work started and people would get some relief’. He pointed out if everyone would cooperate then virtual court would work properly. The general secretary KBA commented that advocates, in general, were happy. Now they could earn their bread and butter. A team of technicians and doctor was present at the entry gate they performed thermal screening and sanitize the file and bags of advocates and then ask them to go inside the premises. In the hall two virtual courts were established. And advocates were asked to sit outside and wait for their turn.Turn by turn they appeared before screen and argued their matter in support of their claim and their client’s favour. Meanwhile the office of district judge released the cause list of matters slated to be heard on August 4, 2020 . As per list 85 matters have been listed for hearing. The court will remain closed on August 1, 2 and 3 on the occasion of Eid Ul Adha and Sunday. And it would open in August 4, 2020. ………………………… eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/31k-virtual-court/articleshow/77293495.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Collector cites distance, turns down demand for Covid units in Lavasa||PUNE: Isolation centres at Lavasa, a private planned city, have been ruled out as too distant to house and care for Covid-19 patients. Pune MP Girish Bapat had suggested the idea that was opposed by the citizens residing in the green zone. “As of now, we do not require such centres at distant locations. Moreover, the thrust is on ICU beds not Covid care centres,” Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Friday. The district administration will stress on more ICU beds and not plain centres, he added. BJP member of Parliament from Pune Girish Bapat wanted the hilltown of Lavasa to be converted into a Covid care facility to address the rising number of cases. However, district officials said it is not convenient and there is adequate infrastructure in the rural areas which can be arranged for. Bapat’s letter to the administration had also pointed out that a full-fledged hospital is ready for operation in Lavasa. He said he was aware of the residents of Lavasa opposing the move, but he had insisted asit was needed. Suresh Goswami, who is representing the Lavasa Residents’ Association, told TOI that they are already hassled about the development of the hill station with the NCLT to appoint a new administrator, and did not want a Covid facility in the area. He said they have sent a letter to the gram panchayat and the chief minister. The residents said they have managed to keep the hill station in the green zone without a single Covid case. “We have many senior citizens, thousands of children and villagers and a majority of our population is vulnerable,” a letter signed by Goswami on behalf of the residents, reads. The administration officials said the site is not suitable and there are cases in the surrounding areas of Pirangut, Hinjewadi and Maan areas for which facilities have already been set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-cites-distance-turns-down-demand-for-covid-units-in-lavasa/articleshow/77293275.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, UK dismisses Referendum 2020, says Punjab part of India||London: The British government has dismissed calls by radical Khalistanis for a Punjab Referendum 2020 on whether Punjab should become an independent country, saying “Punjab is part of India”. Washington-headquartered pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) is preparing to hold an “unofficial Punjab Independence Referendum 2020” globally online in November this year in order to allow Punjabis across the world as well as the people of Punjab to vote on whether they wish Punjab to be part of India, despite such a referendum being illegal in India. The group, banned in India, is asking people to register to vote in advance on one of two websites — one for Punjabis outside India and one for those living in Punjab. Following Canada’s lead, after the government of Canada confirmed it “will not recognise the referendum,” a spokesperson for the British high commission in Delhi told TOI: “This is a matter for the government and people of India, not foreign countries or overseas organisations. While we support the right of anyone to voice their opinion, the UK government is not involved in any way with this unofficial and non-binding referendum. We consider the Indian Punjab to be a part of India.” UK foreign office sources told TOI this “is not a new position, and represents Britain’s long-standing policy”. SFJ said: “Once we establish consensus on the question of independence, we will then present the case to the United Nations for re-establishing the country of Punjab. Punjab Referendum 2020 is an unofficial referendum where the outcome is not legally binding on India. Yet with an overwhelming ‘yes’ vote this unofficial referendum will start the process through which we will eventually conduct an official legally binding referendum in Punjab, thereby peacefully establishing Khalistan.” “Today UK believes in India’s territorial integrity but tomorrow when they will see an overwhelming Sikhs supporting the independence of Punjab, I am sure they will reconsider the position,” it added. Before registering, the would-be voters have to agree to a privacy policy in which they give an undertaking that they “are not a member, employee, consultant of or in way affiliated with RAW, IB, CBI, NIA or any other intelligence agency of India”. The group says it will organise “voter registration camps” outside Indian embassies on August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-uk-dismisses-referendum-2020-says-punjab-part-of-india/articleshow/77293305.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||SDRF rescues people after water entered houses in Doon||Dehradun: The downpour on Thursday night in the capital city caused waterlogging in some houses at Nehrugram and Bhagat Singh colonies. The residents had to vacate their house in the night fearing any mishappening. A team from the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) reached for their rescue and helped the residents reach a safer place. The work of removing water from the houses has been initiated. Fortunately, no one suffered severe injuries in the incident. The locals, though, were traumatised as water entered their houses. The authorities are proving all necessary help to the affected residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sdrf-rescues-people-after-water-entered-houses-in-doon/articleshow/77290402.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab continues with weekend and night curfews||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Friday issued detailed guidelines for Unlock 3.0, to be implemented between August 1 to 30. It did not lift night curfew across the state from 11pm to 5am and only permitted essential movement and activities at night. Shops other than those dealing in essential commodities and shopping malls will continue to remain closed on Sundays. However, on August 2 (Sunday), all shops and shopping malls will remain open from 7am to 8 pm on account of Raksha Bandhan. But, restaurants and liquor vends will continue to remain open from 8am to 10pm on all seven days of the week. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods and no separate permission or permit will be required for such movement. Use of Cova App and self-generated pass would be mandatory for inter-state passengers. Transport vehicles will continue to utilise the entire seating capacity. Sports complexes, stadiums and public parks will be allowed to open between 5am and 8pm without spectators as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the health department. Gyms will also be allowed to open from August 5. Marriages and other social functions in banquet halls, marriage palaces, hotels and open venues can be organised for up to 30 persons. Bars would continue to remain closed, but liquor can be served in weddings as per the excise policy. Restaurants have been allowed to open till 10pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Religious places would also continue to remain open from 5am to 8pm and the maximum number of persons at the time of worship shall not exceed 20 persons. The number of persons at funerals should not exceed 20 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-continues-with-weekend-and-night-curfews/articleshow/77293332.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Rajkot||Lioness chasing humans recaptured in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A lioness was recaptured within a few days of its release in Savarkundla range after it started chasing humans. According to sources, the lioness was captured a month go after she fell sick and had shown symptoms of babesiosis, a parasitic infection caused by tick bites. After treatment at Junagadh’s Sakkarbaug Zoo for a month, she recovered and was released into the wild last week.  However, as she started chasing humans again, forest officials suspect that she is suffering from rabies. The forest teams tranquillized the lioness and took her to Jasadhar animal care centre for treatment. Deputy conservator of forest, Anshuman Sharma, however, could not be contacted for comments. The forest department had captured over 20 lions from Gir (east) division in May and June after they fell sick. It was found that some of the lions were suffering from babesiosis, and later many were released after the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lioness-chasing-humans-recaptured/articleshow/77291573.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||31k eight members of gang arrested||Kanpur..................4 (Faiz) Times News Network Kanpur:Police on Thursday arrested eight members of a gang that targeted largely gullible people, duping them with promises of making a profit while exchanging Saudi Riyals for Indian Rupees. On July 9, the gang cheated a grocery shopkeeper -Rishabh Gupta, of Rs 2.5 lakh. Similarly, the gang members, when tried to dupe a mobile phone shopkeeper Deepak Bhatia, were nabbed by the Chakeri police. “A woman, part of the gang, gained Bhatia’s trust with a story while visiting his shop that she had with her 1672 Saudi Riyals and will give them to him in return of Rs 4 lakh. As Bhatia was aware of similar fraud committed with Rishabh Gupta, he alerted local police,” said a officer of Chakeri police station. In his complaint, Bhatia said, “I called her and fixed a meeting in Ramadevi area and agreed to pay Rs 4 lakh in return for 1672 Riyals. She came with several gang members. After discussing with Bhatia, as soon as she handed me the Saudi Riyals, alert policemen took her and two other members of the gang in their custody. On being cross-checked, there were only few Saudi Riyals, else there were plain white colour papers in the bundle. The three thereafter led to arrest of five others. Eight arrested persons were identified as Gayasuddin, Arman Khan, Shabeena, Islam, Abdul Qadir, Nargis, Neelu and Rabia. Majority of them are residents of West Bengal.Their interrogation is underway,” said SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal. -----------eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/31k-eight-members-of-gang-arrested/articleshow/77293490.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Volunteers ensure dignified farewell for Covid-19 victims||VIJAYAWADA: At a time when stigma of Covid-19 is keeping people away from performing the last rites of their loved ones who died of the disease, many organisations and individuals are extending free funeral services. For instance, three persons – Farooq Shubli M, Fathullah MD and Moulana Hussain Ahmed (39) have conducted funeral services for 79 Covid-19 victims across Vijayawada and Guntur. From providing transportation for the body to conducting the Namaz-e-Janaza (funeral prayer), they conducted funeral services for several victims, including a Christian. Most recently, a sub-inspector of police attached to Nagayalanka Challa Krishna conducted the last rites of a 42-year-old businessman who succumbed to the disease after his family members abandoned his body. Two days later, he also conducted the funeral for the businessman’s 62-year-old mother who committed suicide. On July 8, Duvvuru panchayat secretary Dudekula Lakshmi Narasimhulu wore his PPE kit almost immediately after a village succumbed to coronavirus after a villager’s body was abandoned by his family members. He transported the body from the person’s house and buried it at a funeral ground. Surprisingly, it isn’t about the poor or the rich nor Hindu or Muslim, the Covid-19 stigma stands present amongst even crorepati families. Speaking to TOI, Farooq Shubli said out of the 79 funerals they had conducted, barely 10% of are poor background. “Even a crorepati can be found deprived of a dignified funeral due to the stigma. We have done funerals for such persons as well. Most of the funerals we have conducted happen to be for the bodies abandoned by the family members,” Farooq said. Farooq began the funeral service during April when a popular maulana succumbed to the disease and his family members were taken to quarantine centres. “We conducted the last rites and in fact faced opposition from locals, both Hindus and Muslims, as they pelted stones at us for bringing the body to the area to conduct the last rites,” Farooq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/volunteers-ensure-dignified-farewell-for-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77293325.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vehicle theft accused flees quarantine centre in Godhra||Vadodara: A man nabbed by the Panchmahal police escaped from a Covid-19 quarantine centre at the Maize Research Station in Godhra late on Thursday night. This is the third time since May that such incident was witnessed at the quarantine centre.According to sources, Sangramsinh Rathod (24), of Vaktapura in Desar taluka of Vadodara district had been held by the police in connection with vehicle theft. He was brought to the Covid-19 quarantine centre at the hostel of the research facility after collecting his samples for a Covid-19 test. Rathod had demanded that he should be taken to the bathroom as he wanted to relieve himself. He closed the bathroom door from inside and escaped through the ventilator of the bathroom.On Monday too, a man who is believed to be suffering from learning disability jumped from the third floor of a quarantine centre in Godhra. The man was rushed to the Godhra civil hospital and then Vadodara for treatment. He died later at Vadodara. It was initially believed that he may have attempted suicide, but it later came to light that he was trying to escape.The centre has witnessed a suicide in May when an accused who had allegedly killed his father committed suicide by hanging himself at the centre. He had used a mattress cover to kill himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vehicle-theft-accused-flees-quarantine-centre-in-godhra/articleshow/77291939.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Senior bank official given 7-yr jail term in graft case||Dehradun: A special CBI court in Dehradun sentenced a senior bank manager to seven years rigorous imprisonment for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 from a businessman for sanctioning a Mudra loan of Rs 5 lakh. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 40,000 on the convict and in case of non-payment of the fine, the convict will have to undergo simple imprisonment for a further period of six-months, the court order stated. The convicted bank official, Rajkumar, who was posted as senior manager in the branch of a Punjab National Bank, was found guilty under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act by the court of special CBI judge Sujata Singh. According to the prosecution lawyer Satish Kumar, “One Kunaal Singh, who owns a cement shop, filed a complaint with CBI on February 1, 2019, stating that he had applied for a Mudra loan of Rs 5 lakh from the bank in August, 2018, and the senior manager of the bank demanded Rs 40,000 for sanctioning the loan amount.” On January 28, 2019, Rajkumar called the complainant to the bank and demanded Rs 40,000 from him. However, when Kunaal Singh expressed his inability to give the bribe, the convicted manager instead told him to pay the bribe money after the loan gets cleared. The manager kept playing dilly-dallying tactics and didn't sanction the amount. Later, the complainant was again called at the bank by the convicted manager on February 1, 2019. The accused reiterated his bribe demand before handing over the draft of loan amount to him. “Kunaal recorded the whole conversation and filed a complaint with the CBI the same day. The CBI officials laid a trap and caught Rajkumar red-handed on February 2, 2019, while accepting the bribe,” said Satish Kumar, prosecution lawyer. The prosecution examined 16 witnesses during the trial while Rajkumar produced himself as defense witness. The CBI produced audio recordings in the court where Rajkumar was clearly demanding a bribe from the complainant. The CBI also produced the CCTV footage from the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/senior-bank-official-given-7-yr-jail-term-in-graft-case/articleshow/77290420.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 1, 2020||Allahabad||7 aides of Atiq shifted from jail||Prayagraj: Seven aides of former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmad were shifted from Naini Central jail to other prisons of the state on Friday. Earlier, Ahmed’s younger brother and former MLA Khalid Azeem aka Ashraf and another aide Naved were also shifted from Naini central jail to other prisons. While Azeem was taken to Bareilly Jail, Naved too was transferred to Lakhimpur Khiri jail. DIG (jail) BR Verma said, “The seven inmates have been shifted to jails in Kaushambi, Banda, Pratapgarh, Chitrakoot and Mirzapur following instructions from the state government.” According to reports, the former MP’s associates Salman and Farooq were shifted to Kaushambi jai, while Akram was transferred to Banda jail. Azeem and Farhan were sent to Chitrakoot jail, while Pankaj was shifted to Mirzapur jail. Another notorious criminal Bachha Pasi was transferred to Pratapgarh district jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/7-aides-of-atiq-shifted-from-jail/articleshow/77289819.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Poaching fears: CM shifts MLAs to Jaisalmer, BJP takes a swipe||JAIPUR: A day after claiming that the announcement of a special assembly session from August 14 had overnight raised the “price” of MLAs, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Friday got his already corralled flock to shift from a Jaipur hotel to a Jaisalmer resort in a bid to stave off any last-ditch attempt to lure them with “unlimited” cash. The MLAs, barring four, flew out in five batches on three charter planes and a chopper between 1pm and 7.30pm. From the cabinet, parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal, new PCC chief and school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra and power minister BD Kalla left for Jaisalmer, while the rest stayed back for work. “It is important to save the Congress government because you can see the government of India and its department (home) are after us. The people of Rajasthan are supporting us,” CM Gehlot said at Jaipur airport before joining his MLAs on the last flight. “I repeatedly name home minister Amit Shah because he remains at the forefront in toppling governments,” Gehlot said. “I repeatedly name home minister Amit Shah because he remains at the forefront in toppling governments, be it in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Manipur or Arunachal Pradesh. I have to say, what has happened to you, Amit Shah ji? Day and night, sleeping or awake, you think of just toppling the governments. If the elected governments keep falling like this, how will democracy survive in the country?” Gehlot said. As reported by TOI on Friday, the legislators will stay in Jaisalmer until the start of the assembly session in a fortnight's time. Of the four MLAs who stayed back, Jagdish Jangid and Amit Chachan will go to Jaisalmer with Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi on Saturday. The other two — Parasram Mordia and Babu Lal Bairwa — are unwell, Congress insiders said. The new arrangement will be “flexible”, with ministers being permitted to shuttle between the two cities “on rotation basis” over the next fortnight. Gehlot said, “Most of my ministers are staying back to attend to work. They will keep moving between Jaipur and Jaisalmer. We will not compromise on governance.” Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia tweeted, “How far will the state government run? From where it has reached (international border), the next destination is Pakistan.” On Gehlot blaming BJP for the dissidence in Congress, he said, “Why is BJP being blamed? If the government is falling, is it BJP’s responsibility to save it?” The dissident camp, led by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, is believed to be in Haryana's Manesar. Some of the MLAs on Gehlot's side said they were moving out to break the monotony of being confined to a Jaipur hotel since July 13. But transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas admitted that the relocation was very much part of Gehlot’s strategy to ensure not a single legislator breaks away. Gazi Fakir, a religious leader and father of minority affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, not only wields clout in Jaisalmer, but is trusted by Gehlot, prompting Congress to choose the erstwhile princely province as a “safer” location to keep its legislators than Jaipur. Being close to the international border, the district already has stricter regulations in place to check movement of people, sources said. AICC general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, termed the flight of MLAs from Jaipur “our struggle to save democracy”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poaching-fears-cm-shifts-mlas-to-jaisalmer-bjp-takes-a-swipe/articleshow/77293358.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Centre as Khemka challenges CAT ruling||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to the Union government on an appeal filed by Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka against a Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order, whereby his plea seeking direction to the Union government to consider his empanelment for additional secretary or equivalent post at the Centre was rejected. August 24 has been set as the next date of hearing. Declining to provide any relief to Khemka citing lack of merit in his application, the tribunal had on July 22 observed, “It is normal expectation that if he was really keen to serve at the Centre, he should have taken sincere and sustained efforts to fulfil the eligibility criteria. Hence, the case of the applicant that his name needs to be empanelled despite being ineligible in view of the Empanelment Guidelines is on a very weak footing.” Khemka, at present posted as principal secretary in the science and technology department of Haryana government, had claimed that he had been wrongly denied empanelment for holding additional secretary/ equivalent post at the Centre. The senior IAS officer had argued in his application that the eligibility criteria for such empanelment require minimum three years’ service at the Centre at the level of deputy secretary and above, for which he had offered himself on a number of occasions, but he was not considered without any fault on his part. On the other hand, a number of other officers, who did not fulfil the said criteria, have been appointed, he had alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-issues-notice-to-centre-as-khemka-challenges-cat-ruling/articleshow/77293345.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor scam: Special team submits report||Chandigarh: The Special Enquiry Team (SET), constituted to probe the missing liquor stocks from the godowns of excise and taxation department during the lockdown period, has submitted its report to the government. Headed by additional chief secretary T C Gupta, the SET, which has ADGP Muhhamad Akil and additional director of excise and taxation department as members, formally handed over the report to home secretary Vijay Vardhan late on Thursday evening. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said the report is being examined to decide the further course of action. “This is a bundle of around 12-15kg papers. We are hopeful that the SET has done an in-depth examination of the charges while preparing its report. Let our teams read and examine this first,’’ said Vij. “We have submitted our report and recommendations to the government,’’ said T C Gupta, without elaborating on the report’s content. The incident of theft of liquor had come to light in the first week of May when the Haryana government had started lifting the lockdown restrictions. Kharkhoda was the epicentre of the scam, from where over 10,000 cases of IMFL had gone missing from two godowns. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-scam-special-team-submits-report/articleshow/77293349.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens post plasma needs online in desperate search to treat relatives||PUNE: There is a shortage of convalescent blood plasma in the city and relatives of critical patients have now taken to social media to solicit donors. As per the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) data, the six designated blood banks for providing plasma to Covid patients in Pune district barely have a stock of 62 units of 200 ml each of plasma as on July 30. As many as 13,098 people recovered on June 30. Plasma from a recovered Covid-19 patient can be used only after more than 28 days from the date of discharge. The available units of convalescent plasma is also less in comparison to the number of active cases in the district as of now, over 27,000, even though doctors said that only a few patients require plasma therapy. Atul Kulkarni, director of Jankalyan Blood Bank, providing plasma to patients, told TOI, “We try to screen for antibodies those recovered patients who had been symptomatic during the infection. Only then the donation part comes to play. The donor thus has to visit twice which is a challenge. The entire procedure of getting the plasma with a cell separator machine is for 40 to 45 minutes which is not simple as that of normal blood donation. Many eligible donor have never donated blood. All put together, it discourages people from donating. Kulkarni said the blood bank calls almost 50-100 people daily for plasma donations and only 2-3 are eligible to donate due to the expansive selection criteria . “A patient needs one to two units of 200ml plasma,” Suresh Patil, FDA Pune drug division joint commissioner, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-post-plasma-needs-online-in-desperate-search-to-treat-relatives/articleshow/77293301.cms||Neha Madaan
August 1, 2020||Pune||Over 52,000 test +ve in PMC & PCMC limits in July, more than 25,000 cured||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: More than 52,000 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits in July alone, while the recovery count for the month stood at over 25,000 and toll at 1,000. According to the live dashboard data of the PCMC, 18,686 cases were recorded in PCMC areas in July and 335 patients died of infection in the same month. As for recoveries, over 11,000 patients were cured in the municipal limits in July. The data further showed that the 22-39 years age group was the most affected with 8,474 cases, followed by 40-59 age group with 6,151 cases. Of the 7,914 active patients in the municipal limits, 104 are in critical condition. In case of the PMC limits, the data till July 30 showed that 34,340 cases were recorded in the month, of whom 23,487 had recovered and 723 has died. PCMC health department officials said over 1 lakh tests were conducted in the municipal limits in July. “If one look at the number of tests and the positive count, then the number of cases for the month doesn’t present a scary picture,” a health official said, adding, “At present, the RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are being done in government and private laboratories.” The official urged the citizens to cooperate and practice personal hygiene as well as social distancing to keep the disease at bay. A PMC health department also made a similar appeal and said, “The testing count has increased in the PMC limits. Besides, the introduction of antigen tests have also pushed the number of positive patients. However, the recovery rate is improving.” Maruti Bhapkar, social activist, said as the number of cases were on the rise, so was the chaos. “The civic body should make sure that there is ample bed availability for the patients, be it critical or mildly symptomatic. Many relatives of patients have complained about non-availability of beds or proper communication from the private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-52k-test-ve-in-pmc-pcmc-limits-in-july-more-than-25k-cured/articleshow/77293317.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||No SC relief for 100 Mumbai college students||Mumbai: Over 100 students of a city college got no relief from Supreme Court too on Friday and will not be promoted to fifth semester BCom course due to low attendance. SC dismissed two special leave petitions against a Bombay high court judgment which on March 12 had dismissed the plea by 107 students of Mithibai College of Arts, Science and Commerce for relief after they were not allowed to sit for exams due to less than 60% attendance. An SC bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna said it was “not inclined to interfere in the SLPs” and dismissed them. The SLP said for “earlier three semesters students with 50% attendance were allowed to appear for exams and intention to change the practice was never notified to students’’. The appeals on case-by-case was an “empty formality” said their counsel Navare but college counsel Milnd Sathe with S K Srivastav said there was no question of suppression and added some students succeeded before the appeal panel headed by the principal. The college said rules of minimum 75% attendance was condoned by college to 60%. HC had in March accepted 60% as cut-off. Students argued that due to lockdown all were being promoted under pandemic guidelines issued by the state based on performance in the earlier semester, so students with low attendance should be promoted too. But as the college said they were not eligible to keep term due to low attendance, they cannot take the benefit of guidelines and be promoted. After the March dismissal, another student petitioned HC, where a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and N R Borkar granted time for college to take “adequate steps’’ after observing that the matter “involves serious issues pertaining to attendance discipline, which the college wants to assert and since it involves future of students”. The bench on June 29, observing that the college had not disclosed certain facts, allowed the student to file the SLP while keeping the petition in HC pending. After the SC refused to interfere on Friday, Justices Kathawall and Borkar also dismissed the pending petition as infructuous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-sc-relief-for-100-mumbai-college-students/articleshow/77293541.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Home quarantine violators will face music: Collector||Trichy: The Trichy district collector, S Sivarasu, on Friday, warned of severe action against the violators of home quarantine as 66 % of the new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in city area while the rural parts of Trichy accounted for only 34% of the fresh cases.“Contacts of the infected people violate the norms and roam on the streets posing danger of spreading the disease to others. Such people will be liable for legal action,” Sivarasu told TOI. He said that they will be booked under the disaster management (DM) Act. As of Thursday, there were 904 active cases in the four zones of Trichy Corporation and the contacts, who were awaiting the results, were mostly involved in such violations.“Their houses are marked with stickers but they come out of home. It is not possible to monitor all the houses,” said the collector.On the other hand, the collector attributed the lower rate of new cases in rural areas to the adherence of quarantine norms by the people without deviation.“People in rural areas are alert if a resident in their village tests positive for Covid-19. The infected and their contacts also follow the health advisories clearly by staying put in their houses. The neighbours also help the infected residents by getting them essential items,” said the collector.The daily bulletin released by the district administration on Thursday showed 442 active cases in rural parts of Trichy. The active cases were referred for treatment at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital or at Covid care centre (CCC) or advised for home quarantine depending upon the severity of the infection. As of Thursday, 125 infected patients were under home isolation as they were asymptomatic.Out of 4,011 total positive cases in Trichy district, 2,588 have recovered. Trichy district crossed 4,000-mark on Thursday with an average of 100 cases being reported daily for the past one month. From July 1 to July 30, Trichy district recorded 3,351 cases.Saying that the fever clinics and focused testing in the city and rural areas would bring down the incidences of new cases and casualties in the district soon, the collector added that 1,840 samples were collected from city, rural and private laboratories on Thursday. “The government laboratory in our district manages to run 1,400 samples a day. The additional samples are being tested at government lab in Perambalur and a private laboratory to clear the backlog,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/home-quarantine-violators-will-face-music-collector/articleshow/77293356.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Western Command chief Lt Gen Sangha retires||Chandigarh: Lt Gen G S Sangha, Chief of Staff, Western Command, superannuated on Friday after rendering 39 years of glorious service to the nation. He laid a wreath at Veer Smriti to pay his respects to the martyrs of Western Command during the day. Lt Gen G S Sangha is a second-generation officer and was commissioned into 11 Grenadiers in December 1981. He had a distinguished military career and tenanted various command, staff and instructional appointments in varied, sensitive and operational sectors. The general officer has rich command experience, including command of Rasthriya Rifles Battalion and a Mountain Brigade in Jammu and Kashmir, a Mountain Division and a Corps in the Eastern Theatre. During his tenure as Chief of Staff of Western Command, Lt Gen Sangha was instrumental in reducing non-operational casualties, bringing improvements in functioning of various Army institutions and giving impetus to ex-servicemen welfare schemes & facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/western-command-chief-lt-gen-sangha-retires/articleshow/77293354.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||Armyman robbed of cash, ornaments||Kanpur: Armed dacoits allegedly looted cash and ornaments worth several lakh from an Army personnel’s house at Maheva village in Etawah district on late Thursday night. The incident occurred at the house of an Army personnel-Ram Ratan Singh, police said. “The armed dacoits broke into the house of Singh late on Thursday night. They threatened the members of the house at gunpoint and looted cash and ornaments collectively worth several lakh,” station house officer (SHO) Bakewar Ramesh Singh told TOI on Friday. Based on a complaint, police registered an offence under IPC sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 452 (house- trespass) and also under the Arms Act, police said. A manhunt has been launched to trace the accused, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/armyman-robbed-of-cash-ornaments/articleshow/77293488.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||GFSU hosts Smart India Hackathon from August 1 to 3||AHMEDABAD: How will technology shape the world post Covid-19 epidemic? What could be the applications of IoT and machine learning for conventional sectors such as agriculture? Can drones and robotics be trained to handle medical emergencies? These would be some of the challenges thrown at 5,000-plus students from across India as part of Smart India Hackathon 2020. The event, to take place virtually due to Covid-19 epidemic, from August 1 to 3 will be hosted by Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU). The event is an initiative of central government’s ministry of education and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) along with other partners. “The shortlisted problems consist of 11 themes in which 350 projects have participated,” said a GFSU official, adding that the winners will get prizes worth Rs 3.5 crore. The event will be inaugurated on Saturday by Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), in presence of Dr Dr Prashun Gupta, deputy director of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) and Dr J M Vyas, director general of GFSU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gfsu-hosts-smart-india-hackathon-from-aug-1-to-3/articleshow/77291979.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Recovery rate improves to 54% in rural parts over last 10 days||PUNE: The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in the rural parts of Pune has improved to 54% on July 30 as against 32% observed on July 20. Rural Pune has 13 tehsils, including 14 municipal council towns. Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, rural Pune has recorded 7,670 cases. Of these, 4,175 have been discharged after successful recovery. Besides, 193 patients have succumbed to the virus. On July 30, as many as 3,302 active cases were recorded in rural Pune. “Improvement in recovery has much to do with the fact that 80% of positive patients in rural Pune were asymptomatic and the condition of these patients was better when they were admitted to the Covid care centres in the first three weeks of July. Most of them have now been discharged,” district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. He also attributed the improved recovery rate to ramped up rural healthcare infrastructure, which involved adding ICU, oxygenated and ventilator support beds, hiring of doctors, nurses, para-medics and laboratory technicians on contractual basis. “This has particularly helped in places like Bhor and Velhe tehsils,” Ram said. Haveli, with 760 patients cured in last 10 days, has contributed a big way in improving the rural reocvery rate, a senior zilla parishad official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recovery-rate-improves-to-54-in-rural-parts-over-last-10-days/articleshow/77293338.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||With 366 Covid-19 cases, city sees highest single-day spike||Kanpur: A record 366 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in a period of 24 hours in the city on Friday. This was the biggest single- day spike, which took the tally beyond 5,000. The last day of July turned out to be harshest in terms of the biggest spike in a single day. So far 5,166 people have contracted coronavirus since the first case was recorded in March and the numbers are increasing on a daily basis. However, 2,138 persons who defeated corona have been discharged from hospital and sent home. The trend continued on Friday as 51 more people were discharged and allowed to go home. Now, the city has a whopping 2,828 active Covid-19 cases and these persons are under the medical supervision of medical experts. Five more patients died and this took the toll to 200. July has remained a harsh month for the Covid-19 patients as not a single day passed by when deaths did not occur. However, the health department informed that all the persons who died were suffering from some or the other ailment. The most common of them was diabetes or pneumonia. Areas from where cases were recorded on Friday included Juhi, Vikas Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Anandpuri, Bengali Mohal, Govind Nagar, Satyam Vihar, Jajmau, Swaroop Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Maswanpur, Meerpur Cantt, Nawabganj, P. Road, Rawatpur, Shyam Nagar, Shiv Katra, Tilak Nagar, Vishnupuri, Saket Nagar, Pashupati Nagar, Babupurwa, Gandhi Nagar, Harsh Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Gujjaini, Keshavpuram, Kakadeo, Naveen Nagar, Gwaltoli, Lajpat Nagar, Lal Bangla, Santravidas Nagar, Nirala Nagar, Yashoda Nagar, Begumpurwa, Civil Lines, Damodar Nagar, Hanumant Vihar, Police Lines, Shastri Nagar, Nawabganj, Benajhabar, Laxmi Ratan Colony, Acharya Nagar, Dabauli, Yogendra Vihar, Ratanpur, Tiwaripur, Harjinder Nagar, Keshav Nagar, Safipur, Azad Nagar, Arya Nagar, Janakpuri, Cooperganj, Anwarganj, Phoolbagh, Medical College Campus, Gulmohar Vihar, Barra-8, Barra Vishwa Bank, Avas Vikas-3, Basant Vihar, Geeta Nagar, Kalyanpur, Ghatampur, Chakeri, Panki, Jarauli, Kailash Vihar, Cantt, Naubasta, Prem Nagar, Rail Bazar, Shanti Nagar, Sharda Nagar. Health department teams also collected 2,494 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/with-366-covid-19-cases-city-sees-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77293339.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||NEP receives mixed response from academics in Haridwar||Haridwar: The Union government’s New Education Policy (NEP) is “a bundle of impracticalities”, as per several university and college professors and academicians in Haridwar, the constituency of Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The educationists alleged that while the policy has features that may seem attractive, a closer look at them reveals they are difficult to implement. “Ground realities of education have not been taken into account while introducing certain points as part of the education policy,” said Gurukul Kangri University professor M R Verma. “Multiple entry and multiple exit for students sounds good on paper, but how many institutions of higher education can really afford to provide it to their students?” he asked. In a similar vein, N K Garg, associate professor of economics at SMJN college, said, “Free choice of subjects advocated in NEP will be difficult to implement as it will involve a number of issues like getting teachers of various subjects and ensuring enough students for a class, and so on.” Gurukul Kangri University V-C Roop Kishore Shastri hailed the NEP as “recognition of our cultural heritage, Vedic education and Sanskrit.” He saw no problem in implementing the policy of multiple entry and multiple exit, nor the free choice of subjects. “In fact, in our university, we already allow graduates in any subject admission to our post-graduate programme in Vedas,” he said. Managing committee secretary of M V PG college, Veena Shastri, regretted that nothing much has been done to check corruption rampant in appointment of teachers in higher education institutions (HEIs), as the NEP says “... the current recruitment process will be continued.” Another academician, Ashok Shastri, said that with the Prime Minister being the head of the Centre’s apex body of education and CMs in their respective states, “higher education will be more under control of political bosses than academics”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nep-receives-mixed-response-from-academics-in-haridwar/articleshow/77290487.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||Woman’s severed head found in Unnao||Kanpur: Severed head of a woman was found lying in front of a house in Kanchan Nagar locality in Shuklaganj area of Unnao on Friday morning. After coming across the human head, the shocked locals informed the police. The incident has triggered panic among the locals and many of them thronged the spot. The police recovered the head and launched a search in the surrounding areas for finding the torso, but in vain. Locals suspect that the miscreants might have been murdered the woman somewhere else, separated the head from the torso and dumped it at Kanchan Nagar locality. The remaining body is suspected to have been thrown at some other location. Police, however, said they are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased. Inspector Gangaghat Arvind Kumar said it seems that canines had brought the head from a nearby graveyard. “However, all the police seems some stations have been communicated about the incident and asked to communicate about missing persons in the district. Search is on to trace out the missing torso,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/womans-severed-head-found-in-unnao/articleshow/77293394.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 3.0: Nod for inter-state travel; night curfew lifted in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state home department on Friday issued revised guidelines for Unlock 3.0 — from August 1 to August 31 — removing restrictions on inter-state travel and movement of persons and goods within the state. It also stated that all religious places shall be permitted to open from September 1, with certain conditions and protocols. In line with the MHA guidelines, the state government, too, lifted ‘night curfew’ and gave directions to allow reopening of gymnasiums and yoga institutes from August 5. The guidelines issued by additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh said that “no relaxations of any kind shall be permitted in the containment zones”. “Strict protocol will be observed in the containment zones as per MHA/ministry of health & family welfare (MoHFW) guidelines and only essential activities shall be allowed. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 will be issued by the district authority concerned,” it said. District authorities will also identify “buffer zones” outside the respective containment zones and determine the restrictions required on such activities for such areas as are deemed necessary, it added. As per the guidelines, “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and within state movement of persons and goods. All commercial passenger transport vehicles — bus, taxi, cab aggregators (Ola/Uber, etc.), autorickshaw, cyclerickshaw — are also permitted to ply subject to ensuring proper sanitisation of seats and touch points before and after each journey and taking other safety precautions. The passengers travelling in any vehicle (personal or commercial) shall not exceed the permitted seating capacity of the registered vehicle”. “The SOPs for allowing functioning of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India,” it further added. The guidelines also stated the activities in places that will be permitted subject to conditions include small places of worship (temple, masjid, gurudwara, etc.) in rural areas, which has average daily visitors of up to 50 per day prior to lockdown. “The entry of persons must be in a staggered manner so that the number of persons inside the place of worship at one point of time is limited to the extent that social distancing of at least 6 feet is ensured between each person,” it stated. “All persons inside such places must wear a mask.” “All other places of religious worship (temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras, etc) shall be permitted to open from September 1 with certain conditions/protocol. Separate guidelines will be issued for that subsequently,” stated the order. It also added that Independence Day functions at district, sub-division, municipal and panchayat levels will be allowed only by following health protocols, Covid norms and ensuring social distancing. It also prescribes work from home as far as possible and proposes staggering of work/business hours at offices, workplaces, shops, markets and industrial and commercial establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock-3-0-nod-for-inter-statetravel-night-curfew-lifted-in-raj/articleshow/77293385.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Sassoon hosp dean told to give report on deaths in July||Pune: Deepak Mhaisekar, who retired as the Pune’s divisional commissioner on Friday, said the dean of the Sassoon General Hospital has been told to submit a detailed report on the deaths in July in the wake of mayor Murlidhar Mohol’s claim that at least 400 suspected Covid-19 casualties had gone unaccounted for in the month. “We had a meeting with the Sassoon hospital dean and told him to submit the report that will give the authorities an apt picture about the deaths,” Mhaisekar told an online news conference. “The report will cover all Covid-19 and non-Covid deaths, as well as issues such as suspected Covid-19 casualties and whether the post-death protocol regarding disposal of bodies was followed or not. Such a report needs to be analysed before reaching any conclusion about unaccounted deaths as claimed,” Mhaisekar said. Mohol claimed on Thursday that almost 12 suspected deaths were being registered at Sassohospital alone and there were many such cases in other health hubs. He said the unaccounted deaths have contributed to a false case fatality rate for Pune city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-hosp-dean-told-to-give-report-on-deaths-in-july/articleshow/77293346.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Sanjeevani bus adds to testing capacity||Visakhapatnam: A Sanjeevani bus was launched at the Government’s Men’s College (Arts College) in Srikakulam town on Friday. The bus is a mobile Covid-19 testing service and can collect upto 10 samples at a time. The mobile testing unit was formally launched by district medical and health officer M Chenchaiah and Srikakulam municipal commissioner P Nallanayya. Chenchaiah said the unit can collect close to 150 samples per day. Special arrangements for the eldery and women have been made, he added. Staff from the primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) have been roped in to conduct the tests. The DMHO asked individuals with Covid-19 symptoms to come forward and get tested immediately. A second VRDL will also be set up in the district headquarters, he added. Srikakulam revenue divisional officer MV Ramana said the state is among the top in the country in terms of number of people tested, while Srikakulam district is at the forefront in the state. “If people know in advance that they have tested positive, the treatment will be easy and there will be no life-threatening situation,” Ramana said, adding that patients could stay at home and be treated. Srikakulam collector J Nivas, on a tour of Meliaputti in the district, said the Sanjeevani bus is part of additional infrastructure to reach the district’s target of conducting 5,000 Covid-19 tests per day from August. “We also requested the people to get admitted to hospital if their oxygen level is less than 92 on a pulse oximeter. The hospitals will check for Covid-19 status after admission,” Nivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sanjeevani-bus-adds-to-testing-capacity/articleshow/77293347.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 1, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune’s tally shoots past 84k, toll inches closer to 2,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 3,094 cases on Friday, taking the total caseload in the area to 84,765. Besides, 59 more patients succumbed to the contagion in the region, pushing the toll to 1,981. Among the fresh cases, the PMC areas added 1,880, while PCMC limits recorded 883 patients. The rural and Cantonment parts added 331 cases in the last 24 hours. A PMC official said as many as 1,185 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours ended Friday night, taking the total discharges in the municipal limits above 35,000. Besides, 625 patients were at critical stage, of whom 376 were on ventilator support. “The active cases in PMC are 17,820 and as many as 6,151 tests were conducted on Friday, which also included the rapid antigen tests,” the official said, adding that 2.73 lakh tests have been conducted in the area so far.  When it comes to PCMC limits, as many as 130 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. Over 1 lakh people have been tested in the municipal limits. As many as 21,193 people have been detected positive from the 1,03,057 tests as of Friday, giving a positivity rate of 20.56%. The case fatality rate in PCMC is under 2%. Meanwhile, the total Covid-19 cases in Pune revenue division, which comprises five districts, crossed 1 lakh-mark on Friday. The deceased included a 60-year-old man from Balajinagar, a 53-year-old woman from Vadgaonsheri, a 57-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 68-year-old woman from Sangamwadi, a 66-year-old man from Janata Vasahat, a 64-year-old man from Yerawada, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-tally-shoots-past-84k-toll-inches-closer-to-2000/articleshow/77293352.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 1, 2020||Pune||Saurabh Rao new divisional commissioner||Pune: Saurabh Rao became the new divisional commissioner with his predecessor, Deepak Mhaisekar, retiring on Friday. Mhaisekar told an online media briefing that he had completed two-and-a-half years as the Pune divisional commissioner, but the past five months “have been by far the most testing times” because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Rao, who was the officer on special duty in the divvisonal commissioner’s office, said when many officers could have avoided duty in the times of Covid-19 because of the age factor, Mhaisekar led the fight against the pandemic from the front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/saurabh-rao-new-divisional-commissioner/articleshow/77293361.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||PCB hub to open doors for critically ill||Pune: The PCB’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel general hospital will soon treat critically ill Covid-19 patients from the PMC areas at its new ICU facility. The 20-bed ICU facility is expected to be commissioned by August 15 and 10 of the beds would be marked for patients from the PMC areas as per a recent MoU the PMC signed with PCB. PCB president Brigadier Kuljeet Singh said, “The second phase involving another 10 ICU beds will be over by August-end.” Amit Kumar, the CEO of PCB, said, “The phase I 10 bed ICU will be operational in the next fortnight.” — Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-hub-to-open-doors-for-critically-ill/articleshow/77293360.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas’s financier Jaikant booked under Gangster Act||Kanpur: Tightening noose around slain gangster vikas Dubey's henchmen, police have booked his financier Jaikant Bajpai under Gangster Act. Other members of Dubey's gang -- Jaikant's three brothers Shobhit, Rajaikant and Ajaikant have also been booked under Gangster Act. Jaikant is at present lodged in jail on the charges of extending financial help to Dubey, while efforts are on to nab his brothers, police said. Jaikant was arrested along with Prashant Shukla alias Dabblu on July 20. He was earlier booked under IPC sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (punishment for dacoity), 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity), 120B of (criminal conspiracy). "Now, he along with his brothers Shobhit (24), Rajaikant (39) and Ajaikant (45) has been booked under section 3 (1) of Uttar Pradesh Gangster Act," said an official release issued by the district police. Bajpai had reportedly provided Dubey 25 catridges of .32 bore revolvers and Rs 2 lakh on July 2 prior to the Bikru ambush which had left eight cops dead and seven including a civilian injured. He also reportedly tried to help Dubey flee, but was arrested along with Shukla. Jaikant was taken into custody on July 4. Police also seized his three luxury vehicles abandoned by him and his aides in Kakadeos' Vijaynagar area. It came to fore that Bajpai was supposed to ferry Dubey and his gang members to a safe hideout in two luxury cars and an SUV. However, due to extensive checking and patrolling by the police, he and his aides abandoned the SUVs near Vijaynagar crossing on July 4 and fled. After seizing the vehicles that were without number plates, police had detained Bajpai within hours and handed him to the Special Task Force (STF). "Jaikant and others used to run an organised gang. They were involved in grabbing government land, anti-social activities, abusing and assaulting people for monetary gains," said police. "People feared Jaikant and his brothers and did not dare to file a complaint against them, Therefore, we are taking action against Bajpai under the Gangster Act," said an official. "During investigation, it was learnt that Jaikant used to work for a meagre salary of Rs 4,000 at a printing press and he became friends with Dubey here only," said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikass-financier-jaikant-booked-under-gangster-act/articleshow/77293359.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown in Vizianagaram till August 15||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Vizianagaram district administration on Friday extended the lockdown in Vizianagaram town and in some other parts of the district till August 15. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the safety of the people in the district, the administration has decided to extend the lockdown. With 388 new Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours, Vizianagaram district crossed the 4,000-mark on Friday. The district has so far reported 56 Covid-19 deaths and has a caseload of 4,204. At present, active Covid-19 cases stand at 2,261 while 1,887 patients have recovered and been discharged. Traders and businessmen in Vizianagaram, Paravathipuram, Bobbili and Saluru will keep their establishments open from 7am to 1 pm from August 1. “We are appealing to the people to support the officials and follow lockdown norms to contain the spread of the virus,” Hari Jawaharlal added. Police said despite a hit in business, traders in Vizianagaram town have extended their support to the lockdown. Most shops in the district have stayed open only during the permitted hours. Superintendent of police (SP), Vizianagaram, B Raja Kumari said the administration has seen tremendous support from traders and residents. “We are hoping for the same support till the end of the lockdown,” Raja Kumari added. Police said cases will be registered against persons found roaming on the streets without a valid reason and those not wearing masks. Traders and businessmen will keep their shops open from 7 am to 1 pm from August 1. Cases will be registered against persons found roaming on the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-in-vzm-till-august-15/articleshow/77293357.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra dairy farmers to dump milk on Saturday||NASHIK/MUMBAI: Over 40 lakh dairy farmers in the state will stage an agitation on August 1 to draw the state government’s the attention to issues they are facing and to press for their demand of a Rs10/litre subsidy to each farmer. Retailers and distributors reported no shortage of milk in Mumbai. “We are getting our normal quota of major brands and varieties like Amul, Gokul and Krishna. Some dairies whose production was marginally low following lockdown are also sending milk,” said a distributor from Andheri (W). “State and civic authorities, as well as police, have made special arrangements of passage, especially from March 25 when lockdown began, to ensure Mumbai does not face a milk scarcity,” he said. Amul managing director R S Sodhi said, “We are not facing any shortage in collection or distribution. Amul has the largest milk collection in Maharashtra, about 18 lakh litres per day, and we are giving farmers Rs25-28/litre for cow milk.” Dudh Udpadakh Saethkari Sangharsh Samiti Ajit Navale told TOI dairy farmers would gather in front of gram panchayat offices and dump milk in protest. “We had a discussion with like-minded farmer outfits and decided to organise the agitation,” said Navale. He alleged that the state government was not serious in ending financial woes of dairy farmers following Covid-19. “We recently met dairy development minister Sunil Kedar but there has been no positive outcome,” said Navale. The farmers are demanding the state provide a subsidy of Rs 10/litre to each of them for low prices of milk. “The money should be directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers,” said Navale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-dairy-farmers-to-dump-milk-today/articleshow/77293543.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro stations named after C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran, J Jayalalithaa||CHENNAI: Just months ahead of the assembly polls, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced naming of three metro stations in Chennai after former chief ministers C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. Soon after the announcement, the DMK hit out at the EPS government on social media, saying Jayalalithaa had opposed metro rail, preferring mono rail instead. It was former CM M Karunanidhi who initiated the metro mail project, the party said. In a statement, chief minister Palaniswami said since Chennai international airport is called Anna International Terminal, Alandur metro station nearby has been named Arignar Anna Alandur Metro. As Chennai Central railway station is called Puratchi Thalaivar Dr M G Ramachandran Central Railway Station, Central Metro is named as Puratchi Thalaivar Dr M G Ramachandran Central Metro. CMBT metro station has been named Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa CMBT Metro to honour former chief minister J Jayalalithaa who opened CMBT, Asia’s biggest bus terminus, and the metro station. Palaniswami said, “I issued orders accepting a high-level committee’s recommendation for the change of names to honour the leaders.” “What an irony to name Chennai CMBT metro station after madam Jayalalithaa,” said Dharmapuri MP S Senthilkumar, posting the newspaper reports of former AIADMK supremo opposing the project. The DMK supporters pointed to the then deputy CM M K Stalin’s visit to Japan to get funds for metro rail. The DMK cabinet took a decision to implement it in 2006, and Stalin inaugurated the piling work for the elevated corridor from Koyambedu to Ashok Nagar three years later. Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran hit out at the government for not naming a station after former DMK president but instead naming it after a leader convicted by a court. It is sheer political manipulation, said Maran. “Former PM Manmohan Singh and DMK chief M Karunanidhi were instrumental in bringing metro rail to Chennai. Not to give him credit is unfair,” the former Union minister told TOI. Palaniswami hailed the former chief minister Jayalalithaa for implementing Rs 18,380 crore project along two routes – the 23km long Washermenpet-Chennai-Airport, and 22km Central railway station-St Thomas Mount links routes, based on a feasibility study in 2003. In 2015, seven stations were opened between Koyambedu and Alandur, while six between Chennai Airport and Little Mount. The regime after her saw the opening of seven stations between Koyambedu and Nehru Park, and six stations between Nehru Park and Central metro rail station. Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened seven stations between AG-DMS to Washermenpet. “The state ordered three metro rail corridors for a total length of 118.9km in phase II at Rs 61,843 crore. It had sought approval for equity share capital,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-stns-named-after-anna-mgr-jaya/articleshow/77292056.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 1, 2020||Varanasi||Clinical trial of vaccine begins in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: The human clinical trial of Covaxin against Covid-19 began on Thursday evening at Gorakhpur’s Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre under the supervision of physician Dr Ajit Pratap Singh and gynecologist and obstetrician Dr Sona Ghosh. The vaccine has been administered to nine volunteers so far, chief administrative officer of Rana Hospital Venketesh Chaturvedi informed TOI. “On Wednesday, we received the first consignment of 34 Covaxine (BBV152 COVID vaccine) developed by Bharat Biotech International and on Friday, we received 20 covaxine (ZyCoV-D) developed by drug firm Zydus Cadila. We are expecting more vaccines from the companies soon. We have started human clinical trial of BBV152 COVID vaccine and soon the trial of ZyCoV-D vaccine will be started,” said the chief administrative officer. “Those who were administered the vaccine have been kept under observation and all of them are absolutely fine,” he said. “We are searching for more volunteers and if any one who is healthy, class 12 passed and between 18 and 55 years of age wants to becomea volunteer for clinical trial and join hands against Covid-19 could contact us at phone numbers, 8303028051 and 6388214084,” he added. The hospital is among the 12 institutes selected for clinical trials of the country’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin. The hospital is already experienced in vaccine trials of typhoid and Japanesee encephalitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/clinical-trial-of-vaccine-begins-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77292710.cms||Arjumand Bano
August 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi breathed its cleanest air on Monday in 5 years||NEW DELHI: Monday was the capital’s cleanest day ever with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) being recorded at just 41. This was the lowest-ever reading since Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started measuring AQI in April 2015. So far, this has been August’s fourth “good” air day, when AQI was recorded at 50 or below, and the fifth such day this year. The lowest AQI recorded in the past was in July 2017, when it had plummeted to 43. In 2015, when AQI was launched, Delhi recorded no good air days. Even 2016 fared no better with no such days being registered the entire year. It was only in 2017 that Delhi saw good air days on July 30 and 31, when AQI dropped to 43 and 47, respectively. Again in 2018, not a single day made the cut, but 2019 saw a fruitful August with an AQI of 49 registered on August 18 and 19. The sustained spell of clean air has also made August the cleanest month since the launch of AQI. CPCB officials said more good air days were expected in September owing to the rain. The AQI was 50 on August 13 and 20, but it fell to 45 on August 24. While the first two spells of good air days were due to heavy rain, the last two were primarily due to good wind speed. The fifth such day was on March 28, the first week of the lockdown, when an AQI of 45 was registered. The reading on Monday was a 24-hour average from 32 pollution measuring stations across Delhi. This meant that air quality remained in the “good” range for several hours on both Sunday and Monday. The lead pollutants in the air were CO and NO2, along with PM10. While very light rain was registered in the past 24 hours, it did not exceed 2.1mm. This meant that a greater influence on the clean air was good wind speed, which ensured particulate matter and pollutants dispersed swiftly. CPCB data for the month showed the highest AQI of 87 recorded on August 8. No “moderate” day has been recorded so far. An AQI is classified as “moderate” when it is between 101 and 200 and “satisfactory” between 51 and 100. The average AQI this month was just 64. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment, said a good monsoon helped Delhi’s air, but the low readings could also be an aftermath of the lockdown. “After the unlocking process started, monsoon hit Delhi-NCR. This kept background emissions lower than normal. Winter data will also need to be assessed to arrive at a conclusion,” she added. Watch Delhi enjoys its best air day in 5 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/breathe-best-air-day-in-five-years/articleshow/77859713.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Smuggled drugs: Four held||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Friday arrested a 30-year-old woman from Bopal, Vaishali Goyani, a resident of Silver Strokes Apartments, for storing the stock of remdesivir that was illegally imported from Bangladesh at the premises of Nilkanth Elixir LLP in Makarba. The company does not have an import licence. Three others linked to the company, Vaishali’s husband Parth Goyani; a partner, Darshan Soni; and a commission agent, Sandeep Mathukia; were also detained and sent for pre-arrest Covid tests. These injections were sold in the black market in Surat. Others accused in the FIR are Shekhar Adroja of Bopal, Yashkumar Mathukiya of Surat, and Shabbir Ahmed of Bangladesh, who used to provide the stock to the accused. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar, said the injections were sent to Agartala from Bangladesh and on to Ahmedabad by flight. The injections were dispatched from Bangladesh by one Shabbir Ahmed and were procured without a bill by Nilkanth Elixir LLP, as it had no licence to import medicine. Inspector A Y Baloch of crime branch said that from Parth Goyani’s interrogation it emerged that he knew Ahmed for about one and a half years and used to export medicines to Bangladesh through him. “Goyani told him about the demand for remdesivir due to the Covid situation here and Ahmed sent 209 100-mg doses to Agartala by flight. Sandeep Mathukiya took delivery of the consignment in Agartala, where he stayed at Hotel Zinger, and sent them to Ahmedabad by air parcel. These parcels were received by Parth Goyani on July 12,” added Baloch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smuggled-drugs-four-held/articleshow/77293460.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Is weekend lockdown in Uttarakhand working? Residents doubtful||Dehradun: The state government recently announced that the weekend lockdown will not be imposed this Saturday and Sunday owing to Raksha Bandhan. Residents and experts, however, have questioned the efficacy of intermittent two- day lockdowns in select parts of the state (Haridwar, Dehradun, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar have been under weekend lockdowns for two weeks now). Many say that the coronavirus numbers failed to slow down despite the weekend lockdown while many traders lament that it was only adding to their losses. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon resident’s welfare front said, “A weekend lockdown is not enough to break the infection chain. We will not see results until the state imposes a complete lockdown of 15 days. Opening the city for 5 days a week and closing it for two days is just an administrative exercise.” While announcing the measure, on lines of a similar step taken by Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had said that only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown and the time will be used to sanitize cities. Pankaj Masson, president, Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said, “I had urged the CM to keep markets open during the weekends. Economic activities must be allowed with proper social distancing norms.” Epidemiologist and founder director of Empowerment Lab, a social organisation, Dr Vishwajeet Kumar, said, “Even the stringent nationwide lockdown failed to arrest the spread of infection. A lockdown is implemented to control the mobility of people but comes at the cost of laggard economic activity. However, since we are still in the middle of this pandemic, it will take some time to analyse the effects of this weekend lockdown.” Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation, added, “As of now, the numbers do not show that efforts made by the state on weekends have borne results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/is-weekend-lockdown-in-uttarakhand-working-residents-doubtful/articleshow/77290525.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||LJP writes to EC against Bihar election in October-November||PATNA: BJP ally LJP led by Chirag Paswan has written to the Election Commission against holding Bihar assembly election in October-November, pleading that it will otherwise amount to deliberately “pushing people towards death”. In a letter to the EC on Friday, Chirag wrote, “At present all the resources should be focused on dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and floods and not holding elections. Going by views expressed by some health experts, the situation will turn for the worse in October-November when elections are due in the state.” The LJP’s stand on the state elections is opposite to that of JD(U), another BJP ally, as the chief minister Nitish Kumar-led party is in favour of holding them on time. The BJP has maintained that it’s the EC’s prerogative to decide. The opposition RJD and Congress are also in favour of postponing the elections, citing the prevailing situation in Bihar. The EC had sought the views of all parties on the Bihar elections by July 31. RJD’s Abdul Bari Siddiqui has also written to EC saying, “It’s the EC’s responsibility to ensure that the electors exercise their franchise without fear of getting infected with Covid-19 at polling booths. The present condition doesn’t indicate so.” He has cited the data of Covid-19 positive patients as well as deaths due to the virus to support his views. Referring to digital electioneering, the RJD stated, “All the political parties and contestants should be given level playing field. But this seems not to be fair with political parties with limited resources if virtual mode of electioneering is allowed. We are still firm on our earlier stand on the issue.” Congress also opposed the virtual mode of electioneering and demanded deferment of the elections. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “The state is reeling from Covid-19 pandemic and floods. Under such circumstances, holding elections will not be fair. It will be like putting people’s lives in danger.” Reacting over the latest development, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “A student, who studies for the whole session regularly, doesn’t fear the final exams. So is the case with JD(U) led by Nitish Kumar, who has been working continuously and is now ready to face elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-writes-to-ec-against-state-election-in-oct-nov/articleshow/77292019.cms||Ramashankar
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents protest corona duty for medicos||Ahmedabad: Pushing final year medical students to join Covid-19 field duty is illegal and arbitrary, the Gujarat Medicos Parents Association, an association formed by parents of medical students has claimed. The students are to face exams in the next 4-5 months, and they should not be expected to sacrifice their studies and to attend Covid-19 duty, it said in a media statement. The Gujarat Medicos Parents Association represents parents of more than 150 final year medical students who are studying in NHL Municipal Medical College and LG Medical College, also known as AMC MET College. Out of 22 medical colleges in Gujarat, including those run by the state government, only the two colleges run by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) have made Covid-19 duty mandatory for third-year Part-I and Part-II MBBS students, it said. Calling the decision by the two colleges as discriminatory, the association is of the view that the duty be made voluntary, as has been done by the government medical college in Surat. “Students who face final year exams in four or five months cannot be expected to give up their study and compulsorily attend to Covid-19 field duties. Any move to force students to do so is illegal and arbitrary. It is also in contravention to a Union health ministry’s direction that final year MBBS students cannot be assigned any clinical duties,” the Gujarat Medicos Parents Association said. The association said the past four months have not been fruitful since colleges were closed and no classes were held due to the lockdown. The association has criticized NHL and LG Medical College for warning that students not attending to Covid-19 duty would not be allowed to appear for exams. The ministry of health and family welfare, Gujarat government has recently issued a notification where students of various faculties including MBBS, BDS, physiotherapy, BSc nursing, BHMS, BAMS and various other medical and paramedical courses will have to undergo a training programme before they can be deployed in the field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-protest-corona-duty-for-medicos/articleshow/77292066.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Surat||2 workers on one wheel will invite rapid antigen test||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has issued fresh guidelines stating that the diamantaires wanting to operate their units with two workers on emery wheel will have to bear the cost for the mandatory rapid antigen test for every worker starting from August 1. This has been done following the demand put forth by the Surat Diamond Association (SDA).Earlier, the SMC’s standard operating procedure (SOP) had allowed only one worker to sit on the emery wheel for the cutting and polishing of diamonds, instead of the previous norm of four workers, to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.In the revised guidelines, the diamantaires will have to mandatorily perform the antigen test of the all the workers to operate their unit with two workers on the emery wheels. The diamantaires will have to inform the SMC authorities for performing the antigen test of the workers in advance. Those workers testing positive in the antigen test won’t be allowed to join the unit. Meanwhile, the diamond merchants at the Mahidhapura and Varachha diamond markets have heaved a sigh of relief with the SMC allowing the markets to remain open between 12pm to 6pm. Earlier, the diamond markets were allowed to operate between 2pm to 6pm to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection. Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani, said, “Diamond workers who tested positive of Covid-19 and have recovered can join the diamond units from August 1. The unit owners will have to bear the cost of rapid antigen test for the second worker sitting on the emery wheel. Workers with even mild symptoms must not be allowed to work in the units.”President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “We are going to represent the state government for relief to unit owners in the cost for the rapid antigen test of the workers. The small unit owners who are yet to restart their unit won’t be able to spend money for the test. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-workers-on-one-wheel-will-invite-rapid-antigen-test/articleshow/77292070.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||1 dead, 3 hurt in drum explosion at Cherlapally||Hyderabad: One person died and three others were injured when a drum filled with an unknown chemical exploded at an industrial unit in Cherlapally on Friday. The chemical company, which belongs to one Shanker, has been shut since the past two years. The four persons were removing unused drums and clearing the place. Kushaiguda police said that Narashima Chary, 35, and three others were moving drums within the company premises. The drum which Chary was handling exploded and he died on the spot. The three others, who were close to him, were injured. All of them were shifted to a nearby hospital. Recently, when a person had approached Shanker to use the premises on rent. That is why cleaning work was taken up by the company. “It was during the cleaning works the mishap took place,” police said. Sources said the police are still ascertaining the material which was inside the drum. On Saturday, forensic experts are expected to visit the spot. Police registered a case under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-dead-3-hurt-in-drum-explosion-at-cherlapally/articleshow/77293449.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Water, soil from sacred spots in Tamil Nadu sent to Ayodhya||CHENNAI: Water and soil from sacred places in Tamil Nadu associated with the ancient epic Ramayana is being couriered to Ayodhya for the foundation stone laying ceremony to be held on August 5. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some special invitees are expected to participate in the event. Since the schedule was fixed, VHP and other Hindu organisations have been collecting water and sand from different parts of Tamil Nadu. There are several temples in Tamil Nadu that have main deities as Rama or Krishna or Lord Vishnu. “We collected water from the confluence of the Bay of Bengal, Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean at Kanyakumari. Along with the water, we collected three types of sand too,” said VHP member Murugan from Kanyakumari. “A special puja was held at the Bhagavathi temple and the offerings (prasadam) was sent along with the water and sand to Ayodhya,” said Murugan. He said soil and water from various parts of the country are being sent to Ayodhya. “We were told that the soil and water would be poured onto the foundation. But for the lockdown, we would have congregated at Ayodhya in large numbers,” added Murugan. Other branches of VHP, RSS and individuals are collecting sand and water from holy places. “Sacred water and soil from Rameswaram and Dhanushkodi have been sent to Ayodhya,” said S V Raman of VHP. “At Rameswaram, soil was collected from the sea (Agni Theertham). According to the legend, Lord Rama worshipped Lord Shiva in the form of a lingam at this island on his return with Sita from Sri Lanka after vanquishing Ravana. The famous Ramanathaswamy temple at Rameswaram is dedicated to Lord Shiva,” said Raman. Some priests, functionaries of Hindu Munnani and locals gathered sand from the sea, held special pujas, packed it in a gold-plated box and sent it to Ayodhya to be used in the construction of the Ram temple. Raman said the association is also sending offerings from Srirangam as it is one of the very sacred temples in the country for Lord Vishnu. “We collected water from River Cauvery and soil from Ayothiapattinam in Salem district and Denkanikottai near Hosur,” said Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/water-soil-from-sacred-spots-in-tn-sent-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77292065.cms||B Sivakumar
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM urges continuous monitoring at Covid hospitals||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has asked officials to monitor the designated 138 Covid-19 hospitals in the state. The chief minister told them to check facilities provided and treatment given to patients. The chief minister reviewed the health sector in the state on Friday with officials at the Tadepalli camp office. The chief minister said that the Covid-19 positivity and death rates in the state are comparatively lower than the national average. However, he told officials to not give up the hard work. The chief minister said the quality of treatment at Covid-19 hospitals in the state is of a high quality and felt effective monitoring would keep the positivity and death rates low. Andhra Pradesh currently has a positivity rate of 6.91% against a national average of 8.71%. While reiterating his instruction to the officials on providing beds and treatment to patients in the hospital, the chief minister directed them to ensure that health workers are available at all help desks in hospitals. These health workers should be able to guide the patient to find a bed in the nearest hospital, if beds are not available at the hospital when a patient arrives for admission. He directed the officials to digitalise the details of beds available in every hospital to provide details of an empty bed for a new patient. He told the officials to ensure adequate quality of food is provided to patients in hospitals and in quarantine centres. Officials were also told to encourage plasma donation in hospitals for Covid-19 patients. He said the government is ready to give Rs 5,000 each to plasma donors and instructed district collectors to make necessary arrangements. Referring to the new medical colleges in the state, the chief minister instructed officials to ensure that the buildings are ready in the next three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-urges-continuous-monitoring-at-covid-hosps/articleshow/77293416.cms||Gopi Dara
August 1, 2020||Rajkot||Woman walks naked on Rajkot road||RAJKOT: Shocking scenes were witnessed in Mota Mava area on posh Kalavad Road on Friday evening when a woman was spotted walking completely naked in full public view. Attempts by the volunteers of 181 women helpline and even the female constables to drape her with clothes went in vain as the woman kept removing the clothes they offered. The woman, whose identity was not ascertained, is in her mid-50s. According to cops, she appears to be suffering from learning disability. The high drama continued for nearly an hour before she was taken away by the police and 181 volunteers. “The women cops and volunteers tried to cover her with clothes twice. But both the times she again removed the clothes and started walking aimlessly,” said JV Dhola, police inspector, Rajkot Taluka police station. She is not replying properly to the questions and blabbers in Hindi and Gujarati. “We are trying to trace her relatives. We are not sure if she is a local or some migrant,” said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-with-learning-disability-walks-naked/articleshow/77291696.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: At 1,502mm, record rain for July in Santacruz, wet spell to continue||MUMBAI: July has ended with India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory setting a new record, recording 1,502mm of rain. This year, in the first fortnight of July, normal average rainfall for the entire month (840.7mm) was reported thanks to an active monsoon. For instance, 200.8mm of rainfall was recorded in the 24-hour period between July 4-5. The beginning of August too looks promising, with the weather bureau forecasting that the wet spell will continue. On July 28 this year, rain reported by IMD Sanatcruz observatory touched 1,474mm, breaking the earlier rain record for the month of 1,468mm in 2014. Weather officials pointed out that this was even when July went without a low pressure area formation either in Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea. “This is unusual especially as July is a major rainfall month for the country. Bay of Bengal is likely to get active with a formation of low pressure in 3-4 days,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. IMD issued a yellow alert for Sunday, forecasting heavy rain at isolated places is very likely, while for August 3-4, an orange alert has been issued, forecasting heavy to very heavy rain at few places. “The west coast is likely to get very heavy rain, including Mumbai. While a good monsoon year has good number of low pressure systems, so far without that it’s doing well. Every monsoon is different, the remaining two months should be good for the entire season’s performance,” added Hosalikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-1502mm-record-rain-for-july-in-santacruz/articleshow/77293546.cms||Richa Pinto
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid fears fuel witch-hunt, cops hold camp||Visakhapatnam: In Andhra Pradesh, every year 12 to 16 people are killed on average on suspicion of pratising witchcraft. Although the government and activists have been trying to eradicate the menace, the outbreak of the coronavirus has made the battle more difficult. Further, uncertainty over treatment have pushed many, especially in rural and tribal pockets, to cling to their superstitions. In Vizianagaram, police have begun organising awareness camps. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police, B Raja Kumari, said some people are taking the law into their hands. The police with the support of the Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) has launched camps to create awareness among people about the importance of science in daily life and educate them that witchcraft is unscientific. Shedding light on how fear of coronavirus is fuelling superstitions, members of JVV said, sometimes if someone falls ill or something happens to a person’s family members, he or she believes that a supernatural power is at work. “These families then target a few persons in the locality, past instances have shown that they might have had enmity between them, then brand them as witches/tohnis and accuse them of making their family members ill. They then go on to torture them that often ends with the targeted person or persons being tonsured or their teeth being pulled out.” A case in point is P Minna Rao alias Bariki. A few days ago, 40-year-old man Rao alias Bariki was beaten to death on suspicion of being a ‘tonhi’ at Konda Kuneru village in Vizianagaram. Investigation revealed that a 23-year-old youth P Prasad of the same village had died of an illness recently. Following his death, his relatives accused Rao of casting spells on Prasad to make him sick, which led to his death. They then murdered Rao and burnt his body to hide the evidence. The police nabbed 17 persons in connection with the murder. “We have been fighting against superstition by popularising science. We have offered Rs 10 lakh to anyone who could prove that sorcery or black magic is real, but no one has come forward so far,” said MVR Krishnaji of JVV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-fears-fuel-witch-hunt-cops-hold-camp/articleshow/77293448.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Many areas suffer as power supply snaps||Hyderabad: Friday’s heavy downpour plunged many areas into darkness for several hours. TNGO’s Colony (Gachibowli), Prem Nagar (Hafeezpet), Kondapur, Vanasthalipuram, and Hayatnagar were among the most affected. Residents rued those power outages that lasted between 90 minutes and five hours. “For about five hours there was no power in my locality. When I called electricity officials they said that our colony association members opted for underground cabling of wires, which is the reason behind outages. They said that despite shoddy work by a private contractor hired by the association, they are fixing the issue,” said a resident from TNGOs Colony, Gachibowli. He said that many families are put to a lot of inconveniences due to conflict between association members and the electricity department officials. Several employees working from home had a torrid time due to power disruption. According to TSSPDCL officials, power lines and cables were snapped as several tree branches fell on them due to rain. “On Friday, electric poles were damaged due to rains. Even some transformers had to be repaired. But we are attending all the complaints, even those raised on Twitter. We are even providing the mobile numbers of our staffers on the ground to the complainants,” said a TSSPDCL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-areas-suffer-as-power-supply-snaps/articleshow/77293466.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||BMC puts off 20% water cut to August 5 due to Eid||MUMBAI: BMC has postponed a 20% water cut by four days due to Eid and it will now be effective from August 5. It issued an advisory requesting citizens to use water carefully to avoid wastage and help save it till the next monsoon. Civic officials said people can save water with tiny steps, like drinking it in small glasses, shutting the tap while shaving or brushing teeth, not wasting it during bath and getting taps repaired if there is a leakage. Politicians from various parties had requested BMC not to curtail water supply during Eid. BMC had decided to cut water supply as the stock in seven lakes is only 34% (around 5 lakh million liters) of the total requirement of around 14.5 lakh million liters. It needs that much water in lakes for uninterrupted supply till the next monsoon. It supplies 3,850 million litres daily in the city and during Covid-19 there was no reduction in supply. Congress MLA Amit Patel said, “There is already low pressure supply in B ward (Dongri) and cuts will add to the suffering of residents. I requested the civic chief to reconsider his decision.” Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaik said, “I requested senior civic officials not to cut water on the day of the festival as consumption is more at that time, and they agreed. BMC took the decision without informing group leaders.” Although it rained heavily in the city in July, rainfall in catchment areas of five of the seven lakes that supply water to the city (Bhatsa, Tansa, Upper, Middle & Lower Vaitarna, also known as Modak Sagar) are outside city limits. The two smaller lakes, Tulsi and Vihar, are within city limits. Last year, till July 31, the stocks in the seven lakes was 86% and the year before it was 83%. During the pandemic, BMC maintained regular supply despite closure of most commercial and non-residential (schools, colleges and offices) premises. It indicates that residents are consuming more during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-puts-off-20-water-cut-to-aug-5-due-to-eid/articleshow/77293548.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||HC gives two more weeks to respond to PIL highlighting use of heavy machines in mining||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday gave the Centre and the state government as well as other respondents two more weeks to respond to the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) highlighting the use of heavy machines on the riverbeds for mining. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimanth and Justice NS Dhanik granted two weeks to the respondents after they said that they need more time to respond to the petition. “The counsels appearing for the Centre and the state government said that they need more time to respond to the petition. The court granted them two weeks and has now listed the case for further hearing on August 14,” said Dushyant Mainali, the counsel appearing for the petitioner. These respondents include — the Uttarakhand forest development corporation, additional director general of geology and mining, Kumaon and Garhwal commissioners as well as district magistrates (DMs) of Dehradun, Nainital, and Pauri Garhwal districts. DM Udham Singh Nagar and the secretary mining, however, have filed their responses to the PIL. The petitioner, a resident of Haldwani, had informed the court that the state government, through a government order on May 13, had permitted “semi mechanised” mining in place of manual mining and added that the government order goes against the state government’s own rules. The government, however, informed the court that it had amended the Uttarakhand Minor Mineral Concession Rules through a notification on June 9 (after the petition was filed). The notification amended the rules retrospectively from May 7. The state has argued that the presence of manual labour for mining would violate the social distancing norms and therefore, the machines are needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-two-more-weeks-to-respond-to-pil-highlighting-use-of-heavy-machines-in-mining/articleshow/77290569.cms||Prashant Jha
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu has 57,968 active Covid-19 cases, logs 97 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s fresh Covid-19 infections dipped marginally for the second day with 5,881 cases on Friday, while 97 deaths were recorded. The number of actives cases in the state is now 57,968. Hotspot Chennai had 1,013 cases, marginally lower than Thursday’s 1,175, and 21 deaths. Its three adjoining districts together added 1,192 cases — Kancheepuram 485, Tiruvallur 395 and Chengalpet 334. At the end of the day, there were 22,874 active cases in the region. The remaining seven districts in the north added 995 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally for the eleven northern districts to 3,200 and death toll to 53. While Ranipet registered 359 cases, Vellore had 194, Villupuram 169 and Cuddalore 158. Three districts that recorded below 50 cases were Tirupattur (47), Tiruvannamalai (41) and Kallakuruchi (27). The ten districts in the south together clocked 1,721 fresh cases and 34 deaths. With this, the active cases in the region stood at 16,522. The clusters in workplaces at Virudhunagar continued to increase. On Friday, the district recorded 357 cases and six deaths. Theni (299), Tuticorin (284), Tirunelveli (222), Madurai (173) and Kanyakumari (169) were among districts to record fresh cases in three digits. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, while Theni had five. Dindigul, Madurai and Tuticorin had four each. Though the western region reported the least number of fresh cases, it had more deaths compared to the districts in the central region. While the eight districts in the west had 443 cases and eight deaths, the central districts reported 510 fresh cases and three deaths. Among the central districts, Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 133 and 112 cases each, while Thanjavur had 97 cases. In the west, Coimbatore had 169 fresh cases and four deaths, while Salem recorded 123 cases and one death. The region had two districts with fresh cases in single digits – Dharmapuri (3) and Nilgiris (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-has-57968-active-cases-logs-97-more-deaths/articleshow/77295041.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has 57,968 active Covid-19 cases, logs 97 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s fresh Covid-19 infections dipped marginally for the second day with 5,881 cases on Friday, while 97 deaths were recorded. The number of actives cases in the state is now 57,968. Hotspot Chennai had 1,013 cases, marginally lower than Thursday’s 1,175, and 21 deaths. Its three adjoining districts together added 1,192 cases — Kancheepuram 485, Tiruvallur 395 and Chengalpet 334. At the end of the day, there were 22,874 active cases in the region. The remaining seven districts in the north added 995 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally for the eleven northern districts to 3,200 and death toll to 53. While Ranipet registered 359 cases, Vellore had 194, Villupuram 169 and Cuddalore 158. Three districts that recorded below 50 cases were Tirupattur (47), Tiruvannamalai (41) and Kallakuruchi (27). The ten districts in the south together clocked 1,721 fresh cases and 34 deaths. With this, the active cases in the region stood at 16,522. The clusters in workplaces at Virudhunagar continued to increase. On Friday, the district recorded 357 cases and six deaths. Theni (299), Tuticorin (284), Tirunelveli (222), Madurai (173) and Kanyakumari (169) were among districts to record fresh cases in three digits. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, while Theni had five. Dindigul, Madurai and Tuticorin had four each. Though the western region reported the least number of fresh cases, it had more deaths compared to the districts in the central region. While the eight districts in the west had 443 cases and eight deaths, the central districts reported 510 fresh cases and three deaths. Among the central districts, Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 133 and 112 cases each, while Thanjavur had 97 cases. In the west, Coimbatore had 169 fresh cases and four deaths, while Salem recorded 123 cases and one death. The region had two districts with fresh cases in single digits – Dharmapuri (3) and Nilgiris (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-has-57968-active-cases-logs-97-more-deaths/articleshow/77292081.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu has 57,968 active Covid-19 cases, logs 97 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s fresh Covid-19 infections dipped marginally for the second day with 5,881 cases on Friday, while 97 deaths were recorded. The number of actives cases in the state is now 57,968. Hotspot Chennai had 1,013 cases, marginally lower than Thursday’s 1,175, and 21 deaths. Its three adjoining districts together added 1,192 cases — Kancheepuram 485, Tiruvallur 395 and Chengalpet 334. At the end of the day, there were 22,874 active cases in the region. The remaining seven districts in the north added 995 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally for the eleven northern districts to 3,200 and death toll to 53. While Ranipet registered 359 cases, Vellore had 194, Villupuram 169 and Cuddalore 158. Three districts that recorded below 50 cases were Tirupattur (47), Tiruvannamalai (41) and Kallakuruchi (27). The ten districts in the south together clocked 1,721 fresh cases and 34 deaths. With this, the active cases in the region stood at 16,522. The clusters in workplaces at Virudhunagar continued to increase. On Friday, the district recorded 357 cases and six deaths. Theni (299), Tuticorin (284), Tirunelveli (222), Madurai (173) and Kanyakumari (169) were among districts to record fresh cases in three digits. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, while Theni had five. Dindigul, Madurai and Tuticorin had four each. Though the western region reported the least number of fresh cases, it had more deaths compared to the districts in the central region. While the eight districts in the west had 443 cases and eight deaths, the central districts reported 510 fresh cases and three deaths. Among the central districts, Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 133 and 112 cases each, while Thanjavur had 97 cases. In the west, Coimbatore had 169 fresh cases and four deaths, while Salem recorded 123 cases and one death. The region had two districts with fresh cases in single digits – Dharmapuri (3) and Nilgiris (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-has-57968-active-cases-logs-97-more-deaths/articleshow/77295044.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu has 57,968 active Covid-19 cases, logs 97 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s fresh Covid-19 infections dipped marginally for the second day with 5,881 cases on Friday, while 97 deaths were recorded. The number of actives cases in the state is now 57,968. Hotspot Chennai had 1,013 cases, marginally lower than Thursday’s 1,175, and 21 deaths. Its three adjoining districts together added 1,192 cases — Kancheepuram 485, Tiruvallur 395 and Chengalpet 334. At the end of the day, there were 22,874 active cases in the region. The remaining seven districts in the north added 995 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally for the eleven northern districts to 3,200 and death toll to 53. While Ranipet registered 359 cases, Vellore had 194, Villupuram 169 and Cuddalore 158. Three districts that recorded below 50 cases were Tirupattur (47), Tiruvannamalai (41) and Kallakuruchi (27). The ten districts in the south together clocked 1,721 fresh cases and 34 deaths. With this, the active cases in the region stood at 16,522. The clusters in workplaces at Virudhunagar continued to increase. On Friday, the district recorded 357 cases and six deaths. Theni (299), Tuticorin (284), Tirunelveli (222), Madurai (173) and Kanyakumari (169) were among districts to record fresh cases in three digits. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, while Theni had five. Dindigul, Madurai and Tuticorin had four each. Though the western region reported the least number of fresh cases, it had more deaths compared to the districts in the central region. While the eight districts in the west had 443 cases and eight deaths, the central districts reported 510 fresh cases and three deaths. Among the central districts, Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 133 and 112 cases each, while Thanjavur had 97 cases. In the west, Coimbatore had 169 fresh cases and four deaths, while Salem recorded 123 cases and one death. The region had two districts with fresh cases in single digits – Dharmapuri (3) and Nilgiris (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-has-57968-active-cases-logs-97-more-deaths/articleshow/77295043.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu has 57,968 active Covid-19 cases, logs 97 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s fresh Covid-19 infections dipped marginally for the second day with 5,881 cases on Friday, while 97 deaths were recorded. The number of actives cases in the state is now 57,968. Hotspot Chennai had 1,013 cases, marginally lower than Thursday’s 1,175, and 21 deaths. Its three adjoining districts together added 1,192 cases — Kancheepuram 485, Tiruvallur 395 and Chengalpet 334. At the end of the day, there were 22,874 active cases in the region. The remaining seven districts in the north added 995 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally for the eleven northern districts to 3,200 and death toll to 53. While Ranipet registered 359 cases, Vellore had 194, Villupuram 169 and Cuddalore 158. Three districts that recorded below 50 cases were Tirupattur (47), Tiruvannamalai (41) and Kallakuruchi (27). The ten districts in the south together clocked 1,721 fresh cases and 34 deaths. With this, the active cases in the region stood at 16,522. The clusters in workplaces at Virudhunagar continued to increase. On Friday, the district recorded 357 cases and six deaths. Theni (299), Tuticorin (284), Tirunelveli (222), Madurai (173) and Kanyakumari (169) were among districts to record fresh cases in three digits. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, while Theni had five. Dindigul, Madurai and Tuticorin had four each. Though the western region reported the least number of fresh cases, it had more deaths compared to the districts in the central region. While the eight districts in the west had 443 cases and eight deaths, the central districts reported 510 fresh cases and three deaths. Among the central districts, Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 133 and 112 cases each, while Thanjavur had 97 cases. In the west, Coimbatore had 169 fresh cases and four deaths, while Salem recorded 123 cases and one death. The region had two districts with fresh cases in single digits – Dharmapuri (3) and Nilgiris (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-has-57968-active-cases-logs-97-more-deaths/articleshow/77295042.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh readies to greet tourists this month||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the rising Covid-19 cases across the state, the government has decided to open the doors to tourists in the first week of August. It has also decided to launch boating operations from August 15. Tourism minister Muttamsetti (Avanthi) Srinivasa Rao has said they have also decided to allow gyms and fitness centres to reopen as per the Centre’s Unlock-3 policy. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Avanthi said they have directed the district tourism officers to ready plans to attract tourists as they have already suffered losses due to the pandemic. “We earned handsomely by leasing out a tourist hotel in Nellore as a private quarantine facility. Although, we initially wanted to extend the same to other motels and resorts, we have dropped the plans as it might keep the real tourists away,” said Avanthi. Among the steps the government is mulling to take to revive tourist interest, include promotion of tourist spots, offering schemes and joining hands with private developers to construct star hotels. He explained that the state government is readying plans to construct five-star and seven-star hotels near and at tourist spots. “We are planning to construct at least 10 five-star and seven-star hotels with an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. The new tourism policy is being readied in such a way that it energises the sector,” said Avanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-readies-to-greet-tourists-this-month/articleshow/77293461.cms||Samdani MN
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||CM announces School of Cinematic Studies at Doon University||Dehradun: In the last three years, several movie makers, including some top names in the country, have toured Uttarakhand to shoot their flicks and a number of prominent personalities are planning to use picturesque locations of the Himalayan state for their movies. Taking into account the increasing inclination of Bollywood towards Uttarakhand and also to provide more job opportunities to local youth, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday announced to set up a School of Cinematic Studies in Doon University. The decision comes two days after the announcement of a new National Education Policy by the Centre. In the presence of noted director Vishal Bhardwaj, CM Rawat said that a course related to film education would soon be started at Doon University and prominent personalities associated with the field be invited to teach the youngsters. For establishing the School of Cinematic Studies at Doon University, CM Rawat has directed authorities to form a group of experts. “This expert group would have prominent personalities of the film industry and those associated with film education. After a thorough study of courses conducted by renowned national and international level educational institutions, a course should be designed for the Doon University. The syllabus should be designed in keeping the future demands of the film industry and should cover diverse dimensions of cinema.” A graduate degree and certificate and diploma courses of logistics production can also be offered, suggested the CM. On the occasion, the CM also inaugurated a portal, which will provide online permission for shooting films in Uttarakhand. “There is no dearth of talent in Uttarakhand. We need to work in the direction to showcase these talents to the world. There are immense employment opportunities in the field of film industry. The natural beauty of the Himalayan state is also favorable for film shooting,” he said. The CM added that a detailed education in the sector will help the youth of the state immensely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-school-of-cinematic-studies-at-doon-university/articleshow/77290627.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 1, 2020||Kolhapur||2 doctors among 8 civic staffers get notice||Kolhapur: Solapur municipal commissioner P Shivshankar has issued show-cause notices to eight civic employees, including two doctors, in connection with the death of a 68-year-old woman with Covid symptoms at a quarantine centre. Shivshankar has ordered an inquiry into the death and warned of stern administrative action if anybody is found guilty. The woman died at a civic body run quarantine centre on Wednesday. It is alleged that the woman died because of negligence and should have been admitted to hospital considering her age and other health issues. The preliminary inquiry has shown that the woman had coronavirus symptoms but doctors and other staff kept her in the quarantine centre at a boy’s hostel instead of admitting her to hospital. In another decision, Shivshankar warned of stern action if any private laboratory was found charging extra for Covid tests. He was responding to complaints that some private laboratories were charging Rs 3,000 as against Rs 2,200 decided by the government. Solapur city recorded 56 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the total number to 4,985. A total of 37 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday. The city recorded four deaths due to the infection. Meanwhile, action was taken against 315 people for violating lockdown rules and a fine of Rs 37,100 was recovered from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-doctors-among-8-civic-staffers-get-notice/articleshow/77290628.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh readies to greet tourists this month||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the rising Covid-19 cases across the state, the government has decided to open the doors to tourists in the first week of August. It has also decided to launch boating operations from August 15. Tourism minister Muttamsetti (Avanthi) Srinivasa Rao has said they have also decided to allow gyms and fitness centres to reopen as per the Centre’s Unlock-3 policy. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Avanthi said they have directed the district tourism officers to ready plans to attract tourists as they have already suffered losses due to the pandemic. “We earned handsomely by leasing out a tourist hotel in Nellore as a private quarantine facility. Although, we initially wanted to extend the same to other motels and resorts, we have dropped the plans as it might keep the real tourists away,” said Avanthi. Among the steps the government is mulling to take to revive tourist interest, include promotion of tourist spots, offering schemes and joining hands with private developers to construct star hotels. He explained that the state government is readying plans to construct five-star and seven-star hotels near and at tourist spots. “We are planning to construct at least 10 five-star and seven-star hotels with an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. The new tourism policy is being readied in such a way that it energises the sector,” said Avanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-readies-to-greet-tourists-this-month/articleshow/77295919.cms||Samdani MN
August 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh readies to greet tourists this month||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the rising Covid-19 cases across the state, the government has decided to open the doors to tourists in the first week of August. It has also decided to launch boating operations from August 15. Tourism minister Muttamsetti (Avanthi) Srinivasa Rao has said they have also decided to allow gyms and fitness centres to reopen as per the Centre’s Unlock-3 policy. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Avanthi said they have directed the district tourism officers to ready plans to attract tourists as they have already suffered losses due to the pandemic. “We earned handsomely by leasing out a tourist hotel in Nellore as a private quarantine facility. Although, we initially wanted to extend the same to other motels and resorts, we have dropped the plans as it might keep the real tourists away,” said Avanthi. Among the steps the government is mulling to take to revive tourist interest, include promotion of tourist spots, offering schemes and joining hands with private developers to construct star hotels. He explained that the state government is readying plans to construct five-star and seven-star hotels near and at tourist spots. “We are planning to construct at least 10 five-star and seven-star hotels with an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. The new tourism policy is being readied in such a way that it energises the sector,” said Avanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-readies-to-greet-tourists-this-month/articleshow/77295918.cms||Samdani MN
August 1, 2020||Patna||Six lakh more hit by floods as situation remains grim in Bihar||PATNA: Rivers in north Bihar, including Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Kamla Balan, continued to flow above the danger level on Friday as over 6 lakh more people were reeling from floods which hit an overall population of 45.39 lakh in 14 districts as on Friday. Several trains have been diverted owing to water level flowing above the danger level near three rail bridges on Samastipur-Darbhanga route. “Water was flowing 2.15m above danger level near rail bridge-1 on Samastipur-Muktapur line and 1.6m and 0.87m near rail bridges 16 and 17 on Hayaghat-Thalwara line,” ECR’s public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said. The weather bulletin said very heavy rainfall occurred at Darauli in north-west Bihar, light to moderate rainfall at most places over north-west, north-central and many places over north-eastern parts of the state over the last 24 hours. State water resources department said Bagmati was flowing above corresponding danger level at six flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts. Burhi Gandak was also above the danger level at four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria while Kamla Balan and Khiroi rivers were flowing above the red mark at two places each in Madhubani and Darbhanga districts. The state disaster management department claimed that 3.76 lakh people had been evacuated to safer places. Total 26,732 people were staying in the relief camps and 7.71 lakh were getting food at 1,193 community kitchens. Thirty teams of NDRF and SDRF were involved in flood rescue and relief operations. ‘Over three lakh people shifted to safer places’Burhi Gandak was also above the danger level at four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria while Kamla Balan and Khiroi rivers were flowing above the red mark at two places each in Madhubani and Darhanga districts. The state disaster management department claimed that 3.76 lakh people had been evacuated to safer places. Total 26,732 people were staying in the relief camps and 7.71 lakh were getting food at 1,193 community kitchens. Thirty teams of NDRF and SDRF were involved in flood rescue and relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-lakh-more-hit-by-floods-as-situation-remains-grim/articleshow/77292059.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Pvt schools likely to be permitted to collect fees in instalments||Mangaluru: Although there is no clarity on the schedule for the next academic year, a huge question mark hanging over the exact date when the department of public instruction (DPI) may allow schools to reopen, private educational institutions are likely to receive some form of financial assistance in order to stay afloat as the pandemic tightens its grip on India. In April, DPI has issued a circular to all schools, asking the management to refrain from collection of fees. Furthermore, the circular had asked schools to mull over the possibility of reducing the amount given the circumstances. DPI commissioner KG Jagadeesha said that the government was likely to allow schools to collect fees in instalments. “The Covid-19 crisis has impacted private schools very badly, and they are struggling to pay salary to their teachers. Members of management of many schools have given a representation to the government, which is being considered. A decision on the issue will be taken later this week,” Jagadeesha told TOI. The DPI commissioner, however, warned private schools against hiking the fee, a move that he said would invite legal action from the department. “It is because we are aware of the difficulties they have had to face that the government is inclined to allow collection of fees in instalments. This will ensure that schools get much needed financial aid, while it will also ensure that parents are not stretched thin by having to pay the entire amount in a lumpsum,” Jagadeesha added. Minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar told TOI that parents could bring incidents of schools increasing the fee to the notice of the DPI, which would initiate action against the institutions. “Government teachers must now be generous and help their counterparts in private schools tide over the crisis,” he said. Participating in a virtual conference with representatives of 36 NGOs involved with education, Kumar highlighted the need to ensure continuity in children’s education lest they forget key concepts owing to the forced hiatus. “Schools are free to use Internet and Communications Technology tools to ensure this. The government will also explore all avenues to ensure that students’ education does not suffer owing to the Covid-19 crisis,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-schools-likely-to-be-permitted-to-collect-fees-in-instalments/articleshow/77289439.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 1, 2020||Agra||City MLA’s wife & two sons test positive for Covid-19, district tally reaches 1,804||Agra: Wife and both sons of a city constituency MLA tested positive for Covid-19 following antigen tests. The 55-year-old wife of MLA, resident of North Idgha colony was admitted to a private hospital after she had high fever on Thursday. Later, she and their two sons, aged 28 and 31 years, tested positive for the virus on Friday evening. Talking to TOI, the MLA said, “Presently I am in Lucknow and have quarantined myself. I will be getting myself tested on Saturday”. At least 39 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Friday, increasing the district tally to 1804. These include two kidney patients, three patients of severe acute respiratory infection, two patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patients of influenza-like illness and a patient of coronary artery infection. Meanwhile, 20 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 1,804 cases reported in the district, 80% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 262 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,443 people have recovered from the infection and have been discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/city-mlas-wife-two-sons-test-positive-for-covid-19-district-tally-reaches-1804/articleshow/77290621.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Harrawala to be developed as model ward in Doon||Dehradun: Harrawala area in Dehradun will be developed as a model ward and be made garbage-free by the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) in association with Waste Warriors, a social organisation. The DMC has also donated four vehicles for managing waste in the ward, officials said on Friday. While the dry waste will be sent to the treatment plant and used for recycling purposes, the wet waste will be used for making fertiliser within the ward and can be used by residents for the maintenance of kitchen gardens. Dehradun Municipal Commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey told TOI, “This initiative will implement a system for waste management within the ward itself. Awareness generation among the residents for segregation of waste will be the key focus. The dry waste will be sent for recycling purposes making our city greener and healthier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harrawala-to-be-developed-as-model-ward-in-doon/articleshow/77290595.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||BMC permits sacrifice of 150 water buffaloes per day for Eid at Deonar||MUMBAI: BMC, in a fresh circular pursuant to a Bombay high court direction on Friday, permitted religious sacrifice of 150 water buffaloes per day from August 1-3 for Eid between 6am-6pm only at Deonar abattoir. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Sarang Kotwal on Friday, while hearing a PIL, asked special civic counsel Anil Sakhare how many can be sacrificed and directed BMC to issue a circular before the day ends on “regulatory steps and procedures’’ to be followed while making the sacrifice for Bakra-Eid festival from this Saturday. The circular calls for strict compliance of social distancing and other norms under Covid-19 pandemic guidelines, including compulsory masks, and ensure use of hand sanitizers. The circular cites its earlier June 26 one to show that slaughtering was restricted to 150 daily at the abattoir due to Covid-19 guidelines and this would continue till further orders. Imran Qureshi, vice-president of All-India Jamiat Imran Qureshi, said it was “shocking that BMC put a restriction of 150 cattle despite us mentioning 5,000 in our PIL.. We will move the high court for contempt of court on Saturday.’’ The PIL by Al-Quraish Human Welfare Association and others sought judicial intervention after pointing to a July 25 order where the court in a matter had restricted all slaughter to take place at the abattoir. Mohammad Asif Qureshi and Haji Kudratullah Quereshi, through lawyer A A Siddiqui, said since the abattoir was closed, without a special order, sacrificing water buffaloes there would not be possible. Usually during Bakra-Eid around 15,000 sacrifices take place at the abattoir, but the pandemic and resultant financial strain on families would mean less than 40% this Eid, said the petition. It said for commercial trading of buffalo meat, Deonar abattoir was permitting 150 to be slaughtered each day during lockdown and on general days more than 6,000 water buffaloes would be slaughtered each week at the abattoir. “The civic administration and police shall ensure there is no remissness in abiding by terms of the circular...’’ said HC, disposing of the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-permits-sacrifice-of-150-water-buffaloes-per-day-for-eid-at-deonar/articleshow/77293572.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Sanika skips dad’s funeral for SSC paper, scores 100%||Yavatmal: Paying last respects to her father as his body lay at home in Hivri village, 15-year-old Sanika Sudhakar Pawar overcame grief and stepped out to appear for SSC exam at Yavatmal on March 7. On Wednesday, when the SSC results were declared, Sanika surprised everyone by her magnificent overall score of 97.60% marks with 100% in Sanskrit, the paper she had appeared on the day of her father’s funeral. Hailing from Hivri village, 18km from Yavatmal, Sudhakar, 45, farmer with six acres of dry land and a bank loan liability, committed suicide on March 6 by jumping in a farm well, leaving behind wife, Sanika and a younger son, who is now in Std X. While the grief-stricken family was preparing for the funeral on March 7, Sanika bowed before her father’s body and sought his blessings, left for Yavatmal and appeared in the exam. The last rites had been over when Sanika returned home. She couldn't control herself and cried hugging her hapless mother and brother. Touched by Sanika’s feat, Maharashtra legislative assembly speaker Nana Patole called to congratulate her. Patole also promised all help to Sanika to fulfil her father’s wish of seeing her as a doctor. On Friday, district collector MD Singh invited Sanika to his office and felicitated her in the presence of new chief executive officer of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad Shreekrishna Panchal. Singh also promised to take care of educational expenses of Sanika, who also has plans to go for IAS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanika-skips-dads-funeral-for-ssc-paper-scores-100/articleshow/77292158.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolhapur||35 cases in Kolhapur, 339 detected in Sangli||Kolhapur: The district has reported 35 fresh Covid patients and five deaths due to the infection on Friday till 6pm, taking the total number of cases to 6,180 and the death toll rising to 181. There are 3,263 active cases. Patient escapes from hosp, brought back within hours A Covid-19 patient, who escaped from the CPR Hospital on Friday, was brought back by the patient’s family members within a few hours. According to the hospital authorities, the patient was admitted in the morning and escaped around 1pm. After learning about this, the security was alerted and the family members were contacted. This is the second time that a Covid patient escaped the hospital. The administration has stepped up the security and increased CCTV cameras in the hospital Corporators call for less pressure on KMC facilities Corporators said on Friday that the patients from the rural areas should not be admitted in the isolation centres by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to bring down the pressure on the KMC doctors and nurses. Congress corporator Sharangdhar Deshmukh said, “In this situation, the KMC’s doctors and nurses are providing service to the Covid patients tirelessly. The patients from rural areas should not be admitted in the overcrowded facilities run by the KMC instead, they should be admitted to the facilities in the talukas.” 210 patients allowed to get isolated at home Aftr two days of adopting the policy of home isolation, KMC has allowed home isolation for around 210 Covid patients. The local committees have to verify the availability of a separate room with an attached bathroom for the home isolation. The district reported 339 Covid-19 patients on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 2,643. Of which 1,437 are active. Six deaths due to the infection was reported on Friday, taking the death toll to 78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/35-cases-in-kolhapur-339-detected-in-sangli/articleshow/77290646.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Agra||Postal dept to deliver rakhi posts on Sunday||Agra: To ensure every rakhi sent by a sister reaches its destination, the India Post department has decided to work on a holiday. Postmen will be delivering rakhis on Sunday. According to the postal department officials, there has been a significant increase in the number of people sending rakhis by post due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A majority of the rakhi mails are being sent via speed post service. Special waterproof rakhi envelopes launched by the postal department are selling like hot cakes at Rs 10 each. RB Tripathi, assistant director, post services (Agra region) said, "We are making best possible efforts to ensure all the mails reach their destination before Raksha Bandhan on August 3. A decision has been taken to work this Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/postal-dept-to-deliver-rakhi-posts-on-sunday/articleshow/77290642.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||E-dist centres to re-open from Aug 2||Dehradun: The e-district centres will be made operational again from August 2 for the convenience of the people, said officials. The additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Bir Singh Budiyal ordered the re-opening of the e-district centres after the lockdown. The centres will furnish only 25 token in a day to issue certificates to the people through phone lines. The appointment can be taken between 10 am and 1 pm, while the certificates will be issued between 2 pm and 5 pm. However, the service will not be available in areas under the containment zone. Notably, the e-district centres aim to deliver government services to the citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/e-dist-centres-to-re-open-from-aug-2/articleshow/77290647.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Agra||Postpone AMU exam, classes on August 5 for Ram Mandir: BJP MLA’s grandson||Agra: A law student of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Ajay Singh, who also happens to be the grandson of local BJP MLA Dalveer Singh, has written a letter to the vice-chancellor, urging him to postpone examination and online classes scheduled on August 5, in view of the Ram Mandir ceremony in Ayodhya. In his letter to the VC, he stated it is a very auspicious occasion for everyone, that postponement of exams and online classes will send a good message to society and also show the secular character of the varsity. “We will engage in celebrations and prayers as it is a once in a millennium opportunity for all of us to witness the ceremony,” he wrote in a letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/postpone-amu-exam-classes-on-august-5-for-ram-mandir-bjp-mlas-grandson/articleshow/77290657.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Why is ESI hospital staff unpaid for 16 months: HC||Hyderabad: Justice P Naveen Rao of the Telangana high court sought to know from the authorities as to why they are not paying salaries to the outsourcing staff at ESI Hospital for several months. Justice Rao also directed the state counsel to explain their case by August 5. The judge was hearing a petition filed by M Dinesh Chandra and 18 others who complained to the court about their plight. Their counsel G Srinivas told the court about a Rs 1,000-crore scam in ESI pertaining to purchase of medicines and the ongoing ACB probe into it that shook ESI hospitals across Telangana and AP. “Because of corrupt practices of the superintendent, the staff are now suffering without salaries for the last 16 months,” the counsel said. The judge asked the petitioner’s counsel to make the outsourcing agency as a respondent to the case because it has to explain the reasons for non-payment of salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-is-esi-hospital-staff-unpaid-for-16-months-hc/articleshow/77293489.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: State-level athletes forced to train on roads, stare at injuries||CHENNAI: Last week, Mir Kaif had a close shave. With the Tamil Nadu government opening the stadiums only for national-level athletes, the state-level 100m sprinter from Chennai who is yet to participate in nationals, had no option but to train on the streets of Royapettah near his house at 4am. But his plans were spoilt when dogs chased him. To add to his woes, a police patrol saw him fleeing and stopped him for questioning. “Only after meeting my parents were the policemen convinced that I wasn’t a burglar but a state-level athlete,” Kaif told TOI. The 20-year-old is among many state-level athletes who are finding it hard to resume training on tracks even as the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium has been thrown open for practice for athletes who have participated in at least one national event. With gyms, beaches and fitness centres also closed, they have been left with no other option but to train on city roads which leaves them vulnerable to injuries. Another athlete Vishal, who participates in decathlon, injured his ankle while running on asphalt roads. “There is a lot of difference when it comes to training on the tracks and roads — the ground reaction force being significantly different. So if you put too much pressure, you end up injuring your shin bone, calf muscles and ankle. That’s what happened with me,” Vishal said. While it will take a few weeks for Vishal to recover, the other state athletes have continued with their training regime. Pole-vault coach Milber Russell Bertrand said the state athletes are left with no option after the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) set up a stringent rule in identifying national-level athletes through one of its ‘athletes’ schemes’. “The athletes are used to training on synthetic surfaces with spikes. So injuries are bound to happen when you are training on hard surfaces because different muscles are in operation. While the stress is on hamstring and upper thigh muscles on tracks, it is calf muscle which is at play on the road. So the body fails to adjust to such a change,” Milber said. Top fitness trainer Ramji Srinivasan, too, said practising on roads “can be very dangerous”. “Equipment for training on roads is different from training on tracks. I am sure that these athletes don’t have the proper shoes to train on roads. It can lead to shin splints that can effectively turn into stress fracture and lower-back injuries... It’s unfortunate that we ask athletes to train on bad roads and expect them to win laurels for the country,” Ramji quipped. Hope the authorities are listening!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-level-athletes-forced-to-train-on-roads-stare-at-injuries/articleshow/77292154.cms||Shilarze Saharoy
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Congress MLA, who escaped getting swept away in rivulet, urges CM to speed up relief work in Dharchula||Pithoragarh: Dharchula Congress MLA Harish Dhami, who narrowly escaped being swept away in a rivulet while inspecting a flood-hit village in his constituency on Thursday, has made an emotional video appeal to state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to speed up the relief works in the area. In the video, he indirectly attacked the CM for neglecting the disaster in a Congress constituency. Dhami, in the video, can be heard saying, “If the CM wants, I will not contest the 2022 polls but he should at least make efforts to save the people of the area who are battling this natural disaster.” Heavy rainfall during the past few days has led to landslides damaging several houses in the Munsyari and Dharchula tehsils and leading to deaths of at least 16 people. Also, three persons have gone missing in rain-related accidents. Dhami said that many roads and bridges have been washed away and it is not possible to reach some villages on foot and thus, the state government must arrange a chopper service to rescue these villagers. Dhami went on to add he is even ready to tender his resignation if that’s what it takes to get the state government working. The legislator, while making an inspection of Madkot village on Thursday, had slipped and almost fallen into a swollen Lumti rivulet. Dhami sustained injuries in the incident. Meanwhile, the disaster management office administration claims to have rescued 270 families from different villages. The officials add that they all were sent to safe places and have been provided ration as well. Also, a chopper reached Mirthi village on Friday but cannot operate due to bad weather in Munsyari and Dharchula. “We hope that it can start operation from Saturday,” said Vijay Kumar Jogdande, DM Pithoragarh. The official added that choppers will airlift villagers trapped in landslide areas and leave them at Baram where administration has arranged relief camps. “The children, women, and the sick persons would be airlifted first,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-mla-who-escaped-getting-swept-away-in-rivulet-urges-cm-to-speed-up-relief-work-in-dharchula/articleshow/77290662.cms||Prem Punetha
August 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Apps claiming to measure O2, pulse level fake: Police||Kolhapur: Kolhapur police have issued a warning about messages being circulated on the social media to download mobile applications which claiming to detect pulse and blood oxygen level. There are chances of data theft through these apps as it is not verified for security concerns, said police.The police authorities said many such messages are circulated and upon enquiry with the experts it has been found that the apps may give false results which may put lives in danger and may result in panic. Abhinav Deshmukh, Kolhapur superintendent of police, said, “There are some apps which claim to measure SpO2 levels (blood oxygen saturation levels). We were approached by some people on whether these apps provide accurate results or not. These apps do not show accurate results as there is no such mechanism required for these purposes. The readings are wrong and may unnecessarily cause panic among the citizens. Also, the chances of phishing, data theft or any cybersecurity concerns cannot be ruled out. ”The apps ask for biometric fingerprints, photographs and seek permission to access contacts and other key details from the mobile phone. The messages circulating on social media such as WhatsApp have direct links for the download and the developer cannot be verified nor are the ratings not available. The cyber police cell authorities said the key information of passwords for the other apps, especially financial-related apps may be stolen through such malicious apps. Pulse and blood oxygen levels are one of the parameters for detecting the Covid-19. Shops are selling pulse oximeters at an inflated price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/apps-claiming-to-measure-o2-pulse-level-fake-police/articleshow/77290664.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hubballi||N-K woman sings folk songs with English narration||Hubballi: Many people took lockdown online challenges to sing a song, wear a dress, show a book, recite a poem. However, Shilpa Mudbi Kothakota, a Bengaluru based NK origin theater personality, preferred to showcase folksongs using the folklore instrument ‘Choudki’ on social platforms. Now her vetnure has moved something ahead and reflecting in about 20 countries and Kannada folklore songs are being translated to many Indian labguages like Tamil and Marathi. Inspired by the innovative and meaningful response, she is venturing into uploading on the upcoming website named after Urban Folk Project, a cultural forum for which she is co-founder. Shilpa told TOI that choudki pada has been one of her favourite folklore form and she started singing folk songs using choudki instrument to hold the ‘shruti’ while singing. “I had prepared to ensure that this non-commercial venture should go just for thousands of views, likes and comments. It had broader prospective of drawing urban people, particularly younsgters’ attention towards folklore. At the other end, my work was to learn why it’s being viewed, liked, commented and shared. Apart from normal apprectations, I was thrilled when a Tamil girl living in U A E, translated my, not mine infact, song into Tamil and tried to use in her foloklore dance and sent a video. I was clear over copy right issue as folklore is commoners’ asset and there is no particular person to hold copy right. I had invited videos of my online friends to sing the same song with their own instrument or voice. As of now I have received 15-20 videos in which even non-Kannadigas have tried singing” she shared. Expressing little disappointment over etiquette of few Kannadigas, who insisted to sing in formal Kannada and to give explanation in Kannada itself, instead of English. “Probably they failed to understand my intention of taking my North Karnataka folk songs to global audience. “Let me be more clear in this regard. Culture is not a thing just to speak about. Culture will start when a mother sings ‘lori’, that itself is start of culture. So, our folk songs are neriched with the indegenous culture and I shared it with urban folks through this venture” she added. Aditya Khotakota, Shilpa’s husband, added that they are uoloading all innovative responses on web site which is under construction. The 10 songs sung by Shilpa are spread over a lakh peope by online platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, whatsapp. “Taayiya nenapu turned very famous followed by ‘Enne Hachhiri’. However, regressive versions are sidelined in these songs. Currently we are not continuing these online tutorial as we have involve in some Covid-19 remedial initiatives. But definitely I continue with such initiative in future” Shilpa asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/n-k-woman-sings-folk-songs-with-english-narration/articleshow/77292342.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Western flank of Mahatma Gandhi setu reopens for traffic||PATNA: Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari inaugurated the rehabilitated western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu through a video conference on Friday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar presided over the event. He thanked Gadkari also for the upcoming bridge and road projects and welcomed the works being done under PM Modi’s special package in state. The ‘lifeline’ bridge connecting north and south Bihar over river Ganga is being rehabilitated by replacing the old superstructure, except pillars, with steel deck superstructure. The rehabilitation of its eastern flank will be started soon. Funds to the tune of Rs 1,742 crore are being spent on the overall rehabilitation of the 38-year-old bridge being carried out since February, 2017. Gadkari said it is the first of the kind project in the country executed by replacing the concrete superstructure by a steel framework. “This bridge had a unique problem that its pillars were fine but slabs had been damaged. We got experts from across the world to find out ways to rehabilitate the bridge. A European firm was also roped in for this project along with consultation by IIT-Roorkie to ensure a lifespan of 100 years for the bridge,” Gadkari said. Gadkari said works on five mega bridges entailing an overall outlay of Rs 10,338 crore will commence in Bihar over the next few months. “Bidding process for a 7km-long bridge over Kosi between Bhagalpur and Madhepura has been initiated. The construction works will start in two months with funds to the tune of Rs 1478 crore. Works on another 4.5km-long bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur will also commence in two months. Similarly, fresh bidding process has been completed for a bridge over river Ganga at Sahebganj,” he said. The minister said works on a bridge parallel to Gandhi Setu will also commence in October. “The spans of the bridge will be 242m-long, the highest for any bridge in the country so far. Funds to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore will be spent on the project,” Gadkari said. Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi thanked PM Narendra Modi for the special package of Rs 1,25,000 crore for Bihar, under which the Gandhi Setu rehabilitation project is being executed. He said 12 new bridges are being constructed on the Ganga. State road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said the eastern flank of the Gandhi Setu will also be rehabilitated in 18 months. Union ministers Ram Vilas Paswan and Ravi Shankar Prasad were the guests of honour. Other dignitaries present in the virtual event included Union minister General (retired) V K Singh. Nitish demands more funds for MSME development CM Nitish Kumar on Friday requested Union minister Nitin Gadkari for enhancing central support to small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs), especially in view of higher population density in Bihar. “The state government has amended Industrial Investment Promotion Policy to get more industrial units and ensure that the returnee migrant workers get sufficient job opportunities here. The Centre is giving Rs 25,000 crore to Bihar in this regard. We would be grateful if more funds are sanctioned by the Centre,” Nitish said. Nitish also indicated towards the need for a direct route between Buxar and Varanasi. The CM also pointed out the need for uniformity in width of national highways (NH) for smooth vehicular movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/western-flank-of-gandhi-setu-reopens-for-traffic/articleshow/77292155.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 1, 2020||Agra||UP police attach assets worth Rs 3 crore of history-sheeters in Mathura and Mainpuri||AGRA: The UP police have attached properties and assets worth Rs 3.20 crore of five criminals in the past one week as part of a statewide crackdown on criminals booked under the Gangsters Act. The latest development comes after eight policemen were killed during a failed raid to arrest gangster Vikas Dubey from a village in Kanpur. According to a senior official, the aim behind attaching the properties is to send a strong message to the criminals by striking them economically. The operation against criminals and mafias involved in criminal activities will continue in future, he said. The clampdown is being carried out mainly under section 14 (1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties, in order to effectively curb gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, the officials said. In Mainpuri, a liquor mafia and criminal Dalveer Singh Lodhi’s illegal properties worth Rs 1 crore was attached on Thursday. Similarly, properties of two other liquor mafia operators, Neeraj Yadav and Raj Kapoor, worth Rs 60 lakh and Rs 35 lakh, respectively, were attached by the police earlier this week. Mainpuri superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Kumar told TOI that five more liquor mafias in the district have been identified for similar action. He added that more than 50 cases are under investigation but of these 10 cases were ready for attachment of illegal assets. In the neighbouring district of Mathura, police have attached properties worth Rs 1.15 crore belonging to a notorious oil mafia operator Manoj Goyal. Properties worth Rs 10 lakh of another criminal, Khemchand, have also been attached. Mathura SP Guarav Grover said that any criminal can be “crushed” by striking him financially. The police are identifying illegal properties of all criminals for further action. He told TOI that more than 50 cases of oil theft are registered against Manoj Goyal at various police stations in Mathura. Goyal was booked under the Gangsters Act in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-police-attach-over-rs-3-cr-worth-assets-of-history-sheeters-in-mathura-mainpuri/articleshow/77290676.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||118 new Covid-19 infections found, state tally now 7,183||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 case count shot up to 7,183 after 118 fresh infections surfaced on Friday. Test results of 8,044 cases are still awaited from across the state. On the day, the maximum of 55 cases were reported from state capital Dehradun, followed by Nainital where 34 fresh infections were found. “Six new cases were reported from Haridwar, followed by five each from Tehri Garhwal and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Four new cases were also reported from Pauri Garhwal whereas the districts of Almora and Rudraprayag reported three new cases each on Friday. One case each was found in Uttarkashi, Bageshwar, and Chamoli districts,” informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. In some good news, 172 cases recovered fully on the day. With this, a total of 4,168 patients have now recovered from the deadly virus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/118-new-covid-19-infections-found-state-tally-now-7183/articleshow/77290673.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: KMC on its toes as malls set to re-open||KOLHAPUR: As malls and markets are set to re-open on August 5, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to increase the number of its Covid Yoddha to ensure that safety guidelines issues by the government are strictly followed. As per the new relaxations, shops inside the malls have been allowed to open, but the food court will remain closed. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti reviewed the situation on Friday and directed the officials to visit the shops to meet the traders and help them prepare to open shops. “We will ask the the traders to mark the area outside and inside the shops to ensure social distancing is followed. We are going to deploy more number of our Covid Yoddhas to ensure discipline is maintained. Round-the-clock announcements will be made in the markets, appealing to the citizens to follow the rules and wear masks. The ground level staff should also ensure that people without mask are not allowed to enter the mall or market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-on-its-toes-as-malls-set-to-re-open/articleshow/77290678.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC sets free former DMK MLA M Rajkumar convicted for rape-murder of teen||CHENNAI: A year and half after a trial court convicted and sentenced a former DMK MLA to 10-year imprisonment for rape and murder of a 15-year-old girl, the Madras high court has acquitted him of all charges. Justice N Sathish Kumar acquitted ex-legislator M Rajkumar and his co-accused K Jaishankar and said: “They are directed to be set at liberty forthwith unless their custody is required in connection with any other case.” A detailed speaking order explaining the grounds for their acquittal would be issued later. It was on December 28, 2018, that a special court for MLAs and MPs here convicted Rajkumar and Jaishankar for rape and murder, and sentenced them to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment with fines of Rs 30,000 and Rs 12,000 respectively. The duo was charged with kidnapping, sexually assaulting and murdering the girl in 2012. She worked as a domestic help at Rajkumar’s house. The CB-CID police registered the case and investigated the matter after it was transferred from the local police in Perambalur. The special court had already acquitted Mahendran, Anbarasu, Panneerselvam (now dead), Vijayakumar and Harikrishnan, the other suspects in the case. The girl, daughter of a labourer-couple from Kerala, joined Rajkumar’s household in June 2012 as a domestic help. She was brought by agents who promised her parents that she would be sent to school. However, a few days after joining work, she called her parents and told them that she did not wish to continue. On June 29, 2012, her father was informed that his daughter was unwell and that she was admitted to a private hospital. The girl’s parents rushed to Perambalur and shifted her to another hospital. She was moved to Government Medical College Hospital in Theni on July 4 where she died two days later. After her parents took the body to Kerala, they found that she had been sexually assaulted. They filed a complaint with the police in Kerala who initiated a second post-mortem there and intimated their counterparts in Perambalur. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-sets-free-former-dmk-mla-m-rajkumar-convicted-for-rape-murder-of-teen/articleshow/77292179.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Pandemic hits goat sales by 65% for Bakri Eid||JAIPUR: Pandemic has taken a toll on the sale of goats for Eid-ul-Adha (Bakri Eid). The sale has plummeted by 65% this year as compared to last year as Covid-19 has broken the financial backbone of the people. Munna Bhai, a goat seller in Jaipur, said that he is not able to sale the entire lot of goats he purchased for this occasion. “The market is down. When businesses are shut down and everyone is hit financially, there is little chance to go for purchasing goats specifically for this occasion. Everyone is downsizing their expenses and our sales are hit,” said Munna. According to meat sellers in Jaipur, before lockdown, the rate of meat was fixed between Rs 500 and Rs 600 per kg which is now being lowered to Rs 250 to Rs 300 per kg. “Sellers are selling their goats in whatever price because after four days they won’t even get that,” said Nizamuddin Qureshi, president of Chainpura Bakra Mandi, Jaipur. He further explained that due to Eid there is still some demand in the market which will fade away soon and people have to go back with their animals. “People used to rear their animals whole year to sell them on Bakri Eid but with such economic downfall they are forced to cut their expenses. People who used to purchase three to five goats are buying just one,” said Qureshi. Another major deterring factor is the cost of slaughter. After purchasing the goat, people have to pay the service charge to the butcher and then have to pay for preparing the meal. Entire cost of one goat till the process of meal is around Rs 25,000 which is too much during this time. Every year, 30% goats of the state were sold outside the state and country, but due to lack of transportation, supply has taken a hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-hits-goat-sales-by-65-for-bakri-eid/articleshow/77293494.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Edu institutions offer interest-free instalment option to pay fees||Mangaluru: The educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, in order to ease the financial burden on parents, have been offering interest-free instalment facility for payment of school and college fees this academic year. These educational institutions usually receive fee payment in full, except in some cases. The institutions have realised that the pandemic has caused financial hardship for parents, and the decision aims to reduce their worries and burden. Some colleges have openly announced about offering the instalment facility, while others are doing so without any publicity. The educational institutions have been giving the option to pay fees in up to four instalments. St Agnes College, an autonomous institution, which never offered the option to pay fees in instalments earlier, has done so from this year. Sister Venessa, the principal, said that the school gives the option to pay fees in instalments, when parents request for it. “As everyone is facing financial hardship due to the pandemic, we gave parents the option to pay fees in instalments. Currently, fees can be paid in a maximum of four instalments,” she said. Another autonomous college situated on Light House Hill Road too has allowed parents to pay fees in instalments. Sources in the institution said that the facility is given to only genuine cases, and that it is done after verifying a candidate’s background. “We allowed such a facility in the past, but to fewer parents. This time the number has increased due to the pandemic, but it has not been announced officially,” the sources added. However, educational institutions have apprehensions about offering the option to pay fees in instalments. Some people in the school management have expressed that many take undue advantage of giving this facility. “Once their ward is admitted officially to college, we have to literally beg parents and students to pay the rest of the fee amount. Some are yet to pay last year’s outstanding fees,” said a school management head. Whereas the fight by parents to reduce fees continues, and they are adamant that educational institutions must not charge certain fees, for facilities their children do not use due to the commencement of online classes. “I have paid half of the school fees for my two children. However, we have unanimously decided not to pay the rest,” said a parent whose children study at a prestigious school in the city. Colleges commence online classes With the ministry of human resource development giving a nod to start online classes for undergraduate students, some of the city colleges have started the same, and rest will do so soon. The classes for the second and third years have started, but it will take some time for first year classes to start, as the admission process has just begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/edu-institutions-offer-interest-free-instalment-option-to-pay-fees/articleshow/77289478.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 1, 2020||Rajkot||Surakshita app helped reduce crime against women by 28% in 7 months||Rajkot: Rajkot city police on Friday bagged national award for its Surakshita mobile application launched in December last year. The app has been designed to provide immediate help to women travelling alone for job or classes. The award, known as highest civilian honour, is conferred by Delhi-based independent organization SKOCH. Rajkot won the award in silver category.This award covers the best efforts in the area of digital,financial and social inclusion. There were 500 participants all were government agencies like municipal corporations and police departments. Surakshita application, designed on the concepts of Himmat app launched by Delhi police, helps a woman get connected with one number of police control room and one number of her family members after downloading. Data of nearly 30,000 auto rickshaws registered in the city has also been included in this app. When a woman travels in any auto, she has to scan a barcode while travelling, which will give cops total information about the auto in case of need. As soon as the app is opened, police control room can track live location of the phone. The app has a panic button, which, if pressed, will fetch cops to the spot within minutes.Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said “It’s good that our efforts are appreciated. There was a lockdown so the use of this app was decreased but I believe that in coming days this app will help to reduce offences against women. We want more women to download this app and use while travelling alone.”Rajkot police statement claims they have received 3,818 calls till date since December 2019. All the calls had been attended to promptly, the release said, adding that crime rate related to women have decreased by 27.65 percent, thanks to the app. Altogether 94 offences related to women were registered in the first six months of 2019, while 68 offences were registered in the corresponding period of 2020. Rajkot police also formed Durga Shakti team comprising women cops in each police station to handle complaints related to women and also respond to calls from this mobile application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surakshita-app-helped-reduce-crime-against-women-by-28-in-7-months/articleshow/77291207.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||BJP fires salvo at Ashok Gehlot over shifting of MLAS||JAIPUR: Taking a dig at the shifting of MLAs from Jaipur to Jaisalmer, BJP state president Satish Poonia reminded CM Ashok Gehlot that Pakistan is too close to their destination. MLAs supporting Gehlot were shifted to Jaisalmer on Friday till the commencement of the assembly session on August 14. In a series of tweets, Poonia said, "Where all the government will run to save itself from crumbling. They must remember that after Jaisalmer, the next destination is Pakistan." He asked Gehlot what scared him so much that he had to run away with his lawmakers? "Is it the duty of the BJP to save your falling government?" he added. "When you (Gehlot) said that all MLAs stand united with the Congress, you have no fear, then why are you taking your MLAs from one hotel to another and from one city to another? Who are those who can split from you? Why don’t you reveal their names? Haqikat se kab tak door bhagoge Jadugarji (How far will you run from the reality, Magician?)," said Poonia, who sees Congress MLAs’ migration to Jaisalmer a betrayal to the people of the state. Reacting on Gehlot’s suspicion on Poonia’s frequent visits to Delhi aimed at toppling the government, Poonia said, "I have heard your sermon. Is it a crime to visit Delhi? You also visit Delhi-Mumbai? If I go to Delhi for some party work, should I inform you every time of my visits? It is laughable that our visits to Delhi are seen as an attempt to topple the government." Further sharpening his attack, Poonia asked Gehlot to reveal his reason for taking his government to Jaisalmer. He accused the Congress of harassing its own MLAs. "The entire state is watching how you have held hostage your own MLAs. It is very demotivating for the citizens to see its government operating from hotels, instead of the secretariat. If any citizen has any work will he/she come to Jaisalmer?" said Poonia. Replying to Gehlot for calling him the protector of ‘democracy’, Poonia said, "CM Gehlot is acting like a dictator while threatening everyone, slapping cases and talking of democracy. This episode has exposed everyone and even the third generation of Congress party workers are feeling dejected by their conduct." Replying to a question on BJP’s preparedness for the upcoming assembly session, Poonia said his party is fully prepared to raise important issues and questions in the interest of the state. "In all the assembly sessions, the ruling government failed to answer our questions in the assembly. Their situation is going to be the same in the upcoming assembly session," Poonia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-fires-salvo-at-gehlot-over-shifting-of-mlas/articleshow/77293496.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Son killed woman for scolding him in Karnataka||MANDYA: The mobile phone obsession of a son has cost his mother her life. Shrilakshmi, 45, was found murdered with her throat slit at her house in Mandya on Thursday. Police zeroed on her 21-year-old elder son Manusharma and arrested him for allegedly killing her after she took him to task for his mobile phone obsession. “Manusharma is said to be lagging in education and is addicted to mobile phone. His mother always took exception to his obsession and was trying to mend his habit. On Thursday, her attempt to dissuade her son from using the mobile went awry as he hit her with a metal object and later stabbed her throat with a knife” said a police officer. According to sources, the rest of family members allegedly tried to cover up the murder by portraying the death as a suicide. However, alert neighbours tipped off police about what had really happened, and it helped police to nab the killer son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/son-killed-woman-for-scolding-him/articleshow/77290179.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Gaekwads write to railway minister||Vadodara: The campaign to save the sprawling garden of 106-year-old Pratap Vilas Palace in Lalbaug from a proposed railway building is gathering momentum. The royal Gaekwad family has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal and urged him to put brakes on the multi-storeyed building proposed in the lawns right in the front of the palace On Thursday, Gaekwads had initiated an online petition to save the palace that was constructed by the visionary ruler Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad. “We have requested the government to intervene and save this heritage property,” said Radhikaraje Gaekwad, member of the royal family. Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad wrote to Goyal in her capacity as the chancellor of M S University. Another prominent Barodian Sanjeev Shah, who is a chartered accountant, too contacted former railway minister Suresh Prabhu on Friday and sought his intervention. “Prabhu was the minister when the railway university was inaugurated. I apprised him of the damage this proposed building could cause to the façade of the grand palace. He has promised to take up the matter with Piyush Goyal,” Shah, ex-director of Container Corporation of India Ltd. (CONCOR), a PSU under railway ministry, told TOI. The Gujarat chapter of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) too has stepped in to save this iconic heritage structure. Sanjeev Joshi, co-convener of INTACH, Gujarat has written to the director general of National Academy of Indian Railways (NAIR) and requested him to change the location of the proposed building. “Heritage buildings cannot be seen as isolated monuments. They have to be protected in totality including the landscape around the heritage structure. Hence it is important to protect and preserve the open space in front of Pratap Vilas Palace,” Joshi said. In fact, in 2018, INTACH, Vadodara had initiated a study of the entire Pratap Vilas Palace premises to preserve the heritage, landscape and biodiversity park. Joshi has offered help to the railways in identifying another space for constructing the new building in the palace campus. The palace has been in the possession of railways since 1961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gaekwads-write-to-railway-minister/articleshow/77291950.cms||Tushar Tere
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker touches electrified fence, dies||Mysuru: An around 10-year-old tusker was electrocuted after it touched an electrified fence around a farm in Kadur taluk in Chikkamagaluru district. Forest officials said the tusker had wandered out of the woods in search of food and had tried to enter the field belonging to farmer Huliappa in the early hours of Friday. Huliappa has cultivated jowar in his farm and had installed an electric fence around it to prevent wild boars and other wild animals from destroying the crops. As per rules, farmers can take permission from the forest department to install solar powered fences to their agriculture land. As solar electric systems will have DC current, there will be less power flow and not continuous, animals which touch the wire will only get a light electric shock. But officials said some farmers connect the fence to high voltage electric power lines on electric poles to prevent wild animals from entering their farms. After receiving the information about the tusker, foresters rushed to the spot along with wildlife veterinarians and conducted the autopsy. Based on the forester’s complaint, Kadur police have registered a case against Huliappa under Wildlife Protection Act (WPA) 1972. Police have also sought the opinion of electricity officials about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-touches-electrified-fence-dies/articleshow/77290643.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Will bring back every Indian stuck abroad, Centre tells Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Centre on Friday informed the Madras high court that it is committed to bring back all Tamils stranded in different parts of the world due to lockdowns in a phased manner. It further undertook to operate as many flights as possible to evacuate the last Indian from abroad. “The government has proposed to operate 792 international rescue flights under phase V from August 4 to August 31, of which 127 flights are to be operated to Tamil Nadu,” the Centre said. The submissions were made when a plea moved by the DMK, seeking direction to the state government to permit operation of such rescue flights to Tamil Nadu, came up for hearing on Friday. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha recorded the submissions and disposed of the plea. In a memo filed by the Centre, it was submitted that the ministry of external affairs has operated 1,248 flights from all over the world in phase-I, phase-II, and phase-III. This apart, it has proposed 1,203 flights under phase-IV on July 28, of which 130 flights are operated to Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-bring-back-every-indian-stuck-abroad-centre-tells-hc/articleshow/77292196.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||Madrassas may be hit as fewer sacrifices for Eid||MUMBAI: Madrassas that run mainly on charity from the community have been hit badly this Eidul Adha or Bakrid, the three-day festival from Saturday. The skin of sacrificed animals is a major source of income for madrassas but this year, due to the pandemic-induced lockdown and restrictions on transportation of cattle and goats in the city, madrassas will not get even half of the number of skins they would get in the past. Muslims donate skin of sacrificed animals to madrassas, where mostly poor children study. “Madrassas are in serious financial crisis. The skin of sacrificed animal on Bakrid used to be a big source of revenue, but this year fewer animals will be sacrificed, so they will not get the huge pile of skins,” said senior cleric Maulana Athar Ali of Darul Uloom Mohammadiya at Mohammed Ali Road. He said madrassas suffered during Ramzan too due to lockdown as most Muslims could not send zakat, the 2.5% of annual savings they give on charity, to madrassas. Maualna Burhanuddin Qasmi, director of Jogeshwari-based think-tank Markazul Maarif, said madrassas had never seen such a bad phase in recent times. “Many madrassas are shut and many are on the verge of closing. After they didn’t get much in Ramzan as way of charity, the income from sale of skins of sacrificed animals is going to be meagre,” said Qasmi. Tannery owners said the price of sacrificed animal skin was at an all-time low. “Buffalo skin is not available as buffaloes are not being sacrificed for Bakrid. The price of goat skin will not be more than Rs40 per piece because leather exports to mainly Italy and China have been affected badly in recent times,” said Dharavi-based leather merchant Syed Inayat Hussain. Meanwhile, Congress leader Yusuf Abrahni and NCP leader Naseem Siddiqui held a silent protest outside CSMT to protest government’s restrictions on arrival of goats. Mohammed Wajihuddin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/madrassas-may-be-hit-as-fewer-sacrifices-for-eid/articleshow/77293578.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 5 more Covid-19 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Friday four more Covid-19 deaths, officials said. Among them, samples of three patients who had died earlier this week were found Covid-19 positive on the day. Yet another death at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) was also reported on the day but the health bulletin didn't include it as the death summary couldn’t reach the concerned officials on time. With this, the death toll in the state now is 81. The health department officials informed that a 60-year-old man died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College on Friday due to bilateral pneumonitis, severe acute respiratory distress, type 1 respiratory failure. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that a 55-year-old man had died at AIIMS Rishikesh on Wednesday due to cardiac arrest. The deceased was brought dead to the hospital and was tested positive for Covid-19 during postmortem. “Another patient, a 75-year-old woman, had died at AIIMS Rishikesh earlier this week. She was also tested Covid-19 positive after death. In yet another death at AIIMS-R on Thursday, a 24-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died of refractory septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, and renal disease,” said Tripathi. Also, a Covid-19 positive LIC official died at Doon Hospital on the day. Dr NS Khatri, GDMCH, has confirmed that the 50-year-old man from Kaulagarh died at the hospital late on Thursday night. His death summary just couldn’t reach the officials at the time of the release of the health bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-5-more-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/77290704.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Parts of city receive evening showers, roads go under water||Hyderabad: Parts of the city witnessed rains of up to 46mm during Friday evening. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, from 8.30am to 7pm on Friday, Pedda Amberpet received the highest rainfall of 46.8mm followed by Gayatri Nagar in Jeedimetla (45mm) and Quthbullapur (43.5mm). Many other areas such as Kukatpally, Alwal, Neredmet, Begumpet, Balanagar, Trimulgherry received rains of up to 38mm. “Rainfall activity has been relatively better this year,” said Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Kapra. The rainfall led to a slight drop in maximum temperature from 34.3C on Thursday to 32.7C on Friday. Minimum temperature continued to settle at 24.5C. Southwest monsoon has been normal across Telangana with many districts witnessing frequent rainfall. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has received 28% excess rainfall in last two months of monsoon as against 21% excess rainfall recorded across Telangana. From June 1 till date, Hyderabad has received 351.4mm of rainfall against a normal of 275.3mm. “Distribution of rainfall has been uniform across Telangana so far. We expect southwest monsoon to progress in a similar fashion as it was in last two months,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parts-of-city-receive-evening-showers-roads-go-under-water/articleshow/77293535.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Khushbu lauds new education policy, triggers storm in Congress||CHENNAI: The tweet on Thursday by actor and Congress spokeswoman Khushbu, “NewEducationPolicy2020 A welcome move”, has set off a political storm, with TNCC president K S Alagiri charging that it was “indiscipline”. While opposition parties including the Congress criticized the policy, Khushbu welcoming it set off speculation that she was getting ready to join the BJP. Though she made a retreat and even “apologized” to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in a tweet, the issue had ballooned by then. My stand on #NEP2020 differs from my party n I apologize to @RahulGandhi ji for that, but I rather speak the fact t… https://t.co/cVRE6Dl5vw— KhushbuSundar ❤️ (@khushsundar) 1596104151000“I rather speak the fact than be a head-nodding robot or a puppet,” she said, adding that everything is not being agreeable to your leader, but about being courageous to voice your opinion bravely as a citizen. As her tweets set off speculation about her joining BJP, she denied that too. Sanghis can relax, pls do not rejoice. I am not moving to BJP. My opinion might be different from my party but I am… https://t.co/ADwzJr2dzN— KhushbuSundar ❤️ (@khushsundar) 1596103532000“Sanghis can relax. Pls do not rejoice. I am not moving to BJP,” she responded. “My opinion may be different from my party, but I am an individual with a thinking mind of my own.” Agreeing that the new policy is “flayed and flawed” in some places, she still felt one should look at the change with positivity and prefer to bat for learning things in one’s own “spoken language” than English. Congress is a worlds biggest Democratic political party.we can speak any controversial subject within the party foram.— KS_Alagiri (@KS_Alagiri) 1596159099000On Friday, Alagiri sought to initially brush it off with a light warning, but without referring to her. “Congress is world’s biggest democratic political party. We can speak any controversial subject within the party forum. It will be welcomed. If we speak in a public forum, it is called indiscipline,” he tweeted. It will be welcomed.If we speak in a public forum it is called indiscipline.Indiscipline comes from frustration.Y… https://t.co/f6aJYBz0xO— KS_Alagiri (@KS_Alagiri) 1596159523000Stating that “indiscipline comes out of frustration”, Alagiri said yoga was the best medicine to cure (frustration). As Khushbu continued to engage people on twitter and even taunted Congress MP Jothimani in a friendly banter, Alagiri told a Tamil news channel the actor was doing it for some “undue gains”. Khushbu retorted: “One tweet, one line and I see the storm”. One tweet.. One line.. and i see the storm.— KhushbuSundar ❤️ (@khushsundar) 1596184313000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/khushbu-lauds-new-education-policy-triggers-storm-in-cong/articleshow/77292207.cms||D Govardan
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Veteran freedom fighters will be honoured at home||JAIPUR: On August 9, on the anniversary of Quit India Movement, all 29 freedom fighters of the state will be honoured by the state government at their homes. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has taken this decision, remembering the contribution of these freedom fighters in the Independence Movement. Gehlot said, “We are able to breathe in open air only because of our freedom fighters. They contributed invaluably to the freedom struggle through Quit India movement. We are all grateful and bow our head before them for their sacrifices, dedication and passion. Due to these, democracy could be established in our country. It is our responsibility to express our respect towards them.” The chief minister has directed the district magistrates, additional district magistrates or sub-divisional magistrates of the respective districts to greet them by visiting their homes. All veteran freedom fighters will be honoured by on behalf of chief minister Gehlot with a shawl. August 9 declared public holidayGehlot declared public holiday on the International Day of World’s Indigenous People on August 9. It was a long-standing demand of public representatives from tribal areas. Till now it was an optional holiday. The day is observed to raise awareness and protect the rights of the world’s indigenous population. This event also recognizes the achievements and contributions that indigenous people make to improve world issues such as environmental protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veteran-freedom-fighters-will-be-honoured-at-home/articleshow/77293510.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||A lacklustre Eid amid pandemic||JAIPUR: The pandemic seems to have mellowed the festive spirit of the people. The deserted lanes a day ahead of Eid-Ul-Adha in the Muslim-dominated areas suggest that Covid-19 has indeed dampened the Eid festivities this year. This is the time of the year when low and middle-income level Muslim families go out for their year’s biggest shopping, but this year, they seem to have chosen to remain indoors due to the low purchasing power, than the fear of the pandemic. Also, the sales of goats have nosedived with only those with sound financial backgrounds purchasing them. The usual rush in the Muslim stronghold areas with a sea of people doing last-minute shopping was missing and the areas wore a deserted look. The makeshift markets on either side of the Walled City roads have few shops but did not see many buyers. “The families are not stepping out for shopping and those who do come, are spending very less making us difficult to even cover the daily rent of the makeshift shop,” said Abdul Karim, who sells Eid paraphernalia like a skull cap, perfume, prayer mat, dates and toys for kids. On a mere visit to the Muslim-dominated areas, one would miss the rush at the mosque, parading of goats decorated with balloons and frills. Both Eid-Ul-Fitr and Eid-Ul-Adha are those times of the year when every Muslim purchases at least readymade traditional suits and dress material. It is also the time when they prefer to replace their old furniture, paint their houses, buys automobiles, real estate along with the goats to sacrifice. From the market in Raja Park to Bapu Bazaar and high-end shopping stores on Tonk Road to Johari Bazaar for gold purchasing, it’s the second missed opportunity in two months. “I had stocked dress material and readymade garments, eyeing first Eid in February, but the lockdown hit us so hard that we have not opened the stocks. I was very hopeful that unlock has been in place and we would be able to have good sales, but only managed less than 10% of shopping as compared to the previous Eid. Even Rakhi sales are yet to pick up. Now, all eyes are on Diwali,” said Devki Sharma, a store owner at Tonk Road. Explaining the situation, Naim Rabbani, of Helping Hand Foundation said, “The situation is getting worst with each passing day. Almost 90% of the residents engaged in unskilled or semi-skilled work have not got their jobs or source of livelihood back. It’s a reminder that Covid-19 has eaten away the savings of most of the families and caused them an irreparable loss and it will take years to recover from the impact.” While a section of Muslims has deliberately chosen to stay away from usual shopping this Eid, and have not purchased the animal to sacrifice and clothes, many are rather donating money to the poor and destitute. Nizam Hussain, a banker based in Adarsh Nagar says that the amount they spend on buying three goats has been kept for donation. “I got this idea while listening to a cleric on TV. It took me a day to convince my family that this year’s Eid will be without sacrificing a goat. Now, I am thinking how to spend the money in rehabilitating some families who are in dire need,” said Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-lacklustre-eid-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77293503.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||2 killed, 3 hurt as vehicle falls in gorge in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: Two people died and three others sustained injuries after a private car they were traveling in fell into a 200-metre-deep gorge at Hudoli area of Purola block in Uttarkashi district on Thursday evening. According to TOI sources, five people, all residents of Karda village in Purola block, were returning back to their home from Naugaon on Thursday evening. However, the accident killed two among them on the spot. The deceased have been identified as Sunil Singh (25) and Dheeraj (35). The three other passengers of the car were — Neeraj, 33, Vipin Bhandari, 30, and Anand Rawat, 30. Soon after getting information of the accident, a police team reached the spot and pulled out dead bodies and all the injured persons from the gorge, who were later sent to the community health centre (CHC) at Purola. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “CHC doctors referred two critically injured persons — Neeraj and Vipin — to a higher medical facility in Dehradun. However, Anand has been declared out of danger.” Meanwhile, on Friday, a pickup vehicle, which was going to Barkot from Kharadi village, toppled at Yamunotri highway. Ten villagers, including the driver, got injured in the accident. They all were sent to CHC Barkot for treatment. Dr Angad Rana, in-charge of CHC Barkot, said, “Five critically injured persons have been referred to Dehradun and the remaining are out of danger and have been sent back to their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-killed-3-hurt-as-vehicle-falls-in-gorge-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/77290720.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||MLA-LAD: CEOs of 19 districts rebuked for poor spending||JAIPUR: In a meeting with the chief executive officers (CEOs) of zila parishads on Friday, the rural development and panchayati raj department reprimanded the CEOs of 19 districts for not having spending Rs 191 crore under MLA-LAD fund. “The pending amount under MLA-LAD fund should not be more than Rs 25 lakh. In many districts, the pending amount was more than Rs 2 to 3 crore. In many cases, the MLAs do not know how much money they have inherited from the previous MLA. This should be communicated to the MLAs by the BDOs and CEOs in order to transfer the amount and get the sanctions done against the savings,” said special secretary P C Kishan. “Only 14 districts have done well in utilizing MLA-LAD funds. However, in the rest (19), there is huge pending in utilization of funds allocated to the MLAs in these districts. In some districts, the wage rate under MGNREGA was not found be satisfactory. Also, there is hardly any progress in the plantation work under MGNREGA,” he added. Secretary panchayati raj department Siddharth Mahajan instructed the CEOs of the districts to complete identification of land for construction of new panchayat bhawans at the earliest and initiate the process of building the offices. He also reviewed the progress of the construction of Ambedkar bhawans in the districts. The social justice and empowerment department on Friday extended the date for online submission for applications for state residential schools up to August 31 and for college-level girls’ hostels up to September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-lad-ceos-of-19-dists-rebuked-for-poor-spending/articleshow/77293522.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||MLAs reach Jaisalmer in special fights||JAISALMER: Amid the political fight going on in the state for the last few days, Congress MLAs who were staying in a hotel in Jaipur were brought to a five-star hotel here on Friday. A majority of the Congress MLAs, including chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his ministers, reached the civil airport by evening. The first batch came at 3pm in which 53 MLAs reached Jaisalmer and later the remaining MLAs came in a plane and a chopper. Gehlot reached around 7.30pm. Suryagarh hotel in Jaisalmer is suitable from security point of view as it is difficult for an outsider to enter. District collector Ashish Modi and SP Ajay Singh took stock of arrangements prior to the MLAs reaching the hotel. The security arrangements in Jaisalmer were beefed up considering the arrival of MLAs. Police force was deployed at every nook and corner of the city from the airport to the hotel. MLAs who reached Jaisalmer in the first special flight were taken to the hotel amid tight security. Ninety rooms have been booked for the MLAs. Although three places, including Pali, Udaipur and Jaisalmer, were shortlisted to shift the MLAs, the chief minister finally settled for Jaisalmer. The city is less populated and it will be easy to keep an eye on the movement of suspicious people here. Jaisalmer is around 150-300km from other districts and does not share border with any other state, therefore the MLAs would be safe here, said sources. Three hotels were proposed for the MLAs’ stay. The hotel is 15km away from the city and has just one entrance. A few local Congress leaders outside shouted slogans in favour of Ashok Gehlot and against Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at the hotel. In the evening, CM Ashok Gehlot, minister Shanti Dhariwal, AICC general secretary Avinash Pande reached Jaisalmer, where they were welcomed by collector Ashish Modi and SP Ajay Singh. As many as six ministers and four MLAs have not reached Jaisalmer. The ministers include Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, Raghu Sharma, Ashok Chandana, Lal Chand Kataria, Udai Lal Anjana and Subhash Garg. The MLAs include Jagdish Jangid, Amit Chachan, Parasram Mordia and Babu Lal Bairwa. Some MLAs and ministers are expected to come on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-reach-jaisalmer-in-special-fights/articleshow/77293516.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Students help out teacher in distress||HYDERABAD: A few students have come to the rescue of a teacher who taught them 26 years ago, by helping through the critical financial conditions during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Left without salary since March, 52-year-old Hanumanlu Raghu, father of three, was finding the going tough. But he had not revealed his hardships to anybody until one day when an old student called to enquire about him. After immediately sending rice to his favourite teacher, Kaligotta Ganga Reddy teamed up with his school batch-mates and set up a shop for Raghu. They spent Rs 80,000 to put up a shed for a shop near Ippapalle village, Kathlapur mandal in Jagtial district, where the teacher lives. More services are set to be provided for the shop, including a refrigerator. Raghu who has an MA (English) post graduate degree, is gearing up to make a fresh start and run a chicken and tiffin centre during the ongoign crisis. “I am overwhelmed by the love the students have shown me. It cannot be expressed in words,” Raghu told TOI. More than 25 years ago, Raghu was teaching in Chaitanya Bharathi School, a private school in Rudrangi (in erstwhile Karimnagar, now Rajanna Sircilla). The principal of the zila parishad high school, Rudrangi had once requested him to take two classes for the children in Biology, as he also has a BSc degree. The students who passed out of the private school, which was only up to lass 7, got into the ZPHS school, and he got to teach them in class 10 again. “He would make lessons interesting for us,” Kaligotta Gangi Reddy, one of the students of the 1997-98 SSC batch said. For the last 10 years, the teacher was working for a private school Vijay Vidya Niketan, at Thandiyala village, 5 km from his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-help-out-teacher-in-distress/articleshow/77294296.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Facing heat, tehsildar to return bribe money||HYDERABAD: A day after a farmer in CM’s Gajwel constituency took his life blaming revenue officials and a local sarpanch for his extreme step, a tehsildar in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district gave an undertaking to farmers that he would return the bribe amounts he took from them to clear their petitions. The tehsildar of Chintalamanepally, Khaja Miya, has since been suspended by district collector Sandeep Kumar Jha. The collector told TOI that Khaja had been suspended. “A criminal case will be booked against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Any changes done by him in the land records will be kept in abeyance and revoked,” he said. Khaja was tranferred to the district headquarters on Wednesday soon after corruption charges emerged. But, he stayed back in the mandal to complete some ‘unfinished’ business. On Thursday morning, the new tehsildar came to relieve him. Farmers got wind of Khaja’s transfer and rushed to the tehsildar’s office. They staged a sit-in and raised slogans. They demanded that he either return the money he took from them or complete their works before heading off to the district headquarters. Some of them said Khaja took Rs 10,000 to Rs 70,000 from them. Police entered the scene and tried to pacify the farmers who refused to relent. A tense situation prevailed at the office as the farmers gheraoed the tehsildar. Some of them showed him small pocket books in which they had mentioned when and how much money they had given him. Farmer Ramagiri Poshanna said he had paid Khaja Rs 30,000, while Jada Mallaiah said he had given Rs 40,000. Some of the farmers then made a list of the amounts paid to him on a piece of paper and demanded that he return their money. Driven to a corner, Khaja wrote on the paper that he would return the money by mid-August and even affixed his signature. He wrote “After 18-8-2020” on the paper. The episode lasted the entire day and it was only at 5.30 pm that Khaja was allowed to leave by the angry farmers. Later, speaking to reporters, Khaja admitted that he had taken money from the farmers. A Dalit farmer committed suicide in Veluru village in Wargal mandal of Siddipet district on Thursday, blaming authorities for trying to take away his small parcel of land to construct a rythu vedika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/facing-heat-tehsildar-to-return-bribe-money/articleshow/77294300.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Chennai||SHRC notice to Tamil Nadu DGP on media parade of accused||CHENNAI: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued notice to the director general of police (DGP) to respond to a petition from a Supreme Court advocate, who has sought for police to refrain from parading accused in front of the media, citing that it violates SC guidelines and the fundamental rights of fellow citizens. The commission has sought a response from the DGP within four weeks. According to the petition by Nikhil Saraf, the practice by Tamil Nadu police officials to parade accused in front of media is blatant transgression into the domain of judiciary, wherein the police force itself has given the right to adjudicate the crime and declare anyone a criminal without following due process of law. “Our constitution guarantees that an accused is innocent till proven guilty by the courts after following due process of law,” the advocate stated in his petition and added that many states have already stopped the practice. He cited an advisory issued by the DGP of Uttarakhan in the matter.In his petition, the advocate also pointed out that Uttarakhand DGP had already issued an advisory to all police officials of the state, which said no police official shall violate the human rights of the accused, while arresting and that they shall not be paraded before the media and that accused who are to be paraded for identification, shall be produced in a manner that doesn’t cause any prejudice against them and details of witnesses, complainants, accused should not be disclosed to the media among others. “The colonial practice to parade accused before media as some hunted animal trophy is the worst form of abuse of human rights of an individual,” the petition stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-notice-to-tn-dgp-on-media-parade-of-accused/articleshow/77292255.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Hoteliers in Haridwar not interested in providing their hotels to admin for use as Covid care centres||Haridwar: Amid the increasing number of patients getting infected with the coronavirus, Haridwar district administration has been trying to increase the capacity of Covid care centres (CCC). Hoteliers have been asked to give their consent to using more hotels as the care centres. Currently, 12 hotels and guest houses in the district and two private hospitals are being used as CCCs while patients admitted in government institutions have been complaining about the lack of facilities. The administration is planning to shift these patients to better care centres. However, most hoteliers in the holy city say that they are not interested in converting their properties into CCCs and demanded that the administration release the pending dues and provide basic training to the hotel staff and treat them as ‘corona warriors’. There are over 500 active Covid-19 patients in Haridwar and only two government-dedicated Covid-19 hospitals each in Roorkee and Haridwar region with limited beds and just two ventilators. Apart from that, patients are being kept in the old buildings of the Rishikul Ayurvedic College and Gurukul Ayurvedic College – which are in dilapidated conditions and patients are continuously complaining due to lack of basic facilities. Hotels and some beds of private hospitals are being used as CCCs. However, the number is still insufficient. Health department has claimed that it has facilities for 2,000 patients but the department wants to increase the capacity to 5,000 beds. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Haridwar Dr SN Jha said, “The number of Covid-19 patients has been increasing continuously in the district and we have planned to increase the capacity of beds. However, we are using some hotels and two private hospitals to keep the patients and serious patients are being referred to Rishikesh AIIMS and Doon hospital. We have to increase the capacity to 5,000 beds amid outbreak situations.” Meanwhile, the administration held a meeting on Wednesday with hoteliers to give their consent for using more hotels as Covid Care Centres but hoteliers are not interested in providing their hotels. District tourism officer Seema Nautiyal said, “We requested the hoteliers to provide their hotels and guest houses to be used as CCCs but not a single proposal has come so far. However, we are trying to convince them and the pending dues of hotels will be cleared soon.” President of Haridwar hotel association Ashu Pundti told TOI, “Most of us are not interested to give the hotels for CCC purpose as we are short of staff as hotels are closed since lockdown and most of the staff had to move to their native places. Those living with us don’t have required training to treat the corona patients. We have to think about the safety of our workers. We want the administration to provide proper training to our staff and to treat us as corona warriors and announce compensation if any casualty happens. Besides, the pending dues of hotels during lockdown is still an issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hoteliers-in-haridwar-not-interested-in-providing-their-hotels-to-admin-for-use-as-covid-care-centres/articleshow/77290758.cms||MS Nawaz
August 1, 2020||Delhi||ED takes ex-councillor Tahir Hussain in 6-day custody||NEW DELHI: After Aam Aadmi Party’s former councillor Tahir Hussain’s interrogation in Tihar Jail while under arrest by Delhi Police for his alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, the Enforcement Directorate took him into custody on Monday. The agency was allowed six days of custodial interrogation by a local court in a riots and money laundering case. Immediately after receiving the court order, Hussain was taken to the ED office for interrogation in connection with money laundering and cash dealings related to alleged funding of Delhi riots and anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. “Hussain has been arrested in connection with the ongoing PMLA investigation into his role in money laundering and funding of anti-CAA protests and organising riots in north-east Delhi during February,” the ED said. The agency claimed its investigation found that companies owned and controlled by Hussain and his relatives transferred large sums of money to dubious entities and later received cash from them. “Cash received by Tahir Hussain through entry operators was used to fuel anti-CAA protests and Delhi riots,” the ED claimed. The agency had earlier carried out searches at the residence and business premises of Hussain and his relatives in Delhi-NCR and recovered fake invoices which were used for alleged fraudulent transfer of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-takes-ex-councillor-tahir-in-6-day-custody/articleshow/77859950.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Faridabad||Hry near 35k cases, but recovery rate at 80.7%||CHANDIGARH: With 887 Covid-19 patients being discharged from hospitals, Haryana’s recovery rate on Friday rose to 80.73%, even as the state got 711 new patients and four deaths. Now, the state’s coronvirus tally has risen to 34,965 cases. Of which, 28,227 patients have recovered, 421 have died and 6,317 are still under treatment, including 116 on oxygen support and 17 on ventilator. In all, 380 patients were discharged in Faridabad and 107 in Gurgaon. The state’s doubling rate has risen to 25 days. Faridabad had the highest number of new patients, 176, taking the district tally to 8,655 cases with 131 deaths. Gurgaon got 78 new cases and a death, with which the district’s tally reached 9,067 and 123 deaths. Rewari recorded the third highest number of new patients, 74, taking the total number of cases to 1,709 patients. Rohtak reported a death and 62 new patients. Here, the tally rose to 1,494. With 48 new patients and a death, Ambala’s tally rose to 1,543. Panipat reported a death and 44 new patients. Here, the tally rose 1,053. There were 37 new cases in Palwal, 36 in Hisar, 29 in Panchkula, 28 in Karnal, 21 in Sonipat, 19 in Mahindergarh, 13 in Charkhi Dadri, 12 in Jind, six each in Bhiwani, Sirsa and Kaithal, and four each in Jhajjar and Fatehabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-near-35k-cases-but-recovery-rate-at-80-7/articleshow/77300595.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in bronze shows iron will of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel||AHMEDABAD: Exactly 91 years ago, a beautiful bronze statue of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak was created at Vadodara’s well-known Kolhatkar Arts Studios near Khanderao Market.  Today, the statue at Tilak Bagh in Ahmedabad recalls a victory after an eight-year struggle against British administrators. It was powered by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the municipal president at the time, and Mahatma Gandhi who had launched the Tilak Swaraj Fund from Ahmedabad.  The two titans of the Freedom Struggle had succeeded in erecting the bronze statue befitting the monumentality of Tilak. The statue was installed on February 28, 1929. Tilak had passed away on August 1, 1920. The statue still stands unperturbed. The work of casting the bronze statue came to Vadodara at Mahadev Kashinath Kolhatkar’s studio. He was one of the pioneers in India in that art form. “Even the Mumbai statue of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, which stands at Chowpatty, was cast at our Vadodara studio. The job had been outsourced to my grandfather back then,” said Vivek Kolhatkar, who is the custodian of his grandfather’s legacy. The original plaster of paris (PoP) cast of Ahmedabad’s Tilak statue survives in Kolhatkar’s studio. Vivek said that his father Govind Kolhatkar had also made a name in the art and many landmark figures erected across the country are his works. “My grandfather was a product of Kalabhavan in Baroda state,” Vivek said. “He perfected the art of casting bronze statues, which involved experiments with metal alloys composed of copper with smaller amounts of tin, zinc, and lead.” Vivek, now in his 70s, went on to say: “My grandfather had received a scholarship which sustained him. Then several orders came our way, including the one from Sardar Patel from Ahmedabad.” A historian from Ahmedabad, Rizwan Kadri, said that Bapu had lauded Sardar Patel’s struggle for Tilak’s statue. Kadri told TOI: “Bapu had said, ‘It is clear beyond doubt that after Vallabhbhai’s entering the municipality, it too has become courageous…for the courage it has shown in installing the statue of Tilak’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lokmanya-in-bronze-shows-iron-will-of-bapu-sardar/articleshow/77299648.cms||Paul John
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in bronze shows iron will of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel||AHMEDABAD: Exactly 91 years ago, a beautiful bronze statue of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak was created at Vadodara’s well-known Kolhatkar Arts Studios near Khanderao Market.  Today, the statue at Tilak Bagh in Ahmedabad recalls a victory after an eight-year struggle against British administrators. It was powered by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the municipal president at the time, and Mahatma Gandhi who had launched the Tilak Swaraj Fund from Ahmedabad.  The two titans of the Freedom Struggle had succeeded in erecting the bronze statue befitting the monumentality of Tilak. The statue was installed on February 28, 1929. Tilak had passed away on August 1, 1920. The statue still stands unperturbed. The work of casting the bronze statue came to Vadodara at Mahadev Kashinath Kolhatkar’s studio. He was one of the pioneers in India in that art form. “Even the Mumbai statue of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, which stands at Chowpatty, was cast at our Vadodara studio. The job had been outsourced to my grandfather back then,” said Vivek Kolhatkar, who is the custodian of his grandfather’s legacy. The original plaster of paris (PoP) cast of Ahmedabad’s Tilak statue survives in Kolhatkar’s studio. Vivek said that his father Govind Kolhatkar had also made a name in the art and many landmark figures erected across the country are his works. “My grandfather was a product of Kalabhavan in Baroda state,” Vivek said. “He perfected the art of casting bronze statues, which involved experiments with metal alloys composed of copper with smaller amounts of tin, zinc, and lead.” Vivek, now in his 70s, went on to say: “My grandfather had received a scholarship which sustained him. Then several orders came our way, including the one from Sardar Patel from Ahmedabad.” A historian from Ahmedabad, Rizwan Kadri, said that Bapu had lauded Sardar Patel’s struggle for Tilak’s statue. Kadri told TOI: “Bapu had said, ‘It is clear beyond doubt that after Vallabhbhai’s entering the municipality, it too has become courageous…for the courage it has shown in installing the statue of Tilak’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lokmanya-in-bronze-shows-iron-will-of-bapu-sardar/articleshow/77293567.cms||Paul John
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry near 35k cases, but recovery rate at 80.7%||CHANDIGARH: With 887 Covid-19 patients being discharged from hospitals, Haryana’s recovery rate on Friday rose to 80.73%, even as the state got 711 new patients and four deaths. Now, the state’s coronvirus tally has risen to 34,965 cases. Of which, 28,227 patients have recovered, 421 have died and 6,317 are still under treatment, including 116 on oxygen support and 17 on ventilator. In all, 380 patients were discharged in Faridabad and 107 in Gurgaon. The state’s doubling rate has risen to 25 days. Faridabad had the highest number of new patients, 176, taking the district tally to 8,655 cases with 131 deaths. Gurgaon got 78 new cases and a death, with which the district’s tally reached 9,067 and 123 deaths. Rewari recorded the third highest number of new patients, 74, taking the total number of cases to 1,709 patients. Rohtak reported a death and 62 new patients. Here, the tally rose to 1,494. With 48 new patients and a death, Ambala’s tally rose to 1,543. Panipat reported a death and 44 new patients. Here, the tally rose 1,053. There were 37 new cases in Palwal, 36 in Hisar, 29 in Panchkula, 28 in Karnal, 21 in Sonipat, 19 in Mahindergarh, 13 in Charkhi Dadri, 12 in Jind, six each in Bhiwani, Sirsa and Kaithal, and four each in Jhajjar and Fatehabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-near-35k-cases-but-recovery-rate-at-80-7/articleshow/77292274.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Refile plea for taking voice samples of minister, MLA: Court to SOG||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) has put an application in the court on Friday requesting approval to seek voice samples of MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat based on the FSL report which they received of the audio clips in which the duo along with broker Sanjay Jain were heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. However, the court returned the application with certain directives asking the agency to file it again on August 4. According to sources, the calls amongst the three had been intercepted by a state intelligence agency following which two FIRs were registered by SOG after a complaint was lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS said, “We had applied in court for permission to take the voice samples of the said persons after receiving the report from FSL of the audio clips and their source but the court has asked us to refile after following certain directions.” One of the two FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. In the other FIR, while no names were mentioned, sources claimed that the voices heard were of Sharma and Vishvendra Singh. SOG had sent notices to several persons in the matter including the MLAs and the Union Minister though none of them have reverted yet. On being asked about the directives given by the court, the ADG said, “The court has asked us to mention the way the voice samples will be taken as well as to make attempts to contact the two persons yet again before refiling the application.” According to one FIR, Sharma and Jain were heard talking about getting adequate number of MLAs to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. After this, Jain patched the call with Gajendra Singh who spoke with Sharma about the Congress MLAs staying at the resort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/refile-plea-for-taking-voice-samples-of-min-mla-court-to-sog/articleshow/77293537.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Sanjay Jain refuses to give voice sample, SOG to move HC||JAIPUR: Sanjay Jain, the middleman accused by the SOG in the alleged conspiracy to topple the Congress government by horse trading of its MLAs, on Friday refused to give his voice sample for testing. The SOG will now move the high court to get the voice sample of Jain who was arrested after being allegedly caught on audio tapes discussing the ‘plot’ to topple the state government. The SOG had filed an application in the metropolitan court number 2 for voice sample. Jain was produced before a local court on Friday where he refused to give his voice sample, saying he does not have faith in the SOG probe and the Forensic Science Laboratory report can be manipulated. Jain was allegedly acting as a middleman and the Congress claims he is a BJP leader, a charge denied by the opposition party. “As the accused is not co-operating with the investigation by refusing to give his voice sample in the lower court, we will take further legal steps and approach the high court in this matter against him,” ADG (SOG) Ashok Rathore said. Rathore further said an SOG team has been camping in Manesar of Haryana to trace rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma. Jain was arrested on July 17 after he was purportedly heard talking to now suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Gajendra Singh, who the Congress claims is Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in the audio tapes. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged a complaint with the SOG following which the agency had lodged two FIRs against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanjay-jain-refuses-to-give-voice-sample-sog-to-move-hc/articleshow/77293530.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Patna||Covid tally crosses 50k-mark in state, toll mounts to 298||Patna: Number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed 50,000-mark in Bihar on Friday, the day the state added 2,986 fresh cases, by far the highest in a single day, and 13 deaths. A newborn girl child and a one-year-old male child, both from Patna, also tested Covid positive on Friday and admitted to AIIMS-Patna. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the infant’s mother was earlier tested positive for Covid and she gave birth to the child on Thursday. With the death of 13 more people on Friday, Covid toll in the state has mounted to 298. Of the 50,987 people who have contracted the virus in the state so far, 33,650 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state stood at 17,037 on Friday. In July alone, 41,243 people have tested Covid positive in the state. The first Covid case in the state was recorded on March 22. According to the state health department, 9,744 Covid positive cases were registered till June 30 and it crossed 20,000-mark on July 15, 30,000-mark on July 22 and 40,000-mark on July 27. On Friday, 535 people were tested Covid positive in Patna district. Of the 8,764 people who have so far contracted the virus in Patna, 5,927 have recovered and 41 died. Active cases in the state stood at 3,426 on Friday. Other districts which recorded a large number of cases on Friday included Rohtas (156), Gaya (126), Muzaffarpur (125), Madhubani (122), Muzaffarpur and Vaishali (123). As per the health department, two people each from Bhagalpur and Gaya and one each from Araria, Bhojpur, Buxar, Kaimur, Nalanda, Nawada, East Champaran, Saran and Vaishali districts died on Friday. AIIMS-Patna on Friday recorded 11 deaths. Among the deceased, though unofficially, were four city residents – a 75-year-old man from Padri Ki Haveli locality in Khajekalan, an 80-year-old man from Shastri Nagar, an 82-year-old woman from Mahatma Gandhi Nagar near Kanti Factory and a 52-year-old man from Ram Jaipal Road in Archana Bank Colony, Danapur. The NMCH reported two deaths and the deceased included a 30-year-old resident of Bikramganj in Rohtas. NMCH epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the deceased had a medical history of hypertension, TB and asthma. Another deceased was a 52-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur who died of cardiac arrest. The health department said 22,742 samples were tested in the state in the past 24 hours. Also, 1,977 people have recovered in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 66%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-crosses-50k-mark-in-state-toll-mounts-to-298/articleshow/77292238.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||450 students in China to benefit||Ahmedabad: In a move that could benefit 450 students from Gujarat, the Central government has issued a notification stating that it is no longer mandatory for students who have completed their MBBS studies in China to undergo one -year internship training in India for registration purpose. The notification dated July 30 by the Board of Governors in consultation with Medical Council of India said that they are in receipt of frequent communication from foreign medical graduates regarding acceptance of their internship undergone in foreign medical institutes. In this regard, a public notice has been posted on the website of ministry of health and family welfare regarding a decision on Indian students who have completed MBBS in China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/450-students-in-china-to-benefit/articleshow/77292276.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 46 students from rural areas make it to premier institutes||HYDERABAD: Students from the rural and tribal areas of the state are blazing a trail of excellence. As many as 46 students from the social and tribal welfare institutes have made it to the master’s programmes of some of the premier institutes — IITs, NITs, Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) among others — in the country. Students, who are waiting for their final semester undergraduate exams to be conducted, will be starting their post-graduation courses at these institutes from the academic year 2020-21. “One of the main reasons why I opted for MSc Chemistry at post-graduate level is that I intend to try my hand at civil services after PG and want to opt for Chemistry in the mains examination,” said K Girija Kumari, student of Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Degree College in Suryapet. She secured a seat at Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati. Kumari, who hails from a remote area in Suryapet, said that she wants to become a collector and help the less fortunate. Another student M Vamshi Krishna, who secured a seat at the National Institute of Technology (NIT)in Suratkal, said: “The classes will most likely start in September. I am waiting for the state to conduct final exams so that I can report at the institute as soon as it reopens.” A resident of a thanda in Sangareddy district, Krishna said that if he had failed to get a seat in the government institutions, he could have never able to complete his graduation. “Right from my schooling, I studied in government schools. After securing a job, I want to improve facilities in my village so that more students get a chance to study,” he added. RS Praveen Kumar, secretary of tribal and social welfare institutions, took to Twitter to congratulate his students. “Congrats to Nagalaxmi who got into MSc Chemistry in NIT, Srinagar and many more students who got into PG courses in premier institutions in India like Azim Premji- 18, TISS - 13, IIT - 3, NIT - 9, HCU - 2, KIIT-1 and we’re still counting... Our best is yet to come,” reads a tweet from Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/46-students-from-rural-areas-make-it-to-premier-institutes/articleshow/77294304.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi ranks third in number of deaths by suicide in prisons||NEW DELHI: Delhi ranks third in cases of suicides in jails, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which cited eight prisoners who ended their lives in the city’s jails last year. Apart from this, there were also two murders and an accidental death in the jails in the same period. So far this year, Tihar Jail alone has logged eight suicides. According to the NCRB data, all the eight inmates who died by suicides last year had used their clothes to hang themselves in their cells. Sandeep Goel, director-general of Tihar Jail, said that measures have since been taken under a project named Samarthan to prevent suicides in the penitentiary. TImesViewJails are home to convicted criminals. But once imprisoned, a convict’s health and safety is the state’s responsibility. The high number of suicides shows that the mental health of inmates requires more careful attention. Similarly, a closer monitoring of the activities of violent prisoners can snip group clashes in the bud.Jail officers who conducted counselling sessions among the jail inmates pointed out that 60-70% of the suicides in prisons can be prevented if the depression among the inmates is detected on time. In last year’s data, it was found that the tendency for self-killing was highest among inmates in the age group of 35-45 years. “Most of the inmates found to be showing symptoms of depression are those accused of murder or involved in cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. In jail, they are overcome with remorse,” revealed a jail officer. Another officer said, “We have established that the sense of misfortune that creeps in when lodged in a jail is the biggest reason behind a person choosing to die rather than live. Our aim is to sensitise the wardens and jailers about this. We also counselled the staff because we realised that most of the people been working with prisoners also suffer bouts of depression.” If the incidence of suicides in Tihar jail is an indication, it seems that festive seasons cause more depression because suicides tend to increase in such periods. During the month-long counselling programme for inmates and jail officials on how to prevent suicides in jails, officer met more than 10,000 prisoners. The level of depression was detected to be the highest among inmates who had been put into incarceration for the first time. The NCRB data also revealed that the inmates of Tihar Jail were involved in 57 group clashes last year in which 92 people were injured. The bureau’s information showed that Delhi’s main prison facility was occupied 180% above its capacity, which caused constant tension that eventually resulted in group clashes. According to the data, jails in Delhi are also under-staffed. In 2019, the jails had a shortage of 1,174 employees against a sanctioned strength of 3,251 staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ranks-third-in-number-of-deaths-by-suicide-in-prisons/articleshow/77859998.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong protests demolition of mosques and temple||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress on Friday held protests across the state against the demolition of two mosques and a temple in the secretariat. TPCC minorities department chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail along with party members staged a demonstration at Masjid-e-Qutb Shahi here after Friday prayers. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has committed a heinous crime by ordering the demolition of places of worship in the secretariat just to satisfy his superstitious beliefs. He has shown utter disrespect to the feelings of not only Muslims and Hindus, but everyone who believes in the religion. He is acting as a ruthless ruler and not as a democratically elected leader,” Sohail told reporters at the masjid. He said there was no question of accepting the CM’s offer of having a mosque constructed at a different place in the new secretariat. He demanded that the CM tender an apology to people for demolishing the places of worship. He said that KCR’s apology for the demolitionwas fake and misleading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-protests-demolition-of-mosques-and-temple/articleshow/77294307.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Average daily cases in July up by 76%||AHMEDABAD: July recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases for Gujarat at 28,795, which was 47% of the state’s total Covid-19 tally. Comparing the figure to June, the state recorded rise of 76% in average daily cases - which was up from 528 in June to 929 in July. On the other hand, against deaths of 810 positive patients in June, the number came down to 593 in July. In other words, compared to 27 average daily deaths in June, the deaths got reduced by 30% at 19. Surat led the tally with 284 positive cases in 24 hours, taking the district’s tally to 13,069. Ahmedabad recorded 176 cases, followed by 94 in Vadodara and 79 in Rajkot. The deaths included 11 from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, three from Vadodara and two from Rajkot. The total number of discharged patients in the state reached to 44,907 with 833 discharges in 24 hours ending 5pm. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat climbed to 14,090, which is 23% of the total Covid-19 positive patients in the state. Share of deceased and discharged patients is now at 4% and 73%. A total of 81 patients were on ventilator on Friday evening. The state carried out 26,704 tests in 24 hours to find new cases, taking the total to 7.64 lakh. According to state health department officials, the state is conducting 411 daily tests per million population. The officials added that as on Friday evening, the state had 4.83 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/average-daily-cases-in-july-up-by-76/articleshow/77292316.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Massive deficit in 4 dams as showers elude catchments in Pune||PUNE: Scanty rainfall in July has added a mere 4.6 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water to the four reservoirs that supply water to Pune city, causing a deficit of 13 TMC. On Friday, the collective stock in Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar stood at 9.8 TMC. This time last year, all four reservoirs together had 23 TMC. The water level in none of the four dams has crossed the halfway mark — Panshet was 40% full, Varasgaon and Khadakwasla had 32% stock each, while Temghar’s storage stood at 20%. Officials from the state water resources department, while adding that there were two more months of monsoon left, said they would review the stock and prepare a water management plan around August 15. The department officials said the catchments areas of the four reservoirs did not receive continuous spells of rainfall in July. Only a few days witnessed heavy rainfall. “Generally, the rainfall activity becomes rigorous in July, but it was subdued this year. In fact, all four dams had 5.2 TMC of water stock at the start of July — 3 TMC more than last year’s stock,” an official said. The total rainfall for the season so far was around 1,000mm — Temghar received about 400mm of rainfall in July, while Panshet and Varasgaon reported about 300mm each. Last year, rainfall activity in the catchments continued till October, with heavy rain in August and September. Further, the scanty rainfall has forced the water resources department to postpone the monsoon release of water for the kharif crop sowing season. In a normal year, the water release starts around July 10 and is on for a month, depending on stock and rainfall activity. In all, the subdued monsoon during most of July also resulted in less-than-normal rains in seven districts in Maharashtra — Pune, Satara, Nashik, Nandurbar, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara. Between June 1 and July 22 last year, Pune city (Shivajinagar) had received a staggering 403.8mm of rainfall — an excess of 133.6mm. This year, however, the area received just 263.2mm, about 2.8mm less than normal. “Rainfall for Pune city in general has been on the lower side for most of the month of July,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-deficit-in-4-dams-as-showers-elude-catchments/articleshow/77293568.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Lalbaug Atithigruh to treat positive prisoners||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has notified its community hall in Lalbaug as a Covid care facility. This is the first decision of its kind that had to be taken to accommodate inmates of the Vadodara central jail who have tested positive. Sixty inmates of the jail as well as an official had tested positive earlier this week. These inmates are presently admitted at the SSG Hospital (SSGH) even as a Covid care facility has come up at the jail. This facility can accommodate 80 inmates. In the meantime, the VMC notified the community hall better known as Lalbaug Atithigruh as a treatment facility. The 60 jail inmates kept at SSGH will now be shifted here. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara said that the inmates were asymptomatic and will be taken care of at the facility. He added that the 80-bed facility at the jail is being kept vacant as of now for any pressing needs in the future. The Vadodara city police will provide security and other management at the treatment facility. Source said that the inmates may have to spend only a few more days there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lalbaug-atithigruh-to-treat-positive-prisoners/articleshow/77291977.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pandemic, law and order my priorities, says Gujarat police chief Ashish Bhatia||AHMEDABAD: Newly appointed Gujarat police chief Ashish Bhatia said that maintaining law and order and controlling crime will be his priorities as head of the state police force and he will strive to control the spread of the Covid-19 by enforcing all safety guidelines of the government on Covid control. “Enforcement of wearing masks and social distancing is topmost on my list of priorities. Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing are safety measures and people should themselves understand this and follow guidelines,” Bhatia said. He added that maintaining law and order and controlling anti-social activities and organized crime is also his top priority. The DGP said that cases of cybercrime are on the rise and checking such cases is a big challenge. “We have the infrastructure to fight cybercrime and we will do it. The cybercrime rate has to be brought down as most people are using online payment methods these days due to the pandemic. We have to coordinate with police departments of other states to bring cybercrime accused to books,” he added. Bhatia said that through extensive use of technology in policing, he will strive to save time and energy of his subordinates and instead used them for maintaining law and order. The DGP told TOI that Gujarat has always been on the radar of the terrorists, and fighting terror will be one of his primary duties. “However, after July 2008 serial blasts no such big terror incident has taken place in the state,” he added. Bhatia also spoke of traffic-related problems in cities and towns of the state. “We will work together to normalize the flow of traffic by implementing different schemes along with experts in the field. We will also work towards bringing down traffic norm violation cases and the number of accidents on the road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-law-order-my-priorities/articleshow/77292329.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Man held for posing as ADGP’s reader, issuing threats||TNNLudhiana: Sadar Raikot police on Friday arrested a man, who claimed to be a reader of the additional director general of police (ADGP) and threatened a family in a property dispute case. The accused has been identified as Maninderjeet Singh of Boparai Khurd.In her police complaint, Manjit Kaur, wife of Baljinder Singh of Badundi, said as there was no proper road to their house, they went through an adjacent farm. She said for an entryway, they signed a panchayat agreement with her brothers-in-law, Gurdeep Singh and Balveer Singh, as part of which they had to break their wall and give two biswa land.The complainant said that according to the agreement, they broke the wall, left them two biswa land and constructed a new wall. They added that as per the agreement, Gurdeep Singh was to have his side of the wall plastered, but he retracted from the pact, leading to a conflict. She said Maninderjeet Singh, who introduced himself as the reader of the ADGP and had been staying at Gurdeep Singh’s house for some time, called them one night and issued threats. He asked us to take back the case against Gurdeep Singh within two days or he would take away their children and ruin their career.Manjit Kaur said they approached the police, who started a probe. Sadar Raikot police booked the accused under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 170 (personating a public servant) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Raikot DSP Sukhnaz Singh said the accused was arrested on Friday. Ludhiana (rural) SSP Vivek Sheel Soni confirmed that Maninderjeet was not a policeman.Police officials said in an audio submitted by the complainant, the accused was confidently saying that he was a reader of a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-held-for-posing-as-adgps-reader-issuing-threats/articleshow/77290790.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold breaches Rs 55,000-mark||Ahmedabad: Continuing its upward rally, gold price in Ahmedabad breached the Rs 55,000-mark on Friday to touch another record-high price of Rs 55,500 per 10 gram. Gold price rose by Rs 600 in a single day against Thursday’s Rs 54,900 per 10 gram; driven by the rally in price in the international market. According to analysts, mounting concerns over uncertainty in the global economy fuelled by the impact of a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in various countries supported the safe-haven investments in gold. Spot gold price in the international market stood at Rs $1,958 per ounce. In July alone, gold price showed a rise of 9.6%, going up from Rs 50,650 per 10 gram on July 1. While the surging gold price opened investor-demand for the yellow metal, retail demand for gold jewellery has dried up, indicate industry sources. According to a recent report by World Gold Council, gold demand plummeted by 56% in the first half of 2020, against last year. The demand drop in Gujarat is steeper at 78% with gold imports plunging from 28.1 metric tonnes from January-June 2019 to 6.2 metric tonne during the same period in 2020, according to data of Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex. “People hardly come to buy gold at this price. Several wedding occasions have been deferred in the wake of the pandemic and as a result, jewellery demand has further taken a hit. Instead, many are selling previously purchased gold to address liquidity issues,” said an Ahmedabad-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-breaches-rs-55000-mark/articleshow/77293585.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Researchers at Warangal's NIT develop chemical-free sterilisation system||HYDERABAD: Researchers at the National Institute of Technology, Warangal, have developed a multi-purpose, chemical-free and safe sterilization system ‘OzoNIT’. Resembling a household refrigerator, this system can easily disinfect vegetables, fruits, packed food, clothes, wallet, shoes, among others, all in one ago. With a click of a button, the device produces 500 milligrams of ozone gas in an hour from ambient air. “Exposure of these articles under ozone gas for about 20-25 minutes will kill all types of viruses, fungi, and bacteria up to 99.99% without the use of any sterilizing chemicals. Once the articles are sanitized for about half-an-hour, the ozone will be vented out automatically,” said D Haranath, associate professor in physics, who developed the system along with his research scholar P Chandar Rao. The chamber has been designed in such a way that no leakage of the ozone gas takes place while it is being operated. The manufacturing cost of the system is Rs 5,000 but when produced in bulk it will be reduced by 50%. Researchers said that many ultraviolet-C (UV-C) light-based systems exist in the market and can disinfect the surfaces where the radiation falls. “However, they cannot disinfect the surfaces where there is a shadow of the articles. This limitation is overcome by OzoNIT,” added Haranath. He said that the ozone gas moves all around the corners of the chamber killing the lethal viruses, fungi, and bacteria. “After the ozone treatment... there is no change in their quality and taste,” said Rao. “NIT Warangal is committed to launching this product into the market very soon through proper mechanism and investors.” Watch Researchers at Warangal's NIT develop chemical-free sterilisation system||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/researchers-at-nit-develop-chemical-free-sterilisation-system/articleshow/77293576.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada to strengthen health surveillance: DC||MANGALURU: Following a surge in Covid-19 positive cases as also fatalities, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has planned to rope in schoolteachers and college lecturers for an aggressive health surveillance programme to be launched in the district. DC K V Rajendra said that a survey in this regard has already been conducted in each gram panchayat in the district. “The survey has collected information of all children aged 10 and below, pregnant women and elderly persons and those who have various illnesses. Besides taking the services of ASHA and Anganwadi workers, we also have plans to rope in schoolteachers, PU/ degree college lecturers and educated persons below 40 years in villages so they monitor the health of vulnerable persons, some of who may not know whether they have blood pressure and diabetes. A meeting with health department officials was held on Thursday. More emphasis will be given for continuous monitoring of vulnerable persons, and ensure that they take medicines regularly,” the DC explained. A communication in this regard will be sent to the deputy director of public instruction, BEOs and other officials concerned. Facilities will be made to shift vulnerable persons in case of any complications in their health so that the fatalities can be avoided, he said. Surveillance activities will be intensified to trace the source of infection and provide them proper treatment. “We have formed task forces at gram panchayat and ward levels in the district. Meanwhile, doctors aged 50 and above, who are not frontline Covid warriors, will train the task force members to monitor the health of people, identify patients, shift them to hospitals and manage containment zones,” Rajendra noted. Speaking on the strategy to increase medical facilities in hospitals, the DC said the government has sent 40 ventilators, while corporate companies are donating ventilators under their CSR activities. “More oxygen supply will be ensured in wards through pipe networks or cylinders. Our aim is to reduce the number of deaths through effective capacity-building,’’ he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-to-strengthen-health-surveillance-dc/articleshow/77290807.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Surat||Surat: Covid cases mounting in posh Athwa zone||SURAT: The posh Athwa zone in Surat city continues to witness surge in Covid cases. It reported the highest 45 cases, in the total city count of 219 cases on Friday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), the city tally has now risen to 10,976. Seven more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus on Friday taking the toll to 489 cases so far. Varachha (A) with 37 reported second highest numbers, followed by 31 in central zone, 27 in Katargam, 23 in Varachha (B), 20 in Rander and 17 in Udhna zone. “I request people living in Athwa zone to ensure that elders stay at home and they are more susceptible to the virus. Moreover, we have come across cases where person’s oxygen level dropped below 95 and yet did not report to the hospital and eventually died. Therefore, if you know about anybody suffering from severe dip in oxygen levels, report to the hospital to facilitate immediate treatment,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. Meanwhile, SMC’s Covid-19 guideline enforcement teams have collected Rs 83,600 from 258 people as penalty for not maintaining social distancing, nor wearing face masks or keeping sanitizers at shops or workplaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-cases-mounting-in-posh-athwa-zone/articleshow/77292318.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Conch shells, bells, thalis to resound through Ayodhya for 10 minutes before bhoomi pujan||AYODHYA: As the clock strikes 11.30am on Wednesday, Lord Ram's birthplace Ayodhya will resound with the sound of conch shells, tolling bells and firecrackers. This divine extravaganza will lead up to the auspicious muhurat of 11.40am, set by the seers for the 'bhoomi pujan' of Ram temple. “We have spread the word across the city that people should step out of their doors at 11.30am and for the next 10 minutes, ring bells, beat thalis and clap to mark the significant period. The mahurat has been set for 11.40am for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to perform the foundation ceremony,” said Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta. In fact, ‘halwais’ will also start prasad distribution exactly when the clock strikes 11.40am. “We will be preparing sweets in advance and as soon as the conch is blown from the pooja site, we will start distribution of prasad,” said Nand Lal Gupta, president of the halwai association. The time is considered extremely auspicious, said Ashok Tiwari, kendriya sant sampark pramukh of VHP. “This period of 'madhyankaal' or midday is extremely auspicious as this was also the period in which Lord Ram was born. Interestingly, the 'nakshatra' on August 5 will be 'Punarvasu' under which Lord Ram was born... There can be no better time for the ceremony than this,” Tiwari said. He said the mahurat would remain for about 1-1.15 hours after which the 'griha' would change. Therefore, the pooja time, he said, has been set for 11.40am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conch-shells-bells-thalis-to-resound-through-ayodhya-for-10-mins-before-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77294320.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Annapurna canteens give free meals, serve 50,000/day in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as many restaurants and cafes in the city have seen a severe drop in footfalls due to Covid-19, the number of people being served food by government-owned Annapurna canteens has increased substantially. According to GHMC records, 30,000 to 35,000 people were catered to every day in February across the city but the numbers spiked in July - around 50,000 per day. The cost per meal is Rs 24.25 - GHMC bears Rs 19.25 and the remaining Rs 5 is paid by the beneficiary. But since the lockdown, the civic body waived off the money paid by the beneficiary and started serving dinner too at many centres. Inquiries revealed that due to Covid-19 people, who can’t afford a meal at restaurants and cafes, are eating at these canteens.  “I eat at this place regularly. However, many people, who are now eating here, are the ones who can’t afford a meal anywhere else. Despite Covid-19 fear they are eating at these canteens as they have no other option,” said a carpenter at a canteen located behind Cyberabad Police Commissionerate. The carpenter also added that he was searching for a job at various construction sites. Most people having meals at the canteens are destitutes and daily wage workers, who are unable to meet ends after they were rendered jobless. Food is also being supplied to the needy who are living in containment zones. “On Friday, Covid-19 control room located in GHMC received 31 calls from people living in containment zones and 3,870 food packets were supplied,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/annapurna-canteens-give-free-meals-serve-50000/day-in-city/articleshow/77293623.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 1, 2020||Pune||Fisherman in net on charge of killing wife||Pune: The rural police on Friday arrested a fisherman from Shirur for allegedly hacking his wife and their relative to death at Khutbav village in Daund taluka, about 65km from the city, in the early hours of the day. The suspect, Mangesh Jadhav (38), had come to Khutbav village along with his wife Manisha (35) and their relative, Deepak Waghmare (32) of Bhor, to meet their family members. “We are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murders,” inspector Bhausaheb Patil of the Yavat police told TOI. He said the suspect hacked his wife and Waghmare to death with a sharp weapon in their sleep. “After killing the duo, Jadhav was found sitting next to their bodies,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fisherman-in-net-on-charge-of-killing-wife/articleshow/77293591.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 spreading fast in Punjab’s smaller districts||Chandigarh: The spread of Covid-19 has picked up pace in the least populated districts of Punjab, which were earlier comparatively less affected by the pandemic outbreak. The number of cases has registered a jump of 66.59% in the last 30 days in six lesser populated districts — Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Ropar, Mansa and Kapurthala — of the state. These districts added 951 cases, including five deaths in the period from July 1 to July 30. Barnala, the least populated district of the state, added 132 cases in the month till July 30, of which 98 were reported in the last seven days. The district has a population of 5,95,527 and population density of 402 per square kilometer as per Census 2011. Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala also reported 78 cases each in the last seven days, while 65 cases surfaced in Ropar and 54 in Faridkot during the same period. The health department has identified 15 high priority areas — micro containment zones — in these districts for taking corrective steps. The rise in the number of cases has led to faster doubling rate — days it would take for the number of cases to double — in these districts. The doubling rate of Barnala dropped from 45 on July 16 to 7 on July 30, while in Ropar the rate came down from 28 to 16. Similarly, in Mansa, the doubling rate recorded a drop from 42 to 20, and from 35 to 13 in Kapurthala. People letting their guard down by not taking precautions and not following the restrictions is seen as the key reason for the virus spreading its tentacles in the smaller and lesser populated districts. The government from time to time has been issuing health advisories, which it is struggling to make people follow religiously. Despite repeated appeals and sustained awareness drives, people are commonly seen not taking precautions like wearing masks and maintaining proper distance. Even hefty fines have so far failed to deter people as they rampantly continue to violate the instructions. On an average, around 5,000 people are daily challaned for not wearing masks. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has time and again expressed displeasure over people not taking precaution and on July 29 he had warned people of raising the amount of fines if they continue not to follow the health advisories. Punjab government’s adviser on health issues, Dr K K Talwar, said it had been scientifically proven that wearing a mask regularly prevents the spread of the infection. “If everyone starts wearing a face mask in public, 80% of the battle against the virus is won,” said Dr Talwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-spreading-fast-in-punjabs-smaller-districts/articleshow/77292326.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Suspension revoked||Ahmedabad: A probe team investigating the matter of a school run by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in Gulbai Tekra area of the city amid Covid-19 crisis, has found that the teachers and principal were not at fault. Tthe suspension order of the principal has been revoked while the teachers who were issued a show-cause have been given a warning. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suspension-revoked/articleshow/77292325.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Death of three children with disorders calls for more vigil||Trichy: With the central region witnessing the death of three children due to Covid-19 and other ailments, paediatricians have cautioned parents of children with genetic disorders and comorbid conditions to take precautionary measures to protect them from the viral infection. The three girls were a five-year-old with ALL/ Febrile Neutropenia who died at Institute of Child Health in Chennai on July 27, a five-year-old girl with acute encephalitis syndrome and aspiration pneumonia who died at Thanjavur MCH on July 27 and a three-year-old girl with seizure and cerebral palsy from Nagappattinam who died at the MCH there on July 13. “Covid-19 in children is not a threat normally going by recent history. It can be attributed to the ACE2 receptors in the lungs. On the contrary, children with comorbid conditions and genetic disorders are at risk and they should be given more protection from the infection,” said former director of institute of child health, Chennai Dr D Saminathan. He said children with cancer, severe anaemia, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, tuberculosis, skin diseases, renal diseases, heart diseases, liver diseases, thalassemia, diabetes, immunity problems, asthma, allergy, unimmunized children and low birth weight were vulnerable. He said social factors were also a reason for children getting infected. “People of poor socioeconomic background may be ignorant of the safety measures and put their children at risk,” he said. He insisted on early diagnosis and treatment to protect them. Neo-natal specialist Dr K Senthilkumar of MGMGH advised parents to follow the practice of wearing facemasks, sanitising hands and not to take them outside. “We can advise the parent to take care of immuno-compromised children and children with breathing difficulties. Nutritious food will keep them immunized,” said Dr Senthilkumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/death-of-three-children-with-disorders-calls-for-more-vigil/articleshow/77293593.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ryot mowed down by sand mafia, 12 officials in the soup||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of a driver belonging to a sand mafia allegedly mowing down a Dalit farmer with his truck in Thirumalapur village in Mahbubnagar district, collector S Venkat Rao on Friday took action against 12 revenue officials. Police also registered a case based on a complaint given by the farmer Gurramkadi Narasimhulu’s wife. Memos were issued to Rajapur mandal tehsildar P Shankar and his Nawabpet counterpart N Rajender Reddy for not taking action against illegal mining and transportation of filter sand in the mandal. Show-cause notices were served on Rajapur mandal revenue inspector Khadeer and Nawabpet RI Gnaneshwar Reddy. Acting tough, the collector also suspended VRO Ramesh, village revenue assistants (VRAs) — Istharaiah and Narsamma — gram panchayat secretary Vidyasagar of Thirumalapur village in Rajapur mandal and VRO N Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy, panchayat secretary Imam, VRAs — Ananthamma and Ramulu — of Karur village in Nawabpet. Sources said the action was taken after Thursday’s alleged killing of Narasimhulu (38) by the sand mafia led to an uproar in the village. Venkat Rao also asked the district SP to probe the issue thoroughly. Police, however, remained tight-lipped if it was a case of murder. The villagers staged a sit-in on the road, alleging that the truck intentionally ran over Narasimhulu when he tried to stop the driver from smuggling sand from his field, which is close to a local stream. Illegal mining of sand has been taking place in some of the mandals despite villagers raising a hue and cry, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ryot-mowed-down-by-sand-mafia-12-officials-in-the-soup/articleshow/77294317.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 10 lakh fine for destroying Haritha plants||HYDERABAD: Ramagundam municipal authorities in Peddapalli district levied a fine of Rs 10.70 lakh on a person for destroying 185 saplings planted during Haritha Haram. The authorities invoked the provisions of the Walta Act (Water, Land and Trees Act), 2002 and imposed five times the penalty for damaging the plants. Sources said the person, Srinivas, has been given one week’s time to pay the amount or it would be recovered under the Revenue Recovery Act by taking over the property of the defaulter. In another instance, Osman, whose goats fed on 20 Haritha Haram saplings, was also imposed a penalty of Rs 1.18 lakh. This is also five times the penalty. A contractor had lodged a complaint that the plants had been destroyed by the goats. As per the calculation, Rs 1,180 was spent on planting each sapling, watering it and protecting it. As 185 plants were destroyed by Srinivas, his fine amount came to Rs 2.14 lakh. This was multiplied by five times under Walta provision and the man was sent a notice for Rs 10.71 lakh. Similarly, in the case of Osman, the amount spent on each tree was Rs 1,158 and penalty was for Rs 23,600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-10l-fine-for-destroying-haritha-plants/articleshow/77294321.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Actor Sonu Sood adopts three orphans from Telangana's Yadadri district||HYDERABAD: Actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood has decided to take up the responsibility of three orphans living in Yadadri- Bhuvanagiri district of the state. “They are no longer orphans. They will be my responsibility,” Sood tweeted on Friday while responding to the plight of the three children who lost their parents. “I have seen several videos of Sonu Sood uncle helping the needy. If only such an uncle came to our rescue, I would like to become a doctor and take care of poor,” nine-year-old Manohar of Atmakur said and added that he also must take care of his two younger siblings. Satyanarayana, the father of the children, died a year ago. Their mother, a daily-wager, fell ill a week ago. “We thought she would recover as her aged mother had also come to attend to her,” a neighbour said. The children’s mother Anuradha died and the villagers made contributions to perform her last rites. “The aged parents of Anuradha are in no position to raise the children. Someone should come forward to help the children,” a woman of the village said. Manohar, who has a sister and a younger brother, feeds them by bringing food from the villagers. Sood responded to the plight of the children after watching a television report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/actor-sonu-sood-adopts-3-orphans-from-yadadri-dist/articleshow/77294343.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC reserves verdict on Pak’s plea||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday concluded hearing and reserved its judgment till August 14 — incidentally Pakistan’s independence day — on a habeas corpus petition filed by the Pakistan high commission to allow a Pakistani national, Sajjad Vora (28), to return to his native place Karachi. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria said that they would pass the order depending on development that takes place in the Supreme Court on an appeal filed by the Gujarat government against Vora’s acquittal in a fake currency case in Surat. The court heard Vora during the proceedings through video conferencing and he said that he wanted to return home because his widowed mother is worried due to Covid-19 situation, said his advocate Aum Kotwal. Meanwhile, Pakistan high commission’s advocates Shilpi Jain and Jeet Bhatt submitted arguments in support of the petition which demands that Vora, being a Pakistani national, should be allowed to return after his acquittal in a criminal case. It has alleged that Indian authorities have illegally detained Vora in this country and for this it has sought compensation of Rs 20 lakh from India for the Pakistani citizen. In its arguments, the Pakistan high commission has relied on the western laws, mainly from the USA and the UK, international laws as well as the Indian laws and court orders to put its point across that any person in Indian territory has a right to travel back to his native country. Pakistan has asserted that returning to the native country is, in fact, a fundamental right of any person, if he is not detained by an authority of law. Meanwhile, Vora’s petition is likely to come up for hearing on August 7. In this petition, he has sought HC directions to the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO), Mumbai, to grant him exit permit so that he can go back to Pakistan. His passport expired in 2017, while he was facing prosecution for counterfeiting. The FRRO was insisting on an NOC from Surat police because the prosecution against him was initiated after his arrest from the Surat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-reserves-verdict-on-paks-plea/articleshow/77293612.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||With 16 more deaths, Punjab toll near 400; tally crosses 16,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s highest one-day surge of 665 cases on Friday took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the 16,000 mark. This is the third time Punjab has reported a record number of new cases in a day this in the past week. So far, the state gotten 16,119 cases. With 16 more people succumbing to the virus, the death rose to 386. Six new fatalities were from Ludhiana, three from Amritsar, two from Patiala, and one each from Jalandhar and Kapurthala. Till July 24, the state had reported 282 deaths and the figure has risen by 104 in eight days. Among the total cases, two repeated entries in the tally of July 30 were removed. For the fifth consecutive day, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 248 people were tested positive in the district, of which 85 were contacts of positive cases and 73 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Patiala recorded 136 cases, followed by 71 cases in Amritsar, 43 in Pathankot, 32 in Barnala, 25 in Sangrur, 24 each in Jalandhar and Mohali, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 11 in Hoshiarpur, nine in Nawanshahr, eight in Muktsar, six in Tarn Taran, five in Bathinda, three in Ferozepur, two in Kapurthala and one each in Gurdaspur, Moga and Muktsar. The condition of 10 patients is said to be critical as they are on ventilator support, while another 135 have been put on oxygen support. A total of 225 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 10,734. Also, 4,999 patients are still under treatment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-16-more-deaths-punjab-toll-near-400-tally-crosses-16k/articleshow/77297502.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Six more succumb to Covid-19 in dist||TNNLudhiana: Six persons from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 at various hospitals on Friday, when 218 from the district tested positive. It is the highest single-day case spike so far. Health department officials said a Covid-19 positive woman of 65 years from Manakwal, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, died at a city hospital. Other casualties included a woman aged 66 from Singhpura Mohalla, who was also suffering from diabetes, blood pressure and heart disease and died at a hospital; a 58-year-old patient from Kot Mangalsingh, who died at PGI, Chandigarh, and was suffering from high blood pressure and kidney disease; a woman aged 24 years from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, who died at a city hospital and was suffering from anaemia and kidney disease; a man of 47 from Basti Jodhewal died at Ludhiana civil hospital; and a woman aged 43 from Dashmesh Nagar, who was suffering from anaemia and tuberculosis, succumbed at civil hospital.Health department officials said with these six deaths, the toll tally of Ludhiana has reached 88, while 40 outsiders also succumbed to the virus here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said so far samples of 62,490 suspected patients have been collected. He added that of the 111 positive reports received, 109 were from the district and one each were from Fatehgarh Sahib and Jalandhar. Health department officials said of the 109 positive cases from the district, four were from Jagraon, two from Payal, five from Khanna, two from Raikot, three from Samrala, 66 from Ludhiana east tehsil and 27 from Ludhiana west tehsil.They added that apart from this, 115 positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 109 were from the district, two from Bathinda, one each from Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Bihar and Delhi. The health department said of these positive cases from the district, two were from Jagraon, two from Payal, one from Khanna, two from Raikot, 45 from Ludhiana east tehsil and 57 from Ludhiana west tehsil.So in all, 218 positive cases were reported in the district on Friday. Of them, 73 were reported with influenza like illness, 85 cases had come in contact with positive patients, two were severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases, 14 were healthcare workers, one was an international traveller, two domestic travellers, 20 OPD cases, nine were from tracing process, six undertrials, two pregnant women and four police personnel. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the Ludhiana case count stood at 3,246, and 440 outsiders have tested positive here so far. He said 1,073 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Friday. Health department officials said 107 rapid response teams screened 463 persons on the day, of which 365 were isolated. HOSPITAL STATS Capacity of isolation wards in government hospitals: 450Total beds occupied in isolation wards of government hospitals: 131Capacity of isolation wards in private hospitals: 313Total beds occupied in isolation wards of private hospitals: 405 Patients on ventilators support: 8 Number of ventilators in private hospitals: 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/six-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-dist/articleshow/77290844.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Dalit seer sore over not getting ‘puja’ invitation||Lucknow: The country’s first Dalit Mahamandaleswar -- the first Scheduled Caste to be made one of the heads of the Juna Akhara after six centuries -- KanhaiyaPrabhunand Giri is sore over not being invited for the Ram Mandir ‘bhoomi pujan’ to be held on August 5. His displeasure has now been echoed by BSP supremo Mayawatiwho showed her dissatisfaction on social media. In her post on Friday, Mayawati said that inviting the Dalit seer would have given a positive impact to constitutional obligation of creating a casteless society. She said that it would have been better had Prabhunand Giri been part of the 200 saints invited for Ram Mandir’s bhoomi pujan. “Issey desh mai jaati viheen samaj banane ki samvaidhanikmansha par kuch asar parta,” her post read. The mahamandaleswar, who took a historic dip at Sangam in Prayagraj during Kumbh in 2019, breaking a centuries-old caste taboo, had lodged his resentment for being overlooked by the government while appointing a Dalit member to the Ram Mandir trust. Speaking to TOI from his Azamgarh based Ashram on Friday, the mahamandaleshwar said, “In Ram Rajya all people were one. There was equality. But the Central and the state government have insulted a seer and all persons of the SC, ST, OBC communities by not making me part of the ceremony. History shows that our people had sacrificed lives for the Ram Mandir movement.” The Dalit mahamandaleshwar (32) had claimed during Kumbh 2019 that his mission was “ghar wapsi” of SCs, STs and OBCs who had left sanatan dharm following exploitation due to a string caste system. He was seated on a golden chariot flanked by his followers when he took the holy dip at Sangam last year during the Shahi Snan. Earlier, the former UP chief minister said the Dalit community, which has been facing social discrimination, should not fall in the ‘trap’ of religious ceremonies and instead rely on their efforts and ‘karma’ for elevation in the social strata. She said Dalits should follow the path shown by their icon BR Ambedkar, who had embraced Buddhism after years of struggle for a casteless society. Meanwhile, making a pro-minority pitch, Mayawati also demanded that Muslims lodged in jails for petty crimes should be released so that they can celebrate Bakrid on Saturday. She said such gesture by the government would also reduce burden in jails in the time of corona pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dalit-seer-sore-over-not-getting-puja-invitation/articleshow/77294347.cms||Yusra Husain
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Rlys’ Amritsar-Delhi high-speed corridor plan has Ludhiana en route||Ludhiana: There is a piece of good news for the train travellers here, who have been dreaming of travelling in bullet trains, as the Northern Railway Board working on a plan to develop a Amritsar-Chandigarh-Ludhiana-New Delhi route on the lines of high-speed corridor being built between Mumbai and Ahmadabad to run bullet trains.According to sources, as part of its plan to develop six more corridors across the country on the lines of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed corridor, the railways is planning the Amritsar-Delhi route via Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. The length of this route will be 459km.Railway Board chairman V K Yadav has also confirmed that the six routes proposed to be developed on the lines of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor have been identified across the country.With a view to prepare a roadmap for the ambitious plan, the Northern Railway Board has directed the Ferozpur division officials to check the feasibility of the high-speed corridor. Although no dates have been finalised as yet to start the feasibility survey, the railway sources said the detailed report on the proposed route could be submitted by the year-end.Giving more information on this, preferring anonymity, a senior official of the Northern Railway Board said, "The board has finalised the Amritsar-Ludhiana-Chandigarh-New Delhi route under their proposal to develop a high-speed corridor. But, it’s too early to speak about when it will take its final shape, as the railways has to go through thousands of formalities at different levels before finalising the project and executing the same."A major problem in starting high-speed trains is that an entirely new track has to be laid down, which can sustain the speed of over 300km per hour, and the existing tracks are not suitable for that. For developing such routes, the railways would have to procure private land, which is a lengthy process, the official told TOI. The city’s frequent travellers, especially the businessmen, are more than happy to know that the railways’ high-speed corridor will pass through Ludhiana.According to Abhinav Shegal, a cycle parts manufacturer, said, “It’s the need of the hour to run high-speed trains in India, as the pace of life has increased and the people need to do more in less time. We are thankful to the Indian Railways for visualising the route via Ludhiana, but we request that this project be completed in a time-bound manner and soon.”Another local businessman felt that the railways should also run high-speed freight trains to and from Ludhiana to facilitate faster movement of goods between the city and other parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rlys-amritsar-delhi-high-speed-corridor-plan-has-ludhiana-en-route/articleshow/77290851.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 1, 2020||Amritsar||With 16 more deaths, Punjab toll near 400; tally crosses 16,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s highest one-day surge of 665 cases on Friday took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the 16,000 mark. This is the third time Punjab has reported a record number of new cases in a day this in the past week. So far, the state gotten 16,119 cases. With 16 more people succumbing to the virus, the death rose to 386. Six new fatalities were from Ludhiana, three from Amritsar, two from Patiala, and one each from Jalandhar and Kapurthala. Till July 24, the state had reported 282 deaths and the figure has risen by 104 in eight days. Among the total cases, two repeated entries in the tally of July 30 were removed. For the fifth consecutive day, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 248 people were tested positive in the district, of which 85 were contacts of positive cases and 73 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Patiala recorded 136 cases, followed by 71 cases in Amritsar, 43 in Pathankot, 32 in Barnala, 25 in Sangrur, 24 each in Jalandhar and Mohali, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 11 in Hoshiarpur, nine in Nawanshahr, eight in Muktsar, six in Tarn Taran, five in Bathinda, three in Ferozepur, two in Kapurthala and one each in Gurdaspur, Moga and Muktsar. The condition of 10 patients is said to be critical as they are on ventilator support, while another 135 have been put on oxygen support. A total of 225 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 10,734. Also, 4,999 patients are still under treatment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/with-16-more-deaths-punjab-toll-near-400-tally-crosses-16k/articleshow/77297504.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||People plan contactless Eid celebrations today||PUNE: Eid-ul-Adha is an occasion to learn about sacrifice and sharing with others, said Meethanagar resident Moshin Shaikh, who will be observing the day with his parents while his wife and daughter are outstation. “This year, we have bought a goat from Kondhwa. We will offer our morning prayers at home and then sacrifice the goat. We won’t visit our friends’ homes but we will figure out a contactless way of distributing the meat and Sheer Kurma, just dropping it off at their doorstep or society gate,” he said. Dapodi resident Jaweed Mujawar believes that social distancing is most crucial. He will be spending the festival away from his parents for the first time. “My parents live in Solapur but I will not be travelling with my wife and children. We usually buy two goats, but my parents have only bought one this year on behalf of the entire family. We will stay at home, prepare Biryani and something sweet for the feast. We will also catch up with our parents and relatives through video calling,” Mujawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-plan-contactless-eid-celebrations-today/articleshow/77293620.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad taunts Cong over Ram temple||Hyderabad: Continuing his verbal attack on Congress, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday said that every Congress party office should donate sand for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. He took a jibe at the party after ex-CM of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath, welcomed the construction of temple in Ayodhya. Owaisi said that Congress has finally made their hidden feelings or desires public. “You shouldn’t stop here. My suggestion is that every Congress office in India should donate sand for the construction of Mandir in Ayodhya,”tweeted Owaisi. He also took potshots at BJP saying that the data showing a dip in triple talaq being circulated by it is fake. After BJP leader Varun Gandhi tweeted that crimilisation of Triple Talak reduced divorce cases, Owaisi once again called the law absurd. He tweeted that ‘ dubious’ data was being circulated by BJP members. He recalled that criminalisation of triple talak is violation of the country’s Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-taunts-cong-over-ram-temple/articleshow/77294330.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||State taxation dept building sealed||Ludhiana: The building of state taxation department at Mini Secretariat was sealed on Friday after three officials of its Range-2 tested positive for Covid-19. Their report spread panic among officials, staff, tax professionals and assesses visiting the office. Deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Ludhiana, Pawan Garg said, “Three officials of Range-2 of our department have tested positive. The building has been sealed. It will be sanitized. The office will now open on Monday. Those who came in their contact have been advised self-quarantine and test. I request the tax payers and tax professionals to visit the office only if its urgent.”A taxation professional said, “I have visited the state taxation department thrice this week. Even as I did not come in contact with the three officials, I have decided to quarantine myself as a precautionary measure.”An official of the Central GST commissionerate, too, had recently tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/state-taxation-dept-building-sealed/articleshow/77290857.cms||Mohit Behl
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||With 16 more deaths, Punjab toll near 400; tally crosses 16,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s highest one-day surge of 665 cases on Friday took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the 16,000 mark. This is the third time Punjab has reported a record number of new cases in a day this in the past week. So far, the state gotten 16,119 cases. With 16 more people succumbing to the virus, the death rose to 386. Six new fatalities were from Ludhiana, three from Amritsar, two from Patiala, and one each from Jalandhar and Kapurthala. Till July 24, the state had reported 282 deaths and the figure has risen by 104 in eight days. Among the total cases, two repeated entries in the tally of July 30 were removed. For the fifth consecutive day, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 248 people were tested positive in the district, of which 85 were contacts of positive cases and 73 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Patiala recorded 136 cases, followed by 71 cases in Amritsar, 43 in Pathankot, 32 in Barnala, 25 in Sangrur, 24 each in Jalandhar and Mohali, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 11 in Hoshiarpur, nine in Nawanshahr, eight in Muktsar, six in Tarn Taran, five in Bathinda, three in Ferozepur, two in Kapurthala and one each in Gurdaspur, Moga and Muktsar. The condition of 10 patients is said to be critical as they are on ventilator support, while another 135 have been put on oxygen support. A total of 225 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 10,734. Also, 4,999 patients are still under treatment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-16-more-deaths-punjab-toll-near-400-tally-crosses-16k/articleshow/77292352.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Patients not seeking help in time: Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender said Covid-19 deaths in the state were mainly due to the negligence by patients, who were not seeking medical help in time. The minister, who inaugurated a Covid-19 testing laboratory in Khammam, said if people, after detecting the symptoms, immediately rush to the hospital they could be treated and recover. The minister said that 81 per cent people, who tested positive, had no symptoms whatsoever and were going about their work and also recovering while being in home isolation. He also said that 14 per cent had recovered without the need of ventilator support. These people had followed doctors advice or were on oxygen support, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-patients-not-seeking-help-in-time/articleshow/77294349.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Goa||Hearing of final arguments in Merces murder case begins||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday has begun hearing the final arguments in the appeal filed by the two accused in the sensational 2013 Merces double murder where there was an attempt to murder two children at Anmod Ghat. The state government has also appealed for enhancement of their sentence to death stating that it can be considered a rarest of the rare cases. Merces resident Osban Lucas Fernandes and Sindhudurg resident Ramesh Tayaji Bagve were sentenced to life imprisonment by the Goa children’s court. The two were charged for murdering Shivaji Naik at Merces, three days before both allegedly murdered his wife Sujata. The children, a girl aged eight and a boy aged five at the time of the incident, survived a strangulation attempt at Anmod Ghat. They were rescued by a Verna resident Bonaventure D’Souza while he and his driver were returning from Alnawar, Karnataka. D’Souza saw a minor girl and boy, both without clothes, on the roadside at Anmod Ghat within 2km of each other. He rescued them and brought them to the Molem police outpost. Acting upon D’Souza’s complaint, Colem police station registered a complaint of kidnapping and attempt to murder. It was only after the rescue of the children that investigation led to recovery of corpses of Sujata at Anmod Ghat, and Shivaji’s at Merces, after which police arrested the accused. Old Goa police also received flak when initial reports of Shivaji Naik’s disappearance surfaced. Later, investigations conducted by Colem police showed that Fernandes and Bagve had allegedly murdered Shivaji at Ribandar-Patto and then buried the body in Fernandes’ business premises. Shivaji was employed by Fernandes, a construction material supplier. Sujata was murdered after she started inquiring about the disappearance of her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hearing-of-final-arguments-in-merces-murder-case-begins/articleshow/77293639.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Over 15 cases in 2 days against city food outlets||FLOUTING PANDEMIC NORMS Ludhiana: After the TOI highlighted that food outlets in different parts of the city were openly flouting closing time restrictions and social distancing norms, Ludhiana police registered more than 15 cases against them in two days. Police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal, while warning the offenders, said, “Police are ensuring full compliance of all the regulations of the state and the Central governments. Our teams are monitoring shops’ closing times, particularly food outlets. Strict action is being taken by us by way of penalties and FIRs.”A day after the TOI report, some of the actions taken by the police included imposing a penalty of Rs 2,000 on a dhaba on Raikhy Cinema Road for not ensuring social distancing. Besides, seven more cases were registered for flouting time limit. The violators included a resident of Sarpanch Colony, Haibowal, who was selling fast food, a resident of Kartar Nagar who ran a pizza outlet, a New Sant Nagar resident who sold religious items, a resident of Barewal who sold vegetables from his home-cum-shop, a Shakti Nagar resident who has a chicken shop, a juice shop owner from Suncity and the seventh case was against a dhaba owner, also from Suncity.On July 30, too, several cases were registered against time limit violators, including a Haibowal Kalan resident who ran a kiryana shop, a dhaba owner who is a resident of Chander Nagar and the owner of a bakery and namkeen shop near Fountain Chowk. In addition to this, six more cases were registered for the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-15-cases-in-2-days-against-city-food-outlets/articleshow/77290873.cms||Mohit Behl
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Containment zones double in Trichy in barely a month||Trichy: Active containment zones in Trichy have witnessed a two-fold surge in less than a month’s time with the city’s 10 containment zones in the first week of July shooting up to 21 by the end of the month.Since a blanket lockdown appears difficult to implement, with a section of locals opposing, Trichy Corporation to restrict the Covid-19 spread has opted an alternative strategy, establishing several containment zones in vulnerable localities. If a particular street reports multiple positive cases, a containment zone is formed as per the suggestion of sanitary officials. Previously, containment zone was established only if a street reports five or more positive cases. Also an area is declared a containment zone even if multiple cases are reported from a single house, which was not the case earlier.Of the total 21 containment zones in the city, 12 of them are present in Ponmalai zone covering KK Nagar, Thiruverumbur and Ponmalaipatti. The residents could have contracted the infection either while travelling to the workplace or while visiting grocery or vegetable shops. “Many people who tested positive were entrepreneurs, having their offices or shops on major commercial streets. Barring a few, majority of the residents adhere to the restrictions imposed,” a senior official of the Trichy Corporation said.K Abishekapuram zone that had no containment zones until July 4 has six containment zones now. Walajah road, Pandamangalam, Nawab Thottam, Pattabiraman street, Mudhaliyar street and Uyyakondanthirumalai in K Abishekapuram have one containment zone each.While Srirangam zone has no containment zones, Ariyamangalam zone has three, covering Sengulam colony, Mamundi street and Tharanallur (north). The people who tested positive in Ariyamangalam zone were mostly daily wagers.There have been cases where the narrow openings between the barricades were exploited by the pedestrians to sneak out of the containment zones. “City police will be requested to patrol the containment zones to stop the movement of people. The containment measures taken so far in places including Big Bazaar street have yielded a positive result,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/containment-zones-double-in-trichy-in-barely-a-month/articleshow/77293633.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||1,986 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday recorded 1,986 new cases of Covid-19 along with 14 deaths, touching the single-day highest number of deaths registered in the state on June 7. With these latest figures, the total number of cases so far has reached 62,703 while the total number of deaths stands at 519. While the number of positive cases is on a climb, there is also a sharp rise in active cases in the state compared to last week. About 16,796 cases were registered now as against 12,000 last week. The surge in cases is being witnessed in the districts abutting Hyderabad. These include Medchal-Malkajgiri which saw 207 cases, the highest so far. There are 205 new cases in Rangareddy, 108 in Sangareddy and 45 in Medak. The cases continue to skyrocket in neighbouring Warangal Urban and Karimnagar which recorded 123 cases and 116 cases respectively. While each of the 33 districts in the state have new positive cases for the fifth day in a row, at least 20 districts recorded more than 20 cases. “The spread is now being seen in remotest pockets of the state, which is a worrying factor. Even though we are encouraging people to seek treatment locally, many people are travelling to Hyderabad. The more the people travel to and fro from Hyderabad, the more are chances for the spread,” said an official from the state health department. Meanwhile, testing in the state rose to a new high on Friday with 21,380 samples tested — the highest in a single day so far. With this, the total number of tests has touched 4.37 lakh. The state health department has meanwhile set a target of reaching 25,000 tests per day over the next two to three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1986-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-in-t/articleshow/77293642.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Cong protests against high power bills||Calangute: Congress workers protested against “inflated” electricity bills outside the electricity department office in Calangute on Friday, amid pouring rain. As the group assembled on the main road, Calangute PI Nolasco Raposo advised them to disperse as Section 144 and social distancing rules were in force. A few workers were later allowed to meet the assistant electricity engineer. “The state government should give some relief to the people who have received their bills after three months. They should not be charged commercial tariff at least for these months because everything has been shut. They should only be charged the minimum rate,” general secretary of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee Agnelo Fernandes, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-protests-against-high-power-bills/articleshow/77293630.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||With over 10k cases and 226 deaths, July sees Vid racing towards peak||Nagpur: With 10,323 new patients and 229 deaths, July no doubt has been the worst month so far for Vidarbha region for Covid-19 scenario. The month accounts for 69% of total Covid-19 cases and 60% deaths since the pandemic reached here. According to experts, it could just be the beginning of projected peak in Vidarbha. They also suggested that administration will not go for further lockdown as the prime target is now shifted from reducing cases to avoiding deaths. It has been seen from the examples of Delhi, Mumbai and Akola (city) that the spread of Covid-19 comes under control only after the graph reaches a particular level. As per the projections by Department of Health Services, Vidarbha’s peak is at around 76,000 cases. “We must be ready for the peak now. As per earlier experience worldwide and also in India, cases start reducing once the peak is achieved. The peak will now break the chain of the Covid-19 and no lockdown or further restrictions are needed,” said an HOD in one of the GMCs in Nagpur where Covid-19 patients are being treated. A senior official from the state department of health services told TOI the government authorities are also expecting the peak in the mid- or third week of August. “Prime focus of our efforts is on reducing deaths now. Graph of cases will definitely go up as we are testing more people. But there is no need to worry as our recovery rate is good,” said the official. Even guardian minister of Nagpur Dr Nitin Raut has also ruled out the possibility of lockdown in Nagpur district in spite of ongoing spike. “No lockdown has been proposed. Chances of any future lockdown is rare as it is not the solution,” Raut said in a meeting with industrialists on Friday. Authorities have appealed citizens to come forward and get themselves tested in large numbers. “More tests may increase number of patients but as most of them will be asymptomatic, we can expect speedy recovery of such patients. If reported early, we can avoid more deaths,” the official said. In other parts of Vidarbha, respective district collectors will be easing the lockdown from August 1. In Washim, shops will remain open from 10 am to 5 pm. In Akola, the odd-even rule for shops has been revoked from August 1. All shops will now remain open from 9 am to 7 pm Monday to Saturday. The city will observe complete lockdown only on Sundays. In Amravati, too, the district collector has decided to observe lockdown only on Saturdays and Sundays. Yavatmal was the only exception where the district collector ordered an indefinite extension of lockdown. As far as Nagpur division is concerned, cases are limited in Gondia, Bhandara and Gadchiroli. These three districts are not having any type of lockdown. Chandrapur surpassed the mark of 500 cases on Friday but here too no fresh lockdown has been announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-over-10k-cases-and-226-deaths-july-sees-vid-racing-towards-peak/articleshow/77292391.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 1, 2020||Ludhiana||In a first, district gets 3 joint commissioners of police||Ludhiana: With the transfer-posting orders released on Thursday, the Ludhiana district police have got three joint commissioners of police. While one joint CP has been attached with Ludhiana rural police, two are with Ludhiana commissionerate. This is for the first time that the Punjab Police has appointed joint CPs. According to senior retired cops, no such posts were created even during the days of militancy. J Elanchezhain has been appointed as joint commissioner of police (headquarters) in Ludhiana commissionerate. He has replaced deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary, who has been appointed as Ropar senior superintendent of police. Bhagirath Singh Meena has been appointed as joint CP (Ludhiana city), which is a new post. Kanwardeep Kaur has been appointed as joint CP (Ludhiana rural), also a new post. Earlier, in October 2019, the number of officials for the post of deputy commissioner of police was increased to four from one in Ludhiana commissionerate. They included DCP (headquarters), DCP (law and order), DCP (detective/investigation) and DCP (traffic). Speaking with the TOI, former Punjab director general of police DR Bhatti said, “This is for the first time that joint CPs have been appointed in Punjab. Even during the days of terrorism, no such post was created.”“Delhi already has joint CPs. With one commissioner of police, the joint CPs will take care of different aspects. Like, joint CP (headquarters) would take care of administrative work, utilising force, among others; joint CP (rural) and joint CP (city) will also be given specific departments,” Bhatti added. “I hope with additional officials, the cops will be able to perform their duties more efficiently as the work would be divided among them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-a-first-district-gets-3-joint-commissioners-of-police/articleshow/77290876.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government launches website on PV Narasimha Rao||HYDERABAD: As part of the birth centenary celebrations of former PM PV Narasimha Rao, the Telangana government on Friday launched a dedicated website https://pvnr.telangana.gov.in. K Keshava Rao, MP and chairman of PV Narasimha Rao centenary celebrations committee, launched the website at Ravindra Bharathi. The website will serve as a one-stop resource for all data related to the celebrations. Apart from the life journey of Rao in Indian politics, all events, schedules, registration forms, photos, videos, official handles of social media, news articles and GOs related to the celebrations will be made available on the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-launches-website-on-pv/articleshow/77294345.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Couple held for stealing pet dog in Pune||PUNE: The Kondhwa police arrested a couple from Bhavani Peth on Thursday evening and recovered a stolen pet dog. Along with recovery, the police also seized the motorcycle that Javed Khan (34) and his wife, Simran (22), used for stealing the six-month old Beagle (dog breed), valued at Rs10,000 in the market. He stole the dog to sell it at a handsome price to another person. The dog, owned by stationery businessman Shantanu Darekar (23) in Kondhwa, was stolen from outside his residence on Tuesday. Inspector (crime) Mahadev Kumbhar from the Kondhwa police said, “The images of a couple riding away on a motorcycle after stealing the dog were caught on CCTV camera but their identities could not be established initially. Darekar contacted dog breeders and requested them to contact him if they knew anything. One of them tipped Darekar about the couple and he told us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-held-for-stealing-pet-dog/articleshow/77293631.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Negative report turns out to be positive, kin made to return body in Haryana||YAMUNANAGAR: The body of a patient was handed over to his family members for cremation by officials of the health department in Yamunanagar district on Thursday and taken back minutes after they reached their house due to a goof-up over his Covid-19 report. On July 28, a 38-year-old man of Yamunanagar city area having tuberculosis and pleural effusion was brought dead to the Civil Hospital at Yamunanagar by his family. The health officials kept his body till July 30 after sending his samples for Covid-19 testing to district molecular lab in Ambala. On Thursday, the body was handed over to his family for cremation his sample as his sample had tested negative for the virus, according to officials. Just when family reached home, they received a call from the hospital asking them not to carry out the cremation as the dead man was Covid-19 positive. The health department teams dashed to their house, only to find that the family had locked the door from outside after keeping the body inside. The police was called and they prevailed upon the family to carry out the man's cremation according to protocol. Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, "The patient was a known case of pulmonary tuberculosis with pleural effusion under treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh. He was brought dead at the trauma centre on July 28 and his samples were sent to Ambala for Covid-19 testing. His report came inconclusive on July 29, and the test was repeated. Repeat sample report came out positive on July 30, but by mistake, the report was entered as negative by the data entry operator." "On the basis of the mistaken report the attendants got the body released from the mortuary but the mistake came to the notice of hospital authorities and the body was taken back from the family within minutes of their reaching home. The body was already well-wrapped in a body cover and had not been opened. The body was then cremated by the district administration with complete Covid-19 protocol at the designated cremation site," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/-ve-report-turns-out-to-be-ve-kin-made-to-return-body-in-hry/articleshow/77292411.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 1, 2020||Goa||Cong claims govt wants to build casino, resort at Cabo||Panaji: The Congress party on Friday claimed that the state government has proposed to build a new Raj Bhavan as it wants to convert the existing Raj Bhavan into a casino and spa resort. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the historic structure will be handed over to a private player for development of a resort. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant has floated an idea of constructing a new Goa Raj Bhavan during Covid pandemic as the government seems to have in mind to convert Cabo Raj Niwas into a casino spa resort,” alleged Chodankar. Chodankar alleged that the government is busy “making fortunes” during the Covid pandemic and hence wants to “sell the historic Raj Bhavan” to a private player. Congress also questioned the wisdom of capital intensive projects such as the Raj Bhavan when the state’s finances are strained. “The chief minister who admitted in the one day assembly session that state finances are bad, is now on the spree of announcing construction and renovation of projects like new Raj Bhavan and the Goa legislature assembly complex which will involve crores of rupees. The government is pushing these works with an eye on commissions and kickbacks from consultants and contractors,” he said. The party said that while on one hand the government has no money to pay monthly pensions beneficiaries of social welfare schemes, on the other hand it goes ahead spending on projects, including the construction of the former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s memorial. This shows the insensitivity of the government, said Chodankar. The state will spend close to Rs10 crore to build a samadhi at the site on Miramar beach where Parrikar was cremated. Chodankar also questioned Sawant’s silence on environmental issues especially the cutting of around 50,000 trees at the Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park for doubling of the South Western Railway track. Chodankar claimed that Sawant has stakes in the coal and iron ore mining business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-claims-govt-wants-to-build-casino-resort-at-cabo/articleshow/77293655.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials raid six stockists selling remdesivir in dist||Coimbatore: A day after TOI exposed the sale of remdesivir at exorbitant prices in black market, the drug control department raided six stockists of Cipla, one of the leading manufacturers of the antiviral drug, in the district on Friday. Officials have scrutinized records of number of drug vials that they have procured and buyer details.Officials said they haven’t so far received any evidence to suggest sale of remdesivir, which was found effective for treating Covid-19 patients, in the black market in the district. “Stockists only supply it to hospitals.”TOI had exposed a racket selling remdesivir, which is priced at Rs 3,000, for Rs 12,000 in the black market. Based on the report, the state drug control authority contacted two manufacturers of the drug - Cipla and Hetero - for details of their stockists and distributors in the district.Gurubharathi, assistant director, drug control department, said, “Cipla has six stockists in the district and it provided details of the antiviral drug supplied to each of them. We raided the stockists and checked the quantity of drug they have bought and sold and who bought them from them. They have sold the drug directly to hospitals only.”Senior drug inspector Maarimuthu, who led the raid, has asked hospitals to produce records for the antiviral drug they procured, from where they procured, patients who were administrated the same and bills of payment from the patients. “We will verify if the hospitals’ records match with what we have got from the stockists and Cipla main office.”While Cipla supplies the drug through its stockists, Hetero supplies it directly to hospitals. “They don’t have any no stockists or distributors in the district,” Maarimuthu said.While officials admitted there was a shortage of the drug in general, they said the district was an exception. The hospitals in the district haven’t reported shortage of the drug either.Drug distribution firm Rathna Agencies, which supplies the antiviral drug to a few hospitals, says there is no shortage of the drug in the district. “Since four to five private hospitals and the ESI Hospital have the drug in the district, people here do not approach agents or distributors directly,” said Ramaswamy, managing partner of the agency’s speciality division..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-raid-six-stockists-selling-remdesivir-in-dist/articleshow/77292395.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: All decked up, but Covid spoils Rakhi show||AHMEDABAD: In the run-up to Rakshabandhan, seasonal and specialty stores have come up with intricate rakhis in various colours and weaves, neatly placed outside shops, on counters amid fairy lights brightening up the evening. Innovators have gone ahead to launch rakhis that range from the minimalistic to blingy ones, traditional and even eco-friendly ones. “We have come up with eco-friendly and reusable rakhis this time. One is made of dried flower petals whereas another has a small book on which one can write a message and later preserve it,” said Prakshal Mehta, a social entrepreneur. Yet another Ahmedabad-based entrepreneur, Shailini Amin, came up with a rakhi made of seed paper that can be planted and will grow into a tulsi plant. “To empower a self-help group of women artisans from the city and contribute towards the environment, we came up with the idea of biodegradable rakhis,” she said. While markets are decked up, the pandemic has played a dampener for the festive sentiment. Rakshabandhan has typically been about family gatherings and visiting loved ones and enjoying a long lunch. However, with cases continuing to grow customer footfall is much reduced. Monica Yadav, a professional from Ahmedabad, gets to meet her cousins just once in a year and that is on Rakshabandhan. But thanks to the pandemic and the continually rising cases of Covid-19, she decided “Even though they stay a short drive away, this year, we have decided not to meet. It’s a house full of kids and elderly and even though there is no lockdown, the number of cases are going up by the day and we can’t gather and put one another at risk. Sad, but this year’s celebration will have to be limited to a distant one,” she said. Like Yadav, there are many in the city who have kept away from elaborate family gatherings, and instead kept Rakshabandhan either an intimate or altogether a distant affair. Some, however, have continued to hold small gatherings at home. While restaurant business hasn’t picked up yet, most are putting their best foot forward providing specialized menus for takeaways on a pre-order basis. “People are afraid to go out and eat and that is why we thought of putting up a special menu for Rakhi for takeaways, which they can enjoy in the comfort of their home. The inquiries and bookings have been good so far,” said Devarsh Desai, a city-based food entrepreneur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-decked-up-but-covid-spoils-rakhi-show/articleshow/77292407.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Pune||Fake cop steals ornaments||Pune: A person posing as a police official stole gold and silver ornaments of a 60-year-old man by diverting his attention in Vimannagar on Wednesday. Balkrishna Wanmore from Dhanorie lodged an FIR with the Airport police on Thursday. “Wanmore alighted from a private bus at the Vadgaonsheri Chowk. after which the suspect intercepted him. Introducing himself as a police officer and asked Wanmore to hand over his gold and silver ornamnets as a theft had occurred in the area,” an officer from the Airport police said, adding that the suspect then diverted his attention and fled with the ornaments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fake-cop-steals-ornaments/articleshow/77293646.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Despite delay, monsoon showers bless district||Coimbatore: Though June saw delayed onset of the southwest monsoon, July has been the wettest the district has seen in the last four years. The district recorded 83.5mm rainfall in July, the highest since 2017. Despite the late arrival of rain and a relatively dry June, Coimbatore has already recorded nine rainy days and 106mm rainfall. Going by the normal pattern of the southwest monsoon, the district may get excess rainfall this year. Weather experts had predicted 194mm southwest monsoon rain normal rainfall with a slight excess of around 10% here this year. Data shows that the district has already received 54% of the predicted rain. “Historic data, over the last 50 years, shows the southwest monsoon intensifying in August and even more in September,” said director of the Agro Climate Research Centre of the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University S P Ramanathan. “Looking at that pattern, the district will continue to receive more rain in August and September, which will take rainfall beyond 194mm,” he told TOI. Though the district has seen many cloudy days, it did not seem to match the number of rainy days. “Wind movement was not adequate, but it will pick up around mid-August,” said Ramanathan. The development of a cyclonic system near the coast of Tamil Nadu and near South Andhra Pradesh is likely to pull moisture, said Skymet Weather Services’ chief meteorologist Mahesh Palawat. “Once the cyclone dies down, monsoon winds may pick up around August 6 and bring rain on and off through the next two months.” The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board, which manages the Siruvani Dam, said the dam level increased from 2ft to 14.33ft in the last one month. “So, we have increased our supply to the corporation to more than 55 MLD,” said an engineer. Vegetable farmers in Thondamuthur are also relieved. “Rain will improve production and quality of produce," said R Saravanan, a brinjal and lady’s finger farmer at Theethipalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/despite-delay-monsoon-showers-bless-district/articleshow/77292402.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Zenito denied bail in Santa Cruz case||Panaji: The additional sessions judge, Panaji on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail application filed by history-sheeter Zenito Cardozo of Santa Cruz. Police have not been able to trace Cardozo, who is wanted in an alleged conspiracy behind the attempt to murder in the June 20 shootout in Santa Cruz. The police suspect him to be the mastermind of the incident. Several persons whose names came up during investigations and were arrested and lodged in judicial custody, have been granted conditional bail over the past few days, where the condition was surety of Rs 1 lakh after it was found that they were not directly involved in the case. In two such bails allowed, the persons were granted conditional bail after the court found that the only role they placed was accepting the remaining live rounds (bullets) and four empty cases of the fired rounds from another accused. The court found that there was no material to indicate that they were a party to the conspiracy hatched to kill. The case papers also indicated that the said bullets and empty cases have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zenito-denied-bail-in-santa-cruz-case/articleshow/77293648.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||13 Warangal jail staff test +ve||HYDERABAD: As many as 13 staffers at Warangal Central Jail have tested positive for Covid-19. The staff, including deputy jailors and warders, took the rapid antigen tests, the results of which came positive. They also took the RT-PCR tests. In all, 60 staffers of the prison got themselves tested for coronavirus. There are nearly 900 prisoners in the jail, including convicts and undertrials. “None of the prisoners has any Covid-like symptoms. Being in the barracks, the prisoners are safe as they won’t be in touch with the outside world. But, we are taking utmost care as per guidelines,” DIG (prisons), Warangal, Rajesh Kumar said. In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, the prisons department has put in place a system to ensure that there is no transmission of the virus in jails. “We check a person for symptoms and also get a Covid-19 test done when the court sends an undertrial or convict to the jail. If the person tests positive, he will not be lodged in the prison. Only after the mandatory quarantine period, he is admitted,” Rajesh said. A test is done once again on the person to rule out Covid-19, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-warangal-jail-staff-test-ve/articleshow/77294350.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 1, 2020||Pune||Youth abuses and attacks officials of MSEDCL, held||Pune: The Sinhagad police have arrested a 22-year-old youth for abusing a woman official from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and attacking a clerk as well as a security guard at Dhayari on Thursday. The man claimed to have received an ‘inflated’ electricity bill. Pratamesh Mate from Khadakwasla was arrested after MSEDCL official Harshada Pandit (34) from Vadgaon Dhayari registered an FIR. The police said Pandit and other staff members were present at the office when Mate reached there to dispute the inflated power bill. After the argument between the official and Mate became heated, he took to unruly behaviour and hurled abuses at her. He thrashed the clerk Vijay Phadkule and security guard Ashok Pawar and threatened them with dire consequences for intervening in the dispute, the police said. A police team rushed to the spot and took Mate into custody after receiving information about the incident from MSEDCL. Mate has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-abuses-and-attacks-officials-of-msedcl-held/articleshow/77293659.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Students crowdfund to help College Street booksellers||KOLKATA: A group of six friends — all in their late teens — organised a social media crowdfunding to support Amphan-hit book sellers on College Street and bought books worth Rs 50,000 from multiple sellers. They will now distribute the books among needy kids and gift back to those who had generously donated the amount to them. “I treat College Street as my second home and seeing the books floating in water after the storm two months ago, had left us heartbroken. We visited the place a week after the storm and found the condition of the book sellers was getting worse with books worth several lakhs damaged and sales plunging because of Covid. We then thought of standing by them and started seeking help from friends on social media to come up for the cause,” said Tanay Nag, a second year student of chemistry honours at City College. It was a first of a kind attempt by friends Tanay, Kornika Chakraborty and Subhrajyoti Das and soon they found more members for the cause in classmates Monoj Ghosh, Imanshree Das and Partha Sarathi Saha. Barring Subhrajyoti, a second year chemical engineering student, all of them are chemisty honours students at City College. They managed to pool a fund of Rs 50,000 from 108 donors and bought the books from College Street on Thursday. They were also among the donors. “We have developed a personal bonding with some of the booksellers. We wanted to do something for them which will help them but not hurt their feelings,” said Kornika, a resident Tarak Pramanik Road near College Street. Many book stalls on College Street that attract huge number of school and college students are yet to recover from the physical damage caused by the super cyclone on May 20. The next day, books were found floating on the waterlogged street. “Sales have hit an all-time low with hardly any buyer. Several shop owners are doing odd jobs. We plead to the city, we do not need relief materials. Just come back and buy books,” said Najbul Mallik, who owns a second hand book store on College Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-crowdfund-to-help-college-street-booksellers/articleshow/77292398.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power to cost more as GUVNL hikes fuel surcharge||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) consumers will have to pay more for electricity as the state-run power utility has increased its fuel price and power purchase adjustment (FPPPA) charge or fuel surcharge for July to September 2020. GUVNL directed its four power distribution companies (discoms) to levy a fuel surcharge of Rs 2 per unit from all categories of consumers, except agricultural, for the July-September quarter as against Rs 1.9 per unit in April-June. GUVNL has worked out a fuel surcharge raise of 12 paisa per unit, which is to be recovered from July.  However, it has passed on a 10 paisa increase to consumers as the company does not require Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) approval to increase fuel surcharge by up to 10 paisa/unit. Hence, it has already asked its discoms to charge Rs 2/unit FPPPA for July-September. For the remaining 2 paisa, GERC approval will be sought and if approved by the regulator, it will be levied from the quarter starting October. A power distribution (discom) collects FPPPA or fuel surcharge from consumers to offset increases or decreases in fuel (coal and gas) cost. GUVNL supplies electricity to most parts of the state, except Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat. The already effected increase of 10 paisa/unit is estimated to translate into a combined burden of Rs 213 crore on more than 1 crore customers in the months of July, August and September, industry sources said. GUVNL had reduced the fuel surcharge for April-June period by 16 paisa per unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-to-cost-more-as-guvnl-hikes-fuel-surcharge/articleshow/77293657.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||Congress welcomes temple construction||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the August 5 ceremony in Ayodhya, Congress issued a statement on Friday supporting construction of the Ram temple. It also refused to be drawn into questions about the invites being forwarded for the ceremony, calling it the prerogative of the temple trust. Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said, “Indian National Congress whole-heartedly welcomed and welcomes the judgment of the Supreme Court paving the path for construction of the Ram mandir.” To a query, he said, “The decision regarding the participants, the methodology, the infrastructure, solely rests with the trust and the concerned individuals who have been invited to participate on this holy occasion.” Senior Congress member Kamal Nath said, “I welcome the construction of the Ram temple. Countrymen had expected and longed for this. The construction of Ram temple is being done with the consent of every Indian.” The vocal support came in the backdrop of the post-2014 concerns in Congress that BJP had successfully painted it as anti-Hindu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-welcomes-temple-construction/articleshow/77294847.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC corporator’s husband booked for misbehaviour||HYDERABAD: Moghalpura police registered a case against a GHMC corporator’s husband for allegedly misbehaving with a GHMC worker on July 29. According to police, the accused, Abu Bin Rahil, is the husband of the Moghalpura corporator. Recently, the government decided to conduct a free Covid-19 testing camp at Sultan Shahi ground and GHMC had called for online tenders to make arrangements for the camp. The complainant was in-charge of online tendering process at GHMC’s IX circle office at Moghalpura sports complex. On July 29, Rahil called the complainant and inquired if the online tendering process had started. The complainant confirmed that the tendering process had begun and Rahil asked her to send him details of the tender notice. “The complainant retorted saying that he was neither a public representative nor her superior to give her orders. Upset, Rahil went to the complainant’s office and started abusing her, using foul language. He also threatened her,” Moghalpura inspector A Ravi Kumar said.  “We have registered a case against Rahil under sections 353 and 354 of IPC. The case is under investigation. No arrests have been made yet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporators-husband-booked-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/77293663.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Surat||Daman opens for day-long jaunt||SURAT: For Bachhus in Gujarat, it’s time to head straight to the watering hole Daman and say cheers. Ahead of the festive season, the administration of the union territory (UT) of Daman has agreed to the demand of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) to allow single-day leisure travellers from the neighbouring Gujarat and Maharashtra starting August 1. However, the administration has made it clear that all visitors will have to follow the government’s mandatory mask and social distancing norms. Those found violating it would be penalised as per law. Also, it is compulsory for the single-day travellers to register themselves online through any Daman-based hotel or restaurant one day prior to their visit for obtaining the entry e-pass. Once the booking is confirmed, the hotel will obtain the e-pass from the administration and send it to the visitor. After a meeting with senior authorities in the Daman administration on Friday, DHRA members have been given permission to operate restaurants from morning till 10 pm from August 1. Talking with TOI, secretary of DHRA, Haresh Thanghal said, “We are expecting the restaurant and wine business in Daman to increase by 30-35% in the coming days with the administration allowing entry of single-day leisure travellers from Gujarat and Maharashtra.” “However, for travellers from Maharashtra, we have been told not to take bookings of individuals above 60 years of age,” said Thangal. On being asked on whether there was a cap on the number of visitors in a day, Thangal said, “There is no cap on single-day visitors. But visitors will have to follow social distancing norms on the beaches and won’t be allowed to consume liquor in public places.” Daman, which had successfully staved off the Covid-19 spread during lockdown, has seen a spurt in the cases after the relaxations in the movement since June 1, especially for industrial activities. At present, there are about 536 active cases in the UT, the majority of those infected being migrant workers and factory employees living in adjoining Vapi and Valsad towns, but working in industrial units of Daman. A senior officer in Daman said, “The restaurant and hotel business has been badly affected due to Covid-19. The administration has given relaxation to the single-day travellers to boost the stressed hotel and tourism industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/relax-in-daman-but-for-a-day-only/articleshow/77292281.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Gang selling red sand boa for Rs 42L held||Vadodara: The forest department arrested five persons trying to sell a snake — red sand boa in the city. A snake was also seized from the accused. Forest officials said that they are yet to nab one more person helping the gang. Forest officials said that the Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) volunteers had received information about this gang. “We learnt that the gang was trying to sell a red sand boa for Rs 42 lakh. We then set a trap and sent in a decoy customer to buy the boa on Thursday. The deal was decided and the gang was to hand over the boa near a vehicle showroom on NH-8,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO). Three members of the gang turned up with the boa and as soon as they showed the reptile to the decoy customer, forest officials turned up and arrested the trio. Two other gang members were arrested on Friday. The accused have been identified as Chintan Parmar, Harun Khatri, Zakir Khatri, Dinesh Mochi and Govind Rabari. Investigations are on to ascertain if the gang had sold such reptiles in the past. The boa seized by the forest officials is three-feet long and weighs two kilograms. “Many believe that the reptile brings luck and money. So it is sold by such gangs at very high price,” Dave told TOI. Red sand boas, popularly known as two-headed snake, is a protected species under Wildlife Protection Act. It is a non-venomous snake that is sometimes valued in crores of rupees. Many believe that the snake has medicinal values while some use it for black magic too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gang-selling-red-sand-boa-for-rs-42l-held/articleshow/77292025.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Kamat takes up Mollem projects with central panel||Panaji: Expressing concern over the rampant cutting of trees and destruction of the environment, opposition leader Digambar Kamat has written a letter to the Supreme Court-constituted Central Empowered Committee to intervene and stop the three projects that are slated to come up in wildlife areas. Kamat said that the environmentally destructive infrastructure projects had received “dubious forest clearances” as the stringent processes put in place to safeguard protected forests have been disregarded. “These three projects have been viewed in isolation. If viewed together one will be able to see that the three projects fragment Goa’s largest protected areas irreversibly,” said Kamat in the memorandum. The three projects that Kamat is referring to are the NH 4-A expansion, the 400KV transmission line and the doubling of South Western Railway’s track from Hospet to Vasco. The three projects are set to come up in the Mollem National Park and Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary. “I sincerely request you to seek detailed responses from government officials, user agencies and please do consider making socially and ecologically sanctioned decisions in the spirit of democracy and dialogue, which has been totally missing in the process,” said the Congress MLA. Students, activists and even 150 private tour operators of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa have written to the environment minister expressing concern over the three destructive projects. A copy of Kamat’s letter has also been sent to Union minister for environment, forests and climate change Prakash Javadekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-takes-up-mollem-projects-with-central-panel/articleshow/77293665.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thieves make unsuccessful bid to break ATM||Ahmedabad: Arvind Parmar, the manager of Bank of Baroda Meghaninagar branch, lodged a complaint with Meghaninagar police on Thursday that thieves tried to break open the ATM just beside the bank. They broke the display of the machine but could not break it. They took with them the CCTV cameras installed there. Meghaninagar police are probing the case with the help of digital video recorder (DVR) kept inside the bank. The FIR states that a guard was also deployed at the bank. “A clerk with the bank called up Parmar and told him that someone has attempted to break the ATM. When Parmar came there he saw that the ATM machine had been vandalized and display screen was broken. The thieves had also tried to break the money dispensing tray of the ATM,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thieves-make-unsuccessful-bid-to-break-atm/articleshow/77293675.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Tollygunge serial shoots stalled over lockdown wage, Covid cover issues||KOLKATA: Shooting for serials of two Bengali channels were stopped on Friday due to non-payment of a percentage of “wages” to technicians during the lockdown period and in absence of the Covid-19 health insurance for all crew members of Bengali serials. While shooting of megaserials, including ‘Rani Rashmoni’, ‘Jamuma Dhaki’, ‘Krishnakoli’ and ‘Kadambini’ for Zee Bangla resumed late evening, serials telecast of Sun Bangla could not be shot on Friday. Two technicians and an artist have also tested positive for Covid-19. According to Swarup Biswas, president of the Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI), “During complete lockdown, technicians attached to specific serials got no pay. A commitment was made by the channels to disburse a part of that wages to them. Despite repeated mails, no dates were given regarding when these dues would be cleared. Despite having an MoU, insurance papers for technicians of all serials weren’t in order.” However, not everyone was convinced with this argument. “The chief minister insists that despite problems, work can’t be stalled. Stalling the shooting today is disrespecting her instructions. It was a goodwill gesture on the part of channels to help technicians. Can goodwill gestures be confused with dues?” asked a channel official on conditions of anonymity. The drama continued throughout the day. By late evening, Biswas said that the issue of Covid-19 health insurance of technicians involved in 24 out of the 35 serials were solved. “Two technicians and one artist working in ‘Kone Bou’, ‘Krishnakoli’ and ‘Singhalagna’ have been infected. We are organizing tests for the others in the unit. Shooting was resumed after Zee Bangla assured us that payment of wages will be done on August 7. The timing has been revised to 10 pm from 8 pm. But, there has been no communication from Sun Bangla yet,” he said. Samrat Ghosh, cluster head, East Cluster of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited that approximately lost Rs 30 lakh on Friday, said, “We are always with the technicians. However, the shooting should never be stopped.” Producer Arka Ganguly, who incurred a loss of Rs 1 lakh approximately for not shooting ‘Jionkathi’ that is beamed on Sun Bangla, is livid. “Channels had agreed to FCTWEI’s demand of paying a lumpsum amount to technicians for the period they couldn’t work during lockdown. But the payment probably got delayed. This culture of stalling the shoot on every single issue should come to an end,” he said, adding, “The FCTWEI didn’t even bother to inform us that they had given a deadline to channels. They just wanted the producers to suffer. One call came and the shooting had to be shut the next minute.” Producer Susanta Das, whose three serials on Zee Bangla and Sun Bangla were stalled, said, “I have incurred a loss of approximately Rs 2 lakh. Thankfully, the episode-banking will help us to meet telecast deadline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tollygunge-serial-shoots-stalled-over-lockdown-wage-covid-cover-issues/articleshow/77292471.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 1, 2020||Pune||Unmasking helps Pune cops nab heist suspects||PUNE: The act of unmasking of one of the three persons involved in robbing an edible oil firm manager of Rs3.3 lakh at Market Yard on Wednesday afternoon helped police zero in on the trio on Thursday. Police established the suspect’s identity from the CCTV footage as a criminal on records and arrested him as well as his two partners in the crime on Thursday night. Rs2.88 lakh of the robbed cash and the bike the trio used for executing the crime were recovered. Two of the suspects, Vikas alias Thapa Govind Kamble (21) and Akshay Ramesh Navale (19), are criminals on police records, while Mayur Suresh Jadhav (19), is a first-time offender. Senior inspector Rajendra Mohite from the Pune police’s crime branch said, “A police team checked CCTV footage from nine to ascertain the routes taken by the suspects. One suspect was seen removing his mask in some distance away from the crime spot. Our constable identified him as Thapa. We first took him into custody. During the questioning, he admitted to his involvement in the robbery and named his accomplices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unmasking-helps-police-nab-heist-suspects/articleshow/77293673.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘29,000 tuberculosis patients in Ahmedabad under directly observed therapy’||AHMEDABAD: Even as the entire health department is engrossed in dealing with the uncertainties of the Covid-19 pandemic, another deadly diseases — tuberculosis — stares at the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. An RTI filed with the AMC recently revealed that though there has been a marginal decline in the number of TB deaths, the number of cases are surging since 2015. Figures made available under RTI to an applicant Yash Makwana, a resident of Jashodanagar, has revealed that there are currently 29,381 patients in the city who are under the Directly Observed Therapy (DOT). “The government spends a monthly amount of Rs 500 on medicines and nutrition for TB patients,” claims the RTI. Makwana says, “Between 2015 and 2019 some 55,648 people have been infected by TB and 3,358 people have died of the disease. There are 23 units in Ahmedabad that are dedicated to addressing this issue. We should properly audit the whole scheme and the treatment given owing to increased TB drug resistance,” says Makwana. The data shows that back in 2015 there were 9,418 infections and 534 deaths were reported, the following year there were 10,037 infections and 582 people had died while in 2018 there were 12,569 new TB cases and 775 people had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/29k-tuberculosis-patients-in-city-under-directly-observed-therapy/articleshow/77292437.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Planning to hit the gym? Wait for another month||Coimbatore: The prospect of reopening gyms and fitness centres in the state was short-lived as the AIADMK government extended the lockdown to August 31. The move has disappointed fitness instructors, enthusiasts and gym owners, who were rejoiced at the central government’s decision to allow gyms to reopen from August 5. Gyms and fitness centres have been closed since mid-March. S Ravishankar, who runs Ravi’s CrossFit, says, “We have been struggling to pay our trainers. We have to manage rent, maintenance and salaries without any revenue for four and half months. I think they should allow at least outdoor fitness activities to start, maybe by placing restrictions on using equipment.” Fitness centre operators say they should have been allowed to operate with restrictions, rather than keeping them shut. Nithyanandini Manoharan, of 45 Degree Fitness, says, “When restaurants and liquor shops can open, why not gyms? We are willing to follow protocols like reducing workout duration, number of attendees in a session and disinfection activities, besides switching off air conditioners. We are already out of business and many gyms are considering closing down and firing their instructors.” Nithyanandini now conducts fitness sessions online. Many fitness enthusiasts, who started working out from home in the initial phase of lockdown, say the activity has stopped altogether now. “I was thinking of getting back into my schedule when I heard of reopening of gyms. But now they have again extended the closure by a month,” says Ananya Prakash, a mother of a toddler. She began working out just six months ago. Many zumba enthusiasts too say they miss the energy of dancing and working out as a group. Some fitness enthusiasts, however, say even when gyms reopen, they might not go immediately. “Sweat on equipment could be a massive transmitter and we don’t know how many gyms or users will clean the equipment properly. Also, working out without air conditioner sounds so uncomfortable,” says Raghavan R, a regular CrossFit attendee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/planning-to-hit-the-gym-wait-for-another-month/articleshow/77292416.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: TCP rolls out automated building plan approval system||PANAJI: After a long wait, the town and country planning (TCP) department has finally rolled out the automated online Building Plan Approval Management System (BPAMS) with small homes being taken up in the first phase of the rollout. TCP department said that completion certificates, development permissions and technical clearances will be issued through the software which has been designed to speed up the process of building plan compliance checks. Crucially, the BPAMS will be able to analyse building plans within minutes, and it generates a set of reports based on TCP’s planning rules and guidelines. The complete process from scrutiny of building plans, construction and issuing technical clearance and completion order will be automated through BPAMS. In the first phase of the rollout, TCP will implement the automated process only for single-family dwelling units with a three-month trial period to iron out initial teething problems, said officials. “The government of Goa hereby directs that the permission, orders and clearances shall be secured either through online or offline mode for the period of three months from the date of commencement of this order and thereafter such permission or order or clearances shall be secured compulsorily only in online mode,” said chief town planner (administration) James Mathew. Implementation of BPAMS will also help improve Goa’s ranking on the ease of doing business scale, fetching the state 14 points. The department said it expects some resistance from the TCP staff as well as from developers, architects and other stakeholders. Though the software has been rolled out, the formal commissioning of the online portal is likely to be held on Monday at the hands of chief minister Pramod Sawant. BPAMS was ready to go live from January onwards TCP minister Chandrakant Kavalekar had said. The software automatically reads and identifies building plans and layouts from the building drawings, and maps them according to development rules for approval by the municipal bodies. Instead of visiting the TCP office to submit the plans and get them approved, all that a person will have to do is upload the drawings and documents in soft copy on the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-rolls-out-automated-building-plan-approval-system/articleshow/77293672.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Full lockdown on cards near Gandhi market in Trichy city||TRICHY: Trichy corporation has identified three major commercials streets in the vicinity of Gandhi market to impose an intense lockdown for 14 days. This after a mass screening conducted recently by the local body identified eight positive cases, who had all frequented the Gandhi market area. Since the Gandhi market area, covering Nelpettai road, Vellamandi road, Vengayamandi road, Thanjavur main road and Subjail road, witnesses huge crowds from various parts of the district. Around 500 shops including push cart vendors are involved in selling flowers, vegetables and fruits in the vicinity of Gandhi market. Although the market complex was closed, the street vendors were occupying the roads. Hence, a mass screening was conducted in the vicinity on Wednesday (July 29). Around 154 persons took part in the screening of which 93 symptomatic persons took the RT-PCR test. The results that were declared on Friday, found that eight people including flower and fruit vendors tested positive. Five men and three women were identified to have contracted Covid-19, of which one person is a policeman attached to Gandhi market police station. The eight positive cases identified in the screening were from Woraiyur, EB road and Tharanallur localities.  The civic body said that Nelpettai road, Thanjavur main road and Vellamandi road are likely to be under intense lockdown from Saturday night. Fever screening will continue in the vicinity. “Gandhi market will get a similar intense containment zone like the one that was established in Big Bazaar street last month. Only a strict containment zone can prevent public movement in the market’s vicinity,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. Vehicular movement through Nelpettai road, Thanjavur main road and a portion of Quaid-e-milleth road are to be suspended. All shops in the streets will remain shut for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/full-lockdown-on-cards-near-gandhi-market-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77293670.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After 33 attempts, 51-year-old clears SSC||HYDERABAD: Thirty-three attempts and a pandemic later, Mohammed Nooruddin, has finally managed to make his dream come true — of clearing the SSC examination. This, thanks to the Telangana government’s decision to promote all SSC students for the 2019-2020 academic year. Nooruddin’s long journey towards securing a Class 10 certificate started in 1987, when the now 51-year-old, first appeared for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) test from Model High School in Musheerabad. The state was still united Andhra Pradesh, NT Rama Rao was chief minister, and tennis champion Sania Mirza had not even celebrated her first birthday yet. However, the Urdu medium student’s poor grasp on the English language, crashed his hopes. Nooruddin failed the English paper. But the bump on the road, couldn’t shake his determination. Since then, he has been appearing the exam every year though luck failed to smile on him until now. He never managed to secure 35 marks (out of 100) required to pass the English paper. “I got married in 1994, and many people suggested that I stop making the effort to clear the test. But I maintained the tempo and got through this year,” said Nooruddin who enrolled for the SSC exams from the open category this year, since he had missed the last date for paying the fee to appear as a regular candidate. While he had signed up to write all the papers this year, he couldn’t appear for any owing to the pandemic. The government came to his rescue, when it decided to pass all candidates who had paid the fee. Not surprisingly, Nooruddin is a thrilled man. “I am ecstatic. By God’s grace I have sailed through it,” said the SSC-pass who works as a security guard at Anjuman Model High School. Interestingly, his daughter — one of four children — has completed her BCom with English as the medium of instruction. While he didn’t have a SSC certificate, Nooruddin passed the ‘Fazil’ exam conducted by Idara-e-Adabiyat-e-Urdu (Urdu Literature) in 1994 and also did some courses from Jamia Nizamia, India’s famous Islamic institution. Watch Bizarre! Hyderabad’s 51-year-old man fails 33 times, passes 10th exam after mass promotion due to Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-33-attempts-51-yr-old-clears-ssc/articleshow/77293677.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Can’t leave country: Court to Turk held in drugs case||Panaji: A Turkish national, Mustafa Cinar, 39, allegedly involved in a drug case has been denied permission to leave the country. Now out on bail, he was initially arrested in October 2018 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possessing 35.5 mg of MDMA. The accused submitted before the court that no chargesheet has been filed against him for two years. He stated that it is not possible for him to earn his livelihood in Goa and claimed that he is supported by his aged mother, a retired public prosecutor in Karsiyaka, Turkey. Judge Kshama Joshi rejected his application stating that the conditions stipulated while granting him bail would be violated if he is allowed to leave. The alleged accused had been asked to remain present before the investigating officer (IO) on the first Monday of every month till the chargesheet is filed, and thereafter, as and when required by the probe officer. “…as the applicant is a Turkish national and once he leaves, there will be no control and the bail granted is interim bail by this court,” it was stated in the order. His mother had written a letter stating that Cinar is her only child and that she is undergoing trauma as her son and daughter-in-law are not with her. Appearing on his behalf, counsel K Poulekar argued that Cinar is a mixed martial arts fighter by profession and used to earn his livelihood by competing in professional events around the world. He is unable to attend such events by staying in Goa, he maintained. Poulekar further argued that Cinar’s wife could not stay in Turkey as her visa was dependent on her husband, and had to leave for Russia. He argued that 1-2 years would be required for the matter to come up on board and that with the video conference facility now available, Cinar’s physical presence would not be required. In case a chargesheet is filed, the accused can appear through video conference, the court was told. Public prosecutor A Talaulikar stated that Cinar’s request could not be accepted citing the conditions laid out in the bail. The interim bail was granted to Cinar till the filing of the chemical examiner’s report under Section 173 of the CrPC. The report is yet to be received, public prosecutor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-leave-country-court-to-turk-held-in-drugs-case/articleshow/77293680.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable held for harassing Inter student||Hyderabad: LB Nagar police arrested a traffic constable for harassing an Intermediate student. The accused was identified as Yadgiri, 27, a constable of LB Nagar traffic police station. On Friday, the mother of an 18-year-old intermediate student lodged a police complaint alleging that constable Yadgiri had been stalking her daughter and harassing her over the phone asking her to be intimate with him The complainant is a tea vendor. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against Yadgiri under sections 354-C and 354-D of the IPC. “We have arrested the constable,” LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-held-for-harassing-inter-student/articleshow/77293684.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hubballi||BCC rescued over 150 destitutes; provided them food, shelter||BELAGAVI: Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) has rescued over 150 homeless, poor and stranded people, and also provided them shelter during the pandemic. Sensing trouble faced by the homeless — being in public places with no protective gears, they are at high risk of contracting the infection — the civic body had launched the rescue work a few months ago. It has set up an exclusive shelter house ‘Khasabag’ on BS Yediyurappa Road here. These homeless were found begging on streets, picking rags and sleeping on pavements without wearing any safety gear to prevent Covid-19 infection. BCC first picks them up, gives them bath and isolates them. They will be swabbed during the isolation period before being allowed to mingle with others. Shankar Maledhar, warden of the shelter house, said the homeless are picked up from bus stands/ railway station, temples premises, from near the civil hospital, and other public places. “Many homeless come and land at railway station and bus stands, and we spot them by keeping vigil at these places regularly. We also receive information from some concerned citizens, social activists and mediapersons. So far, we have rescued over 150 of them since April, when the lockdown began,” he explained. Shankar further said they also facilitate them to return to their houses, from where they may have fled due to various reasons. Nearly 100 of them have reached their houses safely, he added. Donganna, 70, who is currently housed at the shelter, said they get food thrice a day and proper care. “I have a son, and he has called me home. But I’m comfortable here as my life has changed after coming here.” BCC commissioner K H Jagadish told TOI that these people, if live in public places, can contract Covid-19. “Hence BCC is taking care of them,” he said, thanking all the stakeholders working on the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bcc-rescued-over-150-destitutes-provided-them-food-shelter/articleshow/77290947.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Highways dept begins process for new RoB on Salai Road||Trichy: After a stalemate between the Trichy Corporation and state highways department over the construction of a new road over bridge (RoB) on Salai Road, the latter has initiated the preliminary process. The existing RoB was damaged in the recent rain last month, forcing the civic body to ban the movement of buses and heavy vehicles.Sources said that the district administration has recommended the highways department to replace the 154-year-old RoB. Recently, the project division of the department had written to top officials in Chennai seeking approval to embark on the project. “Administrative sanction is mandatory to commit for the new RoB project,” an official said. The proposed RoB is likely to be a four-lane considering the volume of vehicular traffic between Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar, Sasthri road and Main guard gate junction.Meanwhile, the corporation has installed height barriers to prevent heavy vehicles from using the RoB while cars and two-wheelers have been permitted. “Work on the new RoB should commence at the earliest. It is better to go with multiple arms,” K Shyam Sundar, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/highways-dept-begins-process-for-new-rob-on-salai-road/articleshow/77293681.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police bust sex racket at Colva||COLVA: Police busted a prostitution racket at Colva on Friday and rescued two women of Maharashtra and West Bengal. Vijay Singh, a native of Madhya Pradesh residing at Arlem, Fatorda, was arrested in connection with the racket. The two women were sent to the protection home at Merces. Police said both had arrived in Goa a month ago and that the accused had got in touch with them. Colva PI Melson Colaco said when the cops got a tip-off that a person was luring women and forcing them into prostitution, they arranged for a decoy customer and nabbed the accused when he brought the two women to a pre-arranged spot near the Colva beach parking area. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-bust-sex-racket-at-colva/articleshow/77293682.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Is rapid antigen testing accurate: HC poser to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday sought to know from the state government if it would continue to conduct rapid antigen testing (RAT), given the doubts expressed over its reliability and efficacy. It also wondered if people could rely upon the results from the antigen tests. Citing the example of Rajasthan which had discontinued RAT after complaints of accuracy arose, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked whether Telangana would continue to do RAT. “We would like to know from the state of Telangana whether it would continue its RAT efforts or it would also discontinue this mode of testing,” they said. Directing the government to explain the efficacy of RAT, the judges said: “The state too, till recently, was saying that RT-PCR tests are foolproof for ascertaining the presence of coronavirus in a person. RAT was only for surveillance in a large area.” Principal secretary of health informed the court that the government is conducting RAT at primary health centres, community health centres, Basthi Dawakhanas all over the state. “We have four lakh RAT kits and are on the verge of getting another lakh of RAT kits. This is in addition to the RT-PCR tests being carried out at the designated government and private facilities,” he said. The health secretary said the government had designated 57 government hospitals and 54 private hospitals as Covid-19 hospitals in the state. “In tune with the order of the high court, we have increased the number of telephone lines to enable people lodge their complaints over phone on hospitals and lack of treatment, tests, hospitalisation, overcharging, etc,” he said. People could call 104 number to make their complaints and ensure that they get easy access. “We have set up 85 telephone lines for this purpose, so that people need not complain about not being able to access 104,” he said. Since July 1, the government was allowing only 50 persons as guests at marriages and 20 persons to attend funerals. “We are initiating a penal action against those violating this rule,” the health secretary said in his report submitted to the court. Police booked 24 cases and arrested 101 persons for violating this norm at marriages, he said. Similarly, six cases were booked and 27 persons were arrested for violating funeral norms. In addition to this, 35,308 cases were booked against individuals for not wearing face masks and 1,211 cases for not honouring social distance norms. “We have also booked 82 cases on those who violated the guidelines pertaining to public gatherings,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-rapid-antigen-testingaccurate-hc-poser-to-t/articleshow/77293706.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||SGST raids 14 groundnut traders, finds bogus transactions worth ₹100 crore||Ahmedabad: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department recently raided 14 firms involved in the trading of groundnut in Dhoraji, Rajkot, Junagadh and Mangrol. A search operation was conducted across 25 different locations by the department and as a result of the investigations, bogus transactions to the tune of Rs 100 crore were found. The department officials said that bogus bills worth the said amount were found from these locations, which revealed a major tax evasion scam. Further investigation in the matter is under way and the probe will reveal the exact amount of taxes evaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sgst-raids-14-groundnut-traders-finds-bogus-transactions-worth-100-crore/articleshow/77293703.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||40 shops sealed in Kumbakonam||Thanjavur: Kumbakonam municipality authorities sealed 40 shops at a shopping complex near the bus stand for violating lockdown norms in Thanjavur here on Friday. A team of police headed by inspectors Rameshkumar, Ramamoorthy and municipality authorities inspected the complex. They found that nobody was maintaining social distancing or wearing face masks. Around 300 customers were seen at the 40 shops including mobile recharge shops, mobile phone showroom, photocopy centre and computer centres. Subsequently, all 40 shops were locked and sealed by the authorities. Despite a spike in Covid-19 cases in Kumbakonam from Darasuram vegetable market cluster, almost all the streets and commercial establishments are seen crowded violating social distancing norms. Kumbakonam municipality authorities have been taking steps to curtail the lockdown violations, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/40-shops-sealed-in-kumbakonam/articleshow/77293700.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain ravages 10-15 hectares of fields in Canacona||Poinguinim: Paddy and horticultural crops of at least 75 farmers at Khola, Gaondongorim and Polem in the Canacona taluka have been destroyed after spells of heavy rain inundated their fields. Around 10-15 hectares of fields that lie along the banks of rivulets were affected due to the ingress of water that led to some sown or transplanted crops being washed away and others buried under silt. Among the horticultural crops damaged were arecanut, banana and pineapple. Canacona zonal agriculture officer Shivram Naik Gaonkar said his office has begun receiving complaints of losses from farmers and that the areas concerned have been surveyed. “Assessment of losses are in progress under Shetkari Adhar Nidhi,” he said, adding that 40 affected farmers have been identified in Gaondongorim, 25 in Khola and 10 in Polem. “Once the assessment is completed, cases will be forwarded to the directorate of agriculture for compensation,” Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-ravages-10-15-hectares-of-fields-in-canacona/articleshow/77293701.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Vasco masjids to go the extra mile, follow Eid namaz under strict SOPs||VASCO: Standard operating procedures will strictly be followed for namaz at masjids in Vasco on the occasion of Eid-ul-Zuha, which will be celebrated across India on Saturday. Mats used for namaz will be handed over to masjids only by people who have registered themselves a day in advance and will be arranged as per social distancing norms, said Karim Mulla, a resident of Vasco. Even ‘wudu’, the process of cleansing oneself before namaz, will have to be done at home. The festival of Eid-ul-Zuha honours the willingness of the prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his young, first-born son, Ismail, as an act of submission to the command of Allah. It is celebrated approximately 70 days after the end of Ramadan. “On this day, all Muslims forfeit domestic animals like sheep and goats, representing Abraham’s forfeit. This is called, ‘qurban’. Once the animal is sacrificed, it has to be divided into three shares: One for the house, the second for relatives and friends, and the third for the poor,” Shaikh Noruddin, a serviceman, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-masjids-to-go-the-extra-mile-follow-eid-namaz-under-strict-sops/articleshow/77293696.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ajay Tomar or Sanjay Srivastav: Govt undecided on new Ahmedabad CP||GANDHINAGAR: While the state government named Ashish Bhatia as DGP Shivanand Jha’s successor on Jha’s last day in office, the state government appeared undecided on who will replace DGP Bhatia as Ahmedabad commissioner of police. While Bhatia took over as the new DGP, the state government asked him to hold additional charge of Ahmedabad police commissioner till it finalizes a name for the post. Avoiding questions on the new Ahmedabad police commissioner, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja only said that the name would be announced in a day or two. Top sources said that the government could not arrive at a decision as to who should be appointed the next Ahmedabad police commissioner. “The government has to decide between the two top contenders, namely Sanjay Srivastav, DGP, CID crime and railways and Ajay Tomar, special commissioner, Ahmedabad,” a government source said. Sourcs added, “Until last week, Tomar was considered the natural successor of Bhatia, but Srivastav’s began doing the rounds. The name of ACB special director Keshav Kumar also cropped up as as he is also a DGP-rank officer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tomar-or-srivastav-govt-undecided-on-new-cp/articleshow/77292472.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Docs, officials celebrate b’day of Covid patient at isolation centre||Thanjavur: A 25-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is quarantined at an isolation centre, was elated when his birthday was celebrated on Thursday at the facility, which is near a slum clearance board building in Pattukottai in Thanjavur district. With the permission from the Thanjavur district collector, the revenue officials, doctors and other patients joined the birthday celebration while maintaining social distance to fulfil the desire of patient’s mother, who requested the officials to allow her to cut a cake for his son on his birthday. The patient, who turned 25 on July 30 and is a resident of Pattukottai, was brought to this isolation facility on July 20. Meanwhile, his mother contacted the facility officials a day before his birthday and expressed her request to celebrate her son’s birthday. “We came to know about his birthday. As per the protocol we should not allow anything from outside. However, we decided to fulfil wishes of both mother and son. So, I informed it to the district collector and got permission,” Dr Newton, medical officer of the facility told TOI. So, the doctors and medical staff ordered a cake and celebrated his birthday outside of the building. Dr Newton further stated that they had done everything without violating any Covid-19 norms by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. “It is also our duty to make sure that the patients do not feel depressed at the facility,” he added. Darnika, a tahsildar, who is the in-charge of the facility, told TOI that they ensured that social distance was maintained during the gathering. Meanwhile, the youth, who celebrate his birthday, said that he would never forget such a great celebration. He shared a video on social media thanking district collector, M Govinda Rao, doctors and revenue authorities for making his birthday a memorable event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/docs-officials-celebrate-bday-of-covid-patient-at-isolation-centre/articleshow/77293710.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 1, 2020||Goa||‘Act against Parsekar, two former mines officials’||Panaji: Goencho Avaaz, an NGO, on Friday petitioned governor Satya Pal Malik and chief secretary Parimal Rai seeking action against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and two government officials - former mines director Prasanna Acharya and mining secretary P K Sain - who were indicted by the Lokayukta for their role in the mining scam. Co-convener of Goencho Avaaz Viriato Fernandes said blatant irregularities had occurred when they held important charge in the mining department. Goencho Avaaz said that the present government, which faces a financial crisis, should have taken steps to recover the loot, instead of refusing to take any action against the accused. “This gave an impression that the government is hand in glove with the perpetrators of the mining loot,” said co-convener Swapnes Sherlekar. Lokayukta had initiated a probe into the fraud and illegalities in the renewal of 88 mining leases where officials had cleared the files and accorded permission overnight in some cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-parsekar-two-former-mines-officials/articleshow/77293709.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bird poaching gang busted in Sunderbans||Kolkata: Five villagers in the Sunderbans were arrested on Wednesday, the last day of lockdown in July, for allegedly hunting birds protected under the country’s Wildlife Protection Act on the fringes of the tiger reserve area. A forester said that at least 15 dead birds — mostly egrets and little cormorants — were seized from them. Both the birds are protected under Schedule IV of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, said Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director, Tapas Das. “We have booked them under relevant sections of the act and handed them over to the police,” he added. A source, though, said that the five, all residents of Basanti-Jharkhali coastal area, later secured a bail. They had been reportedly arrested from Amlamethi Netaji Char near Bally islands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bird-poaching-gang-busted-in-sunderbans/articleshow/77292486.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||With no workers, vessels at Malim jetty to remain idle||Panaji: With most of the outstation workers yet to return to Goa, the fishing trawlers are unlikely to head out to sea, said chairman of Mandovi Fishermen Marketing Cooperative Society Francisco D’Souza. With the fishing ban being lifted on August 1, trawler owners are still awaiting the return of labourers from Jharkhand, Odisha, and neighbouring states who work on mechanised trawlers. “This year, no workers have come. At the Malim jetty, the situation is so bad that not a single boat has the guarantee of going out to fish,” said D’Souza. Fishing vessels have 10-25 workers on each vessel depending on the size of the vessels, and around 7,000-8,000 workers are employed at the Malim jetty itself on fishing vessels. There are around 250-260 fishing vessels at the Malim fishing jetty. On Thursday, the state government held a meeting to discuss the construction of a new wholesale fish market complex in Margao, and after the meeting, fisheries minister Filipe Neri said that all steps had been taken to ensure that fishing activity resumes. St Andre MLA Francisco Silveira and Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao had also requested chief minister Pramod Sawant not to stop migrant workers from returning to Goa ahead of the fishing season. Stakeholders have scoffed at the government’s claim. “Sitting in the fisheries department and talking does not get things done. If the fisheries department cannot operate its own boat properly, then how can we operate our boats without workers?” said D’Souza. Trawler owners are reluctant to send buses to pick up the workers as they are worried that a spurt in Covid-19 cases, especially among the fishermen, will see the jetty sealed. “If four workers contract Covid and the government seals the jetty, we will have to take care of the needs of the workers for the next 10 months. Because of this, we don’t want to bring the workers back,” said D’Souza. A few days ago, fisheries director Shamila Monteiro had said standard operating procedures put in place during the lockdown, prior to the start of the annual fishing ban, will be followed. Social distancing, wearing of gloves and mask, use of sanitisers for crew and labourers aboard fishing vessels are among the mandatory rules under the SOP issued in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-workers-vessels-at-malim-jetty-to-remain-idle/articleshow/77293707.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana earns praise from Niti Aayog||Chandigarh: Haryana has earned praise from Niti Aayog for managing Covid-19 in such a way that it did not harm trade and industry as much as in other states Niti Aayog had recently tweeted: “Haryana has emerged as one of the strong performers among states in India with respect to the management of Covid-19 pandemic in India.” Additional chief secretary (ACS) health Rajev Arora, while reviewing the situation here on Friday, said Niti Aayog also took a detailed presentation recently on the various methods adopted by the state government in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In last four months, the state has recorded 32,876 coronavirus infection cases, of which 25,758 patients recovered and the virus proved fatal for 406 patients. The state has been able to maintain an impressive recovery rate of above 75%. “Even the districts like Gurgaon and Faridabad, which share geographical proximity with New Delhi, have an excellent recovery rate of 87.09% and 78.5%,” said Arora. Referring to efforts, he said the state ensured optimum utilisation of health infrastructure and Covid Care Centres (CCCs) were set up for patients with moderate symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-earns-praise-from-niti-aayog/articleshow/77292489.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,100 CBSE, ICSE students buy PINs for GU commerce courses||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has sold PINs to 2,100 candidates of other boards such as CBSE and ICSE on the first day of the PINs being available. There are more than 4,000 seats for these boards. In all GU faculties, 90% of seats are reserved for Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) students and 10% for students of other boards. About 4,000 seats are reserved in five commerce courses and about 6,000 in science and arts courses. The ongoing admissions process for GU commerce courses has seen about 27,000 students participating after the first round. Of these, about 13,000 students have paid their fees and 14,000 seats remain vacant. The university had initiated admissions for 36,600 seats in five commerce programmes. A total of 35,200 students registered for admission to these seats. Some 9,000 students were denied admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2100-cbse-icse-students-buy-pins-for-gu-commerce-courses/articleshow/77292502.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Second wettest July in 7 years propels season towards normal||Panaji: In recent years, the peak monsoon month has seen more dry days than cloud cover. But this July has logged better rainfall, building on the head start in June to heave the overall surplus to 17%. At the end of July, the halfway mark of the four-month season, contributed significantly to the seasonal total of 2294.6mm (90.3 inches), recording 1,252.6mm (49.3 inches). A Nisarga-fuelled torrential rain in June had added 1,042mm (41 inches) earlier. The month also produced a healthy 17% surplus, as against 20% in 2019. “July 2020 yielded good rain with state average value equal to or higher than normal on 18 days and seven such days reporting double of average or higher values,” Rahul M, scientist at India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. But in the past decade, except notably in 2013, July recorded below normal rainfall, shrinking the seasonal total in a state heavily dependent on surface water. “But in July, as per a long period average, Goa receives the highest rainfall, except on five occasions out of the last 10 seasons,” the scientist said. July 2013 was different — one of the wettest months for more than two decades as IMD, Panaji, had recorded a rainfall of 1,387.8mm (54.6 inches). July 1995 saw bumper rainfall, yielding a total of 1526.1mm (60.8 inches). This July, the monsoon was highly active, except for a week during the last phase. A total of almost 280mm of rainfall in three 24-hour spells on July 3, 4 and 5 was the most productive spell. Another heavy spell on July 17, 18 and 19 yielded 232mm of rainfall. The wettest 24-hour spell during the month was 117.2mm recorded on July 3, but 137mm on June 17 remains the highest so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-wettest-july-in-7-years-propels-season-towards-normal/articleshow/77293711.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||District saw 80% deaths, 72% +ve cases in July||NAGPUR: July ended on a critical note for the district, with 80% of the Covid deaths as yet and 72% of positive cases registered in these 31 days. Medical experts say it is a sign of community transmission. On Friday, eight Covid-19 patients died, taking the number of deaths to 126. The district had registered the first positive case on March 11. There were no deaths till end of March. April had two deaths followed by nine in May and 14 in June. Thus, there were 25 deaths (19.84%) in 112 days between March 11 and June 30 while there were 101 deaths (80.16%) in July. The mortality rate of the district was well under control at 1.66% at the end of June. Now, it is 2.33%, which is higher than the national rate (2.18%). The rate is lesser than the state (3.55%) and world (3.94%). Of the 126 deaths, 76 were from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits, 20 from Nagpur Rural, and 30 from other districts and states who tested positive and died in hospitals here. Similarly, the number of positive cases is on a steep rise. On Friday, 258 persons tested positive taking the district’s tally to 5,392. March had seen 16 cases followed by 122 in April, 403 in May and 964 in June for a total of 1,505 (27.91%). In July, there were 3,887 cases (72.08%). The district’s positivity rate is also on the rise. The number of samples tested is 79,600 for a positivity rate of 6.77%. However, it is lower than state (19.81%). Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Rise in cases was expected in July but not to such a great extent. It is most likely community transmission. The chances of further surge in cases in August cannot be ruled out. Mostly likely we can expect peak of Covid-19 in August where there will be herd immunity. Such high rate is the result of violations of Covid-19 guidelines.” Dr Balankhe added all should comply with basic guidelines of Covid distancing, wearing masks, going out only for essential works etc to control the high rates. “We are in a critical situation. People should also report at earlier stage of symptoms to avoid deaths as well as containing further spread,” he said. High number of cases in July also led to some chaos in regulation of positive patients. Due to lack of preparedness, the admission of positive patients in Covid Care Centres (CCC) or hospitals was delayed by 2-5 days. Another example was, the administration first reduced 14-day period of quarantine of high-risk contacts who tested negative to 10 days, and then directly to home quarantine just a day later. On July 27, the administration went on to implement home isolation in a hush-hush manner. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had started to concentrate more on increasing testing to control deaths. All Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients visiting NMC health centres are being tested for Covid-19. Special camps have been organized daily for testing of high-risk persons in non-containment zones. A centralized desk for screening and regulation of positive patients too has been started but is not yet up to the mark. Four CCCs have been developed for taking care of asymptomatic patients who do not have home isolation facilities, and reduce load on Dedicated Covid Hospitals. Guardian minister Nitin Raut on Friday announced setting up of a help desk in all 38 wards soon in association with NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-saw-80-deaths-72-ve-cases-in-july/articleshow/77292494.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Government seeks views of industry for revival, attracting new investments||JAIPUR: After taking charge of the industries department, principal secretary Naresh Pal Gangwar on Friday met most of the leading industry bodies in the state to seek ways to accelerate the pace of industrial activities and attract new investments, which has been dried up in the past one and a half year. Representatives from CII, FICCI, FORTI, and RCCI drew the government’s attention to various issues acting as roadblocks for new investments and revival of the industry. CII-Rajasthan chairman Vishal Baid said, “As per Purchase Preference Policy, the state government departments should procure 80% of the items from Rajasthan-based manufacturers or producers which is not happening now. If the policy is strictly implemented, a lot of companies, which are struggling to get orders during the on-going Covid-19 criis, will benefit.” Sources said departments like RVPNL, JVVNL, AVVNL and PHED are executing turnkey projects through vendors who place orders with companies outside Rajasthan units. Similarly, there are around 350 products in Rajasthan which are specifically earmarked to be purchased from Rajasthan-based industries. “It is the right time to expand the list to at least 400 items which will again benefit industrial units in Rajasthan,” added Baid. Similarly, FIICI-Rajasthan in its recommendations said the financial crisis has badly hit the stressed industry as the units are not getting funds from banks or state finance corporations without collateral. “Government or state finance corporation should consider introducing MSME credit card as they are doing in case of farmers. It will help entrepreneurs to meet their urgent financial needs without wasting time in paperwork,” said N K Jain, chairman of FICCI-Rajasthan’s MSME committee. Jain said business continuity has become a challenge for industries due to uncertainty in guidelines, specifically if Covid cases are identified in the factories. “Rules regarding seizure of location may be eased to ensure continuity in operations. Even ESI hospital should be roped in for testing the workers,” added Jain. The industry bodies also urged the principal secretary to take up the issue of completion deadlines which has been affected due to the lockdown. “There are many government projects of electricity board, RIICO, PWD, RSRDC, and PHED which are time-bound and penalty will be there if the project is not completed in time. As there is lockdown, no such activity can be undertaken. We suggest that immediate extension to such projects be given so that there is no penalty on the industry or contractor,” CII said in its recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-seeks-views-of-industry-for-revival-attracting-new-investments/articleshow/77292490.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: 13 deaths for second day in a row in Rajasthan, total toll at 680||JAIPUR: While the state government is focussing on minimising the casualties due to Covid-19, the state reported 13 deaths for the second consecutive day on Friday taking its total toll to 680. Also, the state continued to witness above 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day as 1,147 cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases is now 42,083. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, four deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bikaner, three deaths reported from Ajmer and one death each was reported from Nagaur and Barmer. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 163 cases out of the total 1,147 cases, which was highest in the state. “Though in the month of March and April, Jaipur had seen more than 200 to 300 cases. However since mid-June, Jaipur has been witnessing a dip in the number of corona positive cases. “Since we have been collecting samples from the outskirts of Jaipur including Jaipur (Rural), there was a spike in the cases. This number included cases from Jaipur (Rural) district as 26 cases were reported from Kothputli and some cases, were also reported from villages like Jamdoli, Jaisinghpura Khor and Jobner,” said an officer. The districts that reported more than 100 cases included Jaipur (163) followed by Jodhpur (160) and Kota (122). Also, the districts that reported 90 cases and more included Pali (96), Alwar (90) and Ajmer (90). However, there was some relief in some districts including Barmer, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer and Nagaur where no cases were recorded on Friday. With four deaths, Jaipur reported total 188 deaths and was followed by Jodhpur, where 83 deaths have been reported so far. Out of the total 42,083 cases, Rajasthan now has 11,558 active cases. “As many as 28,374 persons who got Covid-free, got discharged from various hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/13-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row-in-raj-total-toll-at-680/articleshow/77296558.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: 13 deaths for second day in a row in Rajasthan, total toll at 680||JAIPUR: While the state government is focussing on minimising the casualties due to Covid-19, the state reported 13 deaths for the second consecutive day on Friday taking its total toll to 680. Also, the state continued to witness above 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day as 1,147 cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases is now 42,083. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, four deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bikaner, three deaths reported from Ajmer and one death each was reported from Nagaur and Barmer. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 163 cases out of the total 1,147 cases, which was highest in the state. “Though in the month of March and April, Jaipur had seen more than 200 to 300 cases. However since mid-June, Jaipur has been witnessing a dip in the number of corona positive cases. “Since we have been collecting samples from the outskirts of Jaipur including Jaipur (Rural), there was a spike in the cases. This number included cases from Jaipur (Rural) district as 26 cases were reported from Kothputli and some cases, were also reported from villages like Jamdoli, Jaisinghpura Khor and Jobner,” said an officer. The districts that reported more than 100 cases included Jaipur (163) followed by Jodhpur (160) and Kota (122). Also, the districts that reported 90 cases and more included Pali (96), Alwar (90) and Ajmer (90). However, there was some relief in some districts including Barmer, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer and Nagaur where no cases were recorded on Friday. With four deaths, Jaipur reported total 188 deaths and was followed by Jodhpur, where 83 deaths have been reported so far. Out of the total 42,083 cases, Rajasthan now has 11,558 active cases. “As many as 28,374 persons who got Covid-free, got discharged from various hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/13-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row-in-raj-total-toll-at-680/articleshow/77296556.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Fighting Covid & drug menace tops new police chief’s agenda||BENGALURU: Police commissioner designate Kamal Pant on Friday said battling Covid-19 will be his immediate priority even as his prime focus will be on tackling the drug menace and resolving traffic problems. Pant will take charge from Bhaskar Rao on Saturday as the 36th police commissioner of Bengaluru. A Karnataka cadre IPS officer of the 1990 batch, Pant was additional commissioner of police (west) in 2015. In 2019, he was appointed additional director general of police (law and order). He’s also had a stint at CBI. Currently additional director general of intelligence, he spoke to TOI about his plans after taking the reins. Excerpts: What are your priorities as the police commissioner? Currently, the city is in the thick of the fight against Covid-19 and Bengaluru police have done exceptionally well since March, when people began getting infected. In the battle, we have lost nine police officials from the city and over 1,200 have tested positive so far. I salute their supreme sacrifice. We will continue the fight and do our best for society. Safeguarding my force and their family members is also important. My priorities are to strengthen the beat system and investigation. Since we are here to serve citizens, I want to earn their support in policing. How do you plan to deal with the drug menace and traffic problems?We will endeavour to identify criminals pushing drugs into society in an organised manner. We will take stringent action against them under the law, including provisions related to organised crimes. I will review the situation with the officers and if required, we will form special teams. Traffic is something that affects every citizen of Bengaluru. With the support of civic authorities and experts in the field, the traffic wing of police will try to ensure hassle-free commuting. I will personally take up this matter with BBMP. What’s your view on cybercrime?Being an IT hub of international repute, Bengaluru has a huge population which relies on IT-enabled services. Therefore, the city is witnessing a large number of cases of online fraud and other related offences. The government has set up cybercrime police stations, where a large number of cases are now being registered. I know this infrastructure needs to be further strengthened. Since we have world-class IT companies in Bengaluru, we will consider seeking their support with the government’s approval, if needed. Your take on complaints of corruption among police personnel?Police have to earn the public’s trust. It can be achieved if police are empathetic and fair to those approaching them. We will strive to continuously upgrade their soft skills and educate them on how to deal patiently with people. If there are any deviations from the stipulated conduct, we will certainly look into the matter and if required, take appropriate action without bias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fighting-covid-drug-menace-tops-new-police-chiefs-agenda/articleshow/77291457.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Construction threatens NAIR’s green campus tag||VADODARA: If the Indian Railways (IR) goes ahead with construction of any kind of building at the campus of the National Academy of Indian Railways (NAIR), it will not just undermine the aesthetics of the historic Pratap Vilas Palace that it houses, but it will also lose its green campus tag. NAIR had last year become first such campus under Western Railway (WR) and amongst few in the entire network of world’s fourth largest transporter to earn green campus tag from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). “It was on the directive of the Railway Board that the entire process for green campus certification with IGBC was undertaken. In fact, Rs 7.5 lakh fees for the process was also waived off with the intervention of the board. The proposed construction of a multi-storey building at Raja Baug of Pratap Vilas Palace will strip NAIR of this award,” said N K Ojha, former university engineer and in-charge registrar of MS University. “To become a certified green campus, it was turned into a zero discharge campus in terms of rainwater. The proposed construction will lead to more run-off and add load on storm water drain of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation,” he said. Ojha, who on behalf of MSU had acted as consultant for the certification process, has shot off a letter to the union railway minister and the railway board regarding the issue. His letter states that the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which is implementing the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train has already cut many trees in the area allocated to them for construction of high rise buildings. “There is thick forestation in NAIR campus which is popularly known as the jungle area where no vehicle is allowed. NAIR itself is a centre of rich biodiversity whose ecology has already been damaged by construction activities undertaken by NHSRCL,” the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/construction-threatens-nairs-green-campus-tag/articleshow/77291942.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Builders’ body to create database of workers & employers to oust middlemen||Mysuru: Reverse migration of labourers from the state to their home towns has resulted in a severe labour shortage in Karnataka. Lack of skilled manpower has also crippled the construction sector, delaying several infrastructure projects. It may be recalled that thousands of these migrant labourers had walked for hundreds of kilometres to reach home bringing a lot of embarrassment to the government agencies. Fast forward four months and now several labourers are showing interest to return back to Karnataka and rejoin their old employers. Now, in the interest of both labourers and their employers and with an aim to streamline the labour flow, the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), an apex body of builders, has decided to bring the workers back through a proper channel with all the facilities. The council has decided to create an open database of labourers and employers which can be used by both job seekers and the providers without the middlemen. “The idea is creating an open source database of skilled manpower and the job providers to ensure total transparency,” said NAREDCO Karnataka chapter president Satish Kumar. “The council’s Bihar and Uttar Pradesh chapters have already joined hands with the local governments in this regard. We will help our members to get required labourers without the middlemen,” he said. “We will put up the requirement of the builders. Similarly, other chapters may add the details of labourers who are willing to take up these jobs. It will ensure that labour contractors do not come into the picture,” he said. GK Karanth, former director, state labour institute, Bengaluru said the migrant labourers who returned to their native places are less likely to return. “For one, the families may not allow them to return immediately over the Covid-19 scare. Adding to this, a lot of jobs are now being created in all the states under the MGNREGA. This kind of a database portal created by the state labour department already exists,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/builders-body-to-create-database-of-workers-employers-to-oust-middlemen/articleshow/77292312.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Nod to Class XI admission of 31k open school students||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Friday allowed provisional admission of as many as 31,022 open category candidates in Class XI in schools as regular students. However, such students will have to take the examinations of Class X when the Covid-19 situation becomes normal. Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the matriculation result of regular students was declared by Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE), but the result of open school students was withheld, as these students are not covered under CCE criteria. “The open category candidates were in dilemma as they were not getting admission in the schools as regular students. After reviewing the situation, we have decided to provide them a short-term relief. Now they will be able to get admission in 10+1 provisionally subject to the condition that as and when the things become normal, they will have to take the matriculation examinations,” Singla said. The minister said the government has also decided to declare the result of supplementary examination of last year students on the basis of CCE of the relevant year. He said these students had to appear in one subject as supplementary examination this year, but they were not able to take it due to Covid-19 pandemic. Singla said the education department has not finalised the date sheet of examinations for open school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-to-class-xi-admission-of-31k-open-school-students/articleshow/77292500.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Restaurants, hotels optimistic about revival in demand||JAIPUR: With the night curfew being lifted, and restrictions on inter-state removed, the tourism and hospitality industry that contributes 23% to the state’s GDP, is optimistic that demand will start to improve in the coming weeks and months. Over the past seven weeks when the hotels, restaurants, were malls allowed to restart their business on June, there has been some improvement in demand, as per the industry. But they admitted that it has been a slow process as the number of new Covid cases keeps rising and the fear factor continues to be a reason for families not coming out. “We have been witnessing an uptick in demand and interestingly, we are getting repeat customers. This is a good sign. The night curfew restricted choices of people but now that is gone, we think, things will be only better from now onwards,” said Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a leading star hotel. Purohit said that as activities were allowed to reopen after the lockdown, the people have also come out for doing their work. “The fear factor has certainly reduced. But now the onus is on the hotels and restaurants to provide the safety through strict implementation of SOPs,” added Rajpurohit. But standalone restaurants are measured in their approach. They are not planning to go out in full swing. There is a cost to expanding the operations and if the same level of demand is not there, the operations will be more of a liability. “Certainly, we are seeing footfalls in recent weeks. We are now offering 85% of our menu. Even though there is no night curfew now, we will expand the operations in a staggered manner, matching the demand. We are both optimistic and patient at the same time,” said Hamit Pardal, one of the leading restaurants in the city which is celebrating its 71st anniversary on Saturday. For restaurants, kitty parties and birthday celebration a big segment. Also college students contribute to their sales. Aziz Panwar, owner of a new-age restaurant said, “Removing the night curfew is good but will not impact our business in a meaningful way. Families are still reluctant to dine out. With colleges remaining closed, we are losing out a good source of business. No kitty parties or birthday celebrations are happening.” All admit that as soon as the caseload starts falling, there will be a sharp pick-up in demand and people will be less fearful to come out for dining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restaurants-hotels-optimistic-about-revival-in-demand/articleshow/77292499.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Shimla||58 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, but 72 patients recover too||SHIMLA: Fifty-eight cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, including 26 from Solan, nine from Una, eight each from Kangra and Mandi, three from Sirmaur and two each from Hamirpur and Chamba districts. Also, 72 patients, including 33 from Sirmaur district, 13 from Shimla, eight from Kangra, seven from Bilaspur, six from Solan, four from Chamba and one from Una have recovered. The number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 2,564, of which 1,076 are active, 1,459 have recovered, 12 have died, and 15 have migrated out of state. In all, 1.44 lakh persons had been tested for Covid-19 till Friday, of which 1.40 lakh persons had tested negative, while results of 1,773 samples were awaited. Solan has reported the highest number of cases, 628, of which 389 are active, 233 have recovered and six have migrated out of state. Kangra has second highest number of cases, 460, of which 122 are active, 333 have recovered, three have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/58-new-cases-in-himachal-but-72-patients-recover-too/articleshow/77292507.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Thirteen more positive in Chanda||CHANDRAPUR: With the addition of 13 more Covid-19 patients in Chandrapur, the tally has now scaled up to 349. However, 214 patients have been cured and discharged, while 135 others are under treatment. The thirteen patients include five from Mul tehsil, one from Gadchandur, two from Chandrapur city, one from Zhilbodi in Chandrapur and four from Chimur tehsil. Meanwhile, district collector has curtailed the lockdown imposed in Chandrapur city and neighbouring Urjanagar and Durgapur villages by two days and called it off from Saturday. The decision was taken following a substantial decline in the number of patients in Chandrapur city and neighbourhood areas. The administration had imposed the lockdown in the city, Urjangar and Durgapur between July 19 and 26 and additional restriction were promulgated in these areas to break the chain of the virus. However, as the outcome of lockdown was positive, collector Dr Kunal Khenar decided to end lockdown from Saturday. The administration also registered a criminal offence against the organizers of a marriage ceremony in Janala village in Mul tehsil where many guests, including the bridge and groom were infected with the novel coronavirus. Officials said only 50 people were permitted, but over 140 turned up for the event. As one of the guests was Covid-19 positive, the bride, groom and many guests got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thirteen-more-positive-in-chanda/articleshow/77158388.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 1, 2020||Goa||Virus keeps crew away, only 30% trawlers to go out to sea||Vasco: Just about 30% of trawlers under the Goa Fishing Boat Owners’ Association are expected to venture into the sea on Saturday, following the lifting of the annual fishing ban. The remaining 70% will resume operations once the labour force returns from their native states. Around 150 trawlers and purse seiners are part of the association. This year, the Union fisheries ministry reduced the 61-day monsoon fishing ban along the west coast to 47 days, owing to the lockdown implemented to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. As such, the ban began on June 15 this year, instead of June 1. “A majority of the trawler workers hail from Jharkhand and Odisha and were not able to travel to their native places when the ban began as train services were suspended due to the lockdown. We consequently arranged for buses for them and they had to undergo 14 days of home quarantine after reaching their respective states,” Simon Pereira, a trawler owner, said. During the ban period, migrant labourers usually take up agriculture in their native lands for two months before returning to Goa in the last week of July. This year, many of them have informed their employers at Khariawada that they would be away for an extra month. While a trawler needs five workers for operations, a purse seiner needs 30. Presently, only a few labourers have returned via private transport from Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-keeps-crew-away-only-30-trawlers-to-go-out-to-sea/articleshow/77293714.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||BSY’s son appointed state BJP vice-president||Bengaluru: BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday appointed new office-bearers, including ten vice-presidents and an equal number of general secretaries. Prominent vice-presidents include chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra. He was earlier the state general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. “From being an ordinary party worker to becoming the state vice-president, BJP has given me a huge responsibility. I’ll make the best use of it,” he said. Vijayendra has been lobbying for the state BJP general secretary post for the past few months. He’s among five vice-presidents from Bengaluru, the others being Aravind Limbavalli, Niramal Kumar Surana, Tejaswini Ananth Kumar and M Shankarappa. Ever since he missed the MLA ticket from Varuna assembly constituency in 2018, Vijayendra has been lobbying to get a party position. He played a crucial role in ensuring the victory of horticulture minister KC Narayan Gowda from KR Pete constituency in Mandya district where BJP had never won an assembly poll. Newly appointed Rajya Sabha MPs Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti were appointed farmer wing president and backward classes Morcha. Dr Sandeep from Bengaluru replaced Mysuru MP Pratap Simha as president, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsys-son-appointed-state-bjp-vice-president/articleshow/77290707.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Surat||Junior health minister’s group pic without masks goes viral||Surat: Minister of State for health, Kishore Kanani alias Kumar Kanani is once again in the news. This time for not wearing face masks while posing for a group photograph at an bank function, on Friday.Kanani’s photo with the employees and beneficiaries of the Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojana (AGSY) has gone viral on social media platforms. The event was organized in Varachha Cooperative Bank located in Varachha (A) zone which has around 1,489 Covid-19 cases. After the distribution of cheques, Kanani posed for a photograph with some of the beneficiaries and senior bank officials standing close to each other and not wearing masks.When contacted, the bank’s chairman Kanji Bhalala said, "The entire event was held by following social distancing and other protocols. A photo session was organized with the health minister where my staff employees and I clicked the photo without masks for our memory." Bhalala claimed that only one beneficiary of the 112 identified was called at the bank for a token gesture and minister was asked to hand him the cheque. Despite repeated attempts, the minister was not available for comments. The state government has hiked the penalty for not wearing a mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500. Recently, the minister was embroiled in controversy after his son, Prakash Kanani, had a run-in with Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) jawan, Sunita Yadav, over violation of night curfew order last month. Last week, Kanani’s purported audio too had gone viral after a relative of the diamond worker who succumbed to Covid-19 at SMIMER hospital had called him for help. Kanani had told him that the hospital comes under the purview of SMC and not the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/junior-health-ministers-group-pic-without-masks-goes-viral/articleshow/77292173.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 13 deaths for second day in a row in Rajasthan, total toll at 680||JAIPUR: While the state government is focussing on minimising the casualties due to Covid-19, the state reported 13 deaths for the second consecutive day on Friday taking its total toll to 680. Also, the state continued to witness above 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day as 1,147 cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases is now 42,083. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, four deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bikaner, three deaths reported from Ajmer and one death each was reported from Nagaur and Barmer. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 163 cases out of the total 1,147 cases, which was highest in the state. “Though in the month of March and April, Jaipur had seen more than 200 to 300 cases. However since mid-June, Jaipur has been witnessing a dip in the number of corona positive cases. “Since we have been collecting samples from the outskirts of Jaipur including Jaipur (Rural), there was a spike in the cases. This number included cases from Jaipur (Rural) district as 26 cases were reported from Kothputli and some cases, were also reported from villages like Jamdoli, Jaisinghpura Khor and Jobner,” said an officer. The districts that reported more than 100 cases included Jaipur (163) followed by Jodhpur (160) and Kota (122). Also, the districts that reported 90 cases and more included Pali (96), Alwar (90) and Ajmer (90). However, there was some relief in some districts including Barmer, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer and Nagaur where no cases were recorded on Friday. With four deaths, Jaipur reported total 188 deaths and was followed by Jodhpur, where 83 deaths have been reported so far. Out of the total 42,083 cases, Rajasthan now has 11,558 active cases. “As many as 28,374 persons who got Covid-free, got discharged from various hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row-in-raj-total-toll-at-680/articleshow/77292503.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: 13 deaths for second day in a row in Rajasthan, total toll at 680||JAIPUR: While the state government is focussing on minimising the casualties due to Covid-19, the state reported 13 deaths for the second consecutive day on Friday taking its total toll to 680. Also, the state continued to witness above 1,000 cases for the seventh consecutive day as 1,147 cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases is now 42,083. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, four deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bikaner, three deaths reported from Ajmer and one death each was reported from Nagaur and Barmer. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 163 cases out of the total 1,147 cases, which was highest in the state. “Though in the month of March and April, Jaipur had seen more than 200 to 300 cases. However since mid-June, Jaipur has been witnessing a dip in the number of corona positive cases. “Since we have been collecting samples from the outskirts of Jaipur including Jaipur (Rural), there was a spike in the cases. This number included cases from Jaipur (Rural) district as 26 cases were reported from Kothputli and some cases, were also reported from villages like Jamdoli, Jaisinghpura Khor and Jobner,” said an officer. The districts that reported more than 100 cases included Jaipur (163) followed by Jodhpur (160) and Kota (122). Also, the districts that reported 90 cases and more included Pali (96), Alwar (90) and Ajmer (90). However, there was some relief in some districts including Barmer, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer and Nagaur where no cases were recorded on Friday. With four deaths, Jaipur reported total 188 deaths and was followed by Jodhpur, where 83 deaths have been reported so far. Out of the total 42,083 cases, Rajasthan now has 11,558 active cases. “As many as 28,374 persons who got Covid-free, got discharged from various hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/13-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row-in-raj-total-toll-at-680/articleshow/77296557.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Police sub-inspector in Hassan commits suicide||HASSAN: The suicide of Channarayapatna town police sub-inspector has rattled the law enforcement agency in the state, and left many questions hanging. The victim, Kiran Kumar LN, 34, allegedly ended his life on Friday morning, while still wearing the khaki uniform he had put on earlier to step out of his home to probe two cases he was working on. Kiran Kumar is survived by wife, and two children – an eight-year-old son and daughter, four. The cop allegedly took the extreme step unable to withstand the pressure of his official duties. On Friday morning, Kiran Kumar left for the home of his in-laws, where his wife and children had been staying following the outbreak of the pandemic, to celebrate Varamahalakshmi Vratha and have his breakfast. He then left to return to his rented house, reportedly to refresh himself before resuming duty again. However, his driver, after waiting for three quarters of an hour, grew worried, particularly when calls to the SI’s number went unanswered – the phone was turned off. Hassan rural police were called, and in the presence of Kiran Kumar’s wife, the cops broke into the house, to find him hanging from a ceiling fan. Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, offering his condolences to the bereaved family, dubbed the loss of a cop to suicide ‘unfortunate’. He called for an impartial probe into Kiran Kumar’s death. “The state home minister should not crumble under any pressure. I am willing to fight if justice is not delivered,” he said. Kiran Kumar had been probing two separate murder cases. One of these was the murder of 25-year-old Samiulla, who was fatally stabbed, when he tried to intervene to stop a fight between two youngsters. Cops had taken four youngsters into custody in connection with the incident. The victim of the other murder that the deceased SI was investigating too had been stabbed. However, this was a slightly iffy case, since both the assailant and victim involved had affiliations to political parties. While the victim was allegedly a member of the JD(S), the assailant was a Congress functionary, said a local cop on condition of anonymity. Inspector general of police(southern range) Vipul Kumar, Hassan superintendent of police R Srinivas Gowda and additional superintendent of police BN Nandini were among those who offered their respects to Kiran Kumar, whose body had been placed in front of the taluk office. Srinivas Gowda said that they would have to wait for the completion of the probe into Kiran Kumar’s death for the motive of his suicide to become clear. “We have lost a good officer. There was no disciplinary action taken against him ever,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-sub-inspector-in-hassan-commits-suicide/articleshow/77290101.cms||Darshan B H
August 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Woman held for killing her two children||THANJAVUR: The Thanjavur West police on Friday arrested a woman on charges of murdering her two children, a day after she threw them into a canal and attempted suicide. S Senthamizhselvi, 38, of Seppanavari in Thanjavur had a fight with her husband, Suresh, 40, on Wednesday. The woman left home on Thursday morning with her two children, threw them into the Grand Anaicut canal and jumped into it. Locals rescued her. However, her daughter Swetha, 12, and son Gokul,3, drowned. Police booked her under sections 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC. She was produced before the judicial magistrate court I in Thanjavur and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-held-for-killing-her-two-children/articleshow/77293718.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Amid showers, Goa governor soaks in Selaulim dam’s beauty||MARGAO: Goa governor Satya Pal Malik visited the Selaulim dam in Sanguem on Friday and spent some time enjoying the scenic beauty of the place amid the heavy rains. Malik was accompanied by Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar, deputy collector Ajay Gaude, mamlatdar Manoj Korgaokar and others during the visit which was organised by the state’s forest department. Speaking to reporters later, Malik expressed his admiration for the place, describing the dam as “unparalleled” and the botanical garden as one that is “excellently maintained.” “It was raining today, but my visit to the dam was already scheduIed. But I will come back again in September and spend more time here,” Malik said. The governor said that his visit was also driven by the President’s desire that the governors visit all such places in their respective states which have not yet gained much popularity, and wherever necessary suggest ideas for development. “Last week, I visited the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and the Mollem national park. There’s a 1,000-year old temple, there but very few people even know about it,” Malik said. Water has started overflowing from the crest of the Selaulim dam earlier this month, an annual phenomenon which is eagerly awaited. The overflowing water flows into the Selaulim river which is used for irrigation purposes. The unique “duckbill” spillway of the dam through which the water overflows offers a spectacular sight of the dam and its surroundings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-showers-guv-soaks-in-selaulim-dams-beauty/articleshow/77293720.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Healthcare turns dearer as Covid-19 tightens grip on public||Mangaluru: One way or the other, Covid-19 is exacting a heavy price on the livelihood of the public. Not only has the Indian economy taken a nosedive following the outbreak of the pandemic, but healthcare has become considerably less affordable to a large section of the public. A recent incident wherein medical education minister K Sudhakar took exception with a private hospital, which allegedly charged a patient Rs 5 lakh for treatment. Among the reasons for the general spike in the cost for treatment at private healthcare institutions is the amount patients are being charged for masks, face shields among other protective equipment. A 46-year-old Mangaluru-based businessman, who accompanied his cousin, who subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus, to a private hospital, had to pay Rs 21,305 for an overnight stay there. Among other things, he was charged for eight PPE kits. Karnataka president of Democratic Youth Federation of India Muneer Katipalla cited the case of a 52-year-old patient with dengue, who when he was rushed to one private hospital, was refused treatment owing to lack of beds, while he was declared brought dead at another. However, the kin was still charged Rs 8,500 at the latter hospital. “The family members had to wait for several hours before the final rites could be performed. Nearly Rs 8,000 had to be spent on PPE kits alone,” Katipalla said. District health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that PPE kits were not included for waiver under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, which was why they were charged to patients at private hospitals. Pandemic a money-spinner? On the other hand, many private hospitals in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts are being charged with fleecing patients, who are being informed that they are receiving treatment for Covid-19, and being kept at the institutions for three to four days, at the end of which many of them are being sent home after testing negative for the novel coronavirus. A 70-year-old resident of Sampige, with a pre-existing cardiological condition, was admitted to a private hospital, where the staff told him he was positive for the novel coronavirus. Overriding his protestations as to the implausibility of such a thing – he had never been in contact with a previously infected patient nor had he travelled outside Mangaluru – he was admitted to the hospital, where he was treated for five days, at the end of which he was presented with a bill for services rendered: Rs 80,000. “But none of the others in my home, including my wife tested positive for the virus. Furthermore, my house was sealed for a fortnight,” the elderly man said. Mangaluru: A lot of private hospitals in coastal district—Dakshina Kannada and Udupi - have been accused of fleecing patients after they allegedly tested ‘positive’ for Covid-19. Interestingly, patients also alleged they test ‘negative’ for the virus after three or four days. In an audio clip that has gone viral on social media platforms, a man recalls having visited a private hospital complaining of stomachache, and being informed he was infected with Covid-19. “After three days, tests showed that I was negative for the virus, and was discharged. I was charged Rs 90,000. How could I be cured of Covid-19 in just three days? Moreover, none in my family tested positive. Why is the government mum on what is clearly a case of daylight robbery?” this man asked. Another man in Moodbidri coughed up Rs 70,000 after he was confirmed infected at a private hospital, which he visited complaining of heart problems. However, a spokesperson of a leading private hospital in the region dismissed these allegations. “All patients want the best treatment we can offer, but then hurl baseless allegations when they are discharged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/healthcare-turns-dearer-as-covid-19-tightens-grip-on-public/articleshow/77290679.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 1, 2020||Rajkot||English teacher in pvt school ends life||Rajkot: A 31-year-old teacher of English in Junagadh's private school allegedly took his own life in his native town of Jetpur, apparently due to severe financial crisis. This is the second instance of a teacher committing suicide due to financial crisis triggered by the lockdown. Atul Thummar, who was working in Junagadh for the past three years, consumed poison at his farm in Jetpur on Thursday evening. His father was also working in the farm when he spotted Thummar lying unconscious. He was taken to a private hospital in Rajkot where he succumbed on Friday morning. The family members told police that Thummar was earning Rs 30,000 a month, but for the past five months he was at home as the schools were closed due to the Covid-19. The school was paying him Rs 5,000 a month, which was grossly inadequate to meet household expenses. Thummar had slipped into depression, sources in Rajkot's University police station where the inquest was done, said. Thummar got married three years ago but didn’t have any children. Earlier on July 27, a 25-year-old teacher Vipul Tandel in Maroli town of Navsari district, ended his life after the private school in Sachin town had terminated his contract.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/english-teacher-in-pvt-school-ends-life/articleshow/77291724.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Growing paranoia: Cyberchondria cases get doctors thinking||BENGALURU: A government school teacher suspected his throat problem was cancerous and browsed the internet every day for up to nine hours for about a year trying to match his symptoms and arrive at a cure. This despite assurances from 26 ENT specialists that he was fine. The teacher, 34, approached Nimhans (National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences) seeking psychiatric help, but left the treatment midway, claiming he wasn’t being given medicines for his alleged throat trouble. The Bengaluru teacher’s condition is what experts at Nimhans term cyberchondria, the compulsive and aggressive search on the internet for real or imaginative symptoms of one or more illnesses. The teacher’s case as well as several telephonic therapy enquires of similar nature have convinced Nimhans doctors that cyberchondria could be on the rise in Bengaluru and might need a detailed study on the internet-related condition linked to anxiety. Cyberchondria involves excessive indulgence in online health-related platforms for information and the trend grows due to easy access to internet and availability of health portals, whose information may not be correct. Studies overseas have shown that 75% of the participants in 12 counties make use of the internet for health-related searches in a phenomenon that is called Online Health Research (OHR). While OHR can have positive impact like exercise and good food habits, it can also heighten anxiety about subjective health status leading to cyberchondria. “There is a strong possibility that there are many cases of cyberchondria in Bengaluru and persons with the condition are not seeking psychiatric or psychological help. We can’t arrive at a correct figure as we are consulting patients mostly over the phone in the last few months due to Covid crisis,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, professor of clinical psychology and coordinator of SHUT clinic (Service for Healthy Use of Technology) under the department of clinical psychology at Nimhans. Looking at impactAccording to Sharma, a Nimhans study has been initiated to find the impact of cyberchondria among Bengalureans, mainly youth. The team behind the study believes that, when completed, it will throw up new insights into varied levels of Cyberchondria among Bengalureans and will help determine the method of treatment for the condition — whether it needs to be approached with only awareness against severe internet usage or medication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/growing-paranoia-cyberchondria-cases-get-docs-thinking/articleshow/77290631.cms||Petlee Peter
August 1, 2020||Noida||Health department takes over 120 beds in private hospitals||Ghaziabad: The health department has acquired 120 of 598 Covid beds from 10 private facilities in the district. Officials said that of the 120 beds, 20 are ICU beds. Recently, three more private hospitals have been given permission to run Covid wings. The hospitals are Narinder Mohan Hospital (34 beds), Ganesh Hospital (20) and Atlanta Hospital (100 beds). Officials said one of six ICU beds at Narinder Mohan Hospital and two of eight at Atlanta have been acquired by the health department. Of the 598 Covid beds, 98 are ICU beds and all three levels (L1, L2 and L3) of patients are being treated at private hospitals here. While four hospitals are treating only Covid pateints now, six have reserved 20-50 beds in a separate wing to treat Covid patients. They added that only patients referred by the health department would have access to the reserved ICU beds in the private hospitals. Meanwhile, the district magistrate has warned private Covid hospitals against laxity in treating serious patients from poor social background in the absence of expensive injections like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “A letter has been issued to all private Covid hospitals asking health officials to ensure that no poor patient is denied treatment in the absence of the above medicines.” He said if a patient could not afford costly medicines, the hospital would provide those and give the bill to the chief medical officer. The administration has authorised a medical store in Saddik Nagar on Meerut Road to keep stock of costly drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/health-dept-takes-over-120-beds-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77293725.cms||Aditya Dev
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Many newly weds may be separated by India-Pak visa tangles||Nagpur: Covid may soon leave some newly-wed couples separated by the India-Pakistan border. Sonu Khemani, who was living in Nagpur on a long term visa (LTV), had gone to his native place in Pakistan to get married. Now, even as the government is considering facilitating return of LTV holders, Khemani may have to leave his wife behind in Panno Akil, a tehsil in interior Sindh province. A Pakistani citizen, Khemani was living in India since 2009 on a LTV, hoping to get citizenship one day. The Khemanis had gone to Pakistan in March for Sonu’s marriage, and the borders shut due to Covid. Sonu had gone on a no objection return to India (NORI) visa, which is granted to LTV holders, for brief visits back to Pakistan. His wife, however, will have to come on a fresh visit visa. At present the process for repatriation of only NORI visa holders has been initiated, which means the newly-wed wives, who could have entered on a fresh visit visa, will have to stay back. Earlier, Indian nationals on visit to Pakistan were taken back, after which NORI holders had raised a demand to return. As subsistence gets tougher due to overstay in Pakistan, Sonu and others plan to leave, without their spouses. “My wife’s visit visa will expire by August 4. I had a mobile accessories business in Nagpur, now I spend time at my cousin’s shop. It’s getting tough as we keep shifting from one relatives’ home to other. We can’t stay with my in-laws as they are not financially strong,” he says. Avinash Talreja, a chartered account from Ahmedabad, who had also come on a NORI visa to get married, has identified at least 11 such couples living in Sindh. A letter written to the Indian high commission in Pakistan awaits a reply. “To our query, the Indian embassy says that the process is on. The NORI holders have been asked to give an undertaking on willingness to be quarantined, but there is no word about the newly-wed spouses,” he said. His wife Sanu Kumari said her visit visa expired this month. Umesh Thitwani’s married life only began with financial troubles. “Due to the overstay I have run out of money, and have started working at my relatives’ store for Rs300 a day. Even in Indore, I used to work in a retail shop,” he says. Umesh says he has no choice but to leave without his wife as it may be difficult to carry on for longer in Pakistan. “Just a day before we reached Wagah, the borders were closed and we were left stranded. My wife is from Usta Mohammed town in Balochistan and my family is from Sindh. I am managing to by doing odd jobs and with help from community members,” said Arun Raheja, also a NORI holder from Indore. Avinash Kukreja from Pune, who married in January came back to India soon after. His wife was supposed to join him after getting a visit visa. By the time the visa was issued in March, lockdown was imposed. Now, her visa has expired, he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-newly-weds-may-be-separated-by-india-pak-visa-tangles/articleshow/77292524.cms||Shishir Arya
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Deadlock continues in Smart City company||Nagpur: Deadlock continues in the Smart City special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) — as the board of directors (BoD), in a meeting held on Friday, declined to discuss and ratify decisions taken by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe as chief executive officer (CEO). Responding to letter by Mundhe, chairman Praveen Pardeshi had convened the meeting. Mayor Sandip Joshi, also a director in NSSCDCL, told TOI, “The company has sought opinion from attorney general of India (AG) on whether appointment of a nominee-director as CEO can be ratified. The reply is awaited. I had also objected to convening the meeting on short notice. All directors, barring one, opined that discussion and decision should not be taken till the AG’s reply. Next meeting will be held only after receiving the legal opinion.” NSSCDCL had also sought legal opinion on whether decisions taken by Mundhe as CEO can be approved in post facto manner. Sources told TOI that during the meeting Pardeshi suggested to discuss the matter and take a decision, but majority of directors were firm on waiting for legal opinion. Pardeshi reportedly asked the officials of NSSCDCL to seek legal opinion from joint secretary of state’s law and judiciary department if the AG’s reply is delayed. Mundhe had claimed that he assumed charge as CEO in February on the orders of Pardeshi and took some decisions. Joshi had lodged complaints alleging that Mundhe was not a valid CEO. Employees, who were terminated by Mundhe, had also filed a petition in the high court challenging Mundhe’s authority. In the BoD meet on July 10, Pardeshi clarified that he had asked Mundhe to oversee the works as civic chief and not CEO. After Pardeshi’s clarification, it was decided to seek legal opinion. Interestingly, after the July 10 meeting, Pardeshi in a statement to TOI had said, “All decisions taken by Mundhe as CEO, excluding termination of employees, were unanimously approved by the board as these were in good faith and had no vested interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deadlock-continues-in-smart-city-company/articleshow/77292508.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Yoga institutes, gyms to start from Aug 5||Shimla: In Himachal Pradesh lockdown has been extended in the containment zones till August 31 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. At the same time, the state executive committee has issued fresh guidelines for reopening of more activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zone under Unlock 3.0. Now, yoga institutes and gymnasiums would be allowed to function from August 5, as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. According to the guidelines, religious places and places of worship will be opened only according to SOPs to be issued by the department of language, art and culture after ensuring full readiness to comply with the SOPs. Restaurants and dhabas have been allowed to operate in accordance with the SOPs issued by the department of tourism. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/yoga-institutes-gyms-to-start-from-aug-5/articleshow/77292510.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Noida||Two die as portion of building comes crashing down in Noida||NOIDA: A private contractor and a 16-year-old construction worker died while three were critically injured after an awning with multiple iron girders and a steel crust collapsed on them on Friday. The accident in Sector 11 occurred on a day Noida police attached the property of a few developers who had raised buildings in Shahberi, an illegal colony where nine persons had died in a twin-building collapse in 2018 The two persons who died on Friday included a 42-year-old contractor of labourers involved in plumbing work at the building, which is located in an industrial unit. Sources said construction work was being done on the floors above the awning. It is believed that the iron girders had made the awning heavy and it came crashing down unable to bear the load of the metal. Authorities, however, said the exact reason of the collapse was being investigated. The deceased were identified as Janender Kumar (42) and Gopi (16). Three others — Ashu (17) and Sagar (19), and the 70-year-old wife of the building’s owner — suffered serious injuries. An NDRF team brought out the injured persons from under the debris. The team had to cut through the girders and the steel crust to rescue the injured. Ashu told TOI he was working on the ground floor when the structure collapsed. “One of us was inside a room while two were seated outside on chairs after finishing work. I was fixing the wire of the grinding machine when the awning collapsed on us. It had too many iron girders, which caused us the injuries,” he added. The heads of Janender and Gopi were crushed under the debris and they were declared dead on arrival at the District Hospital. While Ashu is recuperating in Noida, Sagar was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi since he had serious injuries in the head and multiple fractures in the limbs. Kamlesh, the wife of the building owner, RK Bhardwaj, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was informed about the collapse and he ordered the Noida police commissioner to go and inspect the spot himself. District magistrate Suhas LY also reached the spot. “The Noida Authority is inquiring into what caused the accident. They will see whether permission had been taken for the construction or not and if engineers were there at the spot. If something is found amiss, action will be taken accordingly,” the DM said. The Noida police chief said the chief minister was monitoring the issue himself. Bhardwaj, the building owner, insisted there was nothing wrong with the construction. “Who can avert a tragedy? There were thick girders in the awning,” he claimed. Sources said all the labourers who were working in the building stay in Loni area of Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/two-die-as-portion-of-building-comes-crashing-down-in-city/articleshow/77293730.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Hi-tech Aavin parlour to come up at RS Puram||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister SP Velumani on Friday laid foundation stone for the district’s first hi-tech Aavin parlour that would come up at RS Puram in the city at an estimated Rs 1.20 crore. R Ravikumar, general manager, Aavin Coimbatore, said, “Unlike the other Aavin stalls, it would be completely air-conditioned, 3,306sqft big, could accommodate 25 to 30 people at a time and have facilities for them to eat. There will be separate parking and children’s play areas. We are planning to open the parlour in March next year.” The minister, in a statement, said Aavin’s milk procurement and sale have increased in the state in the recent times. “Aavin has been procuring 1.90 lakh litres milk from dairy farmers in the district and another 1.13 lakh litres from Tirupur. The sale of milk has increased to 1.60 lakh litres from 1.42 lakh litres last year. The sale of other dairy products has touched Rs 1.60 crore a month from Rs 1 crore last year.” He said temporary and mobile Aavin stalls were being set up to ensure easy availability of milk and other dairy products for the people in containment areas. According to him, 27 kiosks, each at a cost of Rs 5.50 lakh, were being set up in the district. Ravikumar said monthly milk cards could be obtained online from Saturday by logging on to www.aavincoimbatore.com and people need not visit the Aavin regional office to obtain the same. He said the arrangement has been made as people were finding it difficult to visit the office in the absence of public transportation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hi-tech-aavin-parlour-to-come-up-at-rs-puram/articleshow/77292540.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ashish Bhatia takes over reins of Gujarat police||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: Ahmedabad city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia has taken over as director general of police (DGP) of Gujarat. The 1985-batch IPS officer succeeded Shivanand Jha, who retired on Friday after a three-month extension. Bhatia, 58, will continue to hold the additional charge of Ahmedabad police commissioner until a new police commissioner is appointed for Ahmedabad in the next 48 hours, the government said. A ceremonial guard of honour was accorded to outgoing DGP Jha at the Police Bhavan in Gandhinagar. Bhatia took formal charge as DGP in the evening. All top IPS officials were present for a farewell organized for the outgoing DGP. Suspense shrouded the name of Jha’s successor until the last day of his superannuation. Although most expected Bhatia to be the next DGP, his name was announced in the afternoon after the government received a fax from the Centre, saying that Bhatia’s name had been cleared as DGP. Bhatia is known among the IPS community as an officer with an extremely sharp memory and an impeccable knowledge of organized crime syndicates and gangs. He is also credited with solving a number of terror crimes, including the Ahmedabad serial bomb blasts case. “His brightest point is that he remembers and keeps in mind everything. He would even remember the name of a small vehicle thief,” said a police official. Bhatia hails from Haryana and completed his BE (mechanical) before joining the Gujarat cadre on December 23, 1985 as an assistant superintendent of police (ASP). During his early days in the police force, as SP Mehsana, Bhatia led a team which seized a huge consignment of arms. While being posted as SP in the ATS, Bhatia played a key role in nabbing members of the Abdul Latif and Wahab Shaikh gangs after Latif’s arrest. “He was posted in the ATS when AK 56 rifles were recovered from a well in a farm at Zarania in Madhya Pradesh by ATS,” said a senior police official. Bhatia was lauded for leading a clinical investigation of the July 26, 2008 serial bomb blasts in Ahmedabad. The case was cracked within 20 days and conspirators were arrested from different parts of the country. Bhatia was then joint CP, crime branch. A year later, in 2009, he spearheaded investigations in the hooch tragedy which claimed the lives of over 140 persons and arrested all the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhatia-takes-over-reins-of-state-police/articleshow/77292579.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Fresh ban on Sunderbans tourism soon||Kolkata: The forest department has decided to suspend tourism activities in the Sunderbans again to stop the spread of Covid-19. The tourism had restarted on June 15 after remaining suspended for three months. “We have heard about cases in Canning, Godkhali and Gosaba areas. We don’t want our forest staff to get infected, otherwise it will hit our patrolling and other conservation efforts in the forest. So, we have decided to suspend tourism for indefinite period,” said Tapas Das, field director of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, adding that a notification in this regard will be issued soon. A source said a staff at one of the camps is not keeping well. “We have sent his samples for tests,” said an official, adding that other workers at the camp have tested negative. On June 5, the National Tiger Conservation Authority had issued a notification on reopening of tiger reserves across India. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-ban-on-sunderbans-tourism-soon/articleshow/77292568.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: 32-year-old dies after house slab collapses on him||GREATER NOIDA: A 32-year-old worker died while another got injured when they got trapped under rubble after a portion of the house, in which they were engaged in welding work, collapsed in NTPC society on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Qayyum, who lived in Nai Aabadi village of Dadri along with his family. Police said he came to one Kishore Sinha’s house in the society for some welding work in the evening. He was fixing an iron grille on the terrace of the three-storey house, along with Sinha’s house help Nand Kishore, when the accident occurred. Police received information about the accident around 7.30pm. “Prima facie, the collapsed portion was a thick slab attached to the door wall in which the deceased was fixing the grill while the house help was standing next to him. It fell straight on the welder. The house help rescued himself as well as Qayyum out of the rubble. They were rushed to a nearby hospital, however, Qayyum succumbed to his injuries,” said RP Singh Shekhawat, senior sub-inspector at Sector Beta 2 police station, adding that Nand Kishore is out of danger but has been kept in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The house owner told the police that the slab was larger than its normal size and had cracks in it . “He was apparently informed about the weak portion. It seems that the portion left the plaster due to the heat and pressure of the welding work,” said Shekhawat. The body was sent for an autopsy before being handed over to the family, said police. Since no complaint has been filed by Qayyum’s family, police have not lodged an FIR in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/32-year-old-dies-after-house-slab-collapses-on-him/articleshow/77293751.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 1, 2020||Noida||Properties of 8 Shahberi builders attached||GREATER NOIDA: Police on Friday attached Rs 17 crore worth of properties belonging to eight developers accused of carrying out illegal construction in Shahberi village, where the collapse of two ‘unfit’ buildings claimed nine lives in 2018. The attached properties include 31 flats and 25 shops, along with other movable and non movable assets of the accused builders. These flats and shops were those kept by the accused for their own use in the projects that they had developed in the past few years. Police said the eight accused were among the 19 developers who had been booked under the Gangster Act, a year after the twin building collapse. They are accused of constructing illegal buildings with substandard material and without getting the layout plan approved and selling them to innocent buyers. “Their properties have been attached under Sector 14 of the Gangster Act after the special investigation team prepared the list of their assets, which they are believed to have accumulated from defrauding people,” said Harish Chander, DCP of central Noida, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/properties-of-8-shahberi-builders-attached/articleshow/77293754.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Caseload drops below 200, four deaths take toll to 54||Coimbatore: The district reported 169 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally to 4,821, of which 1,738 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, went up to 54, as the state included four deaths that the district saw on Wednesday in its bulletin. A health department official said 138 cases were reported from the city corporation limits alone. “Seven cases each were recorded from Selvapuram and Saravanampatti, five from Kuniyamuthur and four from Ukkadam. The remaining cases were spread across Karamadai, Annur, Sulur and Madukkarai, among other areas.” While two of the deceased were aged above 60 years, the remaining two were below 40 years. Two of them - a 79-year-old man and a 65-year-old man – died in the ESI Hospital. The 79-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension. He died of severe pneumonia that was caused by the virus infection on Wednesday. The 65-year-old man was also admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after he contracted the virus. He too had type-2 diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension, and he died of pneumonia on Wednesday. The remaining two - a 36-year-old man and a 27-year-old man – died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The 36-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday. Health officials collected his throat swab from the hospital, where he died of bilateral bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome the same day. The 27-year-old man was admitted to CMCH on Tuesday. He died of bronchopneumonia and traumatic quadriplegia on Wednesday. The neighbouring Tirupur, meanwhile, reported 51 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its count to 873, of which 308 are active cases. The district has 2,713 people who are in home quarantine. According to a source, health officials have collected throat and nasal swabs from about 956 people in the district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caseload-drops-below-200-four-deaths-take-toll-to-54/articleshow/77292555.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Class XI test: Coimbatore tops in pass percentage||Coimbatore: The district has recorded the highest pass percentage (98.1%) in the state in results of Class XI examinations released on Friday. Out of 34,247 students who appeared in the exams held in March this year, 33,597 cleared it. Girls (98.6%) secured a better pass percentage than boys (97.3%). A statement from the office of the Chief Educational Officer (CEO), P Usha, said, “As many as 197 schools have secured 100% pass. It includes 13 government higher secondary schools, a corporation school and a school run by Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare department. All performed better this year.” Students from 357 higher secondary schools attended the examination. This apart, 112 students with physical disabilities had attended the examination and 107 of them cleared it. The statement said 1,469 students secured a centum in at least one subject, and that a 100% pass rate was achieved in five subjects – micro-biology, bio-chemistry, nursing general, home science and communicative English. In other major subjects like physics, chemistry, biology and computer science, the district’s pass percentage is above 98%.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-xi-test-coimbatore-tops-in-pass-percentage/articleshow/77292591.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||HP min: Plan affordable loan scheme for students||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Friday directed his department to come up with ‘Vidyarthi Credit Card Scheme’ to provide affordable and simplified education loan to eligible students. A proposal for amendments in Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions (Regulation) Act 1997 was also made during a cabinet sub-committee meeting, presided over by Bhardwaj. The minister said the vision document of the state government is based on general public opinion to meet the aspirations of people of Himachal Pradesh. He said the government is modernising the present education system in the state by providing IT facilities at school and college level. He said 114 out of 137 colleges have been provided with wi-fi facility, for which a provision of Rs 27.77 lakh has been made. The state has kept Rs 3.72 crore for wi-fi facility in 1,837 government senior secondary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-min-plan-affordable-loan-scheme-for-students/articleshow/77292547.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: On the threshold of change, Ayodhya braces for transition||AYODHYA: At Hanumangarhi, the core of Ayodhya, one can feel the busyness and the verve of excitement that is gathering momentum in the temple town despite restrictions in view of ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The much-awaited moment is barely a few days away which will bring about a major transition in the lives of the people of Ayodhya. “Itne barson ki tapsaya puri hone jaa rahi hai… Ayodhya ki peedhiyon ka sapna poora hone jaa raha hai (the penance of so many years is about to culminate. The dream of generations in Ayodhya is on the horizon),” says head of Tewari Mandir Mahant Girishpati Tripathi, expressing the feeling that is driving the temple town these days. Foundation of a new beginning: “What did Ayodhya want? A new beginning, especially after the demolition of the disputed structure. Residents suffered in the tussle between two sides to the extent that their everyday life was affected. Those born in the 1980s and 90s had to leave the place for better education and jobs. But now, a new beginning is waiting to embrace us,” says Rohit Pal, an Ayodhya-based photographer. “People are now convinced of being able to see temple construction in the near future,” tourist guide VK Sharma says. Those with extra rooms in their homes are thinking that sooner or later, they will be able to offer home stay to tourists and devotees. ‘Ayodhya is for Hindus, what Mecca is for Muslims’: Flag-bearers of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, Muslims in Ayodhya feel that the day is not far when Ayodhya will be as famous as Mecca. “What Mecca means to Muslims, Ayodhya is for Hindus. After the temple comes up, Hindus from all over the world will visit Ayodhya at least once the way Muslims go for Haj,” says Shakeel Ali, who works in a private company. A litigant in the case, Iqbal Ansari, has also said the development will herald a new life for Ayodhya which will affect every person. It’s Ram-Rajja all the way: As one walks through the stretch between Saket PG College and Nayaghat, it appears as if one is walking in a ‘yellow zone’. Local authorities are getting the buildings painted in colours associated with Lord Ram. “Lord Ram is also known as ‘peetambar dhari’ (one who wears yellow). This means that yellow is the favorite colour of the diety. In Ayodhya, a shade of yellow with a dash of vermillion is called ‘Ram Rajja’. The city is being painted in his favourite colour,” says municipal commissioner and vice-chairman of the development authority Neeraj Shukla. Many households and shop-keepers in areas near Ram Janmabhoomi are also getting their homes painted in Ram Rajja. A Diwali before Diwali: The festival of lights celebrated in the Hindu month of Kartik marks the return of Ram to Ayodhya from exile. But the organisers are planning to celebrate Diwali on the day of ‘bhoomi pujan’. “The plan is to illuminate the temple town with earthen lamps to mark the occasion,” says a senior officer from the Ram Manohar Lohia Avadh University who is engaged in preparations. All the temples – big or small – have been asked to join the celebrations by lighting diyas. “With over 7,000 temples in 7km stretch around Hanuman Garhi lighting diyas, 2020 will be remembered for two Diwalis,” says Manas Mishra, a local. Sleepless nights at Karsevakpuram, Karyashala: The office of the Ram Temple Teerth Kshetra Trust at Karsevakpuram is abuzz with activities with the general secretary of the trust holding marathon meetings to coordinate for the event. “Most of us are barely sleeping these days,” says Prakash Shukla, associated with the cause since 1984. “Dreams don’t let you sleep,” says Shivadas ji, adding that most of their time is spent in telling people not to come for the event in view of coronavirus pandemic. Despite restrictions, pilgrims are visiting the place to click the pictures of the workshop as material will eventually be transported to the place it is meant for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/on-the-threshold-of-change-ayodhya-braces-for-transition/articleshow/77293759.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Reliance-Future Group talks may delay group’s malls reopening||Nagpur: Here is another change that Covid may bring in the coming days. As malls are expected to start from August 5, there are chances some of the major stores to which the consumers have been used to, over the years, may not be present in their old format. Future Group enjoys the biggest share in the city’s retail space. Reliance Group is eyeing to take over the retail stores run by the former. Sources said if the talks, which are in an advanced stage, finalize, then Future Group may first empty the merchandize in the stores across the country. With this, there are chances the Future Group stores in the city may not reopen along with rest of the malls that may restart after August 5, said sources privy to the developments in the company. There are chances that the whole process may take two weeks, at least, leading to delay in the reopening. Future Group at present has its presence in over 4 lakh square feet of organized retail space in the city. This includes Big Bazaar stores in Ramdaspeth, IT Park Manish Nagar, Central Mall, which alone is spread in an area of 1.5 lakh square feet, and other FBB stores. The deal, if materialized, will also include the Future Groups’s logistics centre at Mihan, said the sources. If the take over deal materializes, Future Group will have to clear all merchandize lying at the stores before handing over the possession. The process may take some time. Part of the goods may be disposed off, with rest given back to vendors. Nagpur was among the first destinations where Future Group had started its operations in early 2000s. The first store here which was opened at Ramdaspeth also brought a change in the entire retail segment in the city. Later, the city was also chosen as the logistics hub which was set up in Mihan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reliance-future-group-talks-may-delay-groups-malls-reopening/articleshow/77292625.cms||Shishir Arya
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||At 7, Patuli-Baghajatin reports highest C-zones in one pocket||KOLKATA: The Patuli-Baghajatin belt spanning a little over 2km has recorded seven containment zones, with Patuli and Jadavpur police stations reporting 251 Covid cases, 154 of them active. In all, 12 people from the area have died after contracting novel coronavirus. It makes for the highest c-zones in a pocket. The worst hit are I, B and D Block in Baisnabghata-Patuli township and Baghajatin Place. Thirty-one buildings in Patuli and 39 in Baghajatin Place-Talpukur have been put under containment. Talpukur Street market near Baghajatin station has also been given the tag. Police have further split four high-risk zones in Baisnabghata-Patuli township into eight smaller pockets for quick response. “We want to focus block by block. But we did not want to inconvenience people in unaffected houses,” said a senior officer. Satarupa Biswas, a resident of I Block said a population of 6.5 lakh people in the belt, easy access from all parts of Kolkata and South 24 Parganas and proximity to hospitals made locals vulnerable to the virus. “Our society has stopped domestic help from entering. Those in containment zones are getting help from cops,” she said. After I, B and D Blocks, with Covid cases also spreading towards Patuli’s E Block, police believe smaller restriction zones would help arrest the virus. “Mukundapur is already affected. If strict steps are not taken, newer areas will be affected. Earlier, we had to put in a lot of effort to control the spread in Panchasayar and Shahid Smriti Colony, which have apartments, houses and slums. We have now shut smaller arterial roads in I, B and D Blocks,” said a Lalbazar officer.  Containment zones in the congested Baghajatin area are reportedly more difficult to manage. But cops have been deployed on roads round-the-clock to keep an eye on unnecessary loitering. A bank branch has also been shut in the high-risk zone. “Special teams will visit each point and report the status to the local police stations,” the officer said. Nilanjan Dasgupta, a PG student living at Baghajatin Place, said cops had even provided food in containment areas. “KMC officials were visiting homes.” A KMC health official said the main reason for the spike was due to people’s reluctance to abide by restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-7-patuli-baghajatin-reports-highest-c-zones-in-one-pocket/articleshow/77292621.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Local bodies get ready to check dengue outbreak||Coimbatore: The urban local bodies have been implementing dengue preventive measures in the district and neighbouring Tirupur for the past one month in tandem with Covid-19 containment measures. While the city corporation has asked its domestic breeding checkers to carry out both door-to-door survey to identify people with flu-like symptoms and anti-dengue drive, the Tirupur city corporation has deployed 200 such workers to implement dengue preventive measures alone. A city corporation source said, “We have about 800 domestic breeding checkers. All of them are deployed for door-to-door survey to identify the people with Covid-19 symptoms and those who have returned to the city recently. They are directed to carry out anti-dengue drive as well.” Pointing out that they were working in a group of three in each area, the source said, “While a person takes survey, the other would check for potential mosquito breeding spot around the house and the third person would pour abate solution in water tanks. Since Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city, we have given them strict instructions not to enter any house. If any worker contracts the virus, containment measures will be affected.” Meanwhile, Tirupur corporation commissioner K Sivakumar said domestic breeding checkers have been deployed to check vacant sites and other places to identify source of mosquito breeding and destroy them. “The workers would also pour abate solutions in stagnant water to destroy mosquito larvae.” Earlier, he said, workers used to inspect houses to identify the source of mosquito breeding. “But because of Covid-19 scare, we have directed the workers not to step into houses this year. Fogging is also done in the city limits daily.” According to a corporation source, a worker could cover up to 50 houses a day. “No dengue cases have been reported in the district in the past four months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/local-bodies-get-ready-to-check-dengue-outbreak/articleshow/77292619.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 1, 2020||Goa||NGO links higher Covid deaths in Vasco to coal pollution||Panaji: Goencho Avaaz has asked the state government to study the link between prolonged exposure to coal dust and pollution and the high number of Covid-19 fatalities in Vasco. The NGO has appealed to the state government to constitute a committee or appoint a reputed research agency to undertake an extensive study to scientifically study the coal pollution in Vasco and surrounding areas and its link with Covid related cases in Vasco. “There is a need to study the rise in Covid cases in Vasco and nearby areas and officially establish the link with coal pollution being the root cause and reason behind turning the port town into the epicenter for Covid-19 crisis,” said co-convener of the NGO Swapnesh Sherlekar. Mormugao taluka has accounted for most of the Covid-19 cases and deaths in Goa after the initial outbreak at Mangor Hill. The pandemic also claimed the life of a municipal councillor and a 14-year old girl, both from Vasco. Goencho Avaaz claimed that people in the state believe that prolonged exposure to the fine coal particles is the root cause for the increase in Covid related cases and deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngo-links-higher-covid-deaths-in-vasco-to-coal-pollution/articleshow/77293773.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Ram’s town sends out sweet message||Ayodhya: A deserted looking Ayurvedic Centre in Ayodhya’s Maniram Ki Chhavni may look insignificant but is playing a crucial role in the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram temple, scheduled for August 5. This is the unlikely location for the manufacturing of 1.15 lakh besan laddoos, being made as prasad or offering by the devotees of the famous Devraha Baba. After bhoomi pujan, these laddoos will sent across the country to be distributed among Ram devotees. The top floor of the Ayurvedic Centre has been converted to a makeshift kitchen. At one end, men are cleaning steel boxes and another few are filling these boxes and packing them into gunny bags. On the other side of the hall, one halwai is cooking the besan in a huge karahi while about six women and men are deftly shaping the laddoos next to him. “We started a work a few days earlier. Making 1.15 lakh laddoos is no mean task so we are working round the clock. Three different boxes of laddoos will be prepared. One will hold 21 laddoos, another 11 and the third kind will hold five. After the ceremony, we will first distribute these boxes in temples in Ayodhya and later, take them to other cities,” said Virendra Das, a devotee of Devraha Baba, whose disciple Devraha Hans Baba took the pledge of distributing these laddoos. Das, a retired official of the Bihar assembly, said that 40 teams have been constituted to carry the laddoos to various parts of the cities. He himself will be setting out from Ayodhya on August 8 and travelling up to Badrinath, distributing the boxes in every major religious spot on the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rams-town-sends-out-sweet-message/articleshow/77293779.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 1, 2020||Surat||Nursing students send rakhis to Covid patients, NCH staff||Surat: The students of the Government College of Nursing in Surat have decided to celebrate Rakshabandhan in a different way. The 36 nursing students have sent rakhis to Covid-19 patients admitted at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and also to the staff members involved in Covid-19 duty. “The medical fraternity is playing an important role in the pandemic, including nurses. Our 35 nursing students are also serving at NCH’s Covid-19 Hospital. As Rakshabandhan is approaching, they have decided to send rakhis to Covid-19 patients and other staff members who may not be able to celebrate due to the fear of spreading infections,” said Indrawati Rao, principal, Government College of Nursing, Surat. “Patients should not feel lonely on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. Also, front line staff is working round the clock to fight the Covid-19. We have sent rakhis for all at the NCH and pray for patients’ speedy recovery and their well being,” said Khushbu Moriya, a nursing student. “This is nothing but a goodwill gesture and encourages front line warriors that we all are together in the fight against the pandemic,” added Indrawati Rao. The Government College of Nursing is located at the New Civil Hospital campus in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nursing-students-send-rakhis-to-covid-patients-nch-staff/articleshow/77292334.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Grievance redressal over phone||Residents of Tirupur district can convey their grievances to collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday through phone calls from 11am to 1pm. Due to Covid-19, the state government has suspended the grievance day petition that used to be held at the collectorate every Monday, where people from across the district could appear in person to lodge their petitions. The special grievance day petition will be held on Monday from 11 am to 1 pm at the Tirupur collectorate. Contact 0421- 2969 999. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/grievance-redressal-over-phone/articleshow/77292632.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured tusker dies without responding to treatment||Coimbatore: An ailing male elephant, which had been under the care of the forest department at the Nellimalai reserve forest in the Mettupalayam forest range here, died on Friday.The tusker had wounds on its palate caused by a fight with another male elephant, due to which it could not eat for nearly 10 days, officials said.Frontline staff of the department had noticed the 11-year-old animal at Sundapatti section of the reserve forest a few days ago. They could not approach the sick animal as the herd was present.Department’s veterinary officer Sugumar and team administered 32 bottles of glucose to the animal on Thursday. Frontline staff visited the spot on Thursday night. They returned again on Friday morning to find the animal dead.District forest officer D Venkatesh said that the wounds had pus. “The animal was not able to take food and water. The infection had spread to the deeper tissues,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-tusker-dies-without-responding-to-treatment/articleshow/77292631.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Mild, moderate patients also have cardiac issues||BENGALURU: While death audits in the country and global evidence over the past few months have comprehensively documented that Covid-19 can also impact the heart, it is now emerging that the disease not only impacts patients with severe conditions, but also those who only developed mild or moderate symptoms. Traces of its impact have also been found among patients who recovered. The new findings, based on studies on patients in Germany, Singapore and China, appear to add credence to India’s strategy of herd immunity not being an option until a vaccine comes along. The studies show the disease can have an adverse impact on patients who recovered at their homes without needing medical intervention, prompting experts to recommend resources be dedicated to investigate patients who have recovered so as to fully understand the impact of the virus. So far, no serious large-scale effort to investigate patients who recover has been done. The study of German patients recently recovered from Covid-19 — done between 64 and 92 days of their recovery — finds that regardless of pre-existing conditions, severity and overall course of acute illness and time from the original diagnosis, the disease was found to have had an impact on the heart, including myocardial inflammation. Results of the study were published in the latest edition of JAMA Cardiology, a peer-reviewed medical journal. Dr Tarun Bhatnagar of the National Institute of Epidemiology’s ICMR School of Public Health told TOI: “We’ve already been seeing that after recovery, patients are suffering from fatigue, heaviness in the head and breathlessness after some exertion. They did not have these conditions earlier. Other than this, there have been a couple of other studies too and in the backdrop of the new findings, we must do a study to understand the Indian context.” While countries like Singapore examined patients who had recovered six months ago, Bhatnagar said some other studies have focused on patients who recovered about three months ago. Other experts point out that India too now has a fairly large pool of patients whose time since recovery varies and this will be useful. “Going by the study, we understand that even those whose condition was not critical have seen damage to their hearts,” Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance said. “This is critical information and now our government must dedicate resources to study existing patients to understand how the virus is behaving and also examine people who have recovered.” Dr Babu went on to say that the Centre’s perspective that herd immunity will be achieved only after a vaccine came through is on the right track. “This approach means that controlling infections will still be a priority and we think it must be, given that the disease can have a long-term impact on even those who are recovering. People must also understand their role and not be casual about precaution,” Babu said. Given that the virus is expected to infect a significant proportion of the population, such studies will help the government devise appropriate treatment protocols and also aid individuals in making right decisions. Dr CN Manjunath, a cardiologist and member of the government’s Covid task force, quoting another study done in China, pointed out that the virus had attacked the heart in at least 20% of all Covid patients. While this percentage of patients is those who showed symptoms, he said: “At the sub-clinical (which is not evident clinically) level, involvement of the heart is about 30% or more.” This is seen as one of the reasons for more people below 50 years dying. But experts say these are postulates at this juncture and a thorough study must be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/study-finds-covid-impacts-mild-recovered-patients-hearts-too/articleshow/77291133.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker Arisi Raja out of kraal after training||Coimbatore: Captive wild elephant Arisi Raja alias Muthu has been released from the kraal at the Varagaliyar elephant camp near Topslip.Forest department staff will observe the animal for 10 days to trace any aggressive behaviour. “We had kept the elephant in the kraal last November and he learned to obey the commands given by mahouts. To make sure that he does not get aggressive, a mahout, his assistant and frontline staff of the forest department will observe the elephant for 10 days before shifting him to the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp,” said an official.The 19-year-old tusker earned the nickname Arisi Raja as he used to raid houses and shops in Aliyar in search of rice. Forest department captured him from Arthanaripalayam village near Pollachi last November after he killed a minor girl at Navamalai in May and a man at Arthanaripalayam near Pollachi in November.He was kept in a kraal, guarded by crop raider tusker Chinna Thambi. Forest department staff named him Muthu. He was taken out of the kraal on July 21.Arisi Raja will participate in the World Elephant Day functions to be held on August 12 at the Varagaliyar elephant camp along with Chinna Thambi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-arisi-raja-out-of-kraal-after-training/articleshow/77292645.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||MahaMetro gets Rs9.84L phone bill for closed office||Nagpur: MahaMetro authorities were stunned after receiving telephone bills of over Rs9.80 lakh for landline numbers at their old office in Civil Lines, which is not being used now. Following a complaint, Sadar police have on Thursday lodged an offence of cheating against unidentified persons. It’s learnt the staffers of MahaMetro had started shifting to their new premises earlier this year. In the month of March, unidentified persons are learnt to have hacked the numbers and manipulated EPBX (electronic private branch exchange) system to make numerous international calls. Sadar police are set to refer the details of the case to city police’s cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-gets-rs9-84l-phone-bill-for-closed-office/articleshow/77292648.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Full fee demand: Madras high court warns schools, colleges||CHENNAI: Private schools and colleges demanding payment of full annual fee from parents in violation of an earlier order by the Madras high court will face contempt of court proceedings, the court said on Friday. Justice N Anand Venkatesh issued the warning after additional government pleader V Annalakshmi made an urgent mention about the state receiving several complaints from parents about schools and colleges insisting on paying the entire fee in violation of the interim order. She said parents are hesitant to give a written complaint fearing adverse consequences. Taking a serious note of the issue, the judge directed authorities to conduct an inquiry and file a report by August 17. Making it clear that persons incharge of such private educational institutions will be hauled up for contempt, the judge said, “This court is taking a very serious note of the violation brought to its notice. Based on the oral complaint, the education department shall conduct an immediate enquiry and if it is found that the institutions are collecting fees in violation of the interim orders passed by this court, immediate action shall be taken against them.” The issue pertains to challenges made by associations of educational institutions against government order prohibiting them from demanding fee from parents during the lockdown. On July 17, the court allowed them to collect an ‘advance’ fee of 40% from students before August 31 as an interim measure. This apart, since fee fixed for some of these institutions had expired and fee fixation committees were yet to frame the new fee structure, it was agreed to fix 75% of the fee collected last year as this year’s annual fee provisionally. The remaining 35% of the fee (minus 40% advance) shall be collected within two months from the date of reopening of institutions and commencement of physical classes, the court had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/full-fee-demand-court-warns-schools-colleges/articleshow/77292671.cms||Sureshkumar
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Celebrations subdued due to Covid: MLA||Ayodhya: Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta is busy in preparations for ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple and is looking forward to the historic moment but rues that Covid-19 has severely watered down the event for “which the temple town had been waiting for last 498 years”. “We had been waiting for this moment all our lives but the plans for grand celebrations had to be scaled down due to Covid-19. We can not allow crowding of devotees in Ayodhya. We were planning cultural events at every crossing but that is no longer possible. However, residents of Ayodhya will make up for that,” Gupta said. He added that the city would be decked up in a way that people would not have seen in their lifetime. “The city will get an airport, an international bus stop, wider roads, better infrastructure, basically, the much-needed developmental push that it had been longing for,” Gupta said. “Ayodhya ab badlegi (Ayodhya will finally change)”, he said, adding that during his visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would announce Ayodhya’s transformation into an international destination for culture and religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/celebrations-subdued-due-to-covid-mla/articleshow/77293788.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||4.8kg ganja seized from eight people in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Police arrested eight people from various parts of the city on Thursday and seized 4.8kg ganja from them. Selvapuram police sub-inspector C Sekar and team nabbed S Velmurugan and K Sheik Mohammed of Chettipalayam from the Ukkadam Bypass on Thursday afternoon with 2.25kg contraband. They were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Sathyamangalam sub-jail. Podanur sub-inspector Kasthuri and team arrested N Jayaprakash of Malumichampatti, K Sarbudeen and A Abdul Rahim of Podanur from Avvai Nagar for possession of 1.25kg ganja. The trio, who worked as labourers, told police that they had bought the contraband from Palani. The Kuniyamuthur police arrested C Udhayakumar and M Nagaraj of Malumichampatti from a government high school premises at Kuniyamuthur with 1.25kg ganja. Police also seized some cash and a scooter from them. The Saravanampatti police arrested M Saravanan of Anna Nagar at Chinnavedampatti for possession 100g ganja. All of them were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-8kg-ganja-seized-from-eight-people/articleshow/77292647.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Salem||Brothers found dead outside Salem GH||Salem: Two brothers died under suspicious circumstances in front of the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital (SGMKMCH) on Friday morning. The deceased, P Obuli, 26, of Elampillai and his younger brother Mathesh, 24, were weavers by profession. Both Obuli and his father Pattabiraman had come to SGMKMCH 45 days ago after Mathesh, a diabetic, complained of high blood pressure. “They were getting medicines from doctors as outpatients as only Covid patients were being treated there,” said an official from Salem town police station. The three were staying on the hospital premises and were eating at the Amma canteen inside the hospital campus. On Friday morning around 8.30 am, both Obuli and Mathesh were found in a critical condition in front of the hospital entrance. Passersby alerted doctors and police, but Mathesh died on the spot, a police official said. The hospital staff admitted Obuli for treatment, but he died shortly after. Salem town police have registered a case and have initiated an inquiry. Preliminary inquiry revealed that both Obuli and Mathesh consumed a cold drink beverage. Soon after consuming it, they swooned on the floor. “Someone gave them the beverage... they died after consuming it,” the official added. Police officials said they suspect that the beverage was laced, and that autopsy results will clarify the exact cause of the death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/brothers-found-dead-outside-salem-gh/articleshow/77292643.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP man held for FB post on Periyar||Coimbatore: The rural police arrested a BJP functionary on Friday for posting a derogatory message against Periyar EV Ramasamy on his Facebook page. The accused, N Nandakumar, 32, from Kunniyur near Annur, was booked under IPC sections 153 (A), 295 (A) and 505 (ii). Nandakumar allegedly posted a derogatory comment against ‘Periyar’ on his Facebook page on July 19. Following this, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) functionary Gopalakrishnan, 28, from Nallichettipalayam lodged a complaint with Annur police and demanded stringent action against Nandakumar. A case was registered against Nandakumar on July 21 but no action was takenTPDK members staged a protest near the district police office a few days ago and demanded that Nandakumar be arrested. The police zeroed in on Nandakumar on Friday. He was remanded to judicial custody till August 14 and is currently lodged at the Sathyamangalam sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-man-held-for-fb-post-on-periyar/articleshow/77292636.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees let-up in cases, just 2 test +ve||Udhagamandalam: There was a let-up in Covid-19 cases in the Nilgiris on Friday, when it logged just two new cases, taking its tally to 766. While the district has 132 active cases, 632 patients have recovered so far. The recovery rate stands at 82.5% in the district. The new cases comprise a 47-year-old woman from Chinna Coonoor, who was a contact of an earlier patient with travel history to Kerala, and a 29-year-old woman from Archedin at Coonoor, who was a secondary contact of an earlier patient who attended a wedding at Ottupattarai. According to the Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, at least five Covid-19 clusters in the district have been contained with aggressive contact tracing. “As part of containment measure, we are now concentrating on big villages such as Nanjanadu and Adhikaratty. Throat swabs from people with comorbidity and over 60 years of age are being collected for Covid-19 testing.” Covid-19 patients with symptoms are treated at government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor. If they show improvement in four to five days, they are discharged and advised home quarantine. Such patients would then be monitored by health officials, who would call them daily. In the case of asymptomatic patients, they are treated for 10 days in Covid care centres. They have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days after discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-let-up-in-cases-just-2-test-ve/articleshow/77292684.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nashik||No. of active cases doubles in 1 week||Nashik: The number of active Covid-19 patients in the city has doubled in the last one week — from 1,576 on July 30 to 3,273 on August 6 — owing to the recent spike in positive cases. According to a Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) official, the recovery rate of the city has also dipped from earlier 79.5% to 71% in the same period. “There has been a sudden spike in positive cases during the last one week where on an average over 500 cases have been reported daily. The city has recorded a total 3,667 patients during this period,” he said. “We have increased the tracing of suspects and high risk contacts. Moreover, we are also focusing on their testing and treatment. We increased the testing by almost 12 times during the past one month — from 250 to 3,000 tests. We were able to find more patients due to more tests that also led to rise in the number of positive patients,” he added. The recovery rate has also been affected due to the rise in cases. Out of the total 12,505 patients reported so far, 8,898 patients have recovered till August 6. The city has also recorded a total of 333 deaths till date. “The three-point formula, tracing, rapid test for early detection and immediate treatment, have also led to drop in Covid death rate from 4.81% on June 30 to 2.66%,” the official said. The city had recorded the first patient on April 6 and had only 49 cases by May 19. However, since then there the cases started going up. The city had a total 2,182 cases with 105 deaths till June 30 which increased to 9,441 cases with 276 deaths till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-active-cases-doubles-in-1-week/articleshow/77420011.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals keep contagion at bay||Udhagamandalam: Except for a pregnant woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago, the Nilgiris, which is home to six tribal groups, has not reported any novel coronavirus cases among the tribals since its outbreak in the hills.This is despite sickle cell anemia is significantly common among the tribal communities. Tribals with sickle cell anemia fall under the high-risk category when it comes to Covid-19. According to health officials, the disease is mostly found among Irulas, Paniyars and Kurumbas in the Nilgiris.As per the 2011 census, the district has 33,813 people belonging to six tribal communities of Todas, Kotas, Kurumbas, Irulas, Paniyas and Kattunayakans.The woman was tested positive for the virus when she went to a hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. The 35-year-old Paniyar woman hails from Koundankolli, a tribal hamlet located in Devarsolai panchayat in Gudalur taluk. The Paniyar tribal hamlet, which houses around 40 families, was subsequently made a containment zone and people were screened for Covid-19.District collector J Innocent Divya says high awareness on Covid-19 among the tribals has helped them keep the virus at bay. “While they live in small hamlets, they don’t mingle with others and travel anywhere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-keep-contagion-at-bay/articleshow/77292686.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Resume lower courts: Lawyers||Coimbatore: More than 100 lawyers protested in front of the combined court campus here on Friday seeking resumption of lower courts immediately and demanding the Centre to dissolve the panel that was formed to make reforms in criminal laws. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resume-lower-courts-lawyers/articleshow/77292659.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Saraswati water, soil from historical sites for Temple||AYODHYA: Besides water from more than 100 river banks and soil from 800-900 holy places across India, a pot of water from the “mythical” Saraswati river, the source of which was reportedly discovered in Haryana a few years back, will also be used for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The water is being carried to Ayodhya by seers sent by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. It was collected by RSS and VHP members on Sunday. Yamunanagar district chief of RSS Mukesh Garg said: “The waters and sand collected from different holy rivers of Yamunanagar will be sent to Ayodhya before August 5. The country had been waiting for the construction of Ram temple for many generations and we are lucky to be part of this historical moment.” Soil from places of historical importance associated with India’s freedom struggle and events linked with Hindu pride, is also being brought to Ayodhya. “A delegation of seers has started from Haryana and will reach Ayodhya on Tuesday with water from the holy river. The Haryana CM had it drawn from the source of the river and is considered auspicious,” said Ashok Tiwari, kendriya sant sampark pramukh of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Saraswati was regarded as a sacred river in the Vedic times. It is believed that the Vedas were written on its banks, and therefore, Saraswati is worshipped as the Goddess of knowledge. It is believed that the river originates from Adi Badri area near Yamunanagar in Haryana and has been flowing underground. Excavation work has been going on for last five years during which people have found signs of a water system at a depth of 5-8 feet, believed to be remnants of the river. Haryana government has made an elaborate plan for the revival of the river and several projects like bridges, ghats and reservoirs will be started for its development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saraswati-water-soil-from-historical-sites-for-temple/articleshow/77293826.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Discharge certificate may say no test needed||KOLKATA: The state health department is likely to introduce a column in Covid patients’ hospital discharge certificates, mentioning test was not mandatory while being released, under government guidelines. The health department and police have been receiving complaints that locals demanded the discharged patients got a Covid-negative report before returning home. Going by the revised ICMR protocol being followed in Bengal, testing was not mandatory before being released from hospitals. It was done only for severely critical patients. In a meeting in Nabanna on Friday, attended by senior officials of departments coordinating Covid management, it was suggested the discharge certificates mentioned such test reports were not mandatory to clear ambiguity. “There appears to be a communication gap. Initially, tests were conducted before discharge, but not now. It is not possible for all to get tested in private labs. Home isolation is must for all released from hospitals,” an official said. The official said mild, very mild, pre-symptomatic patients could be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms and no fever for three days, with no testing. In moderate cases, patients are released if they have no fever for three days and maintain oxygen saturation above 95% for four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/discharge-cert-may-say-no-test-needed/articleshow/77292746.cms||Debashish Konar
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Shopkeepers fleeing to avoid rapid tests||HUBBALLI: To curb the spread of Covid-19, the Hubballi-Dharwad district administration had launched a drive to test shopkeepers in markets with rapid antigen kits, but the move has hit a hurdle: Many shopkeepers are opposing the drive and even shutting shops to avoid undergoing the test. Shopkeepers and customers flee when they see health workers arriving to collect samples, officials say. About 15 shops have been sealed in the twin cities over the past two days after owners or workers tested positive. The drive began on Thursday and shopkeepers in Dajibanpet, Janatabazar, Durgadbail, Harsha complex and other areas in Hubballi and Tikare Road, Subhas Road and Gandhichowk in Dharwad argued with health workers who gone there to collect samples. They then shut their shops and left, although health workers did manage to convince some to take the test. Shopkeepers say they have incurred huge losses and cannot afford to have their shops sealed. Also the test drive is scaring away customers. “If we have symptoms we will undergo the test, but we should not be compelled,” they said. District deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said the drive was launched on Thursday and was aimed at making the district Covid19-free. “Hundreds of people visit these shops daily and if anyone in the shop is infected, then the virus spreads to the customers,” Patil said. “Our aim is to contain the spread by testing all shopkeepers. But, they are closing their shops when we go to their areas.” He went on to say, “They should have no fear since only seven or eight return positive out of 100 tests. We are doing our best to convince shopkeepers and are allaying fears, so they are slowly coming forward to take the test.” Santosh Biradar, Dharwad tahsildar said, “Shopkeepers in Gandhichowk ran away, but we convinced some of them and collected 150 samples. Of these, 15 tested positive till Friday afternoon. We have sealed nine shops in Dharwad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fearing-test-drive-owners-shutting-shops-and-fleeing-in-dharwad/articleshow/77291190.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy overnight rain causes widespread damage, landslides block several roads||Mussoorie: Heavy rainfall, that started on Wednesday night, has caused widespread damage across the town. While many roads have been blocked due to landslides, several houses were also damaged in various parts of the town. A retaining wall of the road near Mussoorie fire station on Yamunotri highway caved in due to heavy rainfall causing inconvenience to commuters and restricting the movement of heavy vehicles. Also, internal roads near Lakshmanpuri and Barlowgunj were blocked for several hours in the morning due to landslides. Similarly at Kincraig, landslides caused damage to three houses of migrants from Nepal. “Around 1 am on Thursday night, the retaining wall near our house was washed away causing damage to three houses. The residents, somehow, managed to stay safe,” Prakash, a Nepalese migrant, told TOI. Houses of two other Nepalese migrants near Kincraig were also damaged as a tree fell on them during the night time. Meanwhile, one house each in Jharipani and Andakhet localities got damaged due to landslides. Fortunately, no one sustained injuries in these incidents. Speaking to TOI, sub-divisional magistrate Prem Lal said that a team of revenue officials has visited the affected houses and assessed the damage. “We will try to extend support to these families and ensure their safety,” he said. The official also said that he would also ask the municipal council officials to conduct a survey across the town to identify houses that are at risk due to heavy rainfall and landslide. “We intend to ensure the safety of all residents and those at risk would be shifted to safe places,” Lal assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-overnight-rain-causes-widespread-damage-landslides-block-several-roads/articleshow/77289907.cms||Anmol Jain
August 1, 2020||Goa||Mapusa civic body chairperson tests -ve||Saligao: The chairperson of the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) and two other councillors on Thursday tested negative for Covid-19. The three had recently opted to stay under home quarantine as a precautionary measure after a Covid-19 patient from Ganganagar had visited the municipality office and had also been inside the chairperson’s cabin. They had also given their swab samples for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-civic-body-chairperson-tests-ve/articleshow/77293868.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||3,500 to guard fortress Ayodhya||Lucknow: Senior officials, including chief secretary and state police chief, visited Ayodhya on Friday to take stock of preparations for ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple on August 5. Chief secretary RK Tiwari, DGP HC Awasthy, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar, and ADG (Lucknow zone) SN Sabat reviewed preparations and security arrangements and directed Ayodhya district officials to ensure proper implementation of Covid-19 protocol. “We have made three-layered security arrangement in the temple town which will be guarded by around 3,500 central paramilitary force and state security personnel,” DGP HC Awasthy told TOI. He said commandos of Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP-ATS) would guard the main ceremony area and added that ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar was the nodal head of security of the old site in Ayodhya. ADG (Lucknow zone) SN Sabat would be the in incharge of Faizabad area, he added. Sources in Ayodhya police said over 5,000 AI-based CCTV cameras and drones would be used to maintain vigil at the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3500-to-guard-fortress-ayodhya/articleshow/77293860.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Historic ‘Ram shilaas’ locked and forgotten amid euphoria of bhoomi pujan festivities||AYODHYA: Amid the euphoria of ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi, two carved stones (shilaas) of 18sqft dimension, which reignited the temple movement in early 2002 and served as a flashpoint between the Hindutva brigade and the Vajpayee-led NDA, lie locked and forgotten in the Faizabad treasury for nearly two decades now. While the twin stones may have slipped into the amnesia zone of the Ram temple trust, it had turned into the fulcrum of a political crisis for the Vajpayee government when then VHP president Ashok Singhal threatened to violate the status quo ordered by Supreme Court and perform ‘shilaadan’ at Ram Janmabhoomi after a nationwide call for mobilisation of kar sewaks in March 2002. After PMO’s intervention and amid an unprecedented lockdown in Ayodhya, a symbolic ‘shiladaan’ was offered at Digambar Akhara, one kilometer from the then disputed site. Now, with days left for the grand ground-breaking ceremony, murmurs of dissent are turning louder with kar sewaks, who were at the frontline of the temple movement and many in VHP demanding the ‘pujit shilaas’ (stones purified through ritual) which symbolised the first attempt to lay the temple foundation after the Babri demolition, be part of the August 5 ‘bhoomi pujan’. While former Ayodhya MP, Vinay Katiyar, on Friday vowed to get the stones released from the Faizabad treasury, Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal promised to preserve the legacy of Ashok Singhal and some kar sewaks even cried betrayal. In the March 2002 build-up to the VHP-sponsored shilaadan, the district administration had sealed the town, cancelled trains and blocked roads leading to Ayodhya even as kar sewaks began trooping in. Talking to TOI, Mahant Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, priest of Saryu Kunj temple, eye-witness to the 2002 volatile situation in Ayodhya, said, “VHP was adamant to place two ‘shilaas’ to mark the beginning of temple construction despite the apex court’s ban on any activity, barring rituals of Ram Lalla. After several rounds of talks between the Union home ministry and Ashok Singhal, the VHP finally relented and agreed to hand over the stones to the Prime Minister. A senior IAS officer in the PMO (Ayodhya Cell) Shatrughan Singh was specially flown down to receive the shilaas. Then Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas president Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans performed the symbolic shilaadan at the Digmabar Akhara and the stones were handed over to district magistrate BP Mishra, who dispatched it to the Faizabad treasury. Talking to TOI, Vinay Katiyar said, “I promise to get the two shilaas released from the treasury once the bhoomi pujan is over. Mahant Paramahans Das, priest of Tapaswi Chawni said, “The two pujit shilaas are more precious than silver bricks to be used in bhoomi pujan. That those stones are still locked in the treasury is grave injustice to the memory of Ashok Singhal, the principal architect of the temple movement.” Kar sewak and a key accused in the Babri demolition case, Santosh Dubey, said, “Those two shilaas mark the struggle for Ramjanmabhoomi and it’s an insult that nobody is taking cognizance of them.” Senior BJP leader Shakti Singh told TOI that only those two stones should be used in bhoomi pujan, instead of the silver bricks. “It’s sad these stones have been locked up. The symbol of our struggle for the temple remains locked up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/historic-ram-shilaas-locked-forgotten-amid-euphoria-of-bhoomi-pujan-festivities/articleshow/77293875.cms||Partha Maitra
August 1, 2020||Bhopal||BJP headquarters in Bhopal sealed||BHOPAL: The BJP state headquarters was closed here on Friday after three leaders and a staff driver were tested Covid positive during last week. The head office wore a deserted look as the district administration declared it a containment zone and appointed security staff to check entry. The health authorities are conducting a massive testing drive among the 70 to 80 staff members who worked at the head office during Covid-19 outbreak. On July 28, BJP state organising general secretary, Suhas Bhagat and organising secretary Gwalior and Bhopal divisions, Ashutosh Tiwari, were tested positive for Covid. A day after test reports of state president VD Sharma confirmed coronavirus infection. Chief minister Chouhan was earlier tested positive on July 25. After repeated tests conducted at the BJP state head office, a few local staff members including the cooks and attendants, were also quarantined. Bhagat, Tiwari and Sharma were staying in the residential complex of the BJP state head office hence, the entire area has been declared a containment zone and the head office was locked after their Covid reports. All the leaders were tested twice for Covid-19. “We have adopted standard procedures and screened everybody, taken samples if recommended by the screening teams. So screening and sampling, if required, has been done. We have also declared it (BJP head office) as a containment area and why only this, all such areas where cases are detected, we restrict the movement," said Bhopal district collector, Avinash Lavania. “The state head office has been closed after three leaders have been tested Covid positive. We have asked all the staff members to work from home," said BJP state media in charge, Lokendra Parashar. Congress reacted sharply“Now the CM is saying that wearing face masks and following social distancing will be compulsory for the officials and public representatives. No public or social functions will be organised. But, where were these rules before Covid spread among BJP leaders? Why didn’t BJP leaders follow the norms and continued to preach the public about safety?" said Congress state media coordinator Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-netas-test-corona-ve-bjp-head-office-sealed/articleshow/77291221.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||PPE gang tries to rob MCH patient in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A gang of contractual employees at Medical College and Hospital that hatched a plan to hide behind PPE and rob patients was busted by the Bowbazar police. So far, cops nabbed three persons, Rohit Manjhi, Ganeswar Rao and Dhyanvir Ram in the case. A patient from Basirhat was admitted iton the super speciality building and his bed (No. 772) was situated on the seventh floor. On Thursday, a nurse on the rounds found that two men wearing PPE were asking the patient to remove her jewellery. “They were saying she should take them off as they would give the ornaments to her family waiting downstairs. They even brought food for the woman to convince her that her family had come downstairs,” said a source at Medical College. The nurse raised an alarm immediately but the accused managed to flee the spot. The hospital authorities informed cops about the matter. “Since the two men were wearing PPE, it was difficult to trace them. But we used CCTV footages. We took the help of the hospital’s employees and detained one of the accused in the next few hours. By late night, we got enough evidence to arrest the three. The gang might have been involved in other theft cases,”said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ppe-gang-tries-to-rob-mch-patient/articleshow/77292789.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Yoga centres in Mysuru set to reopen doors, but practitioners wary||MYSURU: Yoga institutions and centres across Mysuru are set to reopen on August 5 after being out for four months in the cold, but they aren’t likely to draw too many students or practitioners. Online classes are expected to continue not only due to fear of the virus, but also because it’s impossible to wear a mask while performing. “We will instruct all yoga centres to follow the Union government’s SOP,” Dr Seethalakshmi, Mysuru district Ayush officer, said, while admitting online classes are expected to continue due to the prevailing situation. However, Shrihari, vice-president, Yoga Federation of Mysuru, was optimistic of drawing in practitioners since yoga improves the immune system. But he insisted that it’s not possible to practice wearing a mask since a lot about yoga is breath control. “Practicing yoga with a mask on could result in suffocation and infection. So, we will not use them in classes,” Shrihari said. “We have a process of cleaning mouth and nose before starting any asana. It’s done before the start of class and ensures infection does not spread in the class. We also want all performers to wash their mats daily. We will ensure people in the vulnerable group like children below the age of 10 and senior citizens above 60 etc practice in their homes.” Shrihari said all yoga institutions will be asked to hold classes with doors open and at 50% of the capacity. “The institutions can hold multiple classes to ensure social distancing. We will also discourage yoga classes in closed/air conditioned rooms,” he said. “Yoga is considered an immune booster. So, it will draw more and more performers.” However, people are skeptical of joining classes given the surge in COvid-19 cases. “I am doing simple asanas at home. Till Covid-19 cases decrease, it is better to be at home,” said Raghavendra R, a resident from Chamundipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yoga-centres-in-mysuru-set-to-reopen-doors-but-practitioners-wary/articleshow/77291244.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic gives boost to construction of footbridge in this village||Mangaluru: As the state grapples with rising nuber Covid-19 cases, two expert teams are working on the construction of a footbridge that will help agriculture and water conservation activities in the Kadoor panchayat limits of Udupi district. Kadoor panchayat development officer Mahesh K said, “Under MGNREGS, we have been undertaking the construction of a footbridge since 2016, and we have completed construction of four footbridges by early this year.” “The demand for work under MGNREGS is on the rise due to the pandemic and we decided to focus on the construction of such bridges that will help agriculture activities. These bridges also act as bunds and thus help in water conservation. We have two expert teams trained to build footbridges. The best part is that people will not complain about the quality, because they are aware of the material being used and locals are part of the construction. These footbridges are ideal for this terrain, especially during monsoon. People use them to carry milk to the dairy and in certain areas, based on the requirement, people can also move their tiller on it,” he said. The construction of two footbridges was completed during the lockdown and work on two more is under progress. Meanwhile, a proposal for the construction of three more footbridges to be built under the MGNREGS has been submitted for approval. The approximate cost for the construction of a footbridge is around Rs 60,000. “We are trying the bridge the gap in society by providing people connectivity and the resulting economic development,” he added. Kadoor panchayat comprises Nadoor and Kadoor villages, and most of the footbridges are being constructed at Nadoor. Meanwhile, under MGNREGS, people are coming forward for the construction of cow sheds and poultry sheds. The community works are being monitored and supported by Preeti Gehlot, CEO zilla panchayat, Udupi. The village has turned into a role model for its community projects, especially with the revival of madakas, a traditional rainwater harvesting system, and construction of footbridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-gives-boost-to-construction-of-footbridge-in-this-village/articleshow/77289926.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Exchange of letters between local officials on border issue avoidable, say Pithoragarh district officials||Pithoragarh: Reacting to the letter sent by Nepalese officials that ‘the movement of Nepalese citizens in the Kalapani area is natural as the area belongs to Nepal’, senior officials of Pithoragarh district said on Friday that the exchange of letters between the officials of both countries should not have happened since ‘the border dispute is currently being discussed at the highest levels.’ A senior official in the district administration who did not wish to be quoted said that the letter exchange (which was initiated by the SDM of Dharchula) "could have been avoided as it is an external affairs matter and it will be better that local bureaucracy does not get into it." To recall, the SDM of Dharchula (in Pithoragarh district) AK Shukla a few days ago wrote to the chief district officer of Darchula in Nepal asking for “information to be provided in case people from Nepal enter Indian areas of Gunji, Kalapani and Limpyidhura with the aim of attracting media attention and creating problems for officials of both countries.” In response, assistant chief district officer of Darchula, Tek Singh Kunwar, wrote back to the SDM, saying, “We are in receipt of your letter dated July 14, 2020. We would like to reiterate that as per Article 5 of the Treaty of Sugauli between the East India Company and Nepal signed in 1816, as well as historical maps and other facts, it is proven that that Limpiyadhura, Kalapani, Kuti, Nabi and Gunji are east of river Kali/ Mahakali and therefore are Nepalese territories. So, movement of Nepalese citizens is natural in that area. Therefore, no restrictions have been imposed on their movement.” SDM Shukla when queried about the issue, backtracked on the matter and said that he was “interacting with Nepalese officials regarding reopening of border bridges and not illegal movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/exchange-of-letters-between-local-officials-on-border-issue-avoidable-say-pithoragarh-district-officials/articleshow/77289924.cms||Prem Punetha
August 1, 2020||Surat||Fire breaks out in flat, no casualty||Surat: Short-circuilt in the air conditioner sparked fire in the house on the 10th floor in Royal Regency, a residential apartment in the posh Vesu, at around 9pm on Friday. Sources in the fire department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said after spark in the Ac, the residents sensed trouble and moved out quickly. There were no casualties or injuries to anyone. “Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and that blaze was brought under control within half an hour. The residents are safe,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-breaks-out-in-flat-no-casualty/articleshow/77292390.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Beds vacant but private hospitals turn away Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government’s Covid-19 dashboard shows more than half the number of beds in private hospitals meant for infected patients are vacant, but hospitals turn away patients. Tamil Nadu has 52,427 beds for Covid-19 patients. Of this, 39,104 are in government hospitals controlled which report 40% occupancy. The remaining 23,568 beds were vacant on Thursday. Private hospitals have 13,323 Covid beds and 47% (6210 beds) were occupied, according to the dashboard. A 61-year-old man from Royapettah told TOI that soon after he developed breathing difficulties, he reached out to a private hospital on Mount Poonamallee High Road. The hospital stabilised his oxygen level, but refused further treatment saying they did not have oxygen-supported beds. “The same happened at another hospital on the same stretch. Later I got admitted to the Omandurar government hospital,” he added. TN Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital dean R Jayanthi said the hospital gets last minute referral. “Things are much better than they were last month, but we continue to get critical cases from private hospitals,” she said. A doctor at Stanley Medical College Hospital said such patients coming in at the last minute are at high risk and such deaths increase the mortality rate. The situation has been worse in districts like Tirunelveli and Theni which have limited number of hospitals. For instance, Theni has only three empanelled Covid-19 hospitals which can handle moderate to severe cases, and patients have been on waitlist. Eventually they arrive at Theni General Hospital, said a postgraduate assistant working there. Indian Medical Association state secretary A K Ravikumar said non-availability of oxygen beds or ICU beds was the main reason why private hospitals send away patients. People should understand that not all Covid-designated hospitals can treat people with moderate and severe symptoms. There are three categories of Covid hospitals. Only category-I (dedicated hospitals) can handle them. The other two categories (health centres and care centres) can’t admit such cases as per government protocol. TN has 134 such hospitals in category-II and category-III and most of them are in tier-II cities or smaller towns. Tamil Nadu Health Development Association president Rex Sargunam said the government should ensure that all patients get enough care. “If the government cannot take over private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients it should at least ensure private hospitals provide treatment at insurance council-prescribed rates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/beds-vacant-but-pvt-hospitals-turn-away-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77292806.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Tourists allowed in Valley of Flowers, but Covid-19 report must||Dehradun: Days after allowing those from outside the state to undertake the Char Dham Yatra, the Uttarakhand government has also opened Valley of Flowers — a Unesco World Heritage Site — to tourists, provided they are carrying a Covid-19-negative report of a test conducted not more than 72 hours ago. Additional forest conservator of Nanda Devi National Park (Chamoli), Nanda Vallabh Sharma, told TOI that the tourist season to the valley started on June 1, but visitors were not allowed this year. “The decision to allow visitors to the valley was taken in a meeting with the district administration. The same set of rules that apply to those visiting the Char Dham Yatra will also apply here. Tourists from within the state only need to apply online for a permit while those from outside the state need to carry a negative report of a Covid-19 test conducted within 72 hours or undergo a mandated 14-day quarantine,” he said. Sharma further said, “The entry fee to the valley has been kept at Rs 150 for Indian tourists and Rs 650 for foreign nationals for a three-day pass. Pass for each additional day costs Rs 250 for foreigners and Rs 50 for Indians.” The valley — spread over 8,750 hectares — will shut down for tourism on October 31. In 2019, the valley had registered a record footfall of 17,000 tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-allowed-in-valley-of-flowers-but-covid-19-report-must/articleshow/77289963.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 1, 2020||Dehradun||Three siblings killed after house collapses in Tehri district due to heavy rainfall||Dehradun: Three siblings were crushed to death in their sleep and their father was injured when the retaining wall of a nearby highway collapsed on their house due to torrential rains in Kheda village in the wee hours of Friday. The incident took place in Kaunjapuri area, Narendra Nagar tehsil, Tehri district. The wall of the highway, which is just above the house, collapsed, killing Vineeta (20), Ankit (18) and Neelam (24) on the spot. Their father, 52-year-old Dharam Singh Negi, escaped with minor injuries. As soon as the District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC) received information, a team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the disaster management department was sent to the spot to search for and rescue survivors. According to the regional meteorological centre, Tehri was lashed by 90mm rainfall, while Narendra Nagar area received 40mm showers on Thursday night and Friday morning. Sahasthradhara area in Dehradun received the maximum rainfall, at 180mm, while Dehradun witnessed 160mm rainfall on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-siblings-killed-after-house-collapses-in-tehri-district-due-to-heavy-rainfall/articleshow/77289950.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||7th cop dies, 44 affected in detective department||KOLKATA: An assistant sub-inspector of Kolkata Police, Tapan Chandra Kumar (48), posted at the Chitpur police station, who had contracted the novel coronavirus, died on Friday. Kumar was the seventh from the force and first from the north division to lose life to Covid. Earlier, three cops from south division and another three from traffic had died. On Friday, 33 Kolkata Police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, while around 30 were cured. A day earlier, 43 cases were reported in the force, while 51 cops recovered. Till Thursday, total cases in Kolkata Police were 1,221 and active cases 350. Kumar used to stay at the 4th Battalion Complex at Salt Lake with his family. On July 24, he was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital. “Kumar needed oxygen support but he had spoken to his son on Thursday night. He developed complications the next morning and died. He was a hypertensive patient but this condition was within manageable limits,” said one a colleague. Kolkata Police expressed condolences on social media. At least two ACPs from the detective department have tested positive. Officers from the economic offences wing and the dog squad are among 44 affected officers in the detective department, including those belonging to the cyber cell and the anti-rowdy squad. In Lalbazar, at least 16 cops have been quarantined after a senior officer tested positive. “Anti-rowdy squad has 10 affected cops, after an accused tested positive,” said an officer. In the cyber cell, two officers were affected. “We may have to quarantine several among the 70-odd personnel. But with multiple cyber cases being reported now, we may not be able to allow too many to work from home,” an officer said. An additional OC of the Jorabagan traffic guard was asked to take charge of the Ultadanga traffic guard after the OC and additional OC showed symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7th-cop-dies-44-affected-in-detective-department/articleshow/77292804.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Temple outreach to propel CM Yogi Adityanath as next Hindutva poster boy?||LUCKNOW: Has saffron clad chief minister Yogi Adityanath filled up the vacuum caused by ageing Kalyan Singh to emerge as a Hindu Hriday Samrat? He will be visiting Ayodhya for the third time in the past 10 days on Saturday, mingling with sadhus and overseeing preparations for the historic foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple. In a clear departure from the past, Yogi on Friday penned a piece in newspapers, appealing to people to join the historic event on August 5 by lighting lakhs of lamps and candles in their homes, urging them to make it a memorable day as 500-year-old dream of Ram temple in Ayodhya is turning a realty. Unlike Kalyan, who had toured the state extensively in the run up to the demolition of the disputed structure in 1991-92, Yogi had limitations of not moving out due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Thus, he sought support in a different way – through a written appeal. After taking credit for the demolition of the Babri Mosque on December 6, 1992, when he was chief minister of the state, Kalyan has been slowly, but surely slipping into the margins of the political landscape and also from the public mind. The towering image and stature Kalyan had gained in 1992 was shattered when his name was linked with a woman corporator of his party in his second term as chief minister in 1997. Yogi has been the CM for over three years now and has an impeccable reputation, leaving former Hindu Hriday Samrat Kalyan far behind. To remain rooted in the Hindutva ideology despite being the CM of a vast and complex state, Yogi has not renounced the priestship of the historic Gorakhnath Peeth and on every religious occasion he can be seen performing rituals at the Gorakhnath temple, enhancing his Hindutva image further. Gradually, Kalyan's name started fading from the public memory and it coincided with emergence of Yogi Adityanath, who has stronger Hindutva credentials. Now for millennials, who are not acquainted with Kalyan, Yogi has become the face of Hindutva ideology. With urns in his hands and performing 'aarti' in Ayodhya, Yogi in saffron robes has left his contemporaries far behind. Unlike Kalyan, who at one time had joined the Mulayam camp to take revenge with the BJP and had also formed his own political outfit with a pledge to ensure defeat of the saffron party at the hustings and never seeing the Ram temple again in his life, the Hindutva credentials of Yogi Adityanath are much more sound than the Lodh leader. At one stage Kalyan had even termed BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee as ‘tired and retired’. Later, he had apologised for his remark and returned to the BJP fold, but he had definitely lost the stature and credibility. Yogi since the beginning of his political career has been an ardent follower of the Hindutva ideology. He floated Hindu Yuva Vahini and never compromised with his convictions. If Yogi has been in demand in other states during elections, it is only for his rising popularity as a strong Hindu leader. His beliefs in Hindutva has also earned him the sobriquet of Yuva Hindu Hriday Samrat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temple-outreach-to-propel-yogi-as-next-hindutva-poster-boy/articleshow/77293906.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Arlem’s containment zone get groceries ahead of Eid||MARGAO: The South Goa district administration has ensured that Muslim residents of the containment zone in Arlem aren’t deprived of Eid festivities which will be held on Saturday. Bags of rice, grocery and other essentials were supplied to nearly 70 families within the containment zone on Friday by authorities. Senior officials of the South Goa police are also keeping a close watch on the activities in the area to ensure that there is no breach of rules governing the containment zone. On Thursday, sub-divisional police officer, Margao, Dy SP Kiran Poduval, had visited the containment zone and interacted with the residents, as well as the talathi and the panchayat member concerned, to take stock of the situation. On July 23, after 21 members of seven families residing in the slum-like area in Arlem tested positive for Covid-19, South Goa collector Ajit Roy issued an order declaring certain parts of Arlem (ward 1) as containment zone and the rest of the ward as buffer zone. The order was issued under provisions contained in the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Meanwhile, on Friday, six new positive cases were detected in places coming under the jurisdiction of the Curtorim primary health centre, taking the tally of active cases in the area to 37. Ponda primary health centre which registered a spike in number of cases two days ago, recorded several recoveries were on Friday, thus taking the number of active cases under its jurisdiction to 92.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arlems-containment-zone-get-groceries-ahead-of-eid/articleshow/77293988.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Lalbazar: Relaxed bicycle policy till August 31||KOLKATA: Lalbazar on Friday has announced an extension of the relaxed bicycle policy till August 31. The policy had been introduced on June 9 following the instructions of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow people to ride bicycles while going for work — which is a cheaper option to maintain social distancing. TOI had reported on Friday that a decision on this line has already been taken by the Kolkata Police top brass. However, restrictions will continue on the main arterial roads, flyovers and other areas notified by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relaxed-bicycle-policy-till-aug-31/articleshow/77292839.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||11 caught smuggling Rs 1.6 crore gold at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Customs sleuths intercepted 11 passengers who arrived in a Vande Bharat mission flight from Saudi Arabia’s Dammam at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Thursday and recovered 3.11 kilos of gold from them. According to customs officials, the value of the smuggled gold is Rs 1.66 crore. Based on passenger profiling, the air intelligence unit sleuths of the customs department intercepted the 11 passengers. When subjected to scanning and frisking, the sleuths found gold biscuits concealed in secret pockets in the trousers of the 11 fliers. Customs sleuths did not arrest any of the carriers as the value of the gold each of them was trying to smuggle out was less than Rs 20 lakh. “The total weight of the seized bullion was 3.11 kilos and its market value is Rs 1.66 crore,” said a customs official. During the interrogation, the 11 gold carriers said they hail from northern Telangana and told the officials that some unidentified smugglers had handed them over the gold biscuits at Dammam Airport to deliver the same to their associates in Hyderabad. “The smugglers bought flight tickets of the 11 carriers and they might have also given them paltry amounts to meet their expenses as they will be in 14-day mandatory quarantine before getting a clearance to go home,” said a customs official. The investigators suspect that the 11 offenders would have to hand over the gold to the smugglers only after the end of their quarantine period. The cellphone data of the 11 offenders is being examined to find out the members of the smuggling gang and a case was registered under the Customs Act. This is the second gold smuggling case registered by the Hyderabad customs sleuths at the RGIA since the beginning of lockdown. Prior to this, on July 22, a woman passenger trying to smuggle 74 gram of gold concealed in a wrist watch was booked. On Thursday, the customs officials along with CISF sleuths also identified five passengers when they were trying to smuggle sandalwood from Hyderabad to Khartoum and seized 78.5 kilos of sandalwood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-caught-smuggling-rs-1-6cr-gold-at-airport/articleshow/77292845.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Corruption row: BJP sends legal notices to Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar||BENGALURU/MANGALURU/MYSURU: The state unit of the BJP on Friday sent legal notices to leader of opposition Siddaramaiah and state Congress chief DK Shivakumar on their Rs 2,000 crore graft allegation against the government in procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies. The party has demanded public apology from the two leaders within 15 days, failing which they have been threatened with legal action. “How did they (Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar) say that Rs 4,167 crore have been spent and corruption amounting to Rs 2,000 crore has taken place? First they said the government wasn’t sharing information with them despite writing twenty letters...when the government did not share any information, where did they get these figures,” state BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar, who slapped the notice on the two leaders, asked. Speaking to reporters here he said the allegations are baseless, irresponsible and far from truth with an intention to mislead the people and malign the reputation of the government and the chief minister. Last week, Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar in a joint presser had alleged that the government’s total Covid-related expenditure was Rs 4,167 crore, of which at least Rs 2,000 crore had been misappropriated by ministers and officials. Refuting this, as many as five ministers had said the government’s overall expenditure was Rs 2,118 crore, with Rs 1,611 crore going for Covid relief measures and Rs 506 crore for purchase of medical equipment. Hitting out at Siddaramaiah, Kumar said the former CM repeatedly targets Yediyurappa saying that he had gone to jail. “Did DK Shivakumar go for picnic or to tour Delhi (Tihar jail)? With what morality is Siddaramaiah sitting next to Shivakumar,” he asked. “In 2013, Shivakumar’s assets were worth Rs 251 crore and in 2018 it rose to Rs 840 crore, a 200 per cent increase in five years. What business are you doing, please share it with the people of state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/corruption-row-bjp-sends-legal-notices-to-siddaramaiah-dks/articleshow/77291300.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Separated by Covid, brothers to tie rakhis on video call||LUCKNOW: Gomtinagar resident Deepika and her brother live in the same locality. But the sexagenarian brother-sister duo won’t be celebrating Rakshabandhan together this year owing to the spread of Covid-19. To avoid exposure, she has sent a rakhi and an emotional letter to her brother. Hazratganj resident Anukrati Shukla made it a point every festival to lay down favourite delicacies of his brother — the likes of Tundey Kebab and Chowk’s makhan malai. This year, her brother won’t come home from Bengaluru. Like Anukrati and Deepika, many women will not be able to tie rakhi to their brothers due to rise in Covid-19 cases and travel restrictions. Most of them have opted to send rakhis, some hand-made, handwritten letters, through post or e-commerce firms and would see brother tying rakhi live on video call. “He is my elder brother. Though he stays afar, he loves and misses Lucknow’s food the most,” said Shukla. “He has asked me not to send rakhi to him. Rather, he has assured that whenever he visits Lucknow, we will then celebrate Rakshabandhan together,” she said, adding she would miss sending him a handmade card and regretted she wouldn’t be able to hug him on Rakshabandhan on August 3. “Due to the prevailing Covid pandemic, I will not be able to meet and celebrate the day with my brother. Though he stays nearby, we are avoiding to meet as we both are above the age of 60 and we want to refrain from any possible exposure to the virus. I have asked my children, who are placed outstation, to send rakhi and a letter, to my brother through an e-commerce website. So, on the day of Rakshabandhan, he can tie the rakhi and we both can share our feelings on video call,” added Deepika. Another local Babli Chaubey knew her brothers won’t be able to travel from Hyderabad and Dehradun. So, she sent them rakhi with a mask through speed post 10 days back to ensure it reaches on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/separated-by-covid-bros-to-tie-rakhis-on-video-call/articleshow/77293966.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Bird squad to thwart Maoist drones||Hyderabad: Worried that Maoists or terror groups could use drones to keep tabs on movements of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao or VVIPs, the Intelligence wing of Telangana police is in the process of training birds — said to be eagles — to destroy the drones during VVIP movement. Towards this end, the Intelligence wing is planning to engage experts to train the birds, which will be pressed into aerial security services during VVIP movement. This bird squad, which will be part of VVIP security, is likely to be called ‘Garuda squad’. The birds will be trained at the Integrated Intelligence Training Academy (IITA), Moinabad. Sources said the department of home has given permission for police to raise the Garuda squad to neutralise drones during VVIP visits and CM’s programmes across the state. KCR enjoys a high security cover during his travels and also at his camp house. Use of drone across Hyderabad is prohibited and one has to take prior permission from the respective police stations to use a drone. For the last several years, police have banned deployment of drones in public places, fearing reprisals by Maoists and other extremist groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-squad-to-thwart-maoist-drones/articleshow/77292889.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bhopal||Constable injured in operation against sand mafia||BHOPAL: A constable was severely injured, while trying to stop a tractor ferrying illegally mined sand in Budhni region of Sehore district. He has been hospitalised with a fractured thigh, said ASP Sameer Yadav. The incident was reported from Jahazpura mines in Rehti area. Salkanpur police in charge Raju Makoda had inputs from the local sources about illegal mining in the area. He followed up on the lead and intercepted two tractors. When one of the constables, Dharmendra, tried to stop the third one, the driver sped the vehicle. “The constable has sustained serious injuries. He is under medical care and being taken care off,” said Yadav. Police have arrested two persons on charges of attempt to murder. The accused have been identified as Deepak Keer and Vinayak Keer. “We would be carrying out major action in this area to check illegal mining,” said the officer. According to sources, Sehore and Hoshangabad districts are known for illegal sand mining with many influential people involved. In November 2019, chairman of the Madhya Pradesh River Trust, Namdeo Das Tyagi alias Computer Baba, had initiated a ‘dharna’ in Rehti area of Sehore district. He said it was a fresh campaign against illegal sand mining. Computer Baba claims that he would be keeping a close watch on illegal mining activities on Narmada riverbanks, if the local administration fails to do its duty. In June 2019, he had demanded a chopper for an aerial survey of illegal sand mining in the Narmada riverbanks. He also got three sand-laden tractor trolleys impounded. He had issued a statement in the media saying that around 2,000 sadhus will be deployed to check sand mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/constable-injured-in-op-against-sand-mafia/articleshow/77291309.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Patient dead, absconding or missing? Officials clueless||SHIVAMOGGA: An 85-year-old patient from Shikaripura, Shivamogga, has gone “missing” from a Covid-19-dedicated hospital, creating a furore. While district health officials said the patient was absconding, family members allege they were informed by taluk officials that the man had died and was cremated without them being told. While demanding “justice”, a grandson said the family was told by taluk officials that his grandfather had died three days ago and his body was cremated. “My grandfather had fever and was admitted to Shikaripura taluk hospital on July 18,” he said. “A throat swab sample was taken and he tested positive. He was shifted to McGann hospital in Shivamogga town, but he tested negative there.” The family claims taluk officials said he was admitted to the hospital on July 23, but when family made enquiries, the health department said no such patient was admitted. Family members then lodged a missing complaint at Shikaripura town police station. When police enquired with the DHO, they were allegedly told the patient had “probably escaped”. District deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said, “A police complaint was lodged. I cannot say anything more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patient-dead-absconding-or-missing-officials-clueless/articleshow/77291073.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bhopal||Collectors can’t impose lockdown with permission: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Friday that in the second phase of "Kill Corona" campaign, “Sankalp ki chain jodo, Corona ki chain todo” campaign will be launched in the state from August 1 to 14. He also directed that there will be no more lockdowns and if any such need arises in any part of the state collectors cannot decide on their own and will have to take permission. Chouhan was reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing from Chirayu Hospital. He said this is mainly an awareness campaign under which people will be made aware to wear masks and adhering to physical distancing compulsorily and through this the infection of Coronavirus will be eliminated. To curb death rate in Hamidia hospital, chief minister instructed to set up an experts’ committee to improve arrangements in the hospital. The committee will comprise principal secretary Sanjay Shukla, Faiz Ahmed Qidwai and others along with medical experts and senior officers. Chouhan said, "we have to accelerate the pace of our economy. Therefore, from now on there will be no lockdown in any district of the state, other than the pre-announced one and Sunday lockdown. If need for lockdown arises in any district due to unavoidable reasons, permission will have to be sought from the state level. No collector will be able to impose lockdown in district on his/her own free During a review of Indore district, chief minister lauded the work done in the district to prevent Coronavirus infection and to reduce the mortality rate. Collector Indore gave detailed information about the action taken in this regard. Lauding the daily review meetings by the Indore divisional commissioner with dean medical college pertaining to death cases, chief minister directed that this system should be implemented in other divisions as well. Chouhan informed that home and institutional quarantine is being provided in the state to prevent Corona infection. Now, arrangement for paid quarantine has been made for those who can afford it Additional chief secretary, ICP Kesari informed that quarantine facility has been arranged in Bhopal, Rewa, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh tourism hotels. A fare of Rs 1500 per day including food charges in Rajbhogi cities and Rs 1000 per day in other cities will have to be paid. In Bhopal, this arrangement has been made in hotel Ashoka. Chouhan said that rapid antigen tests have been started in Bhopal. He directed that this test should be started immediately in Indore and other districts. ACS, health, informed that now Madhya Pradesh ranks 15th in the country in both active and positive cases. According to the July 30 report, Madhya Pradesh has 8454 active cases. Testing in the state is continuously increasing and on Thursday, 14,647 samples were tested in the state, he said. In a district-wise review of Morena and Ujjain districts, it was found that the situation in both the districts is constantly improving. There are six new cases of Corona in Morena and 8 in Ujjain. The Chief Minister directed to pay special attention to Khargone due to rise in Coronavirus cases. During a review, it was found that there was negligence in contact tracing in Barwani district. Taking this matter seriously, the chief minister instructed to investigate and punish the guilty. Health minister, Prabhuram Chaudhary, said during video conferencing from Raisen that there has been good work in telemedicine in Sagar district. Punitive action has also been taken for not wearing face mask there. Collector Rajgarh said that so far, a fine of about Rs 22,000 has been imposed for not wearing masks there. Chouhan directed to take similar action in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/collectors-cant-impose-lockdown-with-permission-cm/articleshow/77291351.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Cuncolim councillor to move court to get industrial estate declared containment zone||Margao: Upset over the authorities paying no heed to the locals’ demand for enforcing strict containment measures in the Cuncolim industrial estate, local councillor Shashank Dessai has decided to move the court over the matter. “We have repeatedly put forth our demand for declaring the area as a containment zone but to no avail,” Dessai told TOI. “Migrant workers employed in these industrial units, many of which are affected by Covid-19, are roaming about in the town without wearing masks or observing any social distancing measures, thereby posing a threat to the health of the locals. I will now be compelled to move the high court in the interest of Cuncollkars,” he said. Dessai, who represents Veroda ward which shares a common road with the Cuncolim industrial estate, has written to South Goa district collector Ajit Roy demanding closure of the industrial units where positive cases were detected recently, and to conduct mass testing in all industrial units to ensure early detection. He has asked the collector to consider declaring Cuncolim industrial estate and surrounding areas as containment zone. While naming six industrial units in the industrial estate which have been affected by Covid-19, Dessai alleged in the letter that work in these factories was being carried out without following the guidelines. He said that all the workers from the affected units were staying in surrounding areas of Kegdicotto and Varoda Simplear IDC zone and that “as a result the entire industrial estate zone has now become the hotspot of Covid-19”. Cuncolim Municipal Council members led by Succorina Coutinho had met chief minister Pramod Sawant in Margao on Tuesday and tried to convince him about the necessity for the Cuncolim industrial estate to be made a containment zone. In a memorandum to the South Goa district magistrate, they stated that as many truck drivers and cleaners from neighbouring states visit the industrial estate, there was high probability of the outbreak spreading to the Cuncolim village and neighbouring areas if these migrants are not tested or quarantined. The South Goa district administration has already directed all the steel industries operating in Cuncolim to get their workers tested. A demand by locals for setting up a testing centre in the Cuncolim industrial estate and a Covid care centre in Cuncolim is also gaining ground. Two industrial units in the Cuncolim industrial estate were earlier issued closure orders, a third, Shirdi Steel Re-Rollers Pvt Ltd was directed to be shut by the district magistrate by an order dated July 20 for a period of 14 days after 21 of its workers tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cuncolim-councillor-to-move-court-to-get-industrial-estate-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/77294014.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Delhi||Solicitor general among lawyers in riots case; Delhi government slams LG||NEW DELHI: The home department of the Delhi government has notified the panel of six special public prosecutors proposed by Delhi Police after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal rejected the state cabinet’s decision on appointment of lawyers to argue the northeast Delhi riots cases. However, the bitterness of the AAP government over the LG’s move came through when deputy CM Manish Sisodia called the appointments a “misuse of power by the LG”. The panel of prosecutors includes solicitor general Tushar Mehta, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, Chetan Sharma, SV Raju, Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair. The notification was issued late on Thursday following multiple rounds of confrontation between the LG and the AAP government over who would represent the state in the Delhi high court and Supreme Court for arguing in the northeast Delhi riots cases. “They shall conduct all court proceedings, including bails, trials, appeals, miscellaneous matters, applications and writ petitions filed by the accused parties or NGOs in various courts in connection with the 85 FIRs that have been registered in respect of and related to the anti-CAA protests and riots cases,” said the notification. Sisodia didn’t mince his words in condemning the LG’s decision. “Supreme Court has stated that the LG should use his special powers in the rarest of rare cases. This was definitely not a rare case. Approving Delhi Police’s choice of lawyers to argue the northeast Delhi riots cases shows misuse of power,” he added. Calling the appointment of lawyers chosen by the police wrong, home minister Satyendar Jain said, “We want the strictest punishment for all the culprits, but no innocent should be punished or harassed.” On July 10, Delhi Police had sent a proposal to the AAP government to appoint six senior lawyers, including Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi, to represent the prosecution in 85 cases of communal riots and anti-CAA protests in the Delhi high court and Supreme Court. The Delhi government rejected the proposal saying that its standing counsel, Rahul Mehra, and his team were “capable” of representing the state. The LG then wrote to Kejriwal asking him to take a decision on the appointments within a week. Subsequently, the Delhi cabinet met on Tuesday and rejected the Delhi Police’s panel of lawyers. The home department was asked to prepare a panel of the best lawyers in the country. Rejecting the cabinet’s decision, the LG on Thursday asked the home department to notify the panel of lawyers suggested by Delhi Police. That left the state government with no option but to notify the panel .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-notifies-police-panel-of-lawyers-/articleshow/77292956.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 1, 2020||Bengaluru||50,000 shops in Bengaluru down shutters due to lack of business||BENGALURU: With the pandemic having dealt a blow to businesses across sectors, over 50,000 shops in Bengaluru have closed permanently. Many others are on the verge of closure if sales don’t pick up in the forthcoming festive season. Shops selling readymade garments, footwear, stationery items, mobile accessories, and small eateries are among establishments downing shutters. Scenes of shops being vacated and To-let boards hanging in front of them have become commonplace in every nook and corner of the city. According to Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), there are around 4 lakh shops in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits, of which 12% to 15% have closed. “Another 8%-10% are on the verge of shutting down. Go to any area in Bengaluru and you will see To-let boards hanging outside many shops. Lack of business and mounting rental dues are the reasons for closure in many cases,” said FKCCI president K Janardhan.  A majority of the shops which have shut down were rented by those from other states and Kannadigas from outside Bengaluru. “It was a double blow for them as they had to pay rents of their houses as well as shops. When business is not even 25 per cent of pre-Covid times, how can they sustain?” Janardhan added. Thousands of tenants have even defaulted on monthly rent due to lack of business. “I haven’t paid rent since April. My shop was closed through April and May owing to the lockdown. Though I have reopened it, there are no customers,” said Vishwajit, owner of a readymade garments store in Sanjaynagar. He pays Rs 12,000 as rent per month and the owner has said he will deduct rental dues from the Rs 2.5 lakh advance Vishwajit had paid. BJP MLA and owner of Garuda Mall Uday Garudachar said tenants are finding it difficult to pay rent as they have no business for four months. In his mall too, four shops have been vacated in the past two months. “Knowing their (tenants’) situation, we are not insisting on rent. At Garuda mall, we are only collecting core area maintenance charges from tenants, which are minimal. It’s time for us to cooperate with one another,” he added. Owners of businesses which started just months before the Covid-19 outbreak are struggling to pay rent and loan instalments. “I’m staring at a bleak future. I don’t know what to do,” said Avinash, who had started an eatery in Sanjaynagar in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50k-shops-in-bengaluru-down-shutters-due-to-lack-of-business/articleshow/77291345.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Biggest single-day spike of 562 cases in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Breaching the 500-mark for the first time, the city recorded 562 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, catapulting the caseload to over 8,000 since the outbreak on March 11. A record 658 patients – highest in a single day - also got cured on Friday. While the city’s tally has mounted to 8,178 with 392 cases daily over the week, total recoveries have touched 3,802 at the rate of 185 daily in the past seven days. About 4,281 patients, including 817 asymptomatic who have been allowed home quarantine, are under treatment at present. The big leap has been attributed to monsoon and laxity by people in following safety protocol. Fresh cases included a local BJP leader and a junior engineer posted at the Gosainganj 33/11 KV power substation of the Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration. The substation office was shut for 48 hours for sanitisation without affecting the power supply. Indiranagar and Gomtinagar reported the highest 28 cases each, followed by Alambagh 27, Talkatora 23 and Mahanagar and Madiaon 20 each, Hasanganj 19, Rae Bareli Road 18 and Chinhat 17. The number stood at 1,072 on June 30, but skyrocketed in July with the addition of a whopping 7,106 (87% of total cases) patients. The spike in transmission can also be gauged from the fact that the first 578 cases were reported in 96 days from March 11 to June 14, whereas on Friday 562 were recorded in a single day. Veteran virologist and former microbiology department head at SGPGI, Prof TN Dhole said cases will rise more in coming weeks. "Viruses gain strength in humidity, hence cases are expected to rise during monsoon when temperatures and humidity levels are favourable to the virus's nature,” he added. How the weather is abetting the growth can be gauged from the fact that the first 4,000 cases were reported in 129 days, whereas the next 4,000 in 12 days. In other words, 31 cases were reported daily from March 11 till July 19, but thereafter 333 cases were added daily at 10 times higher rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biggest-single-day-spike-of-562-cases-in-city/articleshow/77294009.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Death toll now 45 as 2 more die, Goa gets 209 new Covid-19 cases||PANAJI: The state saw its Covid-19 death toll rise to 45 on Friday after two persons succumbed to the infection at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. The state’s active tally remained 1,657, as 209 new cases were detected and 206 patients declared cured. A 49-year-old man from Querim-Sattari and a 73-year-old woman from Margao — both having co-morbid conditions — succumbed to the virus. Areas under the jurisdiction of the Chimbel primary health centre saw a sharp rise in cases after 15 new positives were found, taking its total to 81. Other places that reported a rise included Mapusa, Panaji, Candolim, Porvorim, Margao and Dharbandora. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that of the three new positives in the capital city, one was in Bhatlem, one in Ribandar, and one in St Inez. In the coastal belt of Anjuna, too, two cases wered detected. They are the husband and daughter of a hotel employee who tested positive a few days ago. Siolim PHC health officer Dr Sadhana Shetye said that they were immediately shifted to a Covid care centre. In Siolim, too, four persons tested positive on Friday. Meanwhile, after the state government altered its standard operating procedure for asymptomatic patients, 150 persons have opted for home isolation. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that the government received around 190 applications, 40 of which were rejected by the collector’s office. Mohanan said that an application for home isolation is processed after the health officer concerned gives their recommendation. Thus, a patient’s health is checked to see if they can be allowed home isolation, and if they have a separate facility to isolate themself. Mohanan also said that under the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Goa, two private Covid care centres have been started in North Goa and South Goa. Manipal hospital in Dona Paula, SMRC in Vasco and Victor hospital in Margao have complied with the health department’s directive and reserved 20% of their beds for Covid patients, she said. Meanwhile, Mohanan denied complaints over the past few days that many who gave their samples for testing did not receive their Covid test result for five to seven days. “I don’t accept that there is a delay of five to seven days . Though we had abacklog, it has been drastically reduced, the pending reports are of the past 48 hours,” said Mohanan. She said once a person gives their swab for testing, they are advised to remain in isolation. “Once a swab is given, we expect people to be responsible enough to maintain home isolation till the result is received,” she said. The test reports, she said, could stay pending for maximum 72 hours. There can be delays in certain cases, where the report is ready in the laboratory, but hasn’t been sent to the person. “Every day we take reports and are in touch with teams sending SMSs,” she said. During the past few days, pendency of reports ranged between 4,000 to 5,000 and at even crossed the 6,000 mark. On Friday, 4,019 test reports were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/death-toll-now-45-as-2-die-state-gets-209-new-cases/articleshow/77294002.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||40-year-old Covid-19 patient ends life in Washim, 16 deaths in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: A 40-year-old Covid-19 patient from Karanja Lad town in Washim district committed suicide on Friday due to stress and trauma after testing positive. This is the second suicide by a positive patient in Vidarbha, the first being by a 30-year-old labourer in Akola in May. Washim district collector Hrishikesh Modak confirmed that the man was having several health problems and was already in distress. “He was dejected after testing positive for Covid-19,” he said. On July 29, he ran away from the Covid Care Centre and Karanja police were searching for him. His body was found in a farm well on Karanja-Kherda road on Friday, said police. Karanja Lad town has already registered four Covid-19 deaths till date. Apart from the suicide, Washim also reported three Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. Vidarbha reported 16 deaths and 641 new cases on Friday. Of the 16 deaths, eight were reported from Nagpur alone. Vidarbha’s fatality rate is 2.6% which is higher than the national average of 2.9%. The day also saw 508 patients getting discharge after recovery. The region has reported total 14,975 cases so far. The number of recovered patients also surpassed the 10,000 mark on Friday. With 10,193 recovered till date, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 68% which is better than Maharashtra’s 60% and national average of 64%. Washim: Apart from the suicide by a 40-year-old patient, a 67-year-old man from Selu Bazar, and a 56-year-old man from Karanja Lad died on Thursday night while a 78-year-old man from Karanja Lad town who tested positive in Amravati died on Friday. Washim has total 594 cases with 386 recoveries and 16 deaths while 192 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Three deaths and a spike of 92 cases on Friday took the district’s toll to 61 and caseload to 2,157. July witnessed 37 deaths and 1,541 cases. The day also saw 87 patients getting discharge to take the number of recovered patients to 1513, leaving 534 patients under treatment. A 78-year-old woman from Civil Lines, Paratwada, a 65-year-old woman from Asir Colony here died at Covid hospital on Friday while a 53-year-old male from Belpura locality died at PDMC Hospital, a CS office report said. In Amravati rural, 35 cases were reported from Warud while Her Pingalai town in Morshi tehsil reported two to take its own count to 16. Paratwada, Achalpur, Nimbhora and Walgaon reported a case each. In city, Namuna Lanes, SRPF Camp and Badnera reported three cases each to take their count to 13, 18 and 178 respectively. With two new cases, Krushnanagar took its own tally to 14. Rahulnagar, Belpura and Kholapuri Gate reported a case each that took their count to 22 each. A case each was reported from different localities of the city. Buldhana: Record 580 tests were done in a day in Buldhana on Friday. Of them, 59 tested positive taking the district’s caseload to 1,268. A 72-year-old man from Deshmukh Plot, Khamgaon, under treatment at Covid Care Centre in Khamgaon died on Thursday taking the district’s toll to 30. The day also saw 43 patients getting discharge, taking number of recovered patients to 787. Buldhana has 451 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: A record 121 cases were detected in Yavatmal on Friday, taking total cases beyond the 1000-mark. Now, Yavatmal has 1076 cases, and became 5th district in Vidarbha to have more than 1000 cases. Even if the district recorded highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases, only six of them are from Yavatmal city. All others are from rural area. They include 50 from Pusad, 44 from Digras, 20 from Pandharkawda and 1 from Darwha. With 31 patients recovering in a day, total 596 patients have already recovered from Yavatmal. The district has reported 29 Covid-19 deaths so far. Total 451 patients are under treatment here. Yavatmal district has conducted 17123 tests so far. Akola: After conducting 582 rapid antigen tests and 328 RT-PCR tests in lab, Akola reported 44 new patients, most of them from tehsil places and rural area on Friday. Now, Akola has total 2,623 cases. After 2,096 recoveries and 113 deaths, 414 patients are under treatment in Akola district. The positivity rate of district is 13.2%, which is lowest in last two months. District health authorities in Akola have claimed that the spread is under control in municipal corporation area and cases are now coming mostly from rural parts. Gadchiroli: In a respite, total 90 patients recovered in a day in Gadchiroli on Friday. Now, out of total 577 cases, 427 have recovered while are 149 are under treatment. Most of the discharged patients are SRPF Jawans. Six new cases were reported, including a nurse from district hospital and a person from rural area who had been admitted for some ailment. Wardha: Seven new positive patient were added while 12 got discharge on Friday. The cases came from Arvi (2), Wardha (1), and Ashti (4). Total 216 reports are awaited while 60 patients are under treatment in the district. Chandrapur: With detection of 28 new patients, Chandrapur on Friday also crossed the mark of 500 patients to reach the total of 523 cases. The last 100 cases came in just 5 five days. Health officials have claimed that the doubling rate in Chandrapur is 13.5 days. A total of 322 patients have been discharged while 201 are under treatment. District collector Dr Kunal Khemnar informed that three employees at district collectorate tested positive on Friday. “After an employee in a section at district collectorate showed symptoms, swab samples of entire staff were collected. Of them three tested positive. We immediately closed down the office and started swab collection of officers and staffers of entire collectorate,” he said. ZP CEO Rahul Karile told reporters that an assistant administrative officer at ZP has tested positive. “We are collecting swab samples of all those who came in contact with the officer. Sanitization of entire ZP will undertaken in next three days,” he said. Gondia: The district registered another day of double digit spike in corona cases. An Oman returnee is among the 14 persons who tested positive on Friday. One patient hailing from Gondia tehsil got discharge. Bhandara: With two new cases reported on Friday, Bhandara’s caseload reached 250. With 197 of them recovered and 2 deaths reported earlier in July, Bhandara has 51 total patients under treatment. Out of them 4 have been referred to Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40-yr-old-covid-19-patient-ends-life-in-washim-16-deaths-in-vidarbha/articleshow/77292891.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Spike in co-morbid deaths prompts West Bengal to issue new treatment rules||KOLKATA: With the Covid death count crossing the 1,500 mark in Bengal — of which 86.5% had co-morbidities — the state health department has issued a detailed guideline on treating co-morbidities, including the use of steroids, repurposed drugs and even convalescent plasma. The guideline says that addressing hypoxia or acute respiratory failure and multi-organ involvement early can save a large number of affected patients. The total Covid deaths till July 1 was 683. On July 31, this figure stood at 1,581. Of these 898 Covid deaths in July — which was more than the count in March, April and May taken together — a staggering 847 people had co-morbidities. Only 51 of those who died due to Covid did not have co-morbid conditions. “In July, 35,846 people were treated and discharged from hospitals. Even in the Covid deaths, there has been a drastic fall in deaths where there are no co-morbidities. On July 1, in 23.3% of people who died of Covid had no co-morbidities. The percentage dropped to 13.5%, indicating that this has been arrested,” a senior official said. The new treatment protocol includes treating co-morbidities to ensure there is uniformity in treatment. The official indicated that the revised management protocol for Covid-19 was on Friday after an expert committee visited various Covid facilities and noticed some lapses. TOI had earlier reported some of the committee recommendations. On the use of repurposed drugs, the new treatment protocol makes patients’ consent mandatory. It added that hydroxychloroquine has been clinically beneficial in select cases, but has significant limitations. The guideline said that studies have indicated that the drug has no effect on mortality or clinical recovery. Remdesivir, the notice added, can only be used in emergencies because it can have side effects like anaemia, abnormal liver function test (LFTs) anomalies and acute kidney injury (AKI). For these, the state insisted that written informed consent should be obtained prior to administration of the drug. On Tocilizumab, the state guideline mentioned a set of cautions and recommended that the dosage must be measured under medical supervision. The new protocol said using steroids had reported a decrease mortality by 33% in patients on ventilation and by 20% in patients on oxygen therapy. It said Methyl Prednisolone and Dexamethasone can be used in Covid patients with moderate symptoms if oxygen requirement increases and inflam-matory markers increase, and should be done preferably within 48 hours of admission. The new protocol also gives clearance to the use of convalescent plasma in patients with moderate infection who are not improving, and whose oxygen requirement is also progressively increasing, despite use of steroids. The guideline mandated that only Drug Controller General of India (DCGI)- and ICMR-approved centres may process convalescent Covid plasma. Any off-label convalescence Covid-19 plasma use must be approved by an expert review team along with the institutional ethics committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spike-in-co-morbid-deaths-prompts-state-to-issue-new-treatment-rules/articleshow/77291348.cms||Saibal Sen
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Most hotels defer their opening till end of year||PANAJI: More than twenty-five days after the Goa government permitted hotels to start operations, most hotels have decided to postpone re-opening till October-November this year. A majority of hoteliers said that it doesn’t make “business sense” to operate with minimal occupancy, and so have decided to wait till September to take a call. This stance has also been adopted by hotels that were granted permissions by the tourism department earlier this month on the condition that they will abide by the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the pandemic. Vinay Albuquerque, director of Alcon Resort holdings pvt ltd that operates a couple of starred hotels in south and north Goa, said though they have got permission to operate, they have decided to wait till mid-October. “People have lost jobs. Besides, people are scared of flying. Holiday is last on their mind during the pandemic,” said Albuquerque. The spike in Covid cases in Goa this month, an average of 150-200 cases a day, has also dampened spirits of those who had initially shown willingness to start operations. And it’s not hotels suffering. “The situation will not change unless there is a dip in cases,” John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society, says. “Everybody is scared of getting infected. If there is no improvement, there may even be no beach shacks in the coming tourism season. It depends on what the government decides.” Meanwhile, vice-president of the North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association, Ravindra Vengurlekar, said he will not operate his taxi for the next year. “We are completely against restarting tourism. Most of us can afford not to drive our taxis for that long,” he said. Hotels that have started operations this month, an industry insider said, have very poor occupancy. “Their room occupancy is less than 10% though they may not admit openly,” he said. Rajendra Menon, general manager of Zuri White Sands Goa resort & casino also pointed out the non-viability of starting operations at this phase of the pandemic. “All major cities whether it is Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai or Ahmedabad from where Goa received upper-middle class tourists are engulfed in Covid crisis,” said Menon. “So starred hotels aren’t going to get their usual footfalls in, to operate. We will need at least 25 to 30% occupancy to confidently start operations,” he added. Lobo agrees. “India has been reporting around 50,000 new cases of Covid-19 every day,” he said. “We have to wait till the figures come down to a few hundred a day before foreign tourists start visiting Goa again.” After a drop in international arrivals during the last few years, starred hotels in Goa began focussing on wedding and corporate, incentives, conferences and events (MICE) destinations. In this pandemic, Menon pointed out that technology has got an upper hand. Certainly, businesses will prefer Zoom conferencing over having a conference at any holiday destination. “We are very clear from the start that we aren’t going to start operations any time prior to October,” he said. Prasad Kanoth, deputy general manager at Ramada Caravela beach resort in south Goa also said that it is not possible to start operations with mere 5 to 10% room occupancy. Besides, the SOPs requiring hotels to keep recreational activities shut, he said, discourage probable travel plans of people. “We will need to take baby steps towards opening the industry which has taken the biggest hit of the pandemic. I don’t think we can think of starting operations any time before September,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-hotels-defer-opening-till-end-of-year/articleshow/77294013.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Students launch campaign opposing relocation of college||Mysuru: The students of Government First Grade College in Terakanambi village in Gundlupet taluk are going door-to-door and distributing pamphlets seeking public support to prevent relocation of their college to Raybagh in Belagavi district. While the government has decided to shift six first grade colleges in the state citing lack of student strength, it has now taken a shape of a movement led by students of Terakanambi. There are at present 56 students studying in the Terakanambi college, who have now been asked to join the First Grade College in Gundlupet town, which is 15kms farther than the present college. Tejaswini, a student, said that Terakanambi is a remote village close to Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border in Gundlupet taluk in Chamaranagara district and most of the students are from backward communities. “There is no proper road and transport facility from Terakanambi village to Gundlupet town. So if the college is closed, it is difficult for us to travel to Gundlupet for continuing the education,” she said. Opposing the move, the students have launched a massive campaign demanding that the government withdraw its decision. B Rakshitha, another student said, “Rural students who join the college are from financially poor families and backward communities. As family members do not allow girls to study in colleges which are far from their villages, this college was helpful for girls to get a degree and later a job. If the college is shifted, girl students will be compelled to drop out,” she said. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, and various other forums and dalit organisations have joined hands with students in their protest. KRRS and Hasiru Sene president Badagalapura Nagendra told TOI that BJP MLA CS Niranjan Kumar should pressurise the government to withdraw its order. “We will not allow the college to relocate to other district. We will support the students in their fight to retain the college,” he said. The Department of College Education in its order has decided to relocate six colleges – Sathanuru’s Government First Grade College to Basavanagudi in Bengaluru, Belur’s Arehalli FGC to Malleshwaram in Bengaluru, Holenarasipura’s Halli Mysore FGC to Shantinagar in Bengaluru, Sakaleshpura’s Hethuru FGC to Hebbal in Bengaluru, Chitradurga District’s Turuvanuru Challakere FGC to Nippani in Belagavi district and Gundlupet’s Terakanambi FGC to Harogeri Raybagh in Belagavi district, citing less than 100 student strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-launch-campaign-opposing-relocation-of-college/articleshow/77289829.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada reports 204 fresh cases, five fatalities||Mangaluru: The twin coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi reported 417 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. While Dakshina Kannada reported 204 positive cases, Udupi recorded 213 fresh cases. Dakshina Kannada also reported five fatalities, including an 88-year-old woman from Davanagere district who died of Covid-19. The elderly woman with co-morbidities, including septic shock and secondary bacterial infection, tested positive for Covid-19 and died at a private hospital in the city. Meanwhile, a 47-year-old male from the city was the youngest among the five who succumbed to co-morbidity. He was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), Type 1 respiratory failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), type II diabetes, hypertension and died after a cardiac arrest. With 204 fresh cases, Dakshina Kannada district’s Coivd-19 tally increased to 5,713. As on Friday, the district has a total of 2,929 active cases. Meanwhile, the total number of deaths in the district increased to 155. With the discharge of 70 patients on Friday, the district has successfully treated 2,631 positive cases. Out of 204 positive cases reported on Friday, contacts of 52 persons are under investigation. The district also reported 63 Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and 14 Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Meanwhile, 75 persons have contracted the virus through primary contacts. Deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said the district administration is awaiting reports on actual cause of death in all the Covid-19 related cases reported in the district. The DC said that the district has no shortage of beds for Covid-19 and other patients. He said measures are in place to make the bed allotment for patients in all the hospitals in the district transparent through an online platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-reports-204-fresh-cases-five-fatalities/articleshow/77292164.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Contractors make hay as labour shortage hits plantation, construction sectors||Mysuru: Nearly four months after the farm and construction labourers from Mysuru and surrounding districts of the Southern Karnataka returned home fearing Covid-19, the labour market is witnessing a new trend. Amid acute shortage of skilled manpower, labour contractors are gaining prominence among building contractors and plantation owners. These middlemen are also approached by people building their own houses as hiring labourers has become a herculean task since lockdown. Several residents wit plans to revamp their homes said they are forced to approach the middlemen who arrange workers from districts like Vijayapura, Raichur among others due to the shortage of labourers. “For each labourer arranged, they seek a commission of Rs 200 to Rs 300 based on the skill,” said Dr Gurudas, a physician currently constructing a house in Vasanthnagar. National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) Karnataka chapter president Satish Kumar said around 25% to 30% of the labourers engaged in construction works have moved to agriculture sector following good rainfall in the villages. “This resulted in the labour shortage,” he said. “The labour demand and supply system is multi dimensional. Labourers who left the state for heir villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are not happy there either. They are ready to return. But the construction sector is yet to pick up here,” he said. “Local labourers have returned to the farming sector. So, people are facing shortage of labourers even for emergency works,” he said. The Southern Karnataka plantation sector is also witnessing a similar trend. Bose Mandanna, former vice-chairman of the Coffee Board of India and a plantation owner from Kodagu, said the concept of Jeep labourers has become very popular here. “The jeep owners bring the labourers from places like Piriyapatna to our plantation. They collect money from the plantation owners for this service. They collect another Rs 80 to Rs 100 from the labourer too per day,” he said. “We pay the workers around Rs 400 per day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/contractors-make-hay-as-labour-shortage-hits-plantation-construction-sectors/articleshow/77290764.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hubballi||Theatre artists of North Karnataka struggle to make a post-Covid encore||Hubballi: Covid-19 has pushed many sectors into trouble. It has also left theatre persons in dilemma as they find it difficult to bring theatre activities back to the stage. Theatre companies and artists are working on ways to make a comeback amidst strict guidelines of restricting audience and other measures to contain the spread of the virus. Many theatre companies have created virtual platforms to revive their activities in North Karnataka, but are unable to attract theatre lovers, mainly youngsters. Chindodi Vijay Kumar, managing proprietor, KBR Drama Company, which was established in 1928, said both professional and amateur theatre and their dependents are not finding any alternative way to make a comeback. “In the beginning of March, we started a theatre show at Sirsi by investing Rs 4.5 lakh. About 10 days later, the lockdown was imposed. Since then we have been in trouble. There are 40 artists and side artists, technicians and others associated with the company,” he said. “Now almost all major sectors have been unlocked partially and some completely, but the theatre field is not unlocked. We are waiting for a government decision to open cinema houses. If that happens, we will follow the same guidelines. We never stopped the show during any situation or circumstance. This is for the first time that the show was stopped for over a month,” he added. Well known artist and founder of ‘Adi Ranga Theatres’ Yashwant Sardeshpande said that after the lockdown, they tried many options. “But I personally think the online and virtual system will not work for theatre. If cinema houses are allowed to open, then we too will follow the same and plan to start our shows. Yes, audience numbers will be reduced, but it will help us to slowly come back,” he added. In Karnataka, there are 24 professional theatre companies. Once the theatres reopen, they must spend more for sanitisation, and other activities and restrict the number audiences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/theatre-artists-of-north-karnataka-struggle-to-make-a-post-covid-encore/articleshow/77292693.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru corporator’s husband, 3 of family booked for affray||Mysuru: Mysuru City Corporation ward 63 corporator Sharadamm’s husband Eshwara and three members of a JP Nagar family have been charged with affray and criminal intimidation for quarrelling in a public place, here on Thursday. Vidyaranyapuram police have booked Eshwar and Drakshyani and two of her sons. An argument broke out between Eshwara and Drakshyani and her two sons, near their house, after a power line drawn underground snapped while a civic work was being carried out, police stated. An UGD pipeline was being laid on 20th cross in JP Nagar, when workers accidentally damaged the electrical cable, leading to power disruption, they stated. Drakshyani told police that she called Sharadamma to inform her about this, but minutes later her husband turned up at the spot and started arguing with them. He left the spot, and again came back around 3.30 pm in an inebriated state along with his aides to Drakshyani’s house. Drakshayni lodged a complaint with the police that Eshwara them. Sharadamma alleged that after the power line drawn to their house got disconnected during UGD work, Drakshyani’s family got infuriated and started abusing them, as well as the workers. The workers then stopped the work. Claiming that she had inspected the spot and had got the power line restored, but still Drakshyani and her family continued bothering them over phone, and abused her husband when he visited the spot, she stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-corporators-husband-3-of-family-booked-for-affray/articleshow/77289672.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||MGIMS comes up with a cotton mask as good as N95||Nagpur: After successfully making a washable, reusable and affordable PPE kit that keeps users cool from inside with innovative use of khadi, the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sevagram, has come up with a unique N95 mask made of cotton. The makers have claimed that this mask offers protection from virus almost as good as the N95 surgical mask. It is way better than the single-layered use-and-throw masks available in the market and locally made triple-layered masks. The mask costs Rs50, is triple layered, and made with a special type of quilting cotton woven on machines in Sevagram. On July 31, this mask successfully cleared all the tests conducted in the departments of anatomy and microbiology of MGIMS. The researchers have submitted a detailed paper on this innovation to various journals, including the European Journal of Respiratory Medicines. “This innovative mask was created after discussion with end users of general purpose masks from the community as well as health care workers,” said Dr Rahul Narang, professor at department of microbiology. “Firstly, people are not sure of the efficacy of the mask they are wearing. Secondly, the masks are either too big or too small. Thirdly, masks with elastic strings are likely to be manipulated to cover only the mouth or just the chin. Apart from this, we worked on reusability, price, role of face shield in the community, and decided to create cotton masks with some modifications,” he added. “We believe that our innovation can be used in the community as well as in general areas of the hospital like offices, labs, etc and can be a better alternative to single use triple-layer surgical masks. Further testing may be done by other organizations to rule out bias in our study,” Dr Narang said. Since the inner two layers are of locally woven cotton, they can be washed any number of time. The outer layer is of the impervious cloth used by MGIMS researchers to make their washable PPE Kit. This cloth is washable at least 40 times. This means the mask can be re-used after washing at least 40 times. According to doctors who are using this mask at MGIMS, the design is very good and they did not find any breathing difficulty with half of the front layer being impervious. Researchers who worked on this project are Priyanka Shahane-Kapse from department of microbiology, Dr MR Shende, professor & head, department of anatomy, Dr Sumit Kar, professor & head, department of dermatology, Dr Pradeep Deshmukh, professor & Head, department of community medicine, and Dr Dhiraj Bhandari, professor, department of anaesthesiology. Cotton Mask MGIMS cotton mask is triple layered Inner two layers are of quilted cotton, equal to world class Kona cotton Outer layer is of polypropylene coated with polyurethane Microscopic structure of this mask is very close to the level of N95 Can be washed and re-used at least 40 times Costs Rs50, mass production may reduce cost even further At least 15 doctors/professors already using this at Sevagram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mgims-comes-up-with-a-cotton-mask-as-good-as-n95/articleshow/77292905.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Book Malkajgiri TRS MLA’s men for land grab: NHRC to cops||HYDERABAD: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked Telangana police to take action against two followers of Malkajgiri TRS MLA Mynampally Hanumantha Rao in a case of land grabbing and encroachment. DNA expert and civic activist GV Rao had filed a criminal case last year. When there was no action from police, he approached NHRC. The commission, in its directive to cops, said: “Police are directed to take action within eight weeks and inform the complainant of the action taken.” Rao had filed a complaint with Alwal police on July 23, 2019, against two TRS activists — Kondal Reddy and Uday Kiran Goud. “The duo were posting abusive and intimidating messages on local WhatsApp groups. They even threatened to see my end. After much persuasion, police registered an FIR. However, no action was taken against the duo. Police are saying that the accused are not available, whereas they are roaming freely in Alwal,” Rao said. Efforts by TOI to reach the MLA or his followers for their comment proved futile. Rao further said: “The accused approached me and asked me to withdraw my complaint. They also asked me to withdraw the case of land grabbing I had filed in the civil court of Malkajgiri against Hanumantha Rao. When I refused to withdraw, they started threatening me and intimidating me. I tweeted about the threats to the commissioner of police. Police later approached me.” Rao said he had filed the petition in the court only to protect the local lake and government land from being encroached. Rao said he had filed the plea only to protect the local lake and govt land from being encroached. He is involved with the Greater Alwal residential welfare association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nhrc-to-copsbook-mlas-men-for-land-grab/articleshow/77292900.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rapid antigen tests detect 19 positives out of 88 suspects||KOLKATA: KMC’s rapid antigen test camp in Chetla on Thursday reportedly found 13 positive patients out of 50 Covid suspects tested. In a separate camp near Hatibagan, six persons out of 38 reportedly tested positive. In both cases, the results were known 30 minutes after the swab samples were collected. The civic body is conducting these camps in containment zones or in localities that have been reporting a high number of positive cases. On Friday, similar camps were organized at Katjunagar, close to South City mall, and in Kankurgachhi. “While all positive results by rapid antigen kits are truly positive, all negative results are not truly negative. Some of the samples need re-confirmation by RT-PCR. Therefore, the total number of positive cases could be higher than what Thursday’s results have revealed,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI. A KMC health department official said he was not surprised by the high number of positives as both Chetla and its neighbourhood and large areas in the Shyambazar-Hatibagan belt had become Covid-sensitive zones. “More than worrying about the positive patients, we are concerned about the persons who tested negative at these rapid antigen test camps. We need to conduct separate tests for them to find out whether they are really not carrying the virus,” he said. While RT-PCR is the gold standard of confirming Covid infection, rapid antigen test can detect the infection in 30 minutes. With a sensitivity of around 40% to 50%, these kits can throw up false negative results. Microbiologists say those collecting the samples need to mark the swabs from patients who are highly suspicious so that those can sent for RT-PCR confirmatory tests. “If proper patient profiling, like contract tracing, is conducted at these camps, the results can throw up interesting insights on aspects like community transmission,” said Gupta. According to sources, the civic body will now extend the antigen test camps to Covid-infected wards across 16 boroughs. “We will hold the test camps in at least three Covid-infected wards across 16 boroughs. Based on the results, we will decide on our Covid-combat plan,” a KMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rapid-antigen-tests-detect-19-ves-out-of-88-suspects/articleshow/77291356.cms||Saikat Ray
August 1, 2020||Surat||Surat: Migrant worker found dead inside factory||SURAT: A migrant worker from Maharashtra was found dead in an industrial unit in Pandesara area of the city on Friday morning. Preliminary probe suggests that he may have died due to electrocution during the night. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Laxman Ratede (25). He was found dead in the unit owned by Seetaben Patel on Plot 86 of Sonal Industries in Pandesara. “Ratede was a casual labourer and used to sleep in the factory unit at night. It seems he was electrocuted. We have sent the body for postmortem to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-worker-found-dead-inside-factory/articleshow/77292400.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||105-year-old out of Covid clutches||NEW DELHI: A 105-year-old Afghan woman was discharged from a Noida hospital on Friday, a fortnight after she was admitted in ICU with Covid. Rabia Ahmadi, who last year came from Paris, would need oxygen support at her grand-daughter’s house. She may be the third oldest Covid patient to recover in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/105-year-old-out-of-covid-clutches/articleshow/77295005.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal takes a leaf from Delhi with plasma bank & rapid antigen tests||BHOPAL: This week, Madhya Pradesh initiated two significant steps to control the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, which seemed to be getting out of hand at several places. According to experts, these two steps helped Delhi script a new history when the pandemic was at its peak in the national capital and helped it salvage the situation to a large extent. The two steps in question are setting up of a plasma bank at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and use of the rapid antigen kit method for confirmation of coronavirus infection. While the plasma bank would help critically-ill patients to recover with “borrowed immunity” from “convalescent plasma donors”, the rapid antigen test would help boost the testing capacity tremendously. A beaming divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyawat, who is playing a key role in setting up the plasma bank at GMC and who earlier this week started a campaign to motivate eligible “convalescent donors” to give plasma for persons battling against Covid-19, said in this small period, 36 persons have already been registered themselves for donation of plasma. They are people, who have won over the coronavirus infection and now have precious antibodies in their plasma, which fought against the deadly virus on their behalf and killed it. Kiyavat said that blood bank in-charge at GMC, Dr Umendra Sharma, has been appointed nodal officer for the project and as soon as preparations are complete, plasma donation would start. If there have been maximum number of tests for confirmation of Covid-19 (about 10 lakh), which turned the tide for the national capital, rapid antigen tests were a major factor responsible for it. In Delhi, it was introduced last month and, in MP, on July 30. On the first day, rapid antigen tests were conducted in the districts of Bhopal, Gwalior and Morena and it would be spread across the state in course of time, said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/plasma-bank-antigen-tests-to-script-delhi-success-saga-in-mp/articleshow/77291362.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 1, 2020||Goa||Act against brokers in hotel quarantine biz, hoteliers tell govt||Margao: The All Goa Hotel Owners Association on Friday alleged that their confirmed guests were being diverted to other quarantine hotels by “brokers” at the airport and demanded that the government conduct an inquiry into the matter. A guest who has confirmed his bookings online in one of the hotels, finds himself being taken away by “brokers” to some other hotel for quarantine, thereby depriving the association hotels of business, the association’s Imran Sayyed told reporters. He said they realised that they were being duped only after the “guests” called them up. Around 35 members of the All Goa Hotel Owners Association have offered their properties as quarantine facilities for Goans returning to the state. He said that the government should provide them some relief as power and water tariffs have gone up, besides the GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-brokers-in-hotel-quarantine-biz-hoteliers-tell-govt/articleshow/77294073.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Power bills: CS pulls up civic bodies||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar directed all the gram panchayats and municipalities to pay electricity bills every month and warned that default on payments would be viewed seriously. The CS held a meeting with officials of municipalities, panchayat raj department and power utilities on Friday. He said a decision on payment of arrears would be taken later. He asked the discoms to prepare a detailed report on arrears within seven days by talking to the panchayats and municipalities. The detailed report and options regarding arrears should be given shortly before chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao takes a policy decision on arrears related to local bodies, sources said. The CS also advised joint teams of discoms, panchayats and municipality officials to resolve discrepancies in bills such as those relating to borewells, etc. Somesh directed that bills be generated by discoms based on meter readings only. Meters should be fixed whereever it has not been done within one month, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-bills-cs-pulls-up-civic-bodies/articleshow/77292944.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||Staggered schedule for Eid prayers at Kolkata mosques||KOLKATA: Several mosques across the city have decided to hold Bakri Eid prayers on Saturday in multiple shifts to maintain social distancing and prevent the shrines from getting crowded. At the iconic Nakhoda Mosque on Zakaria Street, there will be two congregations — one at 6.30am and the other at 7.30am. This is the first time that Bakri Eid prayers at Nakhoda Mosque are being held in two shifts. “We have to keep the safety of people in mind and prevent the transmission of coronavirus. It is due to the pandemic that we have decided to split the congregation into two. We have also requested the devotees to maintain all social distancing norms and perform ablutions before coming to the mosque,” said Nasser Ebrahim, a trustee of the mosque. On Bakri Eid, members of the Muslim community sacrifice livestock and distribute the portions among the poor, family and friends. The day starts with prayers at the local mosque, which get crowded. This is the reason managing committees of the mosques are taking precautions this time. At Sola Ana Mosque in Ekbalpore, there will be three congregations — at 6.30am, 7.15am and 8am respectively. Similarly, at Lal Masjid in Ekbalpore, there will be two congregations. “People have been told to arrive before the prayers start and occupy space following social distancing norms. Elderly people have been advised to offer prayers at home for safety reasons,” said an imam. There will be no congregation at Red Road where over 3 lakh people offer prayers during Eid and Bakri Eid. Nobody could recall when was the last time that Eid and Bakri Eid prayers at Red Road were kept in suspension. “The decision was taken keeping the larger interest of society in mind. People from far-flung districts come to Red Road to offer prayers but during this pandemic, this could have posed a lot of risks. People have been advised to offer prayers either at home or at their local mosques but only after following all safety guidelines,” said Mullick Mohammad Ishaque, a member of the Calcutta Khilafat Committee, which organises Eid prayers on Red Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/staggered-schedule-for-eid-prayers-at-mosques/articleshow/77291364.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Covid spreads in staffers, LMC bars public in its offices||Lucknow: Public entry will be barred in Lucknow Municipal Corporation head office in Lalbagh and its eight zonal offices from August 8. The decision has been taken after over two dozen LMC employees, two corporators and an officer tested positive for coronavirus recently. An employees’ leader also died due to Covid recently. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said a drop box will be installed outside every office where visitors can put their grievances or purpose of visit in writing along with their name and phone number. An employee will be deputed to sort the public applications in the drop box and distribute them among officers/employees concerned for redressal. The officers/employees of the department concerned will then call up the complainants to gather details and resolve the issue. Earlier, LMC had asked people to use online services for payment of property tax and registration of birth and death certificates. Further, it has been decided to close offices only for four hours for sanitization if any worker is found Covid positive. Earlier, in such a case, offices were closed for 47 hours. Tripathi said, “The decision has been taken to ensure minimum break in work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-spreads-in-staffers-lmc-bars-public-in-its-offices/articleshow/77294016.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias tested +ve due to remnant of virus: Govt||PANAJI: Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias, who tested positive for Covid-19 after he was cured and discharged from the Covid-ESI hospital, is being treated for a pulmonary condition at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. “He was discharged from the ESI-Covid hospital after he tested negative for Covid-19,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. “In a repeat test, he tested positive, but that is because of the remnants of the virus in his body,” she told reporters. Dias underwent treatment at the Covid hospital for almost a month. He has now been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital. “The treatment has to be provided in a setup different from that at the ESI-Covid hospital,” Mohanan said. The health secretary said that earlier too, it has been witnessed that patients who were positive tested negative and vice-versa. That’s why, she said, even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) changed its discharge policy — patients can be discharged without a test since it’s likely the test would show the remains of the virus in the system. She said that the discharge policy is applicable to both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, but not for critically-ill patients. If a Covid patient was critical at any stage of his treatment, protocol requires that he undergoes one RT-PCR test before his discharge. Other Covid patients are discharged after ten days without a test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mla-tested-ve-due-to-remnant-of-virus-govt/articleshow/77294017.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||No lockdown in Nagpur district during August, says guardian minister Nitin Raut||Nagpur: Amid political drama, district guardian minister Nitin Raut on Friday announced there will be no lockdown in city or district in August to check the spread Covid-19 as was being anticipated. Instead, a 4-T plan of tracing, tracking, testing and treating the patients will be undertaken. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had warned of a strict lockdown in case citizens continued to ignore Covid rules and cases kept increasing. Raut and home minister Anil Deshmukh had named a committee of senior district officials to work out details of the lockdown. However, a group of elected representatives, mostly from BJP but also including others, had opposed the lockdown plan citing difficulties to citizens and threat to livelihood of the poor. On Friday, Raut met divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, collector Ravindra Thakare, CEO of Zilla Parishad Yogesh Khumbajkar and officials of state’s health department and deans of two Dedicated Covid Hospitals and decided against the lockdown. Raut told TOI, “Everyone agreed full lockdown with curfew will not work. I request the people not to believe in rumours.” He said patients reaching hospitals in a critical condition is a big problem. Also, hospitals as well as the civic body were facing serious shortage of staff. “We will launch a programme to detect the patients early and treat them,” said Raut. Simultaneously, the elected representatives led by mayor Sandip Joshi also held a meeting in which they opposed talk of a lockdown. Nagpur rural MP and Shiv Sena leader Krupal Tumane, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, MLAs Krishna Khopde, Vikas Kumbhare, Mohan Mate, MLC Anil Sole and leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve attended. They slammed Raut for allegedly playing politics over the issue and sidelining them in taking crucial decisions. They were also riled at Raut for convening a meeting coinciding with their own which they said was planned earlier. Joshi said the meeting decided to end the odd-even formula for major roads but continue with it in the narrow lanes. It was also decided to instruct the civic administration not to undertake anti-encroachment drive and not to impose hefty fines on shopkeepers for violations. Some, requesting anonymity, told TOI that Raut’s “sudden realization” of his duties as the district guardian minister was only an effort to divert the people’s attention from the hue and cry being raised over the exorbitant power bills. Joshi also didn’t spare municipal commissioner Mundhe for skipping the meeting convened by him and attending the one convened by Raut. “Mundhe should have attended my meeting,” he said. On the other hand, Raut also met representatives of various NGOs who assured to help the administration in containing Covid-19. “We will establish a help desk in all 38 wards in the city. Testing will be done followed by creating awareness, receiving complaints, helping in treatment or admission of patients etc. MSEDCL is having contact numbers of all in the district which will be used for creating awareness about four-T programme,” Raut said. Raut said he had directed GMCH and IGGMCH to start testing all patients visiting hospitals using Rapid Antigen Kits. “Hospitals are also facing shortage of Class-IV employees like attendants and sanitary workers. I have asked them to get sufficient manpower from private agencies. I will try to get doctors and paramedical staff from government,” he said. Raut met representatives of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) who assured help in boosting economy of the district. THE WAY FORWARD * No lockdown and curfew in the city during August * Instead, 4-T plan to trace, track, test, and treat patients * Help desks in all 38 wards of city to guide patients about treatment * Awareness drives through MSEDCL data base of phone numbers * Govt hospital to be asked to test all visiting patients * Staff shortage in government hospitals to be addressed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-lockdown-in-nagpur-district-during-august-says-guardian-minister-nitin-raut/articleshow/77292923.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Poor quality kits affecting testing: PGI docs to CM||Lucknow: The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of the SGPGIMS on Friday wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath complaining about the “poor quality” PPE kits and masks supplied to the institute recently. Describing the protective gears as “inadequate for safety”, the RDA sought CM’s intervention as his government is known to be “sensitive” towards public issues. Writing on behalf of the residents, RDA president Dr Akash Mathur, vice president Dr Shruthi and general secretary Anil Gangwar said the new PPE kits and N95 masks are not “up to the mark”. The kits often get damaged while using and masks are hard on their ears, at times causing injuries. “We raised the issue with the institute’s director, who told us that the kits have been supplied by a public sector unit, hence we request you to see to it that either the supply of gear provided earlier is resumed or required improvement is done in the quality of the current lot,” the letter read. Gangwar said at least 10 resident doctors on Covid duty have contracted infection in the past two weeks. “The residents are rendering valuable services in a high-risk zone and as Covid-19 cases are expected to rise, every resident needs to be protected against the possibility of infection,” he added. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 lab complex of the institute was closed on Friday for sanitisation after a computer operator tested positive for infection. The lab daily conducts around 3,000 tests of the samples collected from across the state through the RT-PCR method. “We made arrangements for testing of samples of emergency cases through TruNat machine and about 100 tests were done on Friday,” said microbiology head Prof Ujjala Ghoshal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/poor-quality-kits-affecting-testing-pgi-docs-to-cm/articleshow/77294047.cms||Yusra Husain
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Moira bananas, Harmal chillies get GI tag||PANAJI: The state’s popular Moira banana and Harmal chilli were recently accorded the geographical indication (GI) tag. The two agricultural products are the fourth and fifth items from Goa to get the GI tag after feni, the Khola chilli, and khajem (kaddio boddio). A GI tag protects the produce from being illegally used, and ensures benefits to the local growers’ community. The Moira banana — or Myndoli kellim in Konkani — is so named because it is believed to have first been introduced to the village of Moira, Bardez, by Franciscan priests. However, over recent years, their cultivation in their village of origin has dwindled. The large bananas — a couple of which are equivalent to a filling meal — are now grown in other parts of Bardez, Bicholim, and Pernem. In fact, the application for the GI tag was filed by the Myndoli Banana Growers Association, Ibrampur, Pernem. “It is very nutritious and high in energy, vitamins and minerals,” said the recently issued GI notification. The fruit is also used to make a dessert item, a halwa fried and ghee and cooked in sugar syrup. Some local elders believe this variety of banana has medicinal value and can prevent certain ailments. A single fruit weighs around 200g, and a well-developed bunch of 85-98 bananas weighs 50-50kg. The other item to get the GI tag, the Harmal chilli, is also from Pernem; specfically, the coastal village of Arambol. Chillies were introduced to Goa by the Portuguese, and many varieties are now grown locally. “Harmal chillies contain a good amount of minerals like potassium (10942.65 mg/kg), iron (247.98 mg/kg), magnesium (778.24 mg/kg), calcium (1803.60 mg/kg) and sodium (196.49mg/kg),” states the GI notification. Grown by most households in lateritic soil in Arambol, the chilli is 2.7-3.7cm long, and is reddish-brown in colour with a smooth skin texture. “A small quantity of powder is sufficient in food preparation due to its high pungency,” the journal states. The crop is often mixed with other masalas to spice up dishes in Goan cuisine, and is used in the preparation of chicken xacuti masala, garam masala, khatkhatem and recheado masala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moira-bananas-harmal-chillies-get-gi-tag/articleshow/77294024.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 1, 2020||Vijayawada||In Andhra Pradesh, liquor smugglers go to extremes to keep business running despite crackdown||VIJAYAWADA: As the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has been increasing its vigil on illegal liquor business across the state, bootleggers are coming up with different ways to conduct their trade. From using essential goods trucks as cover to building secret compartments in vehicles, cops have seen smugglers take different approaches to move the contraband over the last two months. Earlier in June, Kankipadu police seized liquor worth Rs 20 lakh in a haystack load from Punjab. Recently, Krishna district police seized 94 liquor bottles from a load of ladies’ finger from Telangana and arrested two persons involved. “It is practically impossible to check every single essential supply truck to identify the smugglers. We rely on informants and intelligence teams’ information in ascertain the vehicle and then do deep check to find the liquor,” a senior SEB official told TOI. Cops seized around 30 bottles hidden inside speaker boxes behind an autorickshaw earlier this month. The most difficult method to trace for cops is smuggling through the boats. SEB sleuths had intercepted several boats trying to transport liquor via Krishna river from Telangana particularly in Guntur district. Officials point out that the accused tie the liquor bottles to the boat and dump it into the river like an anchor. When they find the cops approaching, they would simply untie the thread and let go of the produce to avoid any case against them. Explaining the reason behind the flourishing racket, cops point out that the smugglers make a killing by selling Telangana liquor in the state. “Prior to the government imposing 75% additional excise tax, a 180-ml bottle of branded liquor costs Rs 80 in Telangana and Rs 120 in AP. Now it is around Rs 180 to Rs 190 in AP giving the bootleggers more than 100% margin to capitalise on and hence, they are going to any extremes to run the business,” an SEB official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/liquor-smugglers-go-to-extremes-to-keep-biz-running-despite-crackdown/articleshow/77291441.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 1, 2020||Aurangabad||HC hikes Rs 9L aid to Rs 23L for widow||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has enhanced the compensation granted by the Motor Accident Tribunal to a woman, who lost her husband in an accident with an MSRTC bus, from Rs 9 lakh to over Rs 23 lakh. The amount is to be divided equally between the woman and her parents-in-law. The appellant, Anita Arun Memane (24) of Raytale in Parner taluka of Ahmednagar district, had approached the high court in 2012 against the Motor Accident Tribunal’s verdict that awarded Rs 9 lakh compensation to her, of which 1,50000 each was to be given to her husband Arun’s parents. Arun, who was in the Indian Army, had died in an accident on June 2, 2007 on Nagar-Pune road opposite Kamargaon Bus Stand. At the time of the accident, Arun was 24 and was posted in Gwalior as a sepoy. He was receiving a monthly salary of Rs 10,000. On account of accidental death, the claimant had worked out the claim as Rs.15,30,000. However, she restricted the claim for the purpose of petition and court fees to Rs.10,00,000. Accordingly, the tribunal assessed the monetary loss and considering that she was also getting Rs 6,000 per month pension., awarded total compensation of Rs.9,00,000. The widow however challenged the award in the high court in 2012. The matter came up for hearing before justice V L Achaliya on July 24. While enhancing the total compensation to Rs 23,52,000 observed: “Considering the overall facts of the case that the marriage of the deceased had taken place about few months prior to the accident and the appellant lost her husband at young age. I am of the view that the amount of compensation be apportioned in the ratio of 50% to the appellant and the balance 50% to Arun’s father Ramdas (68) and mother Sitabai 63).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-hikes-rs-9l-aid-to-rs-23l-for-widow/articleshow/77290097.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||12% less rainfall in July; showers soon in Aug||Nagpur: The month of July saw the region receiving 12% less rains than the normal. According to data of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city recorded 452.8 millimeters rainfall, 4% less than the normal 470.7 mm. However, as per the forecast, light to moderate rainfall is expected to hit the city in the first week of August. The highest decline was in Gondia which recorded 332.8 mm rains, 45 % less than the normal 607.7 mm. Only two districts in Vidarbha received rains more than the normal for July. Buldhana received 18% more rains while Washim recorded 25% rainfall. At 537.4 mm, Chandrapur recorded highest rainfall in the region in July. Overall, Vidarbha received 422.7 mm rains against the normal 477.7 mm. In the entire month, it rained in the city for 19 days. The maximum rainfall was recorded on July 15, when the city received 100.8 mm rainfall. The mercury levels in the city remained more or less constant throughout the month. In the initial week, the maximum temperatures swayed between 31.5-34 degree Celsius. On July 6, the maximum mercury level dropped to 29.1 degree Celsius following intermittent rains. Till July 19, the temperatures stayed between 30.7- 35.7 degree Celsius. The maximum temperatures again dropped again dropped to 29.4 degree Celsius on July 20. It again rose to 34-35 degree Celsius by the month end. July 2 was the hottest day of the month when the maximum temperature reached 36.8 degree Celsius. Most of the districts in the region have recorded normal rains between June 1 till July 31. Akola is 20% rain deficit, Bhandara 21%, Gondia 45% and Gadchiroli 25%.  Maximum temperatures will stay between 34-35 degree Celsius while minimum are expected to be around 26-29 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-less-rainfall-in-july-showers-soon-in-aug/articleshow/77292969.cms||Manka Behl
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, ITI inside factory for skill empowerment of students||Ludhiana: In first of its kind initiative, Industrial Training Institute (ITI) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with one of city’s prominent companies, Rajnish Industries, wherein the company will train students in its factory. The initiative will not only help in the skill development of the students, but will also help them the much needed hands-on training in a real factory. The idea is the brainchild of Punjab’s principal secretary of technical education, Anurag Verma and managing director of Rajnish Industries, Rahul Ahuja, who also is the chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry’s Punjab chapter. The MoU was signed on Friday in the presence of Baljinder Singh, principal of ITI, Ludhiana. Ahuja said, “Punjab government has taken many initiatives to support technical education in the state by working upon skill development of students and keeping them updated with latest technologies. CII with the help of industry members has supported the idea of Anurag Verma that industry can help students of technical centres like ITI. Verma, held a meeting with us last week and made a flexible system in which there are numerous opportunities for the students to learn and make themselves compatible with the current industry needs. In this way, the students will improve their skills on latest machinery and there will be more employment opportunities for them. Fortunately, I have been selected to lead this initiative. According to the MoU signed with the ITI, the students will be given two options for enhancing their skills. In the first option, the students will be directly coming to the industry for industrial training for two years and ITI trainer will come to the industry premises for an hour daily for theory. In the second option, the students will be completing the theory part for a year in the ITI and then come to industry for practical for a year after that.” Ahuja also added, “We have signed MoU for three trades machinist, turner and fitter for complete batch in which students will be coming to our factory for two years and ITI trainer will be visiting our premises for theoretical training. CII plans to take this initiative to other cities of Punjab and it will be a very big milestone in skilling the youth and providing them training on updated new technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-iti-inside-factory-for-skill-empowerment-of-students/articleshow/77292965.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Vidhan Sabha Marg now spl security zone||Lucknow: Ten days after two women from Amethi district tried to immolate themselves in front of the chief minister’s office at Vidhan Sabha Marg, Lucknow police commissionerate declared the area a special security zone to prevent such cases in the future. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora on Friday announced a standard operating procedure for dealing with citizens attempting self-immolation near VVIP establishments in the city like the CM’s residence, CM’s office and Raj Bhawan. “We have increased the number of personnel in static force deployed in front of these establishments. Cops on duty will also be provided with blankets, sand buckets, fire extinguishers and foam tenders,” he said. Arora said that police response vehicles will be on stand-by to coordinate with ambulances to speed up rehabilitation and for saving the lives of those who get injured while trying to immolate themselves. “We have also requested DG (intelligence) and ADG (law and order) to communicate to the district police chiefs to send us the addresses and photographs of the persons who come to Lucknow and attempt self-immolation,,” he added. The joint commissioner also said that cops will be monitoring CCTV cameras installed near the CM’s office and residence 24x7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vidhan-sabha-marg-now-spl-security-zone/articleshow/77294072.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||MC sets in motion compost plant to deal with wet waste in dump||Ludhiana: The mess created due to wet waste at Jamalpur garbage dump is now being managed properly, thanks to the compost plant at the site. In almost a month, the company that is handling the plant has disposed nearly 3,000 tonne of wet waste and 400 tonne of compost is ready. After a long wait, the compost plant started working about a month ago. Daily the dump received anything between 1,000 and 1,050 tonne of waste, of which almost 500 tonne is wet waste. The civic officials claimed that merely segregating dry and wet waste was not sufficient as at the main dump they were managing dry waste, but wet waste lying at the dump and was creating foul smell and leeching into ground. Vishant Chaudhary, manager of A2Z waste management company, said, “The compost has started functioning and we are able to generate 400 tonne of compost, which can be used as fertilizers.” He said when wet waste will be managed properly, the space occupied by waste will also get reduced. Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “We had started segregating the dry and wet waste in the city and in almost every area this practice is going on. We have also started checking in localities whether residents are following the directions or not. Now, even at main dump the wet waste is being managed properly which was important.” Process to manage legacy waste still goes on The civic officials have been directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) committee to manage the legacy waste at main garbage dump as well. In February, the last meeting of NGT committee had taken place in city but since then officials could not finalise the firm to settle this legacy waste. However, the survey conducted at dump had revealed that 16 lakh tonne of legacy waste is lying at Jamalpur dump and it will take more than a year to settle this waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-sets-in-motion-compost-plant-to-deal-with-wet-waste-in-dump/articleshow/77292974.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Man stabs friend over rivalry, held||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old private employee was stabbed by a painter, who was his friend, over personal rivalry on Thursday night at Chandrayangutta. Police arrested the accused after getting a complaint from the victim, who is currently undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital (OGH). The complainant, Sk Ahmed, 25, a lighting decorator from Shoib Colony in Errakunta said that his friend, Sk Shaukath, a car painter, along with family members, Sk Sarwar and Sk Shanawaz , attacked him with a knife when he was at home on Thursday night. “The victim managed to escape from the spot and lodged a complaint,” Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar said. A case was registered under sections 307 and 506 of the IPC. “We have arrested the accused and seized the knife from their possession,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabs-friend-over-rivalry-held/articleshow/77292984.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman, 95, succumbs to coronavirus||Aurangabad: A 95-year-old woman from Paithan was among four patients who died of Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Friday. As per hospital administration, the woman was referred to the GMCH from the rural hospital in Paithan on July 30. “She (the woman) died in the early hours of Friday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome along with other complications,” an official said. Other patients include a 71-year-old man from Bazar Swangi in Khuldabad, a 67-year-old man from Vaijapur and a 40-year-old man from Mominpura Georai taluka of Beed district. The district has so far recorded 469 deaths. Meanwhile, the district administration on Friday recorded 48 new Covid-19 patients taking the number of active cases to 3,460.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-95-succumbs-to-coronavirus/articleshow/77290105.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Private schools offer 20% fee concession||Lucknow: Private schools in the city have decided to give up to 20% fee concession to students whose parents are facing financial crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, even after this if a parent fails to deposit the fee school will not allow student to attend online classes. The decision was taken by the Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) representing about 200 schools in the city with the student strength of around one lakh. “As per government orders issued from time to time, private schools have given all possible support to parents of students in view of difficulties being faced during the pandemic by not increasing fees for the session, not charging transportation fees during the period of closure and giving option to pay fees monthly,” said UPSA president Anil Agarwal. “Now we have decided to extend up to 20% concession to those who are financially hit by the pandemic after coming across several cases where people have lost jobs or businesses are closed due to the crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/private-schools-offer-20-fee-concession/articleshow/77294079.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Allow us to resume operations: Latur traders||Aurangabad: Vyapari Mahasangh, Latur, on Friday asked the district collector to allow them to conduct business from August 1 while following all the lockdown norms. The vyapari sangh office-bearers, including president Pradeeep Solanki, made a representation to the district collector in this regard. They said that all the businesses are shut in the district for the last 135 days. It has eventually badly affected the trading community, psychologically, financially. “We are under tremendous stress as we do not find ways to meet even their day today expenses while our liabilities continue to grow,” said Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/allow-us-to-resume-operations-latur-traders/articleshow/77290121.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Maya is BJP’s B team: AAP||Lucknow: Aam Aadmi Party, which is now moving to set up a base in UP, hit out at BSP chief Mayawati on Friday, calling her “BJP’s B team”. Party MP and UP in charge Sanjay Singh said she had jumped into the political mayhem in Rajasthan only to help BJP. “It is shameful what is happening in Rajasthan, at a time when the country is reeling under coronavirus. When the maximum number of cases against Dalits are being filed in UP, their leader is silent and it seems BSP has become BJP’s B team,” he said. Singh also said that as per instructions of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, AAP workers will hand over at least one oxymeter to each village in UP and ensure all possible help to Corona patients. The party has also started a helpline for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-is-bjps-b-team-aap/articleshow/77294089.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid hospital occupancy at 80%, ICU full||MARGAO: The state’s lone Covid hospital presently has an occupancy of 80% with its six-bedded ICU filled. The 218-bedded hospital had an occupancy of 177 patients on Friday. Two of the six patients in the ICU are on invasive ventilation. There are 13 patients on non-invasive ventilation (NIV) in the hospital’s 20 bedded intensive treatment unit (ITU) which was set up to decongest the ICU. Serious patients who require NIV and specialised care are accommodated in the ITU. They are moved to the ICU if they turn critical. Those in the ICU have hypertension, chronic kidney with hypertension, diabetes acute respiratory distress syndrome and other co-morbidities as well a young patient in late 30’s. Around 50 patients among the 177 patients in the hospital are on oxygen. A majority of those admitted to the hospital are senior citizens, a health official said. “In the initial days, the patients in the Covid hospital comprised the young and fit who were asymptomatic. Since then, older persons and those with co-morbidities have contracted the virus from young people. The patients currently in the hospital compared to the asymptomatic admitted in the initial days, are very sick,” the official said. Few of the positive patient’s relatives who are also positive act as caretakers for their relatives. There are two caretakers in the hospital (who are not positive), paid for by the patients. The hospital provides the caretakers with PPE, accommodation and food. The hospital has 76 ports for ventilation and has 80 ventilators for patients. The hospital also sees more transfers (to Covid centres) than discharges every day. The hospital is spread over five floors and the ground floor with its own operation theatre, paediatric ward, ICU, ITU, administration section, radiology etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospital-occupancy-at-80-icu-full/articleshow/77294090.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Speed boards in city to alert motorists||Hyderabad: In a bid to spread road safety awareness among motorists, Rachakonda police have installed speed radars embedded with electronic display boards at four main roads in the city. Henceforth, people taking these roads will be able to accurately see their speed. Based on the success of this pilot project, ‘Know Your Speed Boards’, speed radars, similar to those on the Outer Ring Road (ORR), were set up at HPCL Junction, AIIMS in Bhuvanagiri, Singannagudem, and between Nandanavanam-Narapally on NH-163. “Speeding and driver negligence is the main cause of fatal accidents that is observed by us. Doing the right thing when no one is watching you should be the ethic to be followed, which is neglected by most of the motorists who tend to often overspeed. These devices will work round-the-clock and will remain unhindered by rain or fog and alert people who cross the speed limit. They will also provide positive reinforcement to those driving within the limit,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speed-boards-in-city-to-alert-motorists/articleshow/77293076.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Eid Mubarak, stay safe, wear mask, observe social distance||Ludhiana: Shahi Imam Punjab has announced that Bakr Eid will be celebrated across the state on Saturday and many members of Muslim community are expected to offer prayers at mosques, adopting social distancing. But, compared with previous years, this time many more are likely to say prayers at home, given the Covid-19 situation. In a statement, Shahi Imam Punjab, Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Saani said Eid prayers will be held in mosques and social distancing, wearing of masks and use of sanitisers will be adopted. He added that on this occasion, community members will pray to God for providing relief to the humans from the pandemic. Naib Shahi Imam Maulana Usman Ludhianvi said Eid prayers will be held at the historic Jama Masjid in small groups and will start at 6am. He added that from 6am to 8.30am, many groups of about 20 persons each will offer Eid prayers at the Jama mosque. “We have not allowed the elderly persons and children to come for Eid prayers, as they come under vulnerable-age category. We have asked them to pray at home,” said Naib Shahi Imam. Private secretary to Shahi Imam Mustkeem Ahrari said they have requested people to donate to the poor living in their neighbourhood. He added that they have also been requesting the community members to wear masks, observe social distancing and maintain hand hygiene to check the spread of the disease. Even as the Jama Masjid authorities have decided to hold Eid prayers with small number of community members in groups, some have voluntarily decided to stay at home to avoid overcrowding. “Since my age makes me vulnerable to the disease, instead of going to the mosque to offer Eid prayers, I will say prayers at home. I would have loved to said my prayers in the mosque, but the pandemic has changed our lives, including how we are celebrating festivals. However, I will pray to Almighty Allah to get rid of this disease so that humans don’t suffer more,” said Dilshad Ahmed of Basti Jodhewal, who is in his 60s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/eid-mubarak-stay-safe-wear-mask-observe-social-distance/articleshow/77293071.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Rural SHGs make 1.7 lakh rakhis worth Rs 17 lakh in 22 districts||LUCKNOW: With Rakshabandhan round the corner, cash registers have been ringing for the 168-odd women self-help groups (SHGs) in 22 districts of UP. Records of the rural development department show that these SHGs have managed to manufacture as many as 1.7 lakh rakhis worth over Rs 17 lakh in the past few days. The project has been undertaken by various SHGs, many of which comprise migrant workers, under the state rural livelihood mission (SRLM). Rakhis made by these groups are called ‘prerna rakhi’. The coronavirus-induced pandemic had slowed down economic activity in small and cottage industries which are essentially engaged in production of festive products including rakhis. The 22 districts engaged by the rural development department for the work include Bahraich, Banda, Basti, Bijnor, Deoria, Farrukhabad, Jhansi, Kannauj, Kasganj, Lucknow, Maharajganj, Mahoba, Mainpuri, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Pratapgarh, Prayagraj, Unnao and Varanasi. The maximum number of rakhis—1.2 lakh worth Rs 12 lakh—have been prepared by SHGs in the west UP district of Baghpat where 15 SHGs were deployed for the purpose. In Lucknow, which had the maximum number of SHGs at 26, a meagre 1,530 rakhis worth Rs 15,300 could be manufactured. In Maharajganj, only one SHG with just two members manufactured 300 rakhis worth Rs 3,000, while in Mahoba, one SHG with three members produced 2,000 rakhis worth Rs 20,000. Officials in the rural development department said that the decision to rope in SHGs for manufacturing rakhis was aimed to lend further fillip to economic utility and helped the members earn during the pandemic period. The rural development department has employed over 8 lakh people in activities through constitution of SHGs. Data shows that the department has constituted more than 1.8 lakh SHGs which are working in as many as 68 activities including production of foodgrain, vegetables, dairy, honey, mushrooms, peppermint, incense sticks, face masks, artificial jewellery and in animal husbandry and poultry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rural-shgs-make-1-7l-rakhis-worth-rs-17l-in-22-districts/articleshow/77294098.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 1, 2020||Goa||SOP suggests sero testing, lunch in silence for industrial units||Panaji: Notifying the standard operating procedure (SOP) for industrial units, the state government has recommended that industrial units should undertake random sero surveillance to identify active cases and the spread of the Covid-19 infection amongst employees. The other suggested measures that the health department has recommended include UV sanitisation devices for documents. The SOP has been notified in light of the rising Covid-19 cases in industrial units, which forced the authorities to shut down the units for 14 days. Aside from the mandatory protocols, eight additional measures have been suggested by the health department. “Sero surveillance of employees at random may be carried out, in house foggers may be placed to avoid dependency on the third party for daily disinfection and UV sanitisation box for handling incoming documents through transporters may be put in place,” under secretary for health Swati Dalvi said in the notification. Sero surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered a valuable tool to measure population immunity due to past infection. Many states including Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana have commenced sero surveys to map the trend of the infection. Dalvi said that the SOPs have been drafted and notified in order to “ensure safety of the workers working in industries during prevailing circumstances due to Covid-19 pandemic and to control the spread of this disease.” The SOP also recommends that employees should undergo thermal screening before entering the factory, before entering the canteen and after lunch. The SOP identifies canteens as “highest risk zone” and says that employees should be asked to complete their lunch within 15 minutes and in silence. The health department has also listed out precautions that have to be taken by employees and the employer at shared accommodations where contract staff as well as casual workers are housed. “In case of any Covid-19 positive case reported in the company, immediately report to health officials, sanitise workplaces, testing to be done of all first point of contact employees, employees to be home quarantined or to be kept in isolation and risk evaluation to be conducted at site,” said Dalvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sop-suggests-sero-testing-lunch-in-silence-for-industrial-units/articleshow/77294110.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Married man booked for raping minor girl||Ludhiana: The police have booked a married man for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl, promising marriage. He had allegedly raped her for a week. Thereafter, the accused left the girl at the one-room accommodation and escaped from there. The girl then borrowed a phone and called her father, who took the girl back home. In his complaint to police, the father of the 16 year-old-girl stated that her daughter is a Class VIII student. On July 20, suddenly she went missing. On July 27, he received a call from her. The girl allegedly told the father that she went with the accused, who was their tenant, as he promised to marry her. The accused then took her to Alamgir village. There the accused raped her for a week and, on July 27, he left the house and did not return. Initially, the family did not lodge any complaint with the police. But on Thursday evening they approached the police. Investigating officer sub-inspector Gurdev Singh said the police have registered a case against the accused immediately after receiving a complaint from the family. The accused is around 30 years old and is married. Till May, the accused was living at the first floor of the house of the complainant, as tenant. Accused’s wife and children also used to live there. However, they went back to their hometown before lockdown. Sub-inspector added that the police are trying to trace the accused. An FIR has been lodged under sections of 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376 (rape) of IPC and Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/married-man-booked-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/77293081.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||8 held in coal adulteration racket||Hyderabad: Police arrested eight of a 13-member coal adulteration racket and seized 1,050 tonnes of high quality coal and 700 tonnes of low quality coal worth Rs 1.62 crore on Friday. Rachakonda police, in a press release, said the arrested have been identified as: G Raju, who owns a coal dumping yard in Ibrahimpatnam, K Soma, C Amerender Reddy, K Mallesh and S Satyam, lorry owners, Nizamuddin and Rizwan, earth mover operators, E Anjaiah, a security guard at the coal adulteration plant of Raju. The accused procure coal either from Singareni Collieries or import it from different countries. After the stock comes to their dump yard, they replace half of the high quality coal from every lorry with low quality stuff. Some of the accused were arrested in 2018 but resumed their operations later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-held-in-coal-adulteration-racket/articleshow/77293110.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth designs automated machine to screen visitors||Aurangabad: Ajinkya Kalantri, a 24-year-old entrepreneur, has come up with an automated barricade machine ‘Arjun’ that would allow entry of a person in a given premises only if the he/she is wearing a face mask and the body temperature is below the given range.The device is set to come in handy for different offices that usually witnesses high number of footfall. It will not only save manpower but will also avoid instances of friction between the screening staffers and the visitors.With the installation this device which is purely based on artificial intelligence (AI), the entry of people in any office or premises would become free of human interference. The machine would also sanitise hands of every visitor, scan their face and check body temperature.The 24-year-old runs a private limited software company that he started at the age of 17. As of today, his company has offices in Aurangabad as well as Florida with a wide customer base in different countries, including Bahrain, Vietnam and Combodia.The machine is set to be installed at the Aurangabad commissioner of police’s office before it is floated out commercially for government as well as private offices.The idea for the device came in after Kalantri witnessed the difficulties faced by security staffers in screening high rank officials, executives, politicians entering an office premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-designs-automated-machine-to-screen-visitors/articleshow/77290197.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Animal sacrifice goes online this Bakrid||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 restrictions in place, this Bakrid is witnessing a spurt in online ‘qurbani’ or sacrifice of sheep. Many Muslims, particularly those living in containment zones, have opted for online sacrifice of sheep. While Bakrid will be celebrated in Telangana and AP on Saturday, animal sacrifice can also be offered on second or third day of the festival. Several charitable and social service organisations have taken up the task of online sacrifice in Hyderabad and other parts of Telugu states in view of Covid-19 restrictions. The cost of each sheep or goat ranges between Rs 9,000 and Rs 19,000 depending on the weight of the animal and the online service provider. The cost of the animal sacrifice collected from individuals includes the expenses incurred on feeding of the animals for a week, slaughter and sanitation. Besides the local qurbani service providers, there are many international bodies too offering services this time. All one should do is to pay the cost of the sheep or goat specified in the website of the service provider concerned. The service provider purchases the animal, slaughters it and distributes the meat among the poor. “This reduces the exercise of going to the sheep market, selecting the animal, bringing it home, finding a butcher, sacrificing it and distributing the meat to the poor,” said educationist M Moinuddin. Helping Hand Foundation managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari said there was a heavy demand this time for online services in view of Covid. “There are also restrictions on the number of people assembling in mosques for the Eid prayers. Many do not want to venture out fearing Covid-19 infection. We are offering online sacrifice services at Rs 9,000 per sheep,” he added. Normally, about five lakh sheep are slaughtered during Bakrid in Hyderabad, says MB Sattar, who runs a sheep farm. “This year, the business has come down. Bulk purchases are mostly by online service providers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/animal-sacrifice-goes-online-this-bakrid/articleshow/77293139.cms||Syed Akbar
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Dalit pradhan, kin attacked; NSA against accused likely||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Rae Bareli police to initiate stringent action against a group of hoodlums who first tried to molest a Dalit woman from the family of the pradhan and then attacked the pradhan when he objected. The incident took place in Salon area of Rae Bareli. Of the 10 people named by the survivor, five have been arrested. The CM has also asked the police to consider invoking NSA against the accused. On Friday, IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh visited the village where the incident took place and met the pradhan’s family. Singh said five of the group members arrested for the attack on the pradhan are Waris aka Salman, Ismail, Mahroof, Ibrar and Zubair. She told TOI that investigation showed that the accused group was led by Waris, who is a migrant worker. He used to roam in the entire village and possessed an air gun to shoot birds. “On July 29, while Waris was shooting, a member of the pradhan’s family objected, saying that the action could lead to snapping of electricity to their residence. The next day, the duo met on a road and a verbal spat broke out over blowing of horn at high decibel by Waris while the victim’s family was passing by,” she said. The matter escalated after Waris called his elder brother Arif who entered the residence of the victim’s family along with his aides. He first slapped the pradhan and then hit a woman relative who came to intervene, said the officer. Pradhan later informed Salon police which lodged an FIR against those five and Arif, Wasim, Jan Mohammed, Hashim Ali and others under charges of rioting, rioting with armed weapons, attempt to murder, sexual harassment, SC/ST Act, trespassing, and other charges. “Police have seized the air gun owned by Waris and arrested him,” she said. The IG also said that a report is being prepared to invoke NSA against two members of the group who blatantly violated the law of the land. “A police force has been deployed in the village to maintain law and order ahead of festivals, while SHO Salon Brijmohan has been suspended for negligence,” she further said. The officer said that the SHO should have been aware that such an issue might crop up as it is a sensitive area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dalit-pradhan-kin-attacked-nsa-against-accused-likely/articleshow/77294115.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||1 dead, eight injured in roof collapse after heavy rains in Sambhal||Bareilly: A 16-year old girl was killed and eight members of her family were severely injured, after the roof of the room they were sleeping in collapsed due to heavy rains in Dhanari area of Sambhal on Friday morning. According to police, rainwater had accumulated on the terrace of Hari Kishore’s house after it started raining heavily, which led to the collapse. The incident happened at around 4am in Sunbar Sarai area of Bajpur village under Dhanari police station, when the family was asleep. Locals informed emergency services (Dial 112), following which police personnel rushed to the spot. They later announced that Hari Kishore’s daughter Pooja had died on the spot, while others sustained injuries and were admitted to a hospital for treatment. According to locals, the roof was not in a good condition and collapsed as the rainwater accumulated after heavy rainfall. Locals said they rushed to the house after hearing a loud sound and spotted the collapsed roof. Police and emergency services were informed and the family which was buried under the debris was rescued. Dhanari police said after the family was taken out of the debris by the rescuers; they were taken to a hospital, where doctors declared Pooja to have been brought dead, and administered treatment to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1-dead-eight-injured-in-roof-collapse-after-heavy-rains-in-sambhal/articleshow/77290161.cms||Maria Khan
August 1, 2020||Goa||Mandur locals oppose Covid centre in area||Panaji: Azossim-Mandur panchayat and villagers have opposed relocation of the antenatal, postnatal and paediatric units of Covid hospital in Margao to rural health and training centre in Mandur, alleging that it could deprive locals of medical facilities and expose them to risk of coronavirus infection. In a well-attended meeting called by the panchayat at a short notice, sarpanch Pranisha Naik, deputy sarpanch Cipriano Afonso, panch members Ajit Bacal, Francis Po, Paulina Po and Lancy Rodrigues criticised the government’s decision to use the 20-bedded centre for treating Covid patients. They said the authorities may convert the centre into a full-fledged facility in absence of enough paediatric cases, making residents in the crowded village vulnerable to risk of catching the fast spreading virus. The move would also deprive locals, including Dongorim residents and villagers from Neura, Carambolim, Agassaim and other areas of medical services. Patients in emergencies and serious ailments would suffer, the speakers at the meeting said. The panchayat received support from Aruna Wagh, wife of former MLA Vishnu Wagh, and Simon Caiado from Siridao, who also spoke at the meeting. The complex with a hostel costing over Rs 20 crore is a training centre for undergraduate students of Goa Medical College. The students have already voiced apprehension that their degrees could be at stake if medical council of India (MCI) takes note of breach in its requirement. The centre was set up as per MCI requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandur-locals-oppose-covid-centre-in-area/articleshow/77294127.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Babies don’t contract Covid-19 if mom tests positive||LUCKNOW: Stating that there was little evidence to prove that Covid-19 is transferred from a lactating mother to her baby, health and nutrition experts on Friday urged parents not to deprive their kid of the most reliable source of good health. “Fear around coronavirus also spread a myth that mothers may transfer Covid-19 to their lactating baby… Various studies from across the world have shown that in 99.9% cases, even Covid-19 positive moms did not pass on the infection to their babies provided they followed safety measures like sanitization, hand hygiene and wore masks,” said nutrition specialist, Unicef, UP, Dr Richa Singh Pandey ahead of the National Breastfeeding Awareness Week starting August 1. She informed that for every dollar invested in promoting breastfeeding, returns worth 35 times the cost are guaranteed. But data shows that the easiest health practice remains a missed opportunity in Uttar Pradesh. More than 73% babies are not fed the mother’s milk in the first hour of birth. This happens despite the fact that over 68% of the babies are born at a health facility in the state. “Breastfeeding is not only an investment in improving children’s health and saving lives, but also an outlay for human capital development that can benefit a country’s economy. Studies have shown that for every dollar invested in promotion of breastfeeding, the return is 35 dollars,” she said. General manager, Child Health, National Health Mission, UP, Dr Ved Prakash said: “nothing in the world can buy the benefits of mother’s milk but sustained exclusive breastfeeding surely gives higher returns that shape the personality of a person. Mother’s milk lays the foundation of good health as it contains life-saving antibodies and growth promoters, which nothing else can substitute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babies-dont-contract-covid-if-mom-tests-ve/articleshow/77294121.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Action plan to clean animal waste||Hyderabad: GHMC on Friday released action plan to dispose the animal waste post bakrid. “GHMC will distribute 4.55 lakh plastic bags among people, civic body will press into service 403 vehicles which include tippers, earth movers and bobcats,” read a statement. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/action-plan-to-clean-animal-waste/articleshow/77293145.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||Assailants shoot Sambhal bizman dead, snatch bag with Rs 1 lakh||Bareilly: A local businessman on his way home from his shop was shot dead allegedly by four bike-borne assailants on Thursday evening under Sambhal's Chandausi Kotwali police station. They took away his bag containing Rs 1 lakh. According to police, Ramawtar Sharma (63) and his son, Vishal, were returning home in Ganesh colony from their shop at Bicheta village, Chandausi, when four assailants on bikes forced their car to stop on the road, snatched the keys and shot Ramawtar, killing him on the spot. They tried to shoot his son and fled with the bag with the cash. Ramawtar had retired from the Indian Farmers Cooperative Limited around three years ago. Since then, he had opened a fertilizer shop at Bichaita crossing, Kudhfatehgarh, in Chandausi. Superintendent of police, city, Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad said, “The businessman was shot in the neck and died on the spot. We have formed teams and a combing operation has been initiated to apprehend the accused persons.” Dharampal Singh, SHO, Chandausi police station, said an FIR has been registered against four unknown people under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder) and 392 (punishment for robbery).” Locals gathered at the crime spot and staged a protest against police, demanding arrest of those involved within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/assailants-shoot-sambhal-bizman-dead-snatch-bag-with-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77290175.cms||Maria Khan
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Parents push impotent man, he beats wife||AHMEDABAD: A man who began suffering from impotence around five years into his marriage was being pressured by his parents to give them a grandson. Frustrated by this, he assaulted and later deserted his wife. His parents then allegedly got him another woman, so that he could rise to the occasion and give them a male heir. The case reached Sola police on Thursday as that man’s wife filed a complaint of domestic violence. According to the FIR filed by a 40-year-old woman, a resident of the Gujarat Vidyapith campus, she married the accused man some 20 years ago. A few years after their wedding, the couple had a baby girl. Her in-laws began pressuring the complainant and her husband to have a son. The complainant states that her husband had become impotent. When her father-in-law and mother-in-law learned about this, they began harassing and thrashing her husband. He would then assault the complainant. A month ago, her in-laws brought a woman from Kadi to their place and claimed that she would fulfil their wish for a grandson. They said their son would be able to regain his virility with the new woman. When the complainant objected, she and her 16-year-old daughter were thrown out of their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-press-impotent-man-for-son-he-assaults-wife/articleshow/77293146.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 28-year-old woman raped by husband, later by his colleagues; thrown on railway tracks||PILIBHIT: A 28-year-old woman was kidnapped by her husband with the help of his colleagues from the family counselling center at Pilibhit and was raped by him for two days. The modesty of the woman was also outraged by his colleagues before some intoxicant was administered to her and she was thrown on the railway line. Following a written complaint filed by the victim's mother, police booked four persons, including the survivor’s husband, on Thursday evening. According to her, she married an employee of the government ambulance service, who was a resident of a village under Barkhera police station on April 24, 2016. Soon after her marriage, she was physically tortured by her husband over unfulfilled dowry demands. In January 2018, she was brutally beaten by her husband when she was pregnant, which resulted into a miscarriage. She lodged an FIR and left her husband. On July 24, she was kidnapped by her husband from the campus of the family counseling center, where she had arrived on the day of hearing. She alleged that she was taken to an unknown place where she was held captive and raped by her husband for two days. Later, on July 26, she was thrown near the railway tracks of Shahi railway station under Jahanabad police station after she was raped by three of her husband's colleagues. Station house officer (SHO) of Kotwali police station Shrikant Dwivedi said that the named husband was booked along with two identified and one anonymous accused under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 328 (administering to a person any poison or any stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug, or other thing with intent to cause hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abduction of any person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined), and 376 B (sexual intercourse with own wife who is living separately, without her consent) of the IPC. The woman alleged that the police averted to apply the relevant IPC section of gang rape to the FIR and that she would file a fresh complaint with the superintendent of police on Saturday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-year-old-woman-raped-by-husband-later-by-his-colleagues-thrown-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/77290169.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Watch grand ceremony at home: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to devotees||LUCKNOW: A day after a priest at Ram Janmabhoomi temple and 15 security personnel in Ayodhya tested positive for coronavirus infection, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday made an emotional appeal to people to avoid assembling in the temple town in large numbers on August 5, when PM Narendra Modi is scheduled to attend ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple. Urging people to watch the live telecast of the programme on television while staying back in their homes, Yogi asked them to light diyas in nearby temples and recite the Ramayan on August 4 and 5. “The world has seen grand Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya in last three years. Time has come when development and religion will come together to usher in prosperity in the region,” the CM said. “It is understandable that scores of Ram Bhakts want to take part in ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple but it is not possible because of coronavirus pandemic. This may be accepted as the wish of Lord Ram,” he said. In an apparent swipe at the opposition, Yogi said Ayodhya remained entangled in political maze for years but would now emerge as the centre of spiritual and modern culture. “The city will see a surge in job opportunities which will lend a boost to economic activity,” he added. Yogi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the reflection of desires of 125 crore people of this country. “When the PM takes part in ‘bhoomi pujan’ it would be a moment of pride for every citizen of the country,” Yogi said, attributing PM’s efforts for bringing in the moment of celebrations after a gap of nearly five centuries. Yogi said the ‘bhoomi pujan’ was not only that of a temple but also of a period when the country would tread the path and principles of Lord Ram. “This is the era of Ram Rajya. The life of Lord Ram teaches about restraint which needs to be exercised in the times of pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/watch-grand-ceremony-at-home-cm-to-devotees/articleshow/77294134.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mom, 2 kids drown in water tank in Churu||JAIPUR: A mother along with her two children drowned in a water tank in Churu’s Salasar police station area on Thursday. The cops are questioning her husband about the deaths. While they are yet to determine the reason behind deaths, the officials claimed that it could be a case of accidental drowning. The deceased were identified as Suman Devi (28) and her children Urmi (6) and Pradeep (2). “According to the preliminary investigation, it appears that the two children were playing near the water tank while the mother was working in the fields. Based on the initial input, the children fell into the tank following which the mother jumped into save them,” said an official of Salasar police station. The officials claimed that just a few days back, a villager had also warned Suman that the tank was deep as it had been overflowing due to the recent rains and the children should not be allowed to play near it without adult supervision. “We are questioning her family but at the time of the incident, Suman’s husband was working in another part of the village as a contractual labourer. We have found no suicide note and there was nothing suspicious to indicate that it could be intentional drowning,” added the official. However, cops also said that at present they are not ruling out any possibilities and the matter is still under investigation. Elaborating further, the cop said, “it is too early to establish if it was suicide as we have not found any proof to suggest that the deceased woman was facing any marital dispute. Her husband is still in a state of shock and we will question him further to get more details in the case”. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to their family after autopsies on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mom-2-kids-drown-in-water-tank-in-churu/articleshow/77293158.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||Six-year-old boy who walked in on sister killed by boyfriend, police to exhume body||Bareilly: When a six-year-old boy died on Tuesday, his family thought it was because of a fall. They buried him. Two days later, riddled with guilt, his sister told the family that it was her boyfriend who had strangled him to death. The body will now be exhumed for an autopsy. The family lives at Eedhjagir village in Nawabganj. The parents work as labourers. On Tuesday afternoon, they were out. That was when the girl’s boyfriend, a 21-year-old, had come over. Her six-year-old brother walked in on them. Fearing discovery, the boyfriend strangled her brother to death. When the parents got back, the girl told them he had fallen off the roof and was seriously injured. They took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead. “But she was depressed, guilty. On Thursday evening, she could not hold it in anymore and told her parents what had happened,” Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey told TOI. The father then filed a complaint, on the basis of which an FIR has been lodged. The girl, a minor, has been detained and will be presented in juvenile court after questioning. She and her boyfriend have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. “Her boyfriend, who is on the run, has also been booked for rape since the girl is a minor. The boy's body will be exhumed and autopsy will be done,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-year-old-boy-who-walked-in-on-sister-killed-by-boyfriend-police-to-exhume-body/articleshow/77290191.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Thakur rejigs cabinet team||Shimla: A day after inducting three new ministers, HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday reshuffled his cabinet. Thakur has kept finance, general administrations, home, planning, personnel and all other departments not allotted to any other minister with himself. Mohender Singh Thakur, who was looking after jal shakti, horticulture and sainik welfare departments, has been given revenue. Suresh Bhardwaj has been given charge of law, parliament affairs urban development, town and country planning and cooperation. Sarveen Chaudhary will now look after social justice & empowerment, while Ram Lal Markanda will just have technical education, tribal affair and information technology. Virender Kanwar, who has rural development and panchayati raj, animal husbandry, fisheries departments, has been additional charge of agriculture department. Bikram Singh has transport department besides industries, labour and employment. Rajiv Saizal has been shifted from social justice and empowerment department to health and family welfare and ayurveda department. Of the newly inducted ministers, Sukh Ram will look after MPP and power department, Rakesh Pathania will look after forest and youth sports, while Rajinder Garg has charge of food and supplies, printing and stationery departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thakur-rejigs-cabinet-team/articleshow/77293148.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman killed as ambulance overturns in Jhalawar district||KOTA: A 55-year-old woman was killed on the spot while four others including a pregnant woman sustained injuries after the ambulance they were travelling in overturned near Borekhedi village on NH-52 under Eklera police station of Jhalawar on Friday. The body has been placed at mortuary for postmortem. The injured are undergoing medical treatment at Jhalawar district hospital and are reportedly out of danger. “An ambulance was taking a pregnant woman for delivery from Mangalpura village under Bhalta police station to Jhalawar district hospital. It overturned near Borekhedi village on NH -52 on Friday afternoon,” said Anil Pandey, SHO, Eklera police station. A 55-year-old woman, identified as Bhurabai, resident of Borekhedi village under Bhalta police station, was killed in the mishap while four others in the ambulance who were identified as Krishana, the pregnant woman, Kaisar Singh, Ghanshyam and Salagram sustained injuries, he said. The deceased was the mother-in-law of the pregnant woman. Her son, husband and a medical staff were injured in the incident, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-killed-as-ambulance-overturns-in-jhalawar-dist/articleshow/77293154.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||26-yr-old software engg goes missing||Hyderabad: An RTC driver, M Srinivas, lodged a complaint with Meerpet police stating that his 26-year-old daughter has gone missing. Sireesha is a software employee. She had left home for office on Thursday at 9.30am. However, she did not return home after that. The family tried to search for her. As her phone is switched off, the family members lodged a complaint with police and a missing persons case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-yr-old-software-engg-goes-missing/articleshow/77293155.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 caseload rose nearly 1,000% in July||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 situation seems to be spiralling out of control in Andhra Pradesh with the state now reporting about 10,000 new cases a day. The state was more successful in containing the pandemic, rather than mere detection of cases, till June through aggressive testing, contact tracing, door-to-door surveys, community surveillance measures, zoning restrictions, and augmenting the treatment facilities. However, the state could not sustain the early advantages. With the steep rise in cases, there has been a growing burden on the health care system in the last four weeks — from increased demand for testing, contact tracing and treating facilities. Even though the state government allowed private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients, there are allegations against some corporate hospitals of fleecing patients by charging as high as Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh a day. The state also witnessed a sudden spurt in deaths in the second and third week of July. However, the mortality rate stabilised towards the end of the month after plummeting to below one per cent. Of the total 1.4 lakh cases detected as of Friday, the state recorded more than 1.25 lakh cases in July alone with a doubling time less than 10 days. This translates into a near 965% increase in cases. The situation is alarming in districts like East Godavari, which occupied the top place in the country in terms of percentage of increase in cases in July. East Godavari had only 1,485 cases by the end of June. But the south coastal AP district has now become the first district in the state to cross the grim 20,000-case milestone, translating into about 1,373% increase in cases in July. However, the state also improved testing capacity; it is now testing about 60,000 to 70,000 samples a day. The state conducted 10.61 lakh tests in July compared to 8.9 lakh people screened till June end. There are 1.2 lakh beds in Covid hospitals and Covid Care Centres to treat the cases. Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer, state Covid Control Centre, said the caseload in the state may come down in September after a surge in August. “Only 5% Covid patients may require hospitalisation and oxygen support, while home isolation is sufficient for the rest. I request the public to not panic and approach the hospitals for Covid care,” said Dr Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-near-1000-rise-in-cases-in-july/articleshow/77291628.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||UPSRTC bus conductor robbed at gunpoint,thieves flee with cash bag, ticket machine||Bareilly: A conductor deputed at a UPSRTC Budaun depot bus was robbed at gunpoint by two unidentified men on-board the vehicle which was going to Moradabad on Thursday night. The two men later fled with the cash bag and a ticketing machine. The incident took place near Hathipur village under Bilari police station limits when the duo, who had boarded the bus at Bilari bus station, asked the driver to stop the bus near Hathipur village saying that one of them missed their mobile at home. According to the bus driver and conductor, one of them then pointed a revolver at the conductor and took away the bag. Bus conductor Satyendra Tripathi informed the police. The duo left the bus in Hathipur village and moved towards Bilari along with another man, who had come on a motorcycle to take them along. Bus driver Rampal Singh said, “They snatched the bag, got down and fled from the spot. Around eight passengers were on board the bus at the time of the incident. We then informed the local area police about the incident.” Moradabad DSP Mahendra Kumar Shukla said, “The accused ran away after looting a bag from the roadways bus conductor which had some cash and a ticket machine. They were armed and even threatened to kill the bus driver and conductor. A case has been registered against unknown persons, who are still at large, under section 392 (punishment for robbery) of IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsrtc-bus-conductor-robbed-at-gunpointthieves-flee-with-cash-bag-ticket-machine/articleshow/77290202.cms||Maria Khan
August 1, 2020||Bhopal||838 cases take Madhya Pradesh tally above 31,000 mark||BHOPAL: The tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the state crossed 31,000 mark with 838 new people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Apart from these new cases, 10 casualties were also reported, says the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties have been reported includes 7 deaths in Bhopal and 1 death each in Indore, Chhatarpur and Ashoknagar districts. With these new deaths, the toll due to covid-19 in state reached 867 on Friday. So far in the recent spurt of cases in the state, 18213 new cases have been reported in the state since July 1. Thus on an average more than 587 positive cases are being reported everyday in July. Alarmingly while fresh cases were reported from 45 out of the 52 districts, deaths were also reported from 4 districts on Friday. So far 867 deaths have been reported in the state and 295 of these deaths have been reported in just the month of July. As per the state health bulletin, it was Bhopal district where maximum 208 new positive cases were reported on Friday. In 17 of these 45 districts that reported fresh cases on Friday, new cases were reported in double figures. On the brighter side 614 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 22271. Thus the recovery rate is now 70%. It was more than 76% on July 1. A total of 3,162 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/838-cases-take-mp-tally-above-31k-mark/articleshow/77293152.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana got full share of Rs 2,522 crore GST compensation||CHANDIGARH: The Union finance secretary may have informed the parliamentary panel about the Union government’s shortage of funds to pay Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states earlier this week, but the Haryana government has got its entire share of Rs 2,522 crore from the Centre. It received the last installment of Rs 672 crore of GST compensation last week. In April, the state had got Rs 471 crore as first installment of pending compensation. It did not get anything in May. But in June and July, the state got installments of Rs 1,379 crore and Rs 672 crore, respectively. Finance department officials said with this, the overall finance receipts of all taxes in Haryana till July have gone up to Rs 6,511 crore. Haryana’s State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) collection in the four months was Rs 2,472 crore, while Integrated Goods & Services Tax (IGST) share released by the Union government was Rs 1,518 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-got-full-share-of-rs-2522cr-gst-compensation/articleshow/77293153.cms||Manvir Saini
August 1, 2020||Ajmer||Two arrested for robbery in Ajmer||AJMER: Police on Friday arrested two accused of robbery in Ajmer. They are part of a gang that has been involved in interstate burglaries, police said. The gang moved as nomads in different cities. The members would identify the houses that remained locked. Later, they broke into the houses and robbed them. During investigation, police found that the gang was involved in burglaries in Jaipur, Udaipur, Kishangarh, Beawar, Gurugram, Delhi and parts of Karnataka. The accused admitted to breaking into two houses in Ajmer. According to Christian Ganj police, Nishant Goyal, a resident of Gyan Vihar Colony here, had registered a complaint on July 16 about robbery at his house when they were out of city. Police found that a camp of nomadic people was staying on the roadside near Goyal’s house. Police talked to the people and found them suspicious. Police arrested Umar Rao Lohar (49), a resident of Bhilwara, and Satya Bagaria (21), a resident of Sarwar of Ajmer, and interrogated them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/two-arrested-for-robbery-in-ajmer/articleshow/77293168.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 cases jump from 253 to 2,262 in a month in Bareilly||Bareilly: Bareilly reported a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in July as the total cases jumped from 253, including 11 deaths, on June 30, to 2,262, including 58 deaths, on July 30. With over 1,200 active cases, Bareilly is one of the seven districts in Uttar Pradesh having active cases above 1,000. However, officials claimed that the number of positive cases has gone up due to rise in testing. The Covid-19 cases started rising rapidly from July and around 40 cases were being tested positive on a single day. However, the situation worsened in the past one week. On July 23, 155 people tested positive for Covid-19 which was the then maximum cases to be reported on a day. But from July 26, the district has been daily reporting over 100 cases in a day. Even on July 27, 262 people tested positive while 292 fresh cases were reported on a single day on June 30. Due to spike in cases, Bareilly has more active cases than recovered patients. The cases have been reported from both urban and rural areas of the district. Apart from fresh cases, the death rate has increased, too. A senior official who did not want to be named said, “The cases have been rapidly rising as most of the locals are not following social distancing norms and there is a massive crowd in the markets. Besides, in most of the positive cases, the surveillance team failed to identify the source of infection. As the chain of infection could not be traced, it caused the spread of the virus. Even the tracing of contacts of positive cases need to be strengthened.” Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “In June, we were collecting samples of nearly 200-250 people per day and it has now increased to around 2,000 people daily. The rising cases are not a matter of concern as our strategy is early detection of patients and ensuring prompt treatment. We are increasing sampling of suspected cases to identify all people carrying the virus and ensuring their recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-cases-jump-from-253-to-2262-in-a-month-in-bareilly/articleshow/77290184.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Online gambling: PIL wants Tamanna, Kohli prosecuted||Chennai: Celebrities such as cricketer Virat Kohli and actor Tamanna should be prosecuted for endorsing and abetting online gambling, and government should be asked to ban all gambling apps, says a public interest writ petition in the Madras high court. In his PIL, lawyer-activist A P Suryaprakasam sought a ban on all sorts of online gambling websites and apps saying they were ruining the lives of several thousand youngsters. Suryaprakasam also wanted the court to direct the authorities to prosecute Kohli and Tamanna saying their endorsement of such websites and apps amounted to abetment to gamble, which is a criminal offence. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha has agreed to hear the plea moved as PIL on August 3. According to the petitioner, such unethical and immoral gambling is being promoted online by various antisocial elements promising people with an initial bonus of several thousands. “To hook innocent youngsters to play the games, they engage the services of cricketers like Virat Kohli and actors like Tamanna,” he said. Youngsters who fall for the initial bonus offered, ultimately start to spend their hard-earned money or that of their family members. Subsequently, they suffer heavy losses and resort to take loans at exorbitant interest and end up committing crimes to raise money, he added. “When they are not able to return or repay the debt they commit suicide,” Suryaprakasam said, citing two recent instances of suicides. Asserting that such online gambling games are similar to that of ‘blue whale’ game which was banned in the country, the advocate wanted the court to intervene and direct the Union and state governments to ban such games. He further submitted that the court must pass such order in the interest of society and to protect the honour and dignity of youngsters, besides to protect their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-gambling-pil-wants-tamanna-kohli-prosecuted/articleshow/77291643.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||With darshan on mobiles, Ganesh Puja to go virtual in Kolkata||KOLKATA: “Darshan” and “Aarti” on your laptop or smartphone screens over Facebook live, “Pranami” over e-wallets and getting “Prasad” delivered at your doorsteps by app-based agents — welcome to the digitized Ganesh Puja. The city is likely to witness this due to the pandemic. “We are living at a time where social distancing is the need of the hour and no matter how much we strive, we can never achieve it if we organize a Puja the traditional way. Hence, we have decided to go online this year, where we are not disclosing the place where the puja will take place but devotees across the world can see it live on Facebook from their homes. They can also pay donations online and people residing in Kolkata and Salt Lake can even place request for “Prasad”, which we will send them free of cost,” said Anindya Chatterjee, president of Yubak Sangha Club in Salt Lake. Chatterjee added: “We have stepped on the 11th year and themed it on Grihokone Vinayak, which asks people to stay at home. The Prasad box will also have a mask along with the bhog.” “There will be no pandal this year as we have planned to shift the puja inside our office. We will live stream the puja for club members,” said Pritam Dutta, president of Amra Kajon Club on Prince Anwar Shah Road. “We have opened a page on Facebook and are in the process of adding our members and patrons,” said Arun Bhuwalka, who has been organising Ganesh Puja at Tara Chand Dutta Road since 2005. Ganesh puja organizers at Burrabazar and Posta, too, are going digital.  “We will open a YouTube channel where we will be live streaming the puja,” said Sachin Dandapit, a businessman in Burrabazar who has been organising Ganesh Puja since 1980.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-darshan-on-mobiles-ganesh-puja-to-go-virtual/articleshow/77291619.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 1, 2020||Puducherry||Chennai: Film director Velu Prabhakaran arrested for offensive comments||CHENNAI: The Cyber Crime Wing of Central Crime Branch on Friday arrested filmmaker and actor Velu Prabhakaran for his communally provocative speech posted on a web portal. He was arrested at his house in Maduravoyal by a special team on Friday morning following a complaint from K S Sivaji of Bharat Munnani. The complaint alleged that Velu Prabhakaran had made a defamatory speech against devotional song Kandha Sashti Kavasam, thereby hurting religious sentiments of people.  The CCB booked him under IPC section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A(1)(a)(promoting enmity between different groups), 505(1)(b) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings). The Chennai police arrested Surendra Natarajan, an anchor of Karuppar Koottam YouTube channel which carried an offensive post on Kandha Sashti Kavasam. He was later detained under the Goondas Act. The cyber crime police registered a case based on a complaint from R C Paul Kanagaraj, legal wing president of BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit. On July 15, the police arrested M Senthil Vasan from Velachery, who was associated with the YouTube channel. The next day, Surendra Natarajan surrendered before the Puducherry police. Two more people were also arrested. Another Hindu fringe group activist was arrested for posting a retaliatory post on Whatsapp groups. He, too, has now been detained under Goondas Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/film-director-velu-prabakaran-arrested-for-offensive-comments/articleshow/77300209.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Human trial: PGIMS administers 2nd dose of vaccine to 3 persons||Rohtak: Two weeks after starting the human trial of vaccine on three individuals, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak on Friday administered a second dose of Covaxin to all of them. Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the vaccine trial team here, told TOI, “All the individuals are responding well to the vaccine with no adverse effect reported so far.” On the other hand, over a period of a fortnight, the first dose of vaccine was administered to another 79 individuals. Co-investigator Dr Ramesh Verma said, “We were to do the trial on 75 individuals only, but a number of volunteers showed enthusiasm and the institute conducted trials on all of them, whose samples were found fit for the purpose.” Twelve health institutes selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting phase I and II human trials completed on Friday enrolment of 375 individuals for the trial. Explaining the process, Dr Ramesh said they have taken samples of the three individuals to study the impact of Covaxin on the antibodies. “Sufficient rise in the antibodies would prove the efficacy of the vaccine,” he added. The doctors said that those given the second dose would be called after 14 days, then after 42 days, then 104 days and finally after 194 days to study their samples. They said the results of the samples of these three individuals would come after 28 days, which would show whether the vaccine has increased antibodies in them or not. The doctors here said the second round of human trials would start in August-September, in which the vaccine would be given to 750 new individuals to study its impact on them. The age group in that phase would be 12-65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/human-trial-pgims-administers-2nd-dose-of-vaccine-to-3-persons/articleshow/77293184.cms||Sat Singh
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Minister obstructing promotion: Police inspectors to Vij||Ambala: Several inspector-rank officers of the Haryana Police have complained to home minister Anil Vij against a minister of state, alleging that he is obstructing their promotion to the rank of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) despite clearance from the Punjab and Haryana high court. In the recent past, the file related to the promotion of these inspectors had reached Anil Vij with some objections, but he had later cleared the same, paving the way for their promotion. One of the police inspectors, who visited Vij at his residence here on Thursday, said, “We got recruited directly to the rank of inspector in 2008. But, some sub-inspectors (SIs), who had joined in 2013, had filed a writ petition claiming eligibility for promotion at par with us. The high court finally decided in our favour on Monday. So, we met the home minister and requested that we be given promotion at the earliest.” Asked, when the home minister has already cleared their file, where is the problem with their promotion, an inspector said, “Higher authorities alone can comment on that. I can’t say much about this.” When contacted, Vij said, “I don’t know where the file has got stuck. I received the file regarding the promotion of these inspectors as DSPs and after signing the same, I had forwarded it to the chief minister. I do not know where the file got stuck, who has stopped it or who is getting it stopped.” In response to a query whether the CM might have stopped it, Vij said, “The chief minister has all the right as he is the chief in a democratic government. The case was lingering for the past about 10-15 years. The high court has given a favourable decision and I have promoted them as DSP from my end.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minister-obstructing-promotion-police-inspectors-to-vij/articleshow/77293156.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Vandals rip Rs 40 lakh worth sculptures in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A sculptor from Telangana, who has received accolades from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, lost Rs 40 lakh worth of his work in Kismatpur, Rajendra Nagar after some persons vandalized his workshop. A few sculptures were also found in a dump yard.. Rajendranagar police registered a case against Rukma Reddy and others based on the complaint filed by the sculptor, K Kumara Swamy, on the charge of damage to property. According to police, Kumara Swamy took rented some land from one M Naveen one-and-half year ago for the workshop, where he had stored several steel sculpture, glass sculptures and others. The artiste said that on Wednesday evening, when no one was present, some persons vandalized the workshop and even set ablaze some of his art work besides throwing away several other sculptures in a dump yard near APPA junction. “On Thursday, I came to know that the accused have land dispute with Naveen. I was completely ignorant about it and was a tenant there. The accused did not even serve me a notice and damaged my sculptures worth around Rs 40 lakh. They were a result of 10 years of hard work,” Kumara Swamy, who was once a gold medalist from Jawaharlal Nehru Architecture and Fine Arts University, told TOI. He wants justice to be served. “Even if I work relentlessly for the next three years, I will still not be able to recover from the loss,” he said. Rajendranagar inspector G Suresh told TOI that firm action will be taken against the accused. “They have been informed to appear before the police,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vandals-rip-rs-40l-worth-sculptures/articleshow/77293185.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kolkata||40-minute operation rescues 15 of man’s best friends from condemned building in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Septuagenarian Jayeeta Mitra, a resident of an insecure building on MG Road and her domestic help Santosh Malakar were waiting impatiently for 15 dogs, all of whom were on Thursday sent to three different NGOs after they, along with Mitra, were rescued by a team of fire services department, following collapse of a staircase of a building that connects to their floor. They were rescued in a 40-minute operation on Thursday afternoon. Mitra and her pets got stuck at the third-floor single room, following the collapse a little after 2pm on Thursday. Later, they were rescued after Jorasanko police station sounded an alert and asked the fire services rescue team to reach the spot. However, when the fire brigade personnel were ready with their ladder to reach out to Mitra, she insisted that her pets be rescued first. The fire brigade team had to give in and they started rescuing the mongrels one by one. “Surprisingly, all were quiet and obeyed our instructions. We were rather apprehensive whether all could be brought down without trouble. After we successfully brought them down using bedsheets, Mitra was willing to come down,” said fire brigade source. “The dogs were tired and frightened. Our officer in charge Mukul Rajan Ghosh contacted some city-based NGOs who took the dogs away,” said a police officer. The cops, though, said Maitra is asking for the reunion to be arranged soon. She and Malakar picked up the puppies from road and attended to them with utmost care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40min-op-rescues-15-of-mans-best-friends-from-condemned-bldg/articleshow/77291666.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kochi||Waterlogging in city not as severe as ’19, justify officials||Kochi: A meeting convened by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, on Thursday, for mitigating the waterlogging issues in the city decided to take urgent steps in this regard. Immediate measures will be taken for ensuring smooth flow of water from Thevara-Perandoor canal into the backwaters. The meeting ascertained the major reason for waterlogging in many parts of the city like Kammattipadam, Gandhi Nagar, Kadavanthra and Vaduthala was obstruction in the flow of water from Thevara-Perandoor canal into backwaters. It was decided that funds required for carrying out the work in this regard could be availed from Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut). If additional funds are required, the district administration would mobilise it. The Rs 16-crore project work for beautification and desilting of Thevara-Perandoor canal which started two years ago is yet to be completed. The meeting also decided to identify reasons for waterlogging on MG Road and Ravipuram areas. Reduced width of Changadampokku thodu which passes through the KSEB premises in Kaloor caused waterlogging in the area. Hence, urgent steps need to be taken for widening the canal. Therefore, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd has been asked ensure proper connectivity between Changadampokku thodu and Karanakkodam thodu. During Kochi Metro work, the part which passed beneath the road connecting Changadampokku thodu and Karanakkodam thodu was reclaimed. Despite repeated instructions for restoring the connectivity, KMRL had just laid a pipe culvert for the purpose. Proper flow of water through both canals could be ensured only if a box culvert with proper width is laid. So, the KMRL should construct box culverts for purpose, it was told. While MPs Hibi Eden and M Swaraj attended the meeting through videoconferencing, MLAs P T Thomas and T J Vinod, mayor Soumini Jain, collector S Suhas, deputy collector Vrinda Devi, Operation Breakthrough technical committee chairman Baji Chandran and other officials attended the meeting in person. Those who attended the meeting aired the views that the gravity of waterlogging in the city following Wednesday’s rain was less compared to the one on October 21, 2019. Work done as part of Operation Breakthrough has yielded results, they said adding that water started flowing into the backwaters through various canals once the rain subsided. This happened because of desilting and widening of various canals and drains, participants of the meeting said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waterlogging-in-city-not-as-severe-as-19-justify-officials/articleshow/77290286.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus on rampage, let us work from home: Panjab University professor to VC||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University faculty members have demanded the option of conducting online classes for the 2020-21 academic session from home or the department in view of the pandemic situation. Panjab University Teacher Association (PUTA) members submitted a representation to the vice-chancellor demanding a review and resolution of issues faced by the faculty. In the representation, PUTA president Rajesh Gill said teachers’ issues include apprehensions about holding online classes at departments, availability of uninterrupted and efficient wi-fi facility, connectivity issues, observance of MHA guidelines on social distancing as well as avoidance of crowding. They said the committee constituted to conduct online classes chaired by Professor Navdeep Goyal should examine and resolve all these issues at the earliest. Professor Rajat Sandhir, fellow, Panjab University also wrote to the vice- chancellor saying that the number of Covid-19 cases in the Tricity is increasing at an alarming rate and the situation demands extreme caution. Moreover, with over 800 faculty members using the campus internet network for classes, connectivity issues crop up and affect the quality of teaching. Many departments do not have power back-up, many faculty members have co-morbidities and elderly family members, who may face serious risk, he added. He also pointed out that UGC guidelines do not make it mandatory to conduct classes from departments. The decision to conduct classes from departments needs to be revisited and the faculty needs to be provided with an option to conduct classes from home or to reduce footfall and prevent spread of the deadly virus, he said. Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the committee for online classes and examination said he would review this aspect and submit a report to resolve the issues raised by faculty members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virus-on-rampage-let-us-work-from-home-pu-profs-to-v-c/articleshow/77291652.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Film director Velu Prabhakaran arrested for offensive comments||CHENNAI: The Cyber Crime Wing of Central Crime Branch on Friday arrested filmmaker and actor Velu Prabhakaran for his communally provocative speech posted on a web portal. He was arrested at his house in Maduravoyal by a special team on Friday morning following a complaint from K S Sivaji of Bharat Munnani. The complaint alleged that Velu Prabhakaran had made a defamatory speech against devotional song Kandha Sashti Kavasam, thereby hurting religious sentiments of people.  The CCB booked him under IPC section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A(1)(a)(promoting enmity between different groups), 505(1)(b) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings). The Chennai police arrested Surendra Natarajan, an anchor of Karuppar Koottam YouTube channel which carried an offensive post on Kandha Sashti Kavasam. He was later detained under the Goondas Act. The cyber crime police registered a case based on a complaint from R C Paul Kanagaraj, legal wing president of BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit. On July 15, the police arrested M Senthil Vasan from Velachery, who was associated with the YouTube channel. The next day, Surendra Natarajan surrendered before the Puducherry police. Two more people were also arrested. Another Hindu fringe group activist was arrested for posting a retaliatory post on Whatsapp groups. He, too, has now been detained under Goondas Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/film-director-velu-prabakaran-arrested-for-offensive-comments/articleshow/77291681.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Minor girl escapes rape bid in Bharatpur||ALWAR: A 12-year-old girl in Bharatpur’s Kama police station area had a narrow escape when an unidentified accused abducted her allegedly with the intention of rape but left her in the forest area after she shouted for help. Ravi Katara, SHO, Kama police station said, “The accused apparently took the child on his bike under a false pretext with the intention to molest her as has been claimed by the minor’s father in his complaint.” When the girl started shouting for help, the accused abandoned her in the forest area before absconding from the spot. Meanwhile her parents had already started a search for their daughter and were told that the girl had been seen crying near the forest. They immediately rushed to the spot and registered the case at the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-escapes-rape-bid-in-bharatpur/articleshow/77293183.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: P&T Colony rehabilitation project still on paper after 2 years||KOCHI: The flooding at nearly 85 houses in P&T Colony near Kadavanthra in Ernakulam and the following protest by residents seeking a permanent solution to the waterlogging issue once again points at the Life Mission’s rehabilitation project that still remains on paper, two years after its foundation-laying ceremony.  The colony-dwellers, including bedridden elderly, children and even those under quarantine could not do anything other than running out of their dilapidated abodes when highly polluted drain water from overflowing Perandoor canal gushed into more than 80 houses on Wednesday due to heavy rain. As it’s been happening for the past two decades, all authorities did was open temporary relief camps. It was on July 31, 2018, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan laid the foundation stone of the much-hyped P&T Colony residents’ rehabilitation project on 70 cents of land owned by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) in Mundamveli. The Rs 15.845-crore project envisioned under the state government’s livelihood inclusion and financial empowerment (Life) Mission scheme with GCDA as the executing agency was supposed to construct 88 two-bedroom apartments in two complexes. Though the CM announced that the project will be completed in 10 months, not even the piling has started at the site. The project was hit by many hurdles like lack of enough funds, negative soil test report that suggested piling up to 50m depth, delay in getting administrative sanction (AS) and so on. Though the AS was approved in July 2019 and prefab construction method was finalised to meet the cost, no work was started. GCDA now blames the delay in getting technical sanction coupled with two floods and the pandemic as reasons for the delay. “The project has its own delay like any government project. The contract has to be retendered as the initial contractor FACT-RCF Building products Ltd (FRBL) faced bank’s recovery actions. Now, the contract is given to Thrissur district labour contract co-operative society and we hope to start once TS is received. But Covid-19 is stalling the project now,” said GCDA chairman V Saleem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pt-colony-rehab-project-still-on-paper-after-2-years/articleshow/77290295.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Invite to doctors to dance their blues away||CHENNAI: When zumba coach Simu George saw all the videos on the internet of doctors dancing their stress away, she felt she should do something to help spread positivity and also help the frontline workers. That’s how she came up with the idea of ‘Fitness Surgery 72’ – a 72-hour, non-stop fitness initiative designed to help the Covid-19 warriors and their families relax. The initiative, which is open to people across the world, will run from August 14 to 16. “This is specifically dedicated to all healthcare specialists – doctors, nurses, or any other medical staff – and their families, though it is a tribute to the Covid-19 warriors,” says Simu, who decided to set up a fitness studio at home and share her love for Zumba with others once lockdown began. “I saw videos of doctors dancing and thought why not make it happen for everybody? Anyone can destress with 15 minutes of dancing.” The way the initiative works is simple. “People who are interested in a free 30-minute zumba session with me can register and specify their preferred date and time. I will then send them a link to log in and join me for a virtual session,” says Simu. The idea is to help them relax and spread joy and positivity. “If they have even 25 minutes to unwind, and want some activity, they can just log on from their phone, no matter where they are,” says Simu. “It can be a group of doctors or nurses. And I will take classes even if it’s just three or four people, anytime during the 72 hours, provided they let me know the time they prefer. I have chosen songs and picked steps that they will enjoy.” Simu, who had earlier conducted a five-day virtual zumba rally to raise funds for an NGO caring for children with HIV/AIDS, says this is her way of expressing gratitude to the healthcare workers, especially doctors and nurses. “All of them work tirelessly to save lives. And I am trying to help in whatever way I can.”Interested people can register at: https://forms.gle/9FeEM1vHW632CaFd7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/invite-to-doctors-to-dance-their-blues-away/articleshow/77291694.cms||Priya Menon
August 1, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC takes up fogging operations as mosquitoes sting||SECUNDERABAD: Already reeling under the adverse effect of increasing Covid-19 cases, people now have to face the daunting task of dealing with vector-borne diseases as the viral season is underway. Concerned with the steady rise of viral cases across the city, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is conducting anti-larval operations on a war footing in the city. GHMC’s entomology wing is visiting wards, alerting people, and focusing more on those living near stormwater drains. The officials identified vulnerable areas like Vinobha Nagar at Lalaguda, Sitaphalmandi, Boudhanagar, Chilkalguda, and a few other slum areas. They have intensified anti-larval and other mosquito-controlling activities in these vulnerable areas. The civic staff is conducting a door-to-door drive requesting the people to clear stagnant water, keep their premises clean and be vigilant about vector-borne diseases in the wake of the prevailing pandemic situation. “A red colour label would be pasted on the houses if the staff notice any larva-related activity. In case of no mosquito activity a green label would be stuck,” GHMC assistant entomologist, B Srinivas Reddy, told TOI. “If we have chikungunya, dengue and malaria cases in any area, then Pyrethrum will be sprayed in the neighbourhood covering about 30 to 40 houses. However, no such cases were reported in the Secunderabad zone so far,” he added. “Last year, Brahmanwadi, Prakash Nagar, Patigadda, and Shyamlal building in Begumpet circle were identified as vector-prone areas. But so far, no cases were reported from these areas this year,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-takes-up-fogging-ops-as-mosquitoes-sting/articleshow/77293225.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Plea to declare part of Palk Bay as dugong conservation reserve||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea seeking to implement the proposal sent by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to the state forest department to declare Palk Bay stretch from Adirampattinam in Thanjavur district to Ammapattinam in Pudukottai district as dugong conservation reserve.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that humans are unmindful of the act of damages caused to the ecology and environment. The court can take judicial note of the fact that banned nets are also being used for fishing. Since the habitat of the animals are taken away, they become extinct, the judges said.“It is high time the central and state governments take appropriate steps in this regard,” they said. Appreciating the endeavour of the petitioner for filing this petition after doing proper research, the judges suo motu impeded the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change as a respondent in the petition and ordered notice to the state and central governments.The petitioner stated that he came across an article in The Times of India ‘More dugongs beach in TN, but poaching drops’ published on May 29 and came to know about the proposal sent by WII to declare the 400sqkm stretch of Palk Bay as dugong conservation reserve. He stated that dugongs play a vital role in the marine ecosystem and currently there are only 200 dugongs in Indian waters. The population of the mammal is continuously coming down and proper conservation is required to save the species from extinction.There are three main factors that pose a threat to dugongs: Human activities like vessel strike, poaching, destruction of habitat due to pollution and decimation of seagrass off the coast. Though he sent a representation to the authorities seeking to implement the WII proposal, no steps were taken. Hence, the petitioner moved the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-declare-part-of-palk-bay-as-dugong-conservation-reserve/articleshow/77293189.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Plea to conduct Aadi Thabasu festival dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday dismissed a plea which sought to permit the Aadi Thabasu festival of Sankaranarayana Swamy Temple at Sankarankoil in Tenkasi district taking into consideration the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam dismissed the public interest litigation filed by S Muthu Vairam, a resident of Sankarankoil. The petitioner stated that every year during the Tamil month of Aadi, deities would be taken in a procession during the festival in which thousands of devotees take part. However, this year, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the festival is not going to be conducted. Earlier, during the course of hearing, special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan submitted that the state had issued a GO on standard operating procedures for religious places and the same has been extended till August end. Since the temple falls under the category of A grade temple, it would be difficult to enforce social distancing norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19, if the festival is conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-conduct-aadi-thabasu-festival-dismissed/articleshow/77293204.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||LPG distributors call for probe into petrol baron’s suicide||Times News Network Chandigarh: LPG distributors of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir on Friday extended support to family members of petrol pump dealer Gurkirpal Singh Chawla and demanded an impartial probe into his suicide. Chawla committed suicide at a Haryana tourism-run hotel in Panchkula on July 22. In his suicide note, he alleged being humiliated by officials of petroleum companies and breach of trust by people in Chandigarh. The association, headed by president Lt Col (retd) K J Bhuttar and general secretary Manoj B Nangia of All India LPG Distributors Association (NWR), described the tragic incident as an “eye-opener.” “The suicide has revealed the amount of stress distributors and dealers in the oil industry face on a daily basis. Many distributors in the LPG trade have been sharing instances of humiliation and acute pressure from the oil company and other officials. We condemn such attitude of oil company officials,’’ said Nangia. Members of the LPG distributors network said a fair investigation should be conducted and culprits brought to book. He also said distributors would fight it out to the logical end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lpg-distributors-call-for-probe-into-petrol-barons-suicide/articleshow/77291688.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Expecting a son, man kills newborn girl in Mandi||Manali: A man allegedly killed his newborn girl soon after birth by choking the child with his finger in Nasloh village of Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district. Police registered a case based on the statement of his wife Meeni Devi, 27, on Friday. According to her, she had married Harish Kumar eight years ago. The couple has a 7-year-old girl and 4-year-old boy. She told police that her husband has been harassing her physically and mentally since the marriage. Harish always wanted to have two male children. Meenu delivered another girl child on the night of Wednesday at home. She alleged that her husband started beating her after he found newborn to be a girl. “Then he picked the child and hanged her upside down, inserted his finger into her mouth and killed her. Harish took the baby and went outside and returned after a long time. He told me that he had buried the child,” she added. On Thursday morning, a woman from neighbourhood saw her in injured condition and then other people from village started to visit her. She said her husband went away and didn’t return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/expecting-a-son-man-kills-newborn-girl-in-mandi/articleshow/77293199.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jaipur||Youth killed after stray cattle hits bike in Kota||KOTA: A 22-year-old youth succumbed to his injuries after his bike was hit by stray cattle in Kota on Thursday night. The mishap occurred late in the night when Shakti Kumar, a resident of Sursagar area, was returning home. He was hit by stray cattle near Maruti showroom on Thegda-Raipura road under Udhyog Nagar police station. He was rushed to MBS Hospital where he died during treatment. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Friday morning and lodged a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-killed-after-stray-cattle-hits-bike-in-kota/articleshow/77293198.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Lucknow||Online stir for cancellation of BEd exam||Lucknow: Spike in Covid-19 cases, transport unavailability and fear of contracting the infection while travelling to the examination centre has made aspirants launch an online protest demanding postponement of UP BEd Joint Entrance Examination 2020. Social media is flooded with tweets protesting against the government’s decision to conduct the examination, in which over 4 lakh candidates will appear. “An entrance examination of such a big level will be a suicide in Covid times,” tweeted Utkarsh Bansal.  “Around 4.3 lakh students are appearing for UP BEd JEE 2020. Today, Covid-19 cases are mushrooming. Many students will be coming from other states to take the exam, so it will be a huge risk,” tweeted Richa Upadhyay. Running a hashtag Cancel_UP_BEd_Entrance_Exam2020, the students said due to Rakshabandhan and Eid, public transport is not available. Hence, reaching the centre will be a challenge. “They should understand our stress. It’s not normal in such a situation to travel in a bus or train. When college-level entrance examinations are being put on hold, how can a state-level exam be held,” tweeted Ritvik Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-stir-for-cancellation-of-bed-exam/articleshow/77294153.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Goa||District, sub-district hospitals now offer antigen testing||Panaji: After starting antigen testing for air passengers five days ago, the facility is now made available at district hospitals in North and South Goa and sub-district hospitals of Chicalim and Ponda. Secretary health Nila Mohanan said the health department received supply of 20,000 antigen test kits on Thursday afternoon and new testing facilities have started at district and sub district hospitals on Friday. “Very soon the facility will be extended to primary health centres and community health centres,” she said. The antigen test facility is now available at five laboratories and two private hospitals in the state. Ahead of the visit of the drug controller general of India’s (DGCI) team in Goa to inspect the plasma therapy facility, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday declared that convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) will be introduced next week. “In a new milestone we are happy to announce the launch of an apheresis machine at GMC,” Rane said during his visit to Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim where the machine has been installed. An apheresis machine receives blood from a donor’s body and separates it into various components.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/district-sub-district-hospitals-now-offer-antigen-testing/articleshow/77294154.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Man who tried to run over cop held||JODHPUR: Police arrested a man who had hit-and-run a policeman on duty on Thursday when he was asked to stop during checking. The cop had sustained a fracture in his leg and other injuries. The accused Prem Bishnoi, 25, from Kankani village under Luni sub-division, has criminal antecedents. He has many cases registered against him in both Luni and KBHB police stations. Shastri Nagar SHO Rajendra Singh Rajpurohit said Bishnoi was already on the radar of police right from the incident after being caught on the CCTV camera and was arrested on Thursday night itself from Kudi area with the help of KBHB police. ACP (Traffic) Chain Singh Mahecha said a traffic ASI Om Ram was on duty with his fellow policemen at a traffic point at Jal Jog Circle on Thursday evening. “It was then that a Bolero approached the barricades. A constable directed the driver to stop, but instead of stopping, he backed off and tried to escape. Seeing this, Om Ram came in front of the vehicle, but the driver charged at him,” said Mahecha. In order to save himself, Om Ram mounted on the bonnet and got hold of the vipers of the vehicle. But instead of stopping the vehicle, the driver sped away due to which the cop fell down and sustained head injuries and a fracture in his right leg. “He is undergoing treatment in the hospital and is out of danger. His fractured leg has been plastered,” said Mahecha, adding that he was lucky to have fallen away from the vehicle and thus escaped from being run over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/man-who-tried-to-run-over-cop-held/articleshow/77293186.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Udaipur||Villagers free hostages in Dungarpur||UDAIPUR: A 30-hour-long stand-off in Doli Rotwada village of Sagwara block in Dungarpur was resolved on Thursday midnight after the cops managed to convince the villagers to release the two men who were abducted and held hostage in a government school since Wednesday afternoon. “Police freed the men past midnight and took them to their homes safely. A case of abduction and physical assault has been registered against some of the men at Sagwara police station,” officials said. The standoff was result of a 1.5-month-old incident wherein three youths of Doli Rotwada village were killed reportedly in a road accident. Harish, Kanti Roat and Lokesh Katara who were going from Bhasor towards Rotwada on bikes were killed and police investigation termed it a road accident. However, relatives of the deceased alleged murder charges on two youths of Piluda Fala village. On Wednesday, more than 200 villagers laid an attack (as per the tribal custom of Chadohtara) on the homes of accused youths at Piluda Fala and took the youths’ parents hostage inside a government school building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/villagers-free-hostages-in-dungarpur/articleshow/77293206.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death: Suspended IGP denied use of computer, better facilities in jail||Chandigarh: Denying any relief to suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case, the special CBI court here has dismissed his plea seeking permission to use computer in Burail jail to prepare case notes and for grant of better class facilities in the prison. The special court headed by Dr Sushil Kumar Garg dismissed the application for the use of computer in the jail office, saying there is no such provision in the jail manual, and turned down the plea seeking ‘B’ Class jail facilities on the ground that he is involved in the commission of a serious offence like murder. The special CBI judge observed, “There is no such provision in the Punjab Jail Manual, vide which an under-trial prisoner can be allowed to have access to computers for preparing their defence in court cases. Further, it is pertinent to mention that no inmate of jail is allowed to use the computer in the office for preparing his/ her defence due to security reasons.” After Zaidi had filed the two applications, the court had issued a notice to the investigating agency to file its reply. CBI public prosecutor K P Singh opposed both applications, arguing that Zaidi is facing trial for a heinous crime and therefore, he does not deserve any special treatment in custody. After hearing both parties, the judge observed, “The jail superintendent of Burail Model Jail, Chandigarh had informed the court that other materials, such a pen and paper are provided (for preparing case notes) to the applicant Z H Zaidi on government expenses from and he can also discuss his case with his advocate through e-Mulaqat/ telephone.” On the suspended IGP’s application regarding granting ‘B’ Class status to him, the court stated, “No doubt Zaidi is having the degree of Bachelor of Science (Engineering), but he is involved in the commission of serious offence of murder (section 302 of IPC) with other offences, which debars him to get the ‘B’ class facility in the jail.” The judge cited Article 14 of the Constitution, which provides for equality before law, and also referred to the letter issued by the department of home affairs and justice, Punjab, which has been adopted by Chandigarh administration, which states that “prisoners involved in case under Section 302 of the IPC are not entitled to get ‘B’ class facility”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-suspended-igp-denied-use-of-computer-better-facilities-in-jail/articleshow/77293208.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to rescue Kanyakumari fisherman||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notices to the central and state governments after a plea seeking to rescue a missing fisherman from Kanyakumari district was filed. A division bench of Justice K Kalyanasundaram and Justice T Krishnavalli passed the order while hearing the habeas corpus petition filed by M Sathish Kumar, who is the branch secretary of the Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam based in Marthandanthurai in Kanyakumari district. The petitioner stated that five fishermen including V Shibu ventured into sea for fishing from Thengapattanam fishing harbour on July 24. He stated that while they were returning, their boat capsized due to tides but four other fishermen were rescued by other fishermen, however, Shibu is still missing. Since his family members are in distress, he sought to conduct a search operation using helicopters and boars to trace and rescue Shibu. He also stated that the people from fishermen community staged a protest seeking to desilt the Thengapattanam harbour and also sought to restrain the PWD officials from constructing the check dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-rescue-kanyakumari-fisherman/articleshow/77293214.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||19 APGenco staffers test positive||Visakhapatnam: Nineteen employees of APGenco at Sileru under GK Veedhi mandal in Visakhapatnam district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Sileru has been demarcated as a containment zone. Authorities suspect that at least 40 primary and secondary contacts of the patients may also test positive. All government departments except the police department have been closed following news of the positive cases. Efforts are underway to trace the primary and secondary contacts. Sileru is home to a population of around 4,000, most of them employees of APGenco and families of retired employees. The village lies on the border between Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts and the state border between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/19-apgenco-staffers-test-positive/articleshow/77291712.cms||Siva G
August 1, 2020||Madurai||46 trees transplanted for govt med college in Virudhunagar spring to life||Madurai: Forty-six trees that would have been axed are now thriving in another place. All thanks to the efforts taken by environmentalists to rehabilitate them. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for a government medical college on the Virudhunagar - Sattur road, on 28 acres of land at a cost of Rs 380 crore on March 1 this year. The government headquarters hospital on the Ramamoorthy road is also being expanded as part of this project. Old buildings are being demolished to pave way for multistoried buildings.But, as new things always came at a cost, 46 trees aged between 15 and 55 years were in the danger of being axed for the expansion works. This was when the PWD, in charge of the project approached K Syed the co-ordinator of Osai, an environmental organization. “We try our best to ensure that the officials make small changes in the work to ensure that trees are not shifted. When it is unavoidable we try to rehabilitate them,’’ he said. They decided to shift them to the premises of the new government college which is six km away from the government hospital. They studied the soil in the two places to see if the tree would survive and dug the pits.The 46 trees including neem, mahogany, peepal, and aya tree (indian elm) were prepared for transplanting. Branches of the trees were pruned and wet cow dung was applied and covered with gunny bags to ensure its moisture is contained. Then the trees are dug out with the help of JCP machines along with their mother soil and carefully transported in trucks to the new site. The planting process is conducted like a ritual, where officials and children are made to deposit the soil around the planted tree. “This corona crisis and other global disasters are teaching us the importance of a good environment. We also tell the trees that they should grow for the betterment of mankind, when we plant them,’’ he said. The total cost of this rehab project was around Rs 9,500 as PWD helped in transportation and replanting works. Now, nearly two months after the transplantation, the trees have started producing baby leaves much to the joy of all. Syed says all the 46 trees are showing signs of thriving, which is very encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/46-trees-transplanted-for-govt-med-college-in-virudhunagar-spring-to-life/articleshow/77293230.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajkot man moves Gujarat HC saying cops, woman’s family obstructing interfaith marriage||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old man from Rajkot filed a habeas corpus petition in the Gujarat high court for his live-in partner, who is from a different religion and whom he intends to marry. They have twice applied for marriage under the Special Marriage Act with marriage registrar’s office and the woman was separated from him as soon as the public notices were issued. The reason for approaching the court was involvement of the Malviyanagar police, who allegedly separated the woman from the petitioner and sent her to a women’s shelter home according to her family’s wishes. The petitioner submitted that since his girlfriend is confined and is not allowed to return to the registrar’s office, the one-month notice period lapses and their marriage cannot be solemnized. The petitioner has claimed that they have been in a relationship for the past few years. They decided to get married earlier this year and applied for registration under the Special Marriage Act on March 19. As soon as the public notice was issued by the marriage registrar, the woman’s family took her along and confined her at her uncle’s house. The one-month notice lapsed and also due to the lockdown, they could not get their marriage registered. They met again after the lockdown and applied for marriage registration once again on June 24. This time, the woman’s family approached the police and the couple was summoned. The girl was separated from him at the police station and sent to a women’s shelter home. The petitioner further claimed that he was not allowed to meet or contact her. The one-month notice period for solemnization of their marriage ended on July 24, but her partner could not reach the marriage registrar office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-moves-hc-saying-cops-womans-family-obstructing-interfaith-marriage/articleshow/77293232.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Parents not paying fee: Schools; discuss with UT, says Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed private schools to discuss the matter on collecting school fee with the UT administration after they claimed many parents had stopped doing so while citing an HC order. The court in its last hearing had said no private school can charge more than tuition fee and warned private schools not to charge more than tuition fee failing which it would take action as per law. The matter would come up for hearing on August 14. The HC had directed schools not to pass any adverse order against children in case parents are unable to pay the school fee. The court had clearly spelt out that in case any student wants to leave a private school and shift to a government one, the private school should not raise any objections and issue school leaving certificate on immediate basis. On Friday, private schools argued all parents cannot be assumed to be facing financial problems. Independent Schools Association along with seven private schools had moved the high court pleading to quash Chandigarh administration order which directs private schools to reschedule the last date of deposit of fee and funds for 2020-1 session and schools were required to fix the last date by giving at least a month time to the parent after the reopening of the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parents-not-paying-fee-schools-discuss-with-ut-says-hc/articleshow/77291704.cms||Neha Sharma
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Only 12% of engineering colleges got above 50% pass in November 2019, all failed in 11||CHENNAI: Just 12% of affiliated engineering colleges in the state had more than 50% of students passing the November 2019 semester exams, while 11 got nil results. Of 443 engineering colleges, 220 had less than 25% students passing, raising serious questions about the quality of education. While colleges cite a tough math question paper and stricter evaluation as main reasons, senior professors say it is because several senior faculty members were laid off following the relaxation in teacher-student ratio by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) from 1:15 to 1:20. The academic performance chart for the April and November 2019 semester exams released by Anna University shows that in April 100 colleges had more than 50% students passing compared to 57 colleges in November. The number of colleges with less than 25% students passing rose from 155 in April to 220 in November. "The math exam in November was one of the toughest and many students were not able to clear it," a principal of a city college said. Even otherwise, Valliammai Engineering College principal B Chidambararajan said, students struggle to clear engineering math. "These include some top rankers from prominent institutions." There is bound to be a difference in pass percentage compared to April and November, he said. "Many take exams in odd semesters (November) lightly and clear them in even semesters." M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology in Trichy, said this showed the standard of students. "So far, the university used to give moderation and increase results of colleges. In an effort to standardize engineering education, the vice-chancellor of Anna University has done away with the moderation process. These marks are a true reflection of students. From here, the standard of engineering colleges will only improve." Some colleges said the pass percentage was fluctuating due to stricter evaluation and the lack of uniform answer keys across the state. "Anna University debarred 1,000 faculty members for deviation in marks after revaluation two years ago. It has affected the morale of faculty members and evaluation has become stricter," an official of a college said. A professor from another college said the quality of faculty members had come down after the relaxation of faculty-student ratio. "Many colleges sent their experienced faculty members away and it has now started to reflect on the performance of students," he said. Sources in Anna University said many top-performing affiliated colleges had become autonomous colleges and this was being reflected in the results. "In 2019 alone, 17 affiliated colleges got autonomous status. The university is making efforts to reduce the difficulty level in maths that is affecting the pass percentage of colleges."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/only-12-of-engg-colleges-got-above-50-pass-in-nov-2019-all-failed-in-11/articleshow/77291710.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 1, 2020||Chennai||Admission process needs change, says Anna University VC||CHENNAI: Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa has taken several measures to improve the standard of engineering education after assuming charge in April 2018. In an interview to A Ragu Raman, he discusses the reasons for poor performance of engineering colleges and ways to improve it. Excerpts: Many engineering colleges performed poorly in the November 2019 exams. What is the reason?Out of 480 colleges, nearly 100 have performed very well. With the same syllabus, the same performance was not achieved by the other colleges. The responsibility lies with the colleges. A few colleges got nil results last year and these colleges got the same results again. Many students flunk in engineering maths. Is there anything to be done on the part of the university or school education department?The university is recognising the problem. We have discussed the issue and instructed the controller of examinations to reduce the difficulty level in maths question paper. The poor performance is a reflection of poor quality of students entering engineering colleges. Is there a need to raise the minimum marks for admission to engineering colleges?Students with 45% marks and 40% marks can study engineering. It has definitely contributed to the poor performance. There is a perception that anybody can study engineering without recognising that the engineering course is more rigorous and requires higher understanding. At the entry level itself we need to ensure that the minimum level of capability is existing with the students. The admission process has to go through a tremendous change. There are reports saying that more than 50% of final year students have arrears in one or more papers.I was told it is true. But, the other 50% of students are completing courses without any arrears. Either their concentration in classes or teaching is not sufficient enough. Students should know that there are many careers outside engineering as well. There are huge opportunities in courses like hotel management, nursing and arts courses. They can pursue a career according to their interest rather than joining engineering courses without adequate capacity and struggling with arrears. Do you think the poor quality of faculty is a reasons for this poor performance?Yes. The failures and arrears are also a reflection of poor teaching in colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/admission-process-has-to-go-through-a-tremendous-change/articleshow/77291722.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||1st time: AMC imposes force majeure||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, for the first time since Gujarat state was formed, imposed the force majeure clause present in its contracts putting all contractual obligations on hold. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said, “Probably this is the first time in AMC’s history that the clause has been invoked, but it’s difficult to say with certainty as the civic body was formed in pre-Independence days. But AMC has never invoked the clause since Gujarat state was formed.” The clause will be notified contract-wise after considering the facts, circumstances and issues surrounding each contract. Specific implications of Covid-19 pandemic on each civic contract are being assessed, said AMC officials. The notification imposing force majeure states, “The logistics, public amenities, distribution systems and supply chains within the city have been irreparably affected since March 2020; and the entire workforce and apparatus of the AMC have been working on the single agenda of equipping the city to tackle the menace of Covid-19. Between March and July, virtually all resources and manpower of the AMC were diverted for Covid-19.” The explanation to the notification states, “The nation and the state of Gujarat, and particularly the city of Ahmedabad, have been badly hit by the pandemic, with the city witnessing 24,937 Covid positive cases as on July 30 and at least 2,876 citizens as active Covid-19 cases as on same day. As on date, 1,547 Covid deaths have been recorded in the city of Ahmedabad. It is therefore evident that in the short and medium terms, the primary focus and emphasis of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has to be the protection of Ahmedabad’s population from Covid-l9.” Civic body officials said that the Gujarat Maritime Board and various departments of the Union government had invoked the clause soon after the National Disaster Management Act was imposed during the pandemic. The government had imposed the force majeure clause in Ahmedabad from March 25. The official communication in this regard states that the novel coronavirus (Covid-l9) outbreak, declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO) is an extraordinary event, and the circumstance are beyond human control. It had led to nationwide lockdown with effect from 25 March 2020 after the ministry of home affairs invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, on March 24, 2020. Also, notifications, rules, regulations and guidelines were issued under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Gujarat Epidemic Diseases Covid-l9 Regulations, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1st-time-amc-imposes-force-majeure/articleshow/77291707.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Kochi||Allegation of job irregularities hits KMRL||Kochi: Amid controversies over appointments made at various organizations under state government, job seekers have written to the Prime Minister, senior Union ministers and officers demanding inquiry into appointments made at Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL). In the emails sent to various offices with the central government, it is alleged that Metro agency has been following a practice of appointing people on contract basis and then regularising these staff. Talking to TOI over the phone, one of the complainants Febin V Kuriakose accused KMRL of keeping away a wider section of potential candidates from seeking employment. “When various posts in KMRL are filled on contract basis, candidates having expertize and experience and who work with other Metro projects in the country as well as abroad will not come forward due to the temporary nature of the job. In course of time, the Metro agency regularizes these contract staff. However, if these vacancies are advertised as regular or permanent postings, KMRL will receive applications from a wider section of potential employees and can select the most eligible candidate,” said Kuriakose. A copy of the complaint available with TOI quotes an order dated March 19, 2018, which was circulated within KMRL, and it states that 39 contract employees have been regularized. According to the complainant, the most important aspect of this order is that “the very undersigning authority is one among the 39 made permanent via this order.” However, KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma told TOI that there were one or two petitions. These were duly examined and disposed for want of merit. “Recruitment process in KMRL is very open and transparent through advertisement followed by interview by external experts as required,” he said. But the complainant alleged that the advertisement for permanent posts in KMRL was any eye wash, and there is no transparency regarding the employment process. “One of the candidates sent a mail to PMO, chief minister’s office and KMRL managing director citing the irregularities. Following this his name was included in the list of those to be interviewed,” said Kuriakose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/allegation-of-job-irregularities-hits-kmrl/articleshow/77290301.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu set to be moved to swanky bungalow on hosp campus||Ranchi: Incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad is likely to be shifted from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) to the swanky official residence of the hospital director, in a couple of days. The hospital authorities have decided to shift the former Bihar CM former to Kelly’s Bungalow on the hospital premises, after doctors treating him submitted a proposal to move him to an isolated area to prevent him from getting infected with Covid-19. Talking to TOI, Dr Umesh Prasad, professor of medicine at Rims assigned by the Jharkhand high court to treat Lalu, said they had sent the proposal on Wednesday and are awaiting an approval. “Laluji’s is on the first floor of the paying ward and the second and third floor are being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Moreover, three of his personal caretakers tested positive for the virus on July 25. We have decided to move him to protect him from getting infected.” On being asked if the doctors had suggested the bungalow as an accommodation option for Lalu, Prasad said: “I have not recommended any place and it is up to the jail authorities to shift him any appropriate place. I have only asked for him to be moved as I am answerable to the court about his health. However, Kelly’s Bungalow is suitable for him as he can also take a stroll there, which is essential for a diabetic patient.” The single-floor British era bungalow is built on a 25-acre area and has four bedrooms, two dining spaces, a study, two large verandahs and a kitchen. Its sprawling garden has various fruit-bearing trees kinds. On Friday morning, Ranchi city SP Saurabh conducted an inspection of Kelly’s Bungalow as part of a security assessment drive. “We have been asked to carry out a security audit of the residence inside and if the government does decided to shift him here, adequate cover will be provided to the campus.” While assistant IG (jail) Tushar Ranjan said he has not moved any proposal to shift Lalu and the security audit was probably done on request from Hotwar Central Jail and they are yet to receive a copy of same, sources in Rims said Lalu’s shifting to the bungalow, which has been vacant since former Rims director Dr D K Singh was relieved from his position, is more or less confirmed. Lalu was convicted in a fodder scam case in December, 2017, and was lodged at Birsa Munda central jail in Ranchi. He spent just about two months in the prison before he was shifted to Rims due to deteriorating health conditions. Though he has been suffering from many diseases, including kidney ailments, Type 2 diabetes and hypertension are the main concerns. He was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, for some months before being sent back to the city hospital in May 2018. The opposition BJP said the decision to shift Lalu was taken because “he gets preferential treatment from the JMM-Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan government and has access to VIP facilities even though he is a convicted prisoner”. State BJP spokesperson Kunal Sarangi said, “We wish for Lalu’s good health, but we have seen rampant and blatant violations of jail manual at the hospital. He has often been seen using mobile phones and holding meetings with his RJD functionaries. Poor patients are being left to fend for themselves amid this pandemic, but the Hemant Soren government is shifting as person convicted of large-scale corruption to a plush government bungalow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-set-to-be-moved-to-swanky-bungalow-on-hosp-campus/articleshow/77292899.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||NU VC post: Panel grills 30 candidates||Nagpur: The search committee for selecting Nagpur University’s vice-chancellor completed interviews of 30 probable candidates through video conferencing on Friday. These were selected from about 130 applications received by the panel led by former chief justice of Allahabad high court Dilip Bhosale. The panel is expected to make a scrutiny of all 30 interviewees, based on their performance in interviews along with their past record and experience, and forward five names to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari next week. He may conduct another round of interviews with shortlisted candidates before zeroing on one name. IIT Bombay registrar R Premkumar, who’s nodal officer of the panel, told TOI that they had interacted with 30 probables on Thursday and Friday. “The decision on sending five names to the chancellor would be taken by the chairman,” he said, while refusing to spell out details on what exactly the panel members asked the candidates. The interviews started on Thursday saw many known names from NU’s academic fraternity. They included a former pro-vice chancellor, two deans, director of autonomous college, former director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), three professors from NU’s postgraduate departments and a couple of principals. According to some candidates, the panel grilled them on vision to develop the university and raise the standards of education and research. Many other issues like shortage of qualified teachers, lack of infrastructure in affiliated colleges, absence of research work and others also came up for discussions. Though the VC’s appointment was largely a political one, as per the NU officials, it would be interesting to see how the final selection would be made as most of the candidates had already established contacts with their respective politicians. The final choice would of course be made by the chancellor, who’s from the BJP, but five names that would be recommended to him may bear the mark of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, a coalition of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, the officials said. Chief secretary Sanjay Chahande along with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, chairman Abhay Karandikar (nominated by NU’s management and academic councils), and NU’s deputy registrar Wasim Ahmed, working as the liaison officer, are other members of the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-vc-post-panel-grills-30-candidates/articleshow/77291741.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 1, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against former BJP MLA for ‘stealing’ soil for bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya||Ranchi: BJP’s former Mandar MLA Gangotri Kujur was accused of hurting religious sentiments of the tribal community by “stealing” soil from a Sarna Sthal (place of religious importance for Adivasis) for sending it to Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple. An FIR against Kujur was filed at Chanho police station earlier this week. The complainant, Kundarsi Munda, alleged Kujur and Dipeshwar Nath Mishra collected soil from Sarna Sthal in Sous village in Chanho’s Bikra Toli area on July 23 without seeking permission from the locals. “The stealing of soil from Sarna Sthal hurt the religious sentiments of the people,” Munda said in his complaint. Munda claimed that the act was condemnable because as per the Constitution’s Article 342, tribals are not Hindus. “Despite that, Mishra, who is a priest, entered the Sarna Sthal without permission and performed rituals before collecting earth (for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya). Therefore, I urge you to take legal action and arrest the duo,” the complainant wrote in his FIR. Kujur had on July 23 collected earth from Sarna Sthals in four hamlets — Balandu, Manahadi, Pandeypara and Sous. She said, “In all the four hamlets, permission was granted by the pahans (tribal priests) for the collection of soil. The FIR against me is politically motivated and the handiwork of a few. I have done nothing wrong as Sarna and Hinduism have many things in common.” Notably, Kujur, who was appointed BJP’s Jharkhand vice-president earlier this month, said she handed over the earth to Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s functionaries, who left for Ayodhya by road earlier this week. The VHP collected soil from over 200 religious places of worship for laying the ground for the temple’s construction in Ayodhya, whose bhoomi pujan is scheduled on August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-former-bjp-mla-for-stealing-soil-for-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77292998.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ranchi||Rifts in Cong, JMM says no threat to govt||Ranchi: Voices of dissent against the government have started emerging within the state Congress camp, an integral part of the JMM-led mahagathbandhan government in state. Though both JMM and Congress claimed the issue is an internal Congress matter, developments in the recent days are likely to ignite political a disturbance and affect the government in the days to come. Sensing the discontent, Congress national leadership has directed the state unit to act firmly and immediately address the discontent, which came to the fore after Congress legislators Irfan Ansari, Uma Shankar Akela and Rajesh Kachchap visited Delhi to meet the national leaders to “voice their concerns”. On their return to Ranchi on Wednesday, Ansari said, “It was a routine visit to meet our national leaders. We had not met the party brass for more than three months since the outbreak of the pandemic,,” Ansari said, admitting that they drew attention of the central leadership towards the affairs in Jharkhand during. He said, “Several MLAs have been elected for the first time and if the party or the government do not give them ample opportunity to deliver, their effort in defeating the BJP stalwarts will go unrewarded,” he said, claiming that he was not alone in raising the demand. “Two more MLAs accompanied me and more MLAs will come forward to demand their legitimate rights after Raksha Bandhan,” he said. A group of congress MLAs have raised the issue of vacant ministerial berth in the Hemant Soren cabinet and lack of division of responsibility within the party. Akela raised the issue of state congress functioning without a full fledged committee. “One person one post policy would help judicious distribution of responsibility within the party and the government,” Akela said. JMM on the other hand tried to distance itself from the controversy and said it was an internal matter for Congress. “The government is functioning properly and the Congress ministers have no problem with 11 or 12 cabinet ministers,” said JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. He said if the legislators have a problem with the government, their leadership should have raised the matter at an appropriate forum. The dissenting MLAs have however also raised the demand for the formation of a coordination committee in the state to ensure monitoring of the government at the party level. “There is no platform where these issues can be raised and we have asked the central leadership to issue directions to the state unit or to JMM to set up a coordination committee,” Ansari said. Sources in JMM said that the pressure-building tactics of the Congress MLAs has nothing to do with the functioning of the government and it is linked with the forthcoming election for the post of the state party president. “The working presidents in the party want a bigger role and they want to get noticed by the central leadership,” said a JMM functionary, justifying the argument that the differences are Congress’s internal issues. Meanwhile, BJP is keeping a close eye on the developments. The party’s state spokesperson of Pratul Shahdeo that the voices of dissent arising from the Congress camp reflects poor control of the national and state leadership over its MLAs. “We have nothing to do with whatever is cooking, but we are watching the developments and waiting for the cracks to widen,” Shahdeo said, clarifying that they are not into the business of toppling a stable government. “There is problem within Congress, which is evident from what is happening in Rajasthan. The youngsters do not see a future in the party and elected leaders across the country are desperately looking for a solid ground beneath their feet. Jharkhand Congress leaders are no exception,” Shahdeo added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rifts-in-cong-jmm-says-no-threat-to-govt/articleshow/77293045.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 1, 2020||Ranchi||Dhullu Mahto gets bail in 2015 rape case||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Friday granted bail to BJP’s Baghmara legislator Dhullu Mahto in an attempt to rape case of 2015. The victim had mentioned in her FIR that she was exploited by Mahto who even tried to rape her. The incident dates back to 2015 and the only reason she could not report the matter earlier was a fear of Mahto who had been threatening her. Mahto had earlier sought an anticipatory bail before the high court which was rejected. Thereafter, on May 11, he surrendered before the Dhanbad civil court and was sent to jail. Mahto then moved for a regular bail before the high court which had heard the matter and reserved its order on July 6. Justice Rongon Mukhopadhayay after having heard Mahto’s counsels and the prosecution granted bail to the legislator. While granting the bail, the court observed that the incident dates back to 2015 and Mahto has been in custody for some time now. Earlier, the counsel for the prosecution had informed the court that Mahto is a history-sheeter and has about three dozen cases registered against him. Mahto’s counsel Indrajit Sinha on the other hand argued that his client has been falsely implicated in the case and has been acquitted in as many as 33 cases. Sinha further said that the case has been lodged against Mahto for an incident which allegedly occurred in 2015. The case seems to be fabricated to frame Mahto in a false case, Sinha said. He also added that the criminal case was filed in 2019 after the change in the government in the state and seems to be politically motivated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhullu-gets-bail-in-2015-rape-case/articleshow/77292946.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ranchi||Plasma collection at Rims hits hurdles barely 72 hrs after launch||RANCHI: Barely two days after its inauguration, the plasma bank at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences is already beset by several challenges that range from lack of sufficient donors to equipment. Of the five donors identified till Monday, three were declared unfit for donation while the second donor’s plasma couldn’t be collected on Thursday since the Apheresis machine (used for separating blood components, including plasma and platelets) was engaged in platelet separation. “Of the five donors identified, three persons’ pathological reports did not fulfil the criteria required for plasma donation. Till now, only one donor’s plasma has been collected while another will donate his plasma on Friday,” said Dr Sushma, the associate professor and in-charge of the blood bank at Rims. A lab technician at the blood bank on anonymity said, “We cannot do plasma separation at a time when there is high demand for platelets by the hospital. If the authorities want us to expedite plasma collection, they should provide us with another Apheresis machine which will solely be used for collecting plasma.” When asked about the high demand for platelets at Rims on a daily basis, Dr Sushma said, “On a daily basis, we are asked to provide three units of platelets, which can be for an in-house patient or someone admitted elsewhere.” She added, “It takes us more than two hours to complete just one unit of platelet separation, leading to the Aphresis machine being occupied for more than seven hours every day for platelet separation. That leaves us with no time for plasma separation.” When asked why Jharkhand’s largest hospital with the only plasma bank in the state was provided with only one Apheresis machine, health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said he had directed the Rims management to make all the necessary arrangements a fortnight before the plasma bank’s inauguration. “The hospital does not need the government’s permission to purchase any equipment required for plasma collection,” he added. Upon contact, the Rims medical superintendent, Dr Vivek Kashyap, said, “Since we do not have enough plasma donors at the moment, we have bought only one Apheresis machine. We will buy another one if we see a surge in donors.” According to hospital sources, a proposal for the procurement of another Apheresis machine has been submitted to the Rims management by the blood bank but nothing has been finalised yet. Meanwhile, the department of preventive social medicine in Rims has been given the responsibility of publicising the importance of plasma donation among those cured of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The department is expected to educate and convince them for donating their plasma which will help in the treatment of the virus patients. The move is expected to the raise the number of donors in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plasma-collection-at-rims-hits-hurdles-barely-72-hrs-after-launch/articleshow/77271586.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||Dossiers on 827 criminals made under CP’s supervision||Nagpur: Dossiers of around 827 criminals have been compiled and sent on mails to 33 police stations under the supervision of city police commissioner BK Upadhyay, who completed two years in the city. The move is to ensure that the cops can check and round them up within shortest possible time.The dossiers of the criminals, prepared between July 2018 and July this year under Upadhyay, have complete details about them, their present activities, whereabouts, families and friends along with the mobile phone numbers and addresses.Upadhyay has stepped up policing measures to help recovery of economy as part of ‘Mission Begin Again’ phase by putting a spanner on crime rate. Following a spate of murders in the first two weeks of June, the crime rate has dropped considerably as phase-wise easing of restrictions has also brought in its wake the risk of heightened criminal activities.Upadhyay said with easing of restrictions, it was anticipated that there would be a rise in cases like snatching and robbery. “Assaults and attacks shot up but we managed the crime rate in a comprehensive manner after some unfortunate setbacks. The crime rate has come down as cops are monitoring goons and their activities round the clock,” he said.The latest action was taken against gangster Swapnil Salunkhe, a bookie. He was the 51st goon to be booked under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act (MPDA) in Upadhyay’s two-years tenure. He has also sent 117 gangsters of 20 dreaded gangs behind bars under MCOCA between July 2018 and July this year.In 195 cases, the city police have arrested 289 peddlers recovering narcotics and other material worth more than Rs3.81 crore in Upadhyay’s regime.With focus to keep a check on the goons, preventive actions were initiated on 16,712 persons and 81 goons who were absconding were netted too. Cases under the Arms Act were registered against 1,121 goons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dossiers-on-827-criminals-made-under-cps-supervision/articleshow/77291767.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||NGT Delhi seeks action taken report on Bander coal blocks||Nagpur: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), principal bench, Delhi, has directed formation of a committee and sought a factual action taken report (ATR) regarding the auction of Bander coal blocks close to Tadoba.The committee should have a representative of MoEFCC, state chief wildlife warden and a chief conservator (CCF). The tribunal has also sought reply from the respondents in six weeks. Even as the belated order on a petition filed by Bandu Dhotre, founder, Eco-Pro, came on Friday, the coal ministry on July 21 has already issued orders to withdraw Bander coal block as it falls in eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Tadoba in Chandrapur district. NGT bench comprising justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Siddhanta Das took serious cognisance of the allegations against the coal ministry and MoEFCC regarding inviting auction on June 18. The environment interest litigation (EIL) by Eco-Pro was filed by environment lawyer Asim Sarode. Bander block is very close to Tadoba and its boundary touches the buffer zone. Sarode said, “It’s surprising to know that the coal block lies in reserve forest. The mining proposal was first rejected by environment ministry in 1999 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister and then again in 2010 during Manmohan Singh’s tenure.” The petitioner mentioned that over 1,200 hectare biodiversity rich and tiger bearing forest land will be diverted if coal mining is allowed in this area. He said Bander falls in tiger corridor to Bor and Melghat tiger reserves. Man animal conflict is on rise in Chandrapur and clearing of forest for mining will increase the problem.Even then environment minister Jairam Ramesh had rejected the Bander blocks by giving scientific reasons and had put them in ‘no-go’ zone. The MoEFCC, coal ministry, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) and forest secretary have been made respondents in the petition.The petitioner demanded that the biodiversity board shall be directed to submit biodiversity assessment report of Bander area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngt-delhi-seeks-action-taken-report-on-bander-coal-blocks/articleshow/77291839.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to dump SIS for Aapli Bus ticketing||Nagpur: The transport department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to discontinue the service of Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) — one of the ticketing agencies of the Aapli Bus operators — over poor performance. “Contract of the ticketing agency ended on July 30 and the department will replace SIS with Unity Security Force and Training Institute which was the lowest bidder,” transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar told TOI. The NMC had appointed two ticketing agencies — SIS and Unity Security Force. SIS was supposed to provide 242 conductors and Unity 751, and the two agencies together were to operate 380 buses. The firm failed to deploy adequate number of conductors commensurate the number of the scheduled services for the past several months disrupting smooth operations of the city bus service. The NMC was paying around Rs1 crore to both the agencies every month. He appealed to SIS conductors to deposit the electronic ticketing machines with the NMC. He also said all the conductors will be inducted under the new dispensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-dump-sis-for-aapli-bus-ticketing/articleshow/77291870.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||India orders more Chabahar equipment||NEW DELHI: India is looking to get a move on with the Chabahar port project with the government ordering more equipment, including mobile harbour cranes, for construction work. Iran’s deputy minister for roads and urban development Mohammed Rastad was quoted as saying this week that India was currently pursuing construction and installation of necessary equipment in the port under the framework of a “temporary operation contract”, and after finishing this phase, the main build-operate-transfer contract would be activated. Indian ambassador to Iran Gaddam Dharmendra had told Tehran Times last month that the Indian partners were using Iranian facilities in the port but they had placed orders for necessary equipment from China, Italy, Finland and Germany and hoped that the first delivery would be in October. “We see Iran as a pivot for our economic interactions with Central Asia,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-orders-more-chabahar-equipment/articleshow/77295020.cms||---
August 1, 2020||India||Nepal again tries to junk Gorkha pact||NEW DELHI: In the middle of the row over Nepal’s new map, Kathmandu on Friday reiterated that the India-Nepal-UK treaty on Gorkha soldiers was redundant. The remark was made by Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali in a virtual conference during which he also said that India didn’t respond well to Nepal’s proposal for a dialogue on the Kalapani border dispute. Gyawali had last year too described the treaty as irrelevant, suggesting that it wasn’t appropriate for a sovereign nation to allow its citizens to serve in foreign armies. Nepal, in fact, was reported to have approached the UK in February for a review of the tripartite agreement, which is meant to facilitate recruitment and deployment of Gorkha soldiers and also finalise their perks and other incentives, and to replace it with a bilateral one. Kathmandu Post had earlier reported that the Nepal foreign ministry had sent a letter to the UK seeking a review of the agreement. This was after Nepali PM K P Oli first raised the issue during his meeting with then UK PM Theresa May. The tripartite agreement is apparently seen by many Gorkha veterans as discriminatory on the issue of remuneration for Nepalis serving in the British and Indian armies. Gyawali later confirmed that Nepal wanted separate agreements with India and the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-again-tries-to-junk-gorkha-pact/articleshow/77295049.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A aspirant challenges HC order for admission||Ahmedabad: A division bench of the Gujarat high court on Friday issued notice to the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) after an aspirant challenged a single-judge bench’s order rejecting his demand for admission to the premier institute. Raghav Gupta, filed an appeal after a single-judge bench earlier this week rejected his petition seeking admission on basis of his performance in the Common Aptitude Test (CAT). He questioned the undue important given to the personal interview for admission to the institute. The single-judge bench accepted IIM-A’s submission that the CAT score projects a candidate’s intelligence quotient (IQ), whereas the personal interview at IIM-A judges his emotional quotient, which is more important to the premier institute for admission. Therefore, more weight is given to the personal interview. “The CAT score does measure a candidate’s intelligence to an extent, the final selection process is based on many qualities which are necessary for a professional’s career growth,” the court recorded IIM-A’s submission. Rejecting Gupta’s petition, the single-judge bench said, “...the petitioner will have to accept the fact that he was not selected for final admission at IIM, Ahmedabad as there are number of other more meritorious candidates ahead of the petitioner.” The single-judge bench further observed that different business schools have their own way of selection and parameters and the court did not think it fit to interfere with the admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-aspirant-challenges-hc-order-for-admission/articleshow/77293628.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Manufacturers raise concerns over scrapping of export incentives||Ahmedabad: Citing problems faced by dyes and chemical manufacturers in the wake of the pandemic, members of Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA) have raised concerns over the scrapping of export incentives under the Merchandise Export from India Scheme (MEIS). GDMA sent a representation to Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, seeking to incentivize exports for the industry.“During the times of pandemic, manufacturing and export has taken a major hit. At such a time, cost competitiveness is a major factor which will drive orders and thus, the government must incentivize exports in some way,” a manufacturer said.As part of the MEIS, exporters used to get incentives in the range of 2-5%. GDMA comprises some 1,100 members, 95% of which are MSMEs. Gujarat contributes 60% to the pan-India exports of dyes and intermediates and with exports getting incentives, majority of the MSME units will greatly benefit, at a time when their order books are hit. The association has urged the finance minister to reinstate the scheme or the incentives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/manufacturers-raise-concerns-over-scrapping-of-export-incentives/articleshow/77293641.cms||---
August 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Dharavi saw fewer than 10 new cases a day on average in July||MUMBAI: Dharavi, which till early this month had over 500 active cases, now has numbers in two digits. Since the beginning of this week, the number of active cases here have been below 100. While on July 1, active cases in this slum pocket were 535—23% of the total 2,282 cases at the time—they dropped to 98 on July 27 and as on July 31, their count was 77 or only 3% of the total 2,556 cases reported there so far. On May 31, the active cases amounted to 52% of the caseload. BMC said the daily count in the area has been below 20 for a fortnight and the average daily cases for the month has been around 9. In July, fewer than 10 deaths in DharaviOn Friday, the number of new cases reported from Dharavi was 5. In the same ward, G North, other areas like Dadar and Mahim have 469 and 211 active cases respectively. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, and at the end of May the area had 946 active cases, constituting 52% of the total 1,830 cases at the time. Dharavi has recorded 253 deaths so far, with a worryingly high fatality rate of nearly 10%; the city’s mortality rate is 5.5%. Deaths in Dharavi in July though have been less than 10, according to ward officials. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant civic commissioner of the ward, said the daily admissions in the Dedicated Covid Healthcare Centre (DCHC) at Mahim Nature Park have also been 10 or less of late. On two days earlier this week, he said, there were no admissions there. “The 200-bed DCHC, with oxygen beds, for moderately symptomatic patients started on June 1 ensured infected patients in Dharavi could be treated at the earliest. Early treatment ensured they recovered faster,” he said, adding even BMC’s fever camps there are seeing fewer locals coming forward probably because they do not have symptoms. Dharavi, spread over 2.5 sq km, has a population of more than six lakh; according to some estimates, the number is 8.5 lakh, with unaccounted-for migration. After the first case was detected, the numbers grew rapidly in May. BMC launched an intensive screening and sanitization drive. A decline in cases was first noticed in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-dharavi-saw-fewer-than-10-new-cases-a-day-on-avg-in-july/articleshow/77295052.cms||Richa Pinto
August 1, 2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray slams Devendra Fadnavis’ call||MUMBAI:" Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the state police were capable of probing the Sushant Singh Rajput case, an assertion which comes in the backdrop of growing clamour for a CBI probe. Thackeray lashed out at leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, sayingthe BJP politician had doubted the credibility of the Mumbai police in handling the case despite being a chief minister for five years. The CM said he wasn’t bothered about the stability of his government as long as he enjoyed support of the people of the state and Shiv Sainiks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uddhav-thackeray-slams-devendra-fadnavis-call/articleshow/77295074.cms||---
