August 2, 2020||Goa||A quiet Raksha Bandhan this year||Raksha Bandhan on Monday will be a novel experience for many. Social distancing norms and the risk of spreading the virus to your loved ones means celebrations will be subdued. We find out how the auspicious day will be celebrated. NO CHINESE GOODS THIS YEAR Due to the pandemic, rakhis manufactured in China are no longer available. Retailers are selling off last year’s stock, as locally made rakhis are fast replacing the Chinese varieties. Mahadev Naik, who owns a shop at the Panaji market tells us, “We used to have Chinese rakhis adorned with lights, sound effects and cartoon characters which would attract a lot of youngsters. We are utilising last season’s stock to meet demand, as they are not available this year. We would purchase the stock from Bombay or Belgaum. However, due to travel restrictions and the risk of Coronavirus we are unable to do so. About 70% of the items we sell at our shop used to be sourced from China, but a lot of Indian manufactured goods are now replacing the Chinese ones.” Mina Desai, a retailer in Panaji, “The footfall is less this time around and those that do come in are asking us for chandan and rudraksh themed rakhis.” no grand RAKSHA BANDHAN THIS YEAR Fashion designers Riddhi and Siddhi Mapxencar who are currently residing in Mumbai, have sent their brother back home in Mapusa rakhis via online deliveries. “Whenever we were in Goa, it used to be a great day, we would tie the rakhis according to the muhurat and also get our gifts. This year we found a package online which had a rakhi, sindoor and other essentials in the kit. So there is no worry for my family back home to arrange for the material needed for the puja. We will have a video chat with our brother in the morning,” says Riddhi. DIY RAKHIS THIS SEASON Some are making their own rakhis this year with the help of DIY videos available online. Mayuri Signapurkar, an entrepreneur, tells us, “I posted a picture of a rakhi I made for my brother on social media. I have received a lot of orders from people who liked my rakhi and would prefer a locally sourced rakhi.” “I would usually get a nice fancy rakhi for my brothers. However due to safety concerns I made my own rakhis for them with materials I have at home. It was a special feeling contemplating on my brother’s characters and personalities as I customised their rakhis as best I could,” says Riya Naik from Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-quiet-raksha-bandhan-this-year/articleshow/77308810.cms||Kimberly Colaco
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Asperger's syndrome did not stop Manav from excelling in Boards||Manav Bhinder, who is a special child, diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome at 9 years of age was one of the first documented cases in PGI and Dr Prabjyot Malhi presented a paper on his case. Now, at 18, Manav, a science student, has scored 91.5 in best of four subjects, and 87.5 in best of five in his Class XII board result this year. "He gets extra one hour but still he could not complete his Physics and Chemistry paper and left questions for 20 plus and 15 plus marks. Yet he scored so well though we were expecting over 95%," says Sharmita Bhinder, his mother. However, Manav's journey to this stage has been a tough one. His issues began to surface at four months of age when he had not much movement in the lower area, below the hips, and he never crawled and was not stable till nine months. Initially diagnosed with gross motor slow development a minor squint, doctors advised the parents to wait and watch. "But very early on I realised that Manav has a very high IQ and the tendency to catch things fast," says Sharmita, adding, "My focus was on soft skills, reading, storytelling and alternative healing methods like Homeopathy, and added lot of curricular activities like music, art, karate, dance so that connectivity could be built." Manav was fascinated by animation and he remembered dialogues and scenes of movies like, 'Lion King', 'Finding Nemo', 'Cars' etc. "He was stubborn and the school was having trouble though gross motor improved, so he joined Vivek High, Chandigarh and the school was really supportive, even though nobody was able to pin point the issues." After a battery of tests, MRI brain scans, audio tests etc., at 9 he was diagnosed with Asperger's. Asperger's has symptoms like, repetitive behaviour, obsessive interests, and disinterest in normal world and relationships, unable to communicate and lack of emotional connection. "Manav has no friends he had no interest in the outside world. Academics was not issue but friends and communications, following instructions, making school copies was almost impossible. My focus was socialization routine and extra curricular activities. I did not cut him socially, he did get irritated and would have meltdowns in public. But I took him for movie, parties and entertainment, even though it would be difficult, but we carried on." Socially some friends and people were understanding but at many places he was bullied in school and among friends. The mid school level was emotionally upsetting where he would be ignored and nobody turned up at his birthday, he would not be invited in school breaks and nobody would play with him. "But we focused on strength building which was his knowledge computers and soon he became popular for projects and was wanted for his knowledge. Counseling and learning special education and reading about cognitive behaviour sciences helped me improve him and myself as well. He began reading and studying the brain a lot as well and trying to find solutions. I moved to higher alternative methods ayurveda Reiki, Pranic healing and spiritual healing. That I felt a lot of windows opened and that is where eye contact concentration as well as energy balance happened." Manav began participating in many MUNs and won high recommendations and special mentions. In class X, he scored about 75 percent and did not like History. "He wanted to take up sciences and I discouraged him knowing the routine. But he convinced me that in Science his brain works and he will be happy and maybe still get 70-75%. He chose non-medical with Computers and Psychology as additional. The two years were difficult with anxiety sensory issues and he has the habit of studying between 11 to 3 am, that too while watching videos. I had no choice but to stay up, monitor and accept his way of studying. He would get aggressive, hyper and angry as he could not manage. But slowly I began to accept that he will do things his way and to allow support and be there." Hereafter, Manav plans to go to Stanford in the US and has begun preparing for SAT and CAT. He wants to pursue animation and wants to study in Japan too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aspergers-syndrome-did-not-stop-manav-from-excelling-in-boards/articleshow/77308513.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||PU fashion students learn the importance of styling||University Institute of Fashion Technology & Vocational Development (UIFT&VD), Panjab University, Chandigarh, conducted a Webinar on Fashion Styling titled, 'My Journey and Business of Fashion Styling' on July 31. Chairperson of UIFT & VD, Dr Prabhdip Brar, gave an introductory note, welcoming the speaker, Rahul Vijay, a fashion design graduate. He rose from a fashion intern to a fashion editor and moved to Mumbai. He is responsible for styling covers and fashion editorials, with eight years’ experience in women’s wear styling. He is one of the creative directors for a leading Fashion Week and has styled for designers such as Rajesh Pratap Singh, AM:PM, Ashish Soni and Kunal Rawal among others. He narrated his journey starting from writing articles for his college magazine in 2007. He said that the role of a stylist is to give trends to designers, help them edit a collection and to create a language to sell his/her product. Apart from garments the other necessities for styling include footwear, wearer trials and photography. For a magazine, any cover star is selected on the basis of an upcoming movie release, on newsworthy content associated with them or according to the mood board. The takeaway of the session was that, “Styling is 99% research and 1% creativity.” The talk concluded with him saying, "To succeed as a stylist, one needs the right team and the right attitude.” This session struck a chord with students who wish to pursue styling as a career. The webinar was attended by more than 90 participants including faculty members, research scholars and students of Fashion Technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-fashion-students-learn-the-importance-of-styling/articleshow/77309146.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman arrested after BMW rams into ice-cream stall||NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old woman allegedly rammed her BMW car into a roadside ice-cream stall and injured four persons in southeast Delhi's East of Kailash area, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday night. The driver of the car, Roshani Arora, a resident of Faridabad in Haryana, was arrested, the police said. The video of the incident also went viral on social media. In the CCTV footage, a navy blue colour BMW car rams into the ice-cream stall and drags the people, who were standing near the stall on the roadside, for a short distance. Police said they received information at 10.17pm on Friday regarding the incident near Sapna Cinema, East of Kailash. The four injured persons were already shifted to different hospitals, police said. "The injured persons have been identified as Mukesh Kumar, sustained injury in leg, Sapana Kumari, sustained abrasion over right knee, ice cream vendor Guddu, sustained abrasion ovr left knee and Harshit Kaur, sustained wound at left ankle," deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said. On the statement of Mukesh, a case under relevant sections was registered on Saturday, the DCP said. The complainant alleged that while he was taking ice cream, the car hit him as well as the ice cream stall, and four people sustained injuries, the officer said. During investigation, the car was seized and Arora was arrested. Her medical examination was conducted and no alcohol was found, police said. During interrogation, Arora said she runs a boutique at Prakash Mohalla, East of Kailash. She claimed that she was eating ice cream in her car when her dog jumped and the gear of the car was changed and the incident happened, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-woman-arrested-after-bmw-rams-into-ice-cream-stall/articleshow/77309077.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Highest single-day Covid deaths, recoveries in India||NEW DELHI: The daily death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic in India crossed 800 for the first time, with 848 fatalities being reported on Saturday, 322 of these in Maharashtra alone, even as the country recorded nearly 56,000 fresh cases, the second-highest single-day count so far. In a more cheerful development, recoveries rose to a single-day high with 51,740 people being declared cured of the infection on Saturday, 12,750 of them in Andhra Pradesh and over 10,000 in Maharashtra. The country’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 17 lakh, with 55,919 fresh cases taking the total to 17,50,901, as per data collated from state governments. Deaths too have surged this week, with the daily toll remaining above 750 for the fifth day running. Saturday’s death toll of 848 was easily the highest single-day count so far, 62 higher than the previous peak of 786 recorded on Thursday. Meanwhile, Chennai surpassed the grim milestone of 1 lakh cases with 1,074 new additions, taking its tally to 1,00,877. In July, four states recorded more than 1 lakh cases, led by Maharashtra, where 2,47,357 cases were reported during the month. Tamil Nadu had the next highest caseload in July at 1,55,692, followed by Andhra Pradesh (1,26,338), Karnataka (1,08,873) and Uttar Pradesh (62,953). However, Andhra Pradesh had by far the biggest growth rate of cases in July at 866%, which means infections grew nearly 10-fold. Cases in the state rose from 14,595 to 1,40,933 during the month. Karnataka’s growth rate was 714%, Kerala's 431%, Bihar's 410% and Assam's 390%. Five states reported more than 1,000 Covid-19-related deaths in July. Maharashtra had by far the highest count of 7,139, followed by Tamil Nadu (2,734), Karnataka (2,068), Delhi (1,221) and Andhra Pradesh (1,173). The growth rate of fatalities during the month was the highest in Karnataka at 840%, followed by Andhra Pradesh (666%). On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 322 deaths, its highest toll for a day so far, taking its total Covid-19 fatalities to 15,316 by breaching the 15,000 mark. Chandrapur, the only district so far in the state to not have had any Covid-19 deaths, reported its first casualty. With this, there is not a single district in the state with a zero fatality count. The state reported a slight dip in new cases, at 9,601, and more discharges (10,725) were reported than daily additions. Maharashtra’s total cases rose to 4,31,719. Mumbai registered a dip in the number of deaths on Saturday, with 45 deaths or 14% of total fatalities added, and 1,047 new cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 9,276 Covid-19 cases on Saturday as the cumulative tally breached the 1.5 lakh mark. The total number of positive cases in the state now stands at 1,50,209. The state also witnessed a record 12,750 recoveries, the highest discharges in a single day. With one death short of hundred reported on Saturday, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. In Bihar, 3,521 fresh cases were reported, the highest in a day so far, taking the tally up to 54,508. Among those tested positive for the virus on Saturday included Patna DM Kumar Ravi. In Rajasthan, the number of Covid-19 cases were all time high on Saturday when 1,160 cases were recorded. Also, the state witnessed the highest deaths in a single day at 14. This was the eighth consecutive day when the number of cases was above 1,000. With four deaths reported in the past 24 hours, Gujarat’s Ahmedabad district has now recorded deaths of 1,601 Covid-19 patients. The last 100 deaths took place in 24 days, which is more than double of the 11 days it took the district to record 1,401 cases to 1,500 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highest-single-day-covid-deaths-recoveries-in-india/articleshow/77309423.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Business||Apple vendor eyes production shift to India||NEW DELHI: In a major relocation from China as part of global business’ effort for derisking of manufacturing bases by diversifying supply chains, a contract manufacturer for Apple is shifting six production lines looking forward to exporting around $5 billion worth of iPhones from India apart from catering to the domestic market. The establishment of the facility is expected to generate employment for around 55,000 Indian workers over a year or so, sources familiar with the exercise told TOI. The vendors may expand the operations beyond phones to include tablets and even computers and laptops in the coming years. China has come under increased scrutiny after the Covid-19 global health crisis as it tried to suppress the outbreak in Wuhan. With trade tension already mounting and Beijing’s role under the lens, several global giants are looking to diversify their production bases across the world. India has aggressively moved in seeking to be part of the new production supply chain. Container loads of goods from Apple’s key contract manufacturer have already reached India in the wake of the pandemic and China’s initial attempt to smother information about its outbreak. As reported by TOI in its edition on Saturday, Apple’s contract manufacturers, Wistron, Pegatron and Foxconn, Korean giant Samsung along with Indian players such as Dixon Lava and Micromax will manufacture mobile phones under the government’s production-linked incentive scheme. Foxconn already has a plant, while Wistron and Pegatron are likely to follow suit. In all, 22 domestic and global players applied under the scheme that will result in production to the tune of Rs 11.5 lakh crore over the next five years, with exports estimated at Rs 7 lakh crore, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. Overall investments are estimated at around Rs 11,000 crore under the scheme. In addition, several component manufacturers have also filed applications that will lead to production of electronic components to the tune of Rs 45,000 crore. Prasad’s ministry has been in talks with global giants to ensure that they invest in India, which is one of the largest markets for smartphones, going to the extent of facilitating registration for companies such as Pegatron in a day. The push for phone making coincides with recent investments by global tech giants such as Facebook and Google in Reliance Jio, which is now getting into the business of Android-based smartphones at affordable prices. The three key Apple vendors, which are looking to produce phones in India, are Taiwan-owned entities and points to the growing rush of companies away from China given the geo-political risk. Watch Apple vendors, Samsung line up for mobile production||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apple-vendor-eyes-production-shift-to-india/articleshow/77309542.cms||Sidhartha
August 2, 2020||World||Nepal set to send new map to UN, others||NEW DELHI: After having issued a new map showing Indian territory in Nepal, the K P Oli government is preparing to share the same with the "international community", including the UN. The map, which was issued despite protests by India, was later legitimised unanimously by Nepal's Parliament by including it in the national emblem. The new Nepal map shows the Kalapani area along with Limpiyadhura and the strategically located Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand as belonging to Nepal. Sending the map to UN is unlikely to help Nepal's cause though as the organisation generally keeps off such territorial claims in the form of maps presented by countries. In fact, it did the same with the new political map of India which was sent by the Indian mission in Vienna late last year to the UN office there and also United Nations Industrial Development Organization. India had earlier said that artificial enlargement of Nepal's claim was not based on historical fact or evidence and that it wasn't tenable. India also sees Nepal's unilateral action as violative of the understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues. The Oli government though, while still open to dialogue, has shown little regard for India's sensitivities, according to official sources. Nepal's land management minister Padma Aryal was quoted as saying Saturday by Nepatl media that Nepal will translate the map text into English and "deliver" it to the international community later this month. According to a report in My Republica, information officer for the Department of Measurement, Damodar Dhakal, said that they had already proceeded to print 4,000 copies of the updated version of Nepal’s map in the English language to be delivered to the international communities. “A sub-committee has been formed under the coordination of the deputy director of the department. The revised version of the map will be available in the English language,” Dhakal said. "The department has already printed 25,000 copies of the latest version of the map to be distributed within the country. Local units, provincial and all other public offices will be delivered the copies free of cost while the public can buy it at Rs 50," said the report. Watch Nepal set to send new map to international community, including UN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-set-to-send-new-map-to-un-others/articleshow/77309632.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 2, 2020||India||We must stand up to China: Foreign minister S Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: With Indian and Chinese troops locked in a prolonged military stand-off, foreign minister S Jaishankar told   TOI in an interview   on Saturday that “reaching an equilibrium with China is not going to be easy and India must stand its ground”. Making it clear that resolving tensions on the LAC was critical, Jaishankar told TOI, “The state of the border and the future of our ties (with China) cannot be separated. That is the reality.” India’s relationship with the US, too, is changing as the latter is changing the way it deals with the world, according to Jaishankar, who believes India is well placed here, and despite not being a traditional ally of the US, is adapting well to the new realities. The foreign minister said ties with China were bilateral in nature and it would be a complete misreading of the Indian position to read them in the context of India’s relations with the US. Watch We should occupy more mind space of China: S Jaishankar, External affairs minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-must-stand-up-to-china-foreign-minister-s-jaishankar/articleshow/77309734.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan also involved in horse-trading, claims Ashok Gehlot||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Urging PM Narendra Modi once again to restrain BJP from trying to topple an elected government, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal of being among the other big names “secretly” involved in the horse-trading conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “The PM should step in and stop the tamasha (drama). Shekhawat’s involvement in the conspiracy is now known. He should resign on moral grounds. Many others like Pradhan and Goyal are secretly involved. We know this but we aren’t bothered. All we care for is democracy,” he said. While targeting BJP, Gehlot sought to convey the message that for all the desert sand kicked up by his public fallout with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, he was still open to welcoming back all the Congress dissidents with “hugs” if the high command wanted so. "There is no pressure on me. The party has trusted and given me a lot. I have thrice been a Union minister, thrice an AICC general secretary, thrice a PCC chief and thrice a CM. What else would I want?” Gehlot told reporters before flying back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where he got his flock to shift on Friday to keep “poachers” at bay. "Whatever I am doing is for public service. Whatever the Congress high command decides, I have no objection," Gehlot said. Asked whether he hadn't become aggressive of late, Gehlot said, "Where have I been aggressive? I talk with love and affection...I keep smiling because that is god's gift; I cannot help it." In Jaipur, state BJP president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government had "mentally" already lost its majority, going by how all MLAs were whisked away to Jaisalmer with still two weeks to go for the special assembly session from August 14. "Sometimes, the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in this business (of horse-trading) for long. On occasion, he talks about dictatorship as if he were the saviour of democracy. We have to remind him that he is from the party that declared Emergency," he said. Responding to Poonia's remarks, the CM labelled the new crop of BJP functionaries as upstarts aspiring to take ex-CM Vasundhara Raje's place, but unable to walk the talk. He said leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was the exception, being "a good human" and less vocal. "The rest attack us before the media but have no guts. Raje has, of course, disappeared from the scene."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/piyush-goyal-dharmendra-pradhan-also-involved-in-horse-trading-claims-ashok-gehlot/articleshow/77309766.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||World||Expect 'lengthy' coronavirus pandemic, warns WHO||GENEVA: The World Health Organization on Saturday warned the coronavirus pandemic was likely to be "lengthy" after its emergency committee met to evaluate the crisis six months after sounding the international alarm. The committee "highlighted the anticipated lengthy duration of this COVID-19 pandemic", the WHO said in a statement, and warned of the risk of "response fatigue" given the socio-economic pressures on countries. The panel gathered Friday for the fourth time over the coronavirus crisis, half a year on from its January 30 declaration of a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) -- the WHO's highest level of alarm. "WHO continues to assess the global risk level of COVID-19 to be very high," it said following the meeting. The novel coronavirus has killed at least 680,000 people and infected at least 17.6 million since the outbreak emerged in China last December, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. Unsurprisingly, the panel, comprising 17 members and 12 advisers, unanimously agreed that the pandemic still constituted a PHEIC. Several countries around the world have imposed strict lockdowns in a bid to control the spread of the respiratory disease, plunging economies into sharp contraction. The committee urged the WHO to provide nuanced, pragmatic guidance on COVID-19 management "to reduce the risk of response fatigue in the context of socio-economic pressures". The panel urged the WHO to support countries in preparing for the rollout of proven therapeutics and vaccines. The committee also urged the agency to accelerate research into the remaining "critical unknowns" of the virus, such as the animal source of the disease and potential animal reservoirs. It called for improved understanding of the epidemiology and severity of COVID-19, including its long-term health effects. And the committee wanted more light shed on the dynamics of the virus, such as "modes of transmission, shedding, potential mutations; immunity and correlates of protection". The near six-hour gathering was hosted at the WHO's headquarters in Geneva, with some participants joining via video-link. The committee will reconvene within the next three months. Going into the meeting, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the pandemic's effects would be long-lasting. "It's sobering to think that six months ago, when you recommended I declare a PHEIC, there were less than 100 cases and no deaths outside China," he said Friday. "The pandemic is a once-in-a-century health crisis, the effects of which will be felt for decades to come." The committee warned countries to prepare their health systems to cope with seasonal influenza and other disease outbreaks alongside the new coronavirus. They were also urged to "encourage global solidarity" on COVID-19 and address "mis/disinformation" about the virus. The WHO has been sharply criticised for the length of time it took to declare an international emergency. The United States, which accused it of being too close to China, officially began its withdrawal from the organisation in July. The agency has also been criticised for recommendations deemed to be late or contradictory, in particular on wearing masks, or the modes of transmission of the viru Watch WHO warns nations to expect 'lengthy' coronavirus pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/expect-lengthy-coronavirus-pandemic-warns-who/articleshow/77309819.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Oldtimers defend UPA govt against Rahul loyalists||NEW DELHI: With a Rahul Gandhi loyalist holding UPA responsible for the weakening of the party, Congress functionaries on Saturday came out in defence of the 2004-2014 government calling it “transformative” and one that had been sabotaged by a conspiracy and malicious campaign by political rivals. The backlash came after a controversy erupted on Thursday when, in a meeting of Rajya Sabha members chaired by Sonia Gandhi, new MP Rajeev Satav countered a demand by Congress veterans for “introspection” into the 2019 defeat by blaming the UPA era for the party’s unpopularity. Congress MP Manish Tewari called for a settlement of the leadership issue and told TOI, “A regular president provides stability at the top. Given the prevailing situation when the credibility of the government is at its nadir, it will help the opposition coalesce around Congress.” Senior member Anand Sharma posted an 11-tweet thread to defend UPA. “Congressmen must be proud of UPA’s legacy. No party disowns or discredits its legacy. Nobody expects BJP to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget,” he wrote. Tewari said: “Despite being in wilderness for ten years, BJP never ran down the Vajpayee years in power. In fact, BJP passionately defended it at every forum. It is unfortunate that some ill-informed people would rather fight the ghost of UPA than frontally take on BJP.” Diplomat-turned-politician Shashi Tharoor said lessons had to be learned from election defeats “but not by playing into the hands of our ideological enemies”. Former Union minister Milind Deora lamented that Singh’s service was criticised in his presence. As the storm grew, Satav clarified that he had never questioned Singh’s leadership, and blamed the row on media reports. Watch UPA was victim of ‘internal sabotage’: Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oldtimers-defend-upa-govt-against-rahul-loyalists/articleshow/77309834.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Business||Now, individual businesses can get top-up loans on govt guarantee||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday expanded the coverage of the guarantee-based top up loans for small businesses to include individuals such as dentists, doctors, shopkeepers and truck and cab owners, who had availed of loans from banks. The eligibility criteria was also relaxed for 20% additional loan to those with outstanding credit facility of up to Rs 50 crore on February 29, which is twice the earlier cap, while the annual turnover threshold was raised from Rs 100 crore to Rs 250 crore. On Friday, TOI was the first to report about the change in the eligibility criteria amid demands to expand the number of entities that can avail of the special facility to combat the impact of Covid-19 on their businesses. “We expect another Rs 1 lakh crore of loans to flow,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters. In late May, the government had announced the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme and said that based on 100% guarantee, it expected around Rs 3 lakh crore of additional funding for small businesses. So far, sanctions are estimated at a little under Rs 1.3 lakh crore with over Rs 87,000 crore disbursed. With the expanded coverage, the overall loan flow could be to the tune of Rs 2.6 lakh crore or so, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said. While the scope of the scheme will now include individual businesses, Sitharaman said that a final call on extending the loan moratorium on home and personal loans taken by individuals was yet to be taken. In recent days, bankers are seeking an end to the loan moratorium offered to all buyers, which is due to be over at the end of August. The FM said that the government was in talks with RBI for restructuring of bank loans but refused to elaborate further. She said that there was evidence of workers returning to work with industry representatives suggesting that 40-45% of the migrant workers had now returned. Sitharaman also said that a meeting of the GST Council will be convened soon to work out a solution on GST compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-individual-businesses-can-get-top-up-loans-on-govt-guarantee/articleshow/77309846.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Business||GST mop-up at 95% of pre-Covid average||NEW DELHI: Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections were estimated at Rs 87,422 crore in July, around 95% of the pre-Covid monthly average, indicating that economic activity had picked up, although a large chunk of the services sector was yet to be operational and imports remained weak. At least three states – Rajasthan, Nagaland and Madhya Pradesh – reported higher collections in July (based on June sales) than a year ago, while Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadeep managed to match last year’s level. “While the overall GST collections for the month is heartening, the collections in many of the major states coming close to last year’s collections indicates that the recovery process has slowly started with the unlock process under way in these states,” said MS Mani, a partner at Deloitte India, adding that the July numbers also include payment for some of the transactions undertaken in previous months. The average monthly collection between July 2017, when GST kicked in, and March 2020 works out to Rs 92,199 crore. In July 2020, the overall kitty declined 14.4% compared to last year. The mop is also lower than June as there was bunching of payments during the month. Collections during April-July added up to Rs 2.7 lakh crore – 34.5% lower than the first four months of 2019-20 – as the first two months of the current financial year saw business come to a standstill due to the lockdown. Most economic indicators – from freight loading on trains to highway toll revenue, sector output and merchandise exports – are hovering between 80% ad 90% of the year ago level. “June and July data reveal that broadly the collections are stabilizing between 85% to 90% of the corresponding period last year. This is also collaborated with number of e-way bills being generated daily, which indicates that supply chain is getting back to normal although imports still seem to be lower than domestic output. Overall, this augurs well for the government and collections are likely to improve further as lockdown is eased progressively. Industry can perhaps hope for some more GST relief, particularly in form of liquidity support as they navigate through the slowdown,” said Pratik Jain, who leads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PwC India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-mop-up-at-95-of-pre-covid-average/articleshow/77309851.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||China shouldn’t view us through US lens. That would be a great disservice, says S Jaishankar||Despite his hectic schedule, external affairs minister S Jaishankar put long flights and airport layovers to good use to finish his book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. In an interview to Indrani Bagchi, he talks about India’s role in a changing world.It is good to see a serving minister write a book. Why did you write it?This book has been more than two and a half years in the making. My purpose is obviously to shape the foreign policy debate in the country. And to underline the rapid pace at which our world is changing. India matters more in such a world and it is important for us to understand that. So, our views, commitments and expectations must be clearly articulated. What is this change? Why is it important and how does it matter to Indians now?There are five key developments underway. The rise of China, the repositioning of America, the rebalancing of the world including India’s role in it, the relevance of rules, and the changing metrics of power. All of them need to be analysed and understood. We can’t simply continue on the basis of past experience. Foreign policy is too serious to be run on just mantras and muscle memory. What do you mean by changing metrics of power?When I started out in diplomacy, in Moscow actually, we gave primacy to military capability and its derived political influence. The end of the Cold War led to greater awareness of economic and soft power. Today, trade relationships, connectivity projects, technology choices and financial exposure are key factors. How to assess power has become a more complex exercise. How do you deal with China in a post-Ladakh crisis context? I ask this because, as India’s longest serving ambassador in Beijing, you know our China dynamic better than most.Over the last three decades, we had steadily normalised our relationship on the assumption of peace and tranquillity prevailing on the border. This was the basis for the policies of successive governments. The state of the border and the future of our ties, therefore, cannot be separated. That is the reality. But as my book underlines, reaching an equilibrium with China is not going to be easy. We will be tested and we must stand our ground. Part of the answer is for us to also occupy more of their mind space. Is our growing closeness to the US part of the problem?Look, India is China’s largest neighbour, one with a matching civilisational history. Our ties are fundamentally bilateral in character. The relationship is not only hugely consequential for both nations, but for the world. We must therefore understand each other’s concerns, interests and aspirations accurately. Now, China may have its own issues and problems with the US. But to view us through an American lens would be a serious misreading of India. And clearly do the relationship great disservice. And where does the US feature in our calculations?As I see it, there are two trends at play. One, that the US is engaging the world on very different terms. There is the Trump phenomenon but some signs were visible even under Obama. Two, there has been a sustained American interest in strengthening ties with India. Both sides, each in their own way, are coming to terms with growing multi-polarity. This is an era of convergences and the new vehicles include plurilateral mechanisms. We first met in Japan in 1999. That relationship has completely transformed and you have been part of that too. Where does Japan fit into this multipolar world? There is certainly a sea change there. Japan is a strategic factor that can lead to the emergence of a multipolar Asia and a greater role for middle powers. You have spoken of greater multipolarity but less multilateralism. Will India be a different kind of power?Absolutely. Some of that is our post-colonial history; some our inherent approach to the world. India must be identified with the quest for a more just global order. That means respect for international law and rules. And contributing to global good, whether in disaster situations, peacekeeping or in responding to pandemics. Development partnerships become particularly important in that context, as does our commitment to better delivery. This is not just idealism, it is enlightened self-interest at work. You have talked about auditing our past performance and the relevance of non-alignment. How do you see the future?I have actually been objective about the past, constantly underlining that it has a context. But no idea is immutable. And a big country like India will always be independent in its judgement and choices. To question that is either a lack of self-confidence or playing games. We understand our own interests clearly and are quite capable of acting on that assessment. In doing so, it is all about finding the right balance. One between hard security and soft power; between bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral; national interest and globalisation; and between values and strategies. In essence, that’s what my book is all about. Watch We should occupy more mind space of China: S Jaishankar, External affairs minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-shouldnt-view-us-through-us-lens-that-would-be-a-great-disservice-says-s-jaishankar/articleshow/77307398.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 2, 2020||India||With pullback in Depsang & Pangong stalled, military talks with China to be held today||NEW DELHI: Amidst Chinese troops showing no signs of pulling back from Pangong Tso and Depsang Plains in eastern Ladakh, while also continuing to increase deployments along the Line of Actual Control right till Arunachal Pradesh, the next round of corps commander-level talks will now be held on Sunday. India earlier “did not insist” on holding the fifth round of talks between 14 Corps commander Lt General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin on July 30, as was initially proposed, in view of China’s “continuing intransigence” on the ground. But with China calling for the meeting late on Saturday evening, it will now be held on the Chinese side of the Chushul-Moldo side of the border personnel meeting (BPM) point on Sunday afternoon. Read AlsoChina shouldn’t view us through US lens. That would be a great disservice, says S JaishankarDespite his hectic schedule, external affairs minister S Jaishankar put long flights and airport layovers to good use to finish his book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. In an interview to Indrani Bagchi, he talks about India’s role in a changing world.This comes after India’s high-powered China Study Group held a meeting this week to fine-tune the strategy. Officials say there could be two reasons for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to drag its feet on troop disengagement at Pangong Tso and Patrolling Point (PP)-17A at Gogra. The PLA, for one, could still be contemplating whether it should implement the disengagement proposals it had agreed to during the fourth round of military talks on July 14. “It does take time to finalise what is acceptable and what is not, along with the requisite political approvals,” said a senior official. “But the other reason could be that the PLA is simply biding time to present us with a fait accompli once winter sets in. Either way, we are prepared for the long haul. Restoration of status quo ante is not on the cards as of now,” he added. Read AlsoBipartisan support in US grows for India against Chinese aggressionIndia has received a strong bipartisan support from members of the US Congress against the recent Chinese military aggression in Ladakh. In the last few weeks, dozens of lawmakers, across the aisle, both on the floor of the House of Representatives and the Senate and outside the Capitol have praisedThe Army has already kicked off the massive logistical exercise for “advance winter stocking”, with rations, specialised clothing, prefabricated shelters, arctic tents and other equipment to maintain its well over 30,000 troops deployed in Ladakh, as was reported by TOI last month. Both sides have gone in for troop, artillery and armour build-ups in “depth areas” in all the three sectors of the 3,488-km LAC – western (Ladakh), middle (Uttarakhand, Himachal) and eastern (Sikkim, Arunachal). “Other than Ladakh, the other areas are quiet with normal troop movements,” said another official. The PLA of course has resolutely dug in on the north bank of Pangong Tso, refusing till now to pull back eastwards from the 8-km stretch it has occupied from `Finger-4’ to `Finger-8’ (mountainous spurs) by building scores of new fortifications there since early-May. Chinese soldiers did initially withdraw to Finger-5 from the ‘base’ of Finger-4, but did not fully vacate the ridge-line that dominates the area. The troop disengagement has been fully completed only at PP-14 in Galwan Valley, the site of the June 15 skirmish, and PP-15 in Hot Springs. The Depsang Plains, a table-top plateau to the north of Galwan, also remains a major hotspot due to its strategic location providing access to the logistical hub and airstrip at Daulat Beg Oldie and the critical Karakoram Pass in the north. PLA troops, camping near the “Bottleneck” area in Depsang,continue to block Indian soldiers from going to their traditional PPs-10, 11, 12 and 13 after intruding deep into what India considers its territory there. “The immediate priority, however, is the PLA pull-back at Pangong Tso and Gogra. Depsang, where the rival perceptions of LAC vastly overlap, will be tackled later,” said the official. Watch LAC row: Military talks deferred as Depsang & Pangong pullback stay stalled||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-pullback-in-depsang-pangong-stalled-military-talks-with-china-to-be-held-today/articleshow/77309854.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 2, 2020||India||‘Land-registry process after 370 move earns J&K Rs 100 crore’||NEW DELHI: The shifting of land registration process in Jammu and Kashmir from the judiciary to the department of registration created in the aftermath of nullification of Article 370, has brought in earnings worth Rs 100 crore in stamp duty and registration fees, according to home ministry sources. Since the creation of a new department of registration in J&K last year as part of transition from state to Union Territory, 77 sub-registrars have been appointed and nearly 25,000 land registrations done. The entire registration process is being digitised and moved online. Also, the process of stamp duty administration is being fully computerised and e-stamping rules framed. This, said a home ministry officer, has helped simplify and demystify land revenue administration in J&K. Another key reform introduced was the abolition of Lakhanpur toll. This toll tax was seen contrary to overall consumer interest as it was pushing up the cost of commodities entering J&K. Toll tax at Lakhanpur entry point to J&K and all other posts at railway stations and airports, was abolished with effect from January 1, 2020. A home ministry officer said this has “facilitated the growth of a robust industrial sector, keeping in tune with the ‘one nation, one market’ spirit of GST”. Power sector in J&K has also benefited as a reform pending for the past five years, the power distribution department was hived off into five autonomous corporations with independent mandates and responsibilities. “The unbundling has moved the focus to improved services and stable revenue mechanism,” said a senior MHA official. To ensure faster execution of civil works post-Article-370, the engineering wing of directorate of urban local bodies was wound up and civil works entrusted to public works department. The municipal committees and councils are now empowered to accord administrative approvals for projects up to Rs 5 crore. The central information commission, central vigilance commission -- which has direct supervision over state anti-corruption bureau -- and central administrative tribunal now have jurisdiction over J&K, which officials say has ensured transparency and accountability in the fight against corruption. ACB has since taken cognisance of bank fraud cases, including the J&K Bank corruption case that led to many high-profile arrests including its two former CMDs. As many as 73 FIRs were registered and 50 arrests made by ACB in 2019. There have been 20 arrests till June this year. ACB has also seized funds work Rs 187 crore in the J&K State Cooperative Bank loan fraud case. Eleven disproportionate assets cases were registered in the UT of J&K in 2019 against eight in 2018. Many structural and financial reforms were introduced to bring transparency, probity and speed and e-tendering is now mandataory, replacing the practice of departmental works on nomination basis. To free up huge government funds parked in various bank accounts with little accountability and financial discipline, these were identified and timelines mandated for their remittance into consolidated fund. The initiative has seen the remittance of nearly Rs 1,000 crore into the consolidated fund of J&K, said home ministry sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/land-registry-process-after-370-move-earns-jk-100-crore/articleshow/77309886.cms||Bharti Jain
August 2, 2020||India||Jaishankar may come face to face with China, Pak mantris in September||NEW DELHI: While India's diplomacy has been restricted to virtual meetings and conferences after the Covid-19 outbreak, the government is considering a proposal by Russia to have a physical meeting of the foreign ministers of SCO and Brics countries on September 10. If it happens, foreign minister S Jaishankar will come face to face with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, and also Pakistan's Shah Mahmood Qureshi, for the first time after the current border standoff was first reported in early May. After it finalised the date, Russians have also conveyed to India and others that they want a physical meeting and not a "mere formality" in the form of a virtual conference. These meetings will be held in the run up to the SCO and Brics summits expected in St Petersburg later in October. The summit meetings have been delayed this year because of the novel coronavirus. NSA Ajit Doval may also attend a meeting of the NSAs ahead of the foreign ministers' meeting but that hasn't been finalised yet. An Indian delegation is also expected to participate in Russia's International Military-Technical Forum Army-2020 in the last week of this month. Official sources said though that a decision was still awaited on India's participation in the proposed meeting in Moscow. The only Indian minister to have travelled abroad in the past few months has been defence minister Rajnath Singh and he too visited Moscow to attend the Victory Day parade. India has maintained high-level visits will have to wait until at least September. Like India, Pakistan too is now a full member of SCO. While it's unlikely that India will have any substantive dialogue with Pakistan, if the foreign ministers indeed have a physical meeting, it will be interesting to see what sort of bilateral engagement Jaishankar and Wang have on the margins. The 2 have spoken on phone to ease the border situation and also participated in a virtual Russia-India-China trilateral meeting with Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov a week after the Galwan clash in June, but this will be their first physical meeting in a long time. India's ambassador to Russia D B Venkatesh Varma was recently quoted as saying in Moscow that India had made it clear "we will not do business with China as usual until there is a complete disengagement of military forces along the LAC and de-escalation in the border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols". He had added though that India will continue to engage with China on multilateral fora like SCO and Brics. While India remains against any attempt by Russia or any other country to mediate in the border dispute with China, Russian ambassador here Nikolay Kudashev was the first foreign envoy here to get a briefing from Indian authorities on the LAC perhaps because of Moscow's close ties with China. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had briefed him about the standoff in June the day PM Narendra Modi had first discussed the issue with US President Donald Trump the same issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-may-come-face-to-face-with-china-pak-mantris-in-sept/articleshow/77309909.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 2, 2020||Patna||Bakrid a low-key affair in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: People celebrated Bakrid within the confines of their homes on Saturday in order to maintain social distancing amid Covid-19 pandemic. “Families offered namaz at their homes as per the directives of the state government and district authorities,” said Syed Zeejah Hussain, secretary of District Shia Waqf Committee at Bhagalpur. Dr Zia Ahmed, a medical practitioner at Tatarpur locality, said, “We followed the directions of the government and celebrated the festival without fanfare. We also tried to help the poor, needy and hungry as the festival teaches us about sacrifice.” In an appeal to people, Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said everyone should follow social distancing norms while celebrating Bakrid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bakrid-a-low-key-affair-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/77308259.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 2, 2020||Patna||IIT-Patna team develops app for kids with autism||PATNA: The incubation centre of Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) has developed an app, ‘Shabd: Voice of the extraordinary’, for educating children suffering from autism. Autism is a developmental disorder affecting the ability to communicate and interact. The new app would help the affected children in gaining knowledge of communication through learning of images. Dr Meghna Dutta, professor incharge of public relations at IIT-P, said on Saturday that the incubation centre helps in new innovations which are useful for the society. “Works on several new innovations of applied value are underway,” she said. Dutta said the app is useful for autistic kids below the age of 13 and would help them increase knowledge and communication skill free of cost. “Just tapping on the image speaks up a relevant sentence and even one can create his or her own messages easily,” she said. “The important feature of ‘Shabd’ is that it takes few seconds to add new words from a child’s life to this app in which the vocabulary has been laid out in consistent pattern to ensure quick access by the children,” she explained. Kripa Shankar Singh, training and placement officer at IIP-P, said the other features of this app are quick action, interactive games, educational videos, drawing canvas and free dictionary. “This app has been developed by three students of computer science — Anmol Chadda, Amish Mittal and Amanjee. It is available free of cost at the Google Playstore. He said only the resources available free were used for developing this app, which is accessible only to Android cellphone users,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-patna-team-develops-app-for-kids-with-autism/articleshow/77308430.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Smart approach: CCP launches ‘model road’||PANAJI: Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) has launched a ‘model road’ along the creek opposite Taj Vivanta hotel in Campal. City mayor Uday Madkaikar said the road work has been undertaken by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) by laying interlocking pavers, installing lights, renovating storm water drains, and beautifying the road along the creek from Campal Trade Centre to Greenland Society in ward No 11. “All utilities have been placed underground under one utility duct,” he said, adding that this will be the model road for others which will be taken up for development. The road was inspected by Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate along with Madkaikar, ward corporator Soraya Pinto Makhija, managing director of IPSCDL Swayandipta Pal Chaudhari, former deputy mayor Kabir Pinto Makhija, former principal of Mustifund Higher Secondary School Ratnakar Lele, among others. The road has been opened for the public. Madkaikar said the Panaji MLA has initiated some projects on priority through Smart City development, which includes some roads. Projects which are under tender process include roads from Caculo Island to Adarsh Circle, St Inez creek bridge, while some more are under pipeline, he said. “Some markets are also likely to be refurbished. Panaji fish market and Ribandar market are also in the pipeline. Work will begin by October,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-approach-ccp-launches-model-road/articleshow/77309756.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Driven by poverty, silk weaver kills self||BHAGALPUR: Thirty-five-year-old Anand Das, a silk weaver and resident of Nathnagar locality in the town, committed suicide on Friday allegedly due to frustration out of abject poverty and starvation-like situation in his house. The deceased, a power loom weaver, was out of work for more than four months due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. SHO of Nathnagar police station Sajjad Hussain said police have started an investigation into the incident. “We are looking into all aspects and waiting for the postmortem report. No written complaint regarding suicide due to poverty has been lodged by the family yet,” he said. Das was staying with his wife, Laxmi Devi, and three daughters at the house of his in-laws in Phulwaria village under Jagdishpur block, where he took the extreme step. Laxmi, in her statement to the police, cited unemployment and abject poverty as the reasons for her husband’s suicide. Alim Ansari, secretary of Resham Bunkar Khadi Evam Gramodyog Sangh, said local weavers are out of work for several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/driven-by-poverty-silk-weaver-kills-self/articleshow/77308419.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid test frauds held after banker’s death||KOLKATA: The death of a 55-year-old banker from Naktala has blown the lid off a racket involving two contractual laboratory assistants at two of the biggest government hospitals in Kolkata and youths who posed as sample collection agents for diagnostic labs conducting Covid tests who duped Covid suspects with fake reports. Three persons have been arrested. “The probe has found that Biswajit Sikdar, who has been working at the SSKM laboratory, is the mastermind. He has been working here for the past month and a half. His brother Indrajit, who was working at RG Kar Hospital for the past four months, helped him. A third person — Amit Pyra — was paid to get the work done,” said acting DCP (south suburban) Biswajit Ghosh. According to the banker’s family, the Naktala resident developed fever on July 20 and thereafter began experiencing respiratory distress. A family acquaintance arranged for his swab and blood samples to be collected on July 25. The banker’s daughter recounted that the collection agent came without PPE. When she asked him to be careful, he shrugged her off and said he was used to such work. The agent left after collecting the samples and was paid the test charges and an additional Rs 2,000 for the home collection service. The report was to be delivered the next day. That evening, the patient’s condition deteriorated, increasing the family’s anxiety for the report. They finally arrived via WhatsApp on July 27 and stated the patient had tested negative for Covid-19. “The report had blank spaces and no doctor’s name. While the first page containing regular blood test reports had the lab letterhead, the second page containing the Covid report was a plain white sheet and the word ‘negative’ was written in pen. The ICMR Sample Requisition forms have 13 digits, but this one had nine. When we went to the lab, they said they do not even test Covid patients. They had received a call from a government lab assistant and had tested the blood samples,” said an officer. As his condition worsened, the banker was taken to a private hospital in Baghajatin on July 27 and a CT-scan revealed “viral pneumonia”. The doctor told the family he had 99% symptoms of Covid-19 and asked them to shift him to a Covid hospital. After being denied admission by multiple hospitals due to the negative report, the family finally managed to take him to MR Bangur Hospital on the morning of July 28. But he expired within half an hour. When the family tried to claim the body after showing the Covid-negative certificate, the doctors said the report was fake and wanted a fresh test. “We were informed on July 31 that he was a suspected Covid patient, and hence, his body was cremated following Covid protocols,” the patient’s daughter said. The patient’s wife lodged an FIR stating that had the report been genuine, the family could have responded earlier and the hospitals would have taken in her husband and he could have survived. The Netaji Nagar police drew up charges on cheating and forgery. When the police used the WhatsApp number to trace and arrest Sikdar, he claimed he tested the sample at the SSKM Covid-testing facility before writing the Covid-negative report. “We do not believe him. He might have made many more such fake reports,” said DCP Ghosh. “My father had all symptoms of Covid, but we had a Covid-negative report. A day before his death, we tried to get him admitted to a private hospital, but everyone refused citing he was Covid-negative. By the time we took him to MR Bangur Hospital, doctors could check him for barely half an hour before he died,” the patient’s daughter told TOI. “I demand strict punishment for the criminals as I don’t wish for any other daughter to lose her father because of such rackets,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-test-frauds-held-after-bankers-death/articleshow/77309137.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 2, 2020||Patna||Monsoon session: Bihar govt to table 10 ordinances||PATNA: The monsoon session of the state legislature, scheduled to begin from Monday, is likely to be a one-day affair, as almost all the legislative party leaders in the assembly have agreed to wind up the four-day session on the first day itself because of Covid-19 pandemic in state. However, the final decision on the issue of transacting all important legislative businesses in a single day would be taken in the house after a meeting of the business advisory committee, an official of the state assembly told TOI on Saturday. “Governor Phagu Chouhan has convened both the houses for four days beginning from August 3. Only the house is empowered to make any changes in the schedule of the businesses approved by the governor,” said the official. Earlier on Saturday, during a meeting of legislative party leaders, all political parties in the assembly agreed to transact all important legislative businesses of four days on the opening day itself and wind up the last session of the current 16th Vidhan Sabha that day itself due to Covid-19 pandemic. As per the proposal to be approved in the assembly’s business advisory committee on Monday, all legislative works would be completed in the first sitting and the house will debate the Covid-19 and flood situation in the second sitting. A total of 10 ordinances and two bills will be laid on the table of the house on Monday, an assembly official said. Prominent ordinances and bills include Bihar Prohibition and Excise (amendment and validation) Ordinance-2020, Bihar Taxation Law (Amendment) Ordinance-2020, Bihar GST (Amendment) Ordinance-2020, Bihar Industrial Dispute Ordinance-2020, Bihar PWD Contract Dispute Arbitration Tribunal (Amendment) Bill-2020 and Bihar Agriculture Land (Change of Nature for Non-agricultural Purposes) Bill-2020. The first supplementary budget for the current financial year (2020-21) is also on the list of businesses scheduled to be taken up in the session. It is for the first time that a session of the Bihar legislature would be held outside the assembly premises. The session is being held at the Gyan Bhavan near Gandhi Maidan due to Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier in the day, Council’s acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh convened a meeting of the legislative party leaders in to ensure smooth functioning of the upper house during its 195th session. Leaders of all parties agreed to hold a brief debate on the floods and Covid-19 and reduce the session to one day. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, parliamentary affairs minister Shravan Kumar, JD(U)’s whip Reena Yadav, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra and RJD MLC Ram Bali Singh were among those who attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monsoon-session-govt-to-table-10-ordinances/articleshow/77308227.cms||Madan Kumar
August 2, 2020||Patna||Allocate more funds for disaster relief, Centre urged||PATNA: The state government has urged the Centre to change the ratio of its allocation of funds for disaster relief from 75:25 to 90:10 as in the case of north-eastern states and also to do away with the categorisation of amount sanctioned under relief fund. Giving this information here on Saturday, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the state government, in a supplementary memorandum to the 15th Finance Commission, has pointed out that as the state has to fight floods, drought and other natural disasters throughout the year, it has to spend a huge amount of money from its exchequer on relief and safety of people. The government has also demanded abolition of the item-wise categorisation of relief fund so that it may utilise it as per its priority, Modi said. The deputy CM pointed out that a sum of Rs 1,888 crore has been provided to the state for disaster relief in which the central and state’s share would be Rs 1,416 crore and Rs 472 crore, respectively. “If the ratio of this share is changed from 75:25 to 90:10, Bihar would have to spend only Rs 188 crore. The state government had to spend Rs 3,528 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 3,469 crore in 2017-18 on disaster relief and rehabilitation, but it got quite a meagre amount from the Centre on the recommendation of the Finance Commission. Consequently, the state had to meet a major part of this expenditure from its own budget,” he said. Modi pointed out that the ceiling of spending a maximum of 40% on relief and 30% on renovation and reconstruction should be waived so that the state government could utilise the funds more effectively as per its pressing needs. “The compulsion of sanctioning relief amount to only those staying in relief camps should be abolished. The amount of funds presently being sanctioned to the disaster-affected people for construction of new houses and repair of damaged houses should also be enhanced proportionately and the loss suffered by fishermen should be duly compensated,” Modi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/allocate-more-funds-for-disaster-relief-centre-urged/articleshow/77308334.cms||B K Mishra
August 2, 2020||Hubballi||Miscommunication leads son to perform funeral rituals for mother before her death||Hubballi: A wrongly delivered message resulted in the son of a woman, confirmed infected with Covid-19, performing, on July 28, the funeral rituals of his mother, two days before she eventually breathed her last. The 70-year-old woman from Naregal in Gajendragad taluk in Gadag, had been confirmed infected with the pandemic on July 15, and admitted to GIMS on July 18. Her son alleged that his mother had not been given requisite attention and the proper treatment that she was entitled to. “I was denied permission to visit her, and on July20, I was informed that she was no more. I was shattered and returned to Naregal. On July 28, I performed the ‘thithi shradh’ thinking she had passed away. On July 30, two days after the rituals were performed, I received a call from the local authorities stating that my mother had died that day,” he said. Understandably shocked, he informed the authorities, who informed the son that they would bring the mortal remains of his mother to Naregal, that she had passed away on July 20. Lashing out at the district administration for failing to provide accurate information, he asked, “Why was I informed by GIMS staff that my mother had passed away on July 20?” Furthermore, he alleged that the body that the authorities had brought to Naregal was not his mother’s. Gajendragad tahsildar Ashok Kalghatgi, however, denied the charges levelled at the local authorities. Affirming that there was no lapse on the part of the government officials, Kalghatgi told STOI, “We do not know who informed him about his mother’s demise before we confirmed it officially. The patient passed away on July 30, and her son was intimated on the same day. The funeral rituals were performed in accordance with her traditional practices, and the prescribed standard operating procedure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/miscommunication-leads-son-to-perform-funeral-rituals-for-mother-before-her-death/articleshow/77307046.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||Assembly elections: EC OKs setting up of 33,804 additional polling booths in Bihar||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) has approved the proposal for setting up 33,804 auxiliary polling booths in 243 assembly constituencies in the state for the upcoming state assembly polls due in October-November. After the addition of these auxiliary booths, the total number of polling booths will go up to 1,06,527 in the state. The proposal was sent to the EC by the state chief electoral officer (CEO) last month. Additional/auxiliary polling booths have been created in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As per the EC’s guidelines, social distancing norms have to be maintained at each polling booth to check the spread of the deadly virus, which has already infected a large number of people. “The number of electors at each polling station has been restricted to 1,000 against the existing 1,500. This is the reason why auxiliary polling booths have been created. A total of 33,804 additional polling booths have been added,” a senior officer of the state CEO office said. Of the total additional booths, 3,233 have been set up in a radius of 2km so that the voters don’t face any difficulty in reaching the polling booths to exercise their franchise. “The whole exercise is aimed at providing better facilities to the electors at the polling booths and increasing the voter turnout,” the officer said. He added 1,159 auxiliary polling booths have been created in West Champaran district. The total number of polling booths in the district has now gone up to 3,662. Similarly, 1686 more polling booths have been set up under 12 assembly constituencies in East Champaran district. Meanwhile, additional chief electoral officer Baijunath Prasad Kumar Singh said training of returning officers, additional returning officers, panchayati raj officers and other personnel is complete. “The master trainers, who were earlier imparted training, are doing their job,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/assembly-elections-ec-oks-setting-up-of-33804-additional-polling-booths-in-bihar/articleshow/77308292.cms||Ramashankar
August 2, 2020||Patna||Statements recorded by Patna police support allegations: SSP||PATNA: The statements of people associated with Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) in Mumbai support the allegations made by his father K K Singh against actress Rhea Chakraborty in his FIR lodged in Patna on July 25, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said on Saturday. A four-member Patna police team is in Mumbai to investigate the charges in the FIR that Rhea and her family members cheated the actor and abetted him to commit suicide at his Bandra flat on June 14. “Details can’t be shared as of now, but the Patna police team has recorded the statements of at least 10 people, who are witnesses and they support the allegations,” Sharma told TOI. The SSP denied the Mumbai police allegations that the Patna team did not seek assistance in writing. He said the Mumbai police had earlier not even accepted the letter for seeking assistance which the Patna police team had tried to give them after reaching there for carrying out the investigation. Sharma said the Patna police team had attempted to submit a request letter. “However, neither it was accepted nor any in the Mumbai police met the team members. Afterwards, I sent a request letter to the DCP, Bandra, around 5pm on Friday seeking assistance to our team. This time they accepted it, but were yet to revert to me,” he said. The SSP said the Patna officers in Mumbai are seeking directions from their senior authorities regarding the investigation as it is a very high profile case. Sharma said the Patna police team on Saturday submitted a letter to the Bandra police station house officer to provide them a copy of the CCTV footages and other documents related to the case, including the copy of the unnatural death case filed by the Mumbai police. “We are awaiting further developments,” the SSP added. Sushant’s father Singh has alleged that his son was illegally confined and duped financially by Rhea and her family members and other known associates and abetted him to commit suicide. He has also alleged in his FIR that Rhea had given an overdose of medicines to Sushant and taken him to doctor for mental treatment claiming he talked weird and his house was haunted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/statements-recorded-by-patna-police-support-allegations-ssp/articleshow/77308204.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 2, 2020||Patna||Patna markers reopen with precautions after 2 weeks||PATNA: Commercial activities resumed in the city on Saturday after a gap of two weeks, though with restrictions, under Unlock 3.0. However, there was very low footfall of customers in the localities outside the containment zones. Though features of the new normal like masks, gloves, sanitisers and distance circles were visible at all places, customers were hesitant to step in. The fear of contracting Covid dominated their psyche. “Not a single customer stepped in till 4pm in our jewellery shop in the Harihar Chamber on Boring Road though we waited for them with all the precautionary measures,” said its owner Sameer Gupta. It was unusual to see the entire parking space lying vacant with few bikes parked in corners, he added. Nimisha Pandey, a high court lawyer, who was spotted looking for some cosmetic items, said, “It is quite a different environment. Customers as well as shopkeepers are apprehensive. Business has taken a backseat.” A 40-year-old sweet shop near Gandhi Maidan, which opened with fresh items, had to pack up due to lack of customers. “The sales have dropped by 95%,” said Saurav Bajaj, owner of the shop. “We usually used to engage more workers before Raksha Bandhan every year to meet the demand. However, the scene is different this year as people only prefer homemade sweets now,” said owner of another sweet shop. Though some roadside stalls were selling colourful threads of Rakhi near Jagdeopath, there were no customers around. It was, however, a good day for Preety Kanodia, who owns a garment shop near Dak Bungalow. “We had a good number of customers, mostly our regular customers,” she said. Manish Kumar, director of Ishwar Raj Beverages Private Limited, Phulwarisharif, said though his office reopened on Saturday, hardly 20% staff could turn up. “Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected normal life,” he added. Sanjiv Kumar, who owns an electronic repair shop at Abhiyanta Nagar, he got only two customers. “As spare parts are now available in market, our business is likely to pick up next week,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-markers-reopen-with-precautions-after-2-weeks/articleshow/77308250.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||‘Bhoomi pujan’: Bihar sends sand, soil to Ayodhya||PATNA: Gaya, a globally acclaimed Buddhist pilgrimage centre, is not lagging behind when it comes to contributing to the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. PM Narendra Modi is scheduled to perform the ‘bhoomi pujan’ to mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. A silver-made brick weighing 1.25kg was handed over to Kameshwar Chaupal, a member of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, a trust set up for the construction and management of Ram temple in Ayodhya, after completing the rituals at the famous Vishnupad temple in Bodh Gaya on Friday. Gaya district unit chief of VHP Nand Kishore Gupta said on Saturday that the soil of the Mahabodhi Mahavihara, Vishnupad temple and Maa Manglagauri temple, sand of Falgu river and holy water of reservoirs like Brahmasat, Vaitarni, Rukmini and Suryakund were collected for the purpose. “The samples were collected and subsequently packaged by the VHP activists. Since Gaya has its historical as well as religious significance, the residents of the town decided to make their presence felt at the ‘bhoomi pujan’ celebrations in Ayodhya by sending the materials,” said deputy secretary of Gaya VHP Ajay Singh. Meanwhile, the Mahavir temple in Patna has decided to offer 51,000 of special laddoo (Raghupati laddoo) to the trust responsible for the construction of the temple in Ayodhya. Mahavir Temple Trust secretary Acharya Kishore Kunal said, “The raw material for preparing the ‘Raghupati laddoo’ has been purchased from different parts of the country and abroad. For example, ‘ghee’ has been purchased from Bengaluru, ‘Raja band besa’ from Australia, ‘kesar’ from Pulwama (J&K), ‘elaichi’, ‘kazoo’ and ‘kismis’ from Kerala and sugar from Uttar Pradesh. Packets to distribute ‘prasad’ have been made in Patna.” The Mahavir Temple Trust has already dispatched a team of skilled workers to Ayodhya to prepare laddoos for the function. The workers from the famous Tirupati Temple were earlier engaged in making ‘naivedyam’ at the Mahavir temple in Patna, Kunal said. The residents of Sitamarhi, birthplace of Janki (Sita), have also decided to celebrate the occasion as mini Diwali. The residents will lit earthen ‘diyas’ (lights) on doors, balconies and rooftops of their buildings as part of the celebration. The main function will be held at Janki Dham temple. The proposed ‘bhoomi pujan’ got admiration from unexpected quarters on Saturday. LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan turned to Twitter to remind people of the celebrations in Ayodhya. “Kayee varsho ke baad bhagwan Ram ke mandir ka nirman Ayodhya mein hone ja raha hai (The temple of God Ram is being built after several years),” Chirag tweeted on Saturday. In another tweet, Chirag wrote, “Mandir nirman na sirf manav balki samast jeev-jantu, pashu-pakshi ke liye khushi aur atmasantushti ki baat hai (It’s a matter of delight and satisfaction not only for the human being, but also for all living beings).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhoomi-pujan-state-sends-sand-soil-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77308353.cms||Ramashankar
August 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Boy’s private part partially cut off||PATNA: Police arrested two people on Friday night on charges of partially chopping off private part of a nine-year-old deaf and dumb boy at Pachena Bazaar under the Koilwar police station area in Bhojpur district. SHO of Bhojpur police station Sanjay Kumar Sinha said the arrested people were identified as Ramkishun Mahto (50) and Suraj Mahto (20). He said the minor boy was attacked on Wednesday and taken to a hospital by his parents. “Around four to five children, who were playing together at the village, started quarrelling over a petty issue. Ramkishun, Suraj and two minor boys have been made named accused in the FIR lodged by the victim’s family,” the SHO added. “The two arrested people are relatives of the minor boy. Injury marks were found in the boy’s private part,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boys-private-part-partially-cut-off/articleshow/77308265.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||2 Ezra Street shops raided, 1,400L ‘toxic’sanitizer seized||KOLKATA: Two days after two persons were arrested for selling spurious hand sanitizer, the cops are shocked with the volume of their business across Kolkata and adjoining districts. A lab test has revealed they were mixing the more toxic methanol instead of ethyl alcohol (60%-95%) required to prepare hand sanitizers. “The probe has revealed that an ordinary litre of sanitizer costs around Rs 300. But these people were preparing it by spending around Rs 50/litre and selling them at Rs 200/litre. They used methanol and tap water instead of ethyl alcohol and distilled water and compromised with the manufacturing process. The men had been in the business for the past four months and operated from an ice-cream store. They even offered scented flavours, selling them in 5L jars,” said an officer. Public health agencies have reported that methanol has a weak ability to kill viruses when compared to other alcohols, but can be toxic to humans. On Thursday, a raid was conducted on Ezra Street and 1,400 litres of purportedly spurious sanitizer were seized from two shops at 3, and 8, Ezra Street. There was no label or manufacturing certificate on the products and the accused, Rajib Punjabi, 43, and Jiauddin Basha, 43, could not produce valid documents for the products. “A case under IPC sections 270, 420 and 120B has been recorded against them,” said DC (EB) Biswajit Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-ezra-street-shops-raided-1400l-toxicsanitizer-seized/articleshow/77309141.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||11 areas added to containment list, Kolkata total now stands at 37||KOLKATA: A day after the list was updated, another 11 areas have been marked as containment zones on Friday. The new entrants have taken the count of containment zones to 37, the highest in the past month. And most of the new zones are in pockets which have had consistent presence on the list earlier — most importantly Ballygunge, Bhowanipore, Beliaghata and Behala. According to the police and KMC, the entry of some of these zones is part of the larger strategy to lockdown portions of the worst-affected areas, part by part, to contain the disease instead of doing so at one go. A complex in Rowland Row, off Lansdowne, is located close to Elgin Road and Sarat Bose Road, which have had multiple containment zones. Though two complexes on Sarat Bose Road are out of the list, at least one containment zone still exists on Elgin Road. The belt now has four containment zones. Similarly, Kankurgachhi or Barwaritala Road and Suren Sarkar Road in Beliaghata have had complexes moving in and out of the list. The new ones are close to the Loknath Mandir. There are at least three slums in this area, along with Gobindapur in the south. So far, the administration has taken drastic measures to contain the virus in certain slum pockets. Sakherbazar, which had gone off the list two weeks ago, is back on. The area is barely a couple of kilometres away from two other containment zones in Purba Barisha in east Behala. Kadapara, too, is back on the list after being struck off barely a week ago. A new entrant to the list is Dent Mission Road in Kidderpore, along with Taratala Road. Police said Kidderpore had the maximum number of smaller containment zones about a month-and-a-half ago. “We hoped the situation had changed, but the fresh containment zone in the area is an indication that we need to be patient,” said a civic official. There are now five slums on the list and 12 complexes. One is a market complex. The rest of the 19 zones are a mixture of stand-alone flats, houses and shops. “The fact is that we now know areas that need intervention — while Mukundapur-Patuli-Baghajatin is one, with south suburban Kolkata reporting over 500 active cases, the Ultadanga-Phoolbagan-Beliaghata belt is another. In Bhowanipore and Ballygunge, the focus is likely to stay on the apartments,” said an officer. Other areas which remain a challenge are Alipore, east Behala and Narkeldanga-Beniapukur. A slum on Motilal Basak Lane in Ultadanga had reported a high number of Covid patients for the past 10 days. “You can’t force the slum dwellers to abide by all rules as they lack utilities. All we can do is make them aware of the necessity of following hygiene and abide by social distancing norms — as far as possible due to dearth of space. This apart, random sample tests and sanitization were also carried out at the slum,” said borough coordinator Anindya Kishore Routh. However, he maintained that now the KMC and cops will need to keep a constant vigil so that no fresh Covid case is reported here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11-areas-added-to-containment-list-city-total-now-stands-at-37/articleshow/77309171.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 2, 2020||Patna||Patna: PACS chairman shot dead||PATNA: One Kavindra Yadav (45), Primary Agriculture Credit Society (PACS) chairman of Sarari panchayat under Danapur block, who was shot at by criminals at Shivala Chowk under the Shahpur police station area in Patna on Saturday, died at a private hospital at Saguna Mor. Police said Yadav was a close aide of BJP MLA Asha Devi, who represents the Danapur assembly seat. The incident occurred around 3pm and Yadav’s supporters, led by MLA Asha Devi, blocked the main road at Bihta to register their protest. SP (West) Ashok Mishra and other police officers reached the spot to bring the situation under control. SHO of Shahpur police station Dheeraj Kumar said efforts were on to arrest the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pacs-chairman-shot-dead/articleshow/77308409.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||If you dig up my past, I’ll dig yours too: Siddaramaiah to BJP||Mysuru/Chikkamagaluru: “If you reignite the Hublot watch controversy, I may be forced to speak on the past corruption charges against chief minister BS Yediyurappa.” This is how opposition leader Siddaramaiah reacted to BJP leaders for raking up the 2016 issue to counter his allegation of swindling Rs 2,000 crore while procuring medical equipment. Embroiled in a controversy over receiving the diamond-studded Hublot watch as gift from a doctor in Dubai in March 2016, Siddaramaiah had handed it over to the assembly speaker, asking him to make it a state asset. The BJP, which was in the opposition then, had created a ruckus over it. The former CM questioned whether he should also recall the past cases involving Yediyurappa, including the mining scandal, in which he was forced to go to jail. He said the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had probed the watch case and had given him a clean chit. The watch had been handed over to the government and the person who presented that to him has also submitted an affidavit in this regard. Referring to BJP leaders’ comments about him sharing the dais with DK Shivakumar, who had gone to Tihar jail, Siddaramaiah said the cases filed by the Enforcement Directorate against the former were politically motivated and he’s still not found guilty. Meanwhile, tourism minister CT Ravi hit out at Siddaramaiah saying he has no moral right to make allegations against BJP. “Redo (remodified) denotification scam happened when Siddaramaiah was the CM. He denotified 600 acres through ‘Redo’ method. Today, he is questioning the BJP over Covid management!’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/if-you-dig-up-my-past-ill-dig-yours-too-siddaramaiah-to-bjp/articleshow/77307778.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||Covid disrupts academic calendar of Patna varsity||PATNA: The inordinate delay in the conduct of exams and admission of students has disrupted the academic calendar of different universities. Thanks to online education, most of them have completed the syllabi of different courses, but in the absence of any specific instruction from the Raj Bhavan, they are not able to hold exams. In Patna University (PU), the results of final year students of the 2019-2020 session are yet to be published because of a pending exam. As a result, they cannot get admitted to any institution outside the state. According to academics, the delay in the conduct of exams and publication of results will also adversely affect the admission schedule of PU. The last date for online submission of applications for admission to all the undergraduate and postgraduate (PG) courses is August 14. However, the deadline for admission to the PG courses will have to be extended as the results of the Degree Part III examinations are unlikely to be published by then. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper on Saturday, “The last date for submission of forms for admission to BA, BSc and BCom programmes does not need to be extended as a combined entrance test will be organized by PU. Moreover, all the boards have already published the results of Class XII examinations and most aspirants submitted their applications. But admission to the PG courses is made on the basis of marks obtained in the honours examinations.” Conducting a combined entrance test for admission to the three-year degree courses will also be difficult for the authorities. Some academics are of the opinion that PU may organize online entrance tests for selection of students to avoid delay. Patna Women’s College, an autonomous institution under PU, has already announced the dates for online entrance tests. The schedule states that the two-hour online test for admission to BCom, BSc and BA courses will be held on September 7, 10 and 15, respectively. To familiarize the students with the process of the test, the college will conduct 15-minute mock tests before the actual one. Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma said, “We are waiting for the instructions of the chancellor and the PU authorities for holding the entrance tests. We are not authorized to take a decision on our own.” Patna Science College principal Sri Ram Padmadeo, however, observed that keeping in view the problems being faced by students amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods, “the provision of entrance tests might be done away with and students admitted to all the courses simply on the basis of marks obtained in their last qualifying examinations”. All other universities are also facing similar problems in conducting pending examinations and making fresh admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-disrupts-academic-calendar-of-patna-varsity/articleshow/77308217.cms||B K Mishra
August 2, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Mumbai police not cooperating, says Bihar DGP||PATNA: The Mumbai police have so far not shared any document with the visiting Bihar police team which is conducting a separate probe into the suicide of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput on the basis of an FIR lodged by the actor’s father, K K Singh, against actress Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others. Sushant’s father had accused Rhea of “unlawfully confining the actor, abetting suicide, cheating and criminal conspiracy”. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Saturday said Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma has written to the police officer concerned in Mumbai to extend help to the Patna police team in carrying out investigations. “The Patna police team had unsuccessfully tried to meet Mumbai DCP (crime branch) Akbar Pathan on Wednesday. It was on Friday evening that the Patna police team could meet the DCP,” the DGP said. He added, “We have urged the Mumbai police to share postmortem, inquest and forensic reports with us. The CCTV camera footages of the building where Sushant lived have also been sought.” Pandey, however, said the Mumbai police officers are not cooperating with the Patna police on the ground that the matter is sub-judice. “I assure those seeking justice for Sushant that truth will prevail,” he said. Asked about Friday’s video footages in which Mumbai police personnel were seen taking away two members of Patna police team, the DGP said, “The Patna police officers were actually taken to their accommodation. The idea was to protect them from media personnel. It was not a case of detention. It seems the Mumbai police do not want members of the Patna police team to interact with people there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssr-case-mumbai-police-not-cooperating-says-bihar-dgp/articleshow/77308242.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||Abducted three-year-old girl reunited with parents, one held||VADODARA: A three-year-old girl was reunited with her parents in Sevasi on Friday late night after she was abducted allegedly by a pick-up van driver and taken to Jhabua in Madhya Pradesh on July 28. The driver identified as Laxman Muniya was arrested by the Vadodara rural police from his house in Jhabua. According to police, Muniya had stayed at the victim’s house a day before the abduction as his pick-up van had broken down. Muniya and the girl’s parents had met at a pilgrimage several years ago and were acquainted with each other. On July 28, Muniya went out to find somebody to repair his vehicle and when he returned, the girl was alone at her home and her parents were away at work. Since the girl was crying, Muniya took her to buy a packet of chips and then took her to his house in Jhabua. When the girl’s parents returned home, they did not find their daughter and searched for her before lodging an offence at Vadodara Taluka police station on July 29. “Initially, the parents said that an unidentified person had taken the girl away. But when we questioned them in detail, they mentioned about Muniya’s presence so we also questioned other labourers living in the same neighbourhood and got Muniya’s details,” said a police official. A police team was sent to Jhabua where they found Muniya and the girl. Later during interrogation, Muniya told cops that he did not take the girl away with any ill intention but only because she was crying and agreed to go with him. “We have got the girl’s medical check-up done and she is safe. However, we have arrested Muniya,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abducted-three-year-old-girl-reunited-with-parents-one-held/articleshow/77307103.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, police mull sending patients flouting isolation rules to safe houses||KOLKATA: Days after local police stations claimed they were inundated by complaints from neighbours of Covid-positive persons that home quarantine rules were being grossly flouted by a section of patients and their kin, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police brass have decided to act tough on such cases. Sources at Lalbazar and the KMC headquarters maintained they would be compelled to send a section of Covid-positive patients to safe houses if home quarantine rules are wilfully violated. The cops are now thinking of conducting surprise checks by beat constables, along with constant monitoring through the phone, to catch those breaking quarantine rules. The KMC health department, too, has started sending workers to homes of Covid patients to take stock of the quarantine facilities. “We are regularly sending our team of workers to places where doctors have advised Covid-positive patients to stay quarantined at home. Based on the feedback, we may need to send a section of those patients to safe homes if proper quarantine facilities are not available,” said a KMC health department official. These people may also face legal action, said senior Lalbazar officers, making it clear that the Disaster Management Act bars anyone from breaking quarantine with impunity. An officer cited two recent complaints — from Patuli and Kankurgachhi — where neighbours alleged that relatives of Covid patients in home quarantine were regularly going out and mixing with locals. “People in home isolation are supposed to give undertakings informing the civic body they are in home isolation, there is a caregiver, along with the latter’s name and the name of a medical attendant monitoring the patient’s health,” said a an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-police-mull-sending-patients-flouting-isolation-rules-to-safe-houses/articleshow/77309174.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bareilly||836 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation in Bareilly||BAREILLY: With 836 asymptomatic patients opting for home isolation in Bareilly, the North East railway hospital, designated as Covid-19 level one hospital here, has been lying vacant while 50 people are undergoing treatment at another level one hospital in the city. According to officials, there are more than 1,300 active cases, of these, 836 are under home isolation while others are undergoing treatment at level two and three hospitals. According to officials, as a large number of Covid-19 patients have chosen home isolation, the number of patients has reduced at Covid-19 level one hospitals. Health department authorities shifted Covid-19 asymptomatic patients from the NER hospital to a 300-bed hospital. Officials said NER hospital staff were quarantined and when the number of patients would rise, the hospital would be open for patients. Additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar said, “Only asymptomatic patients with no other disease are being allowed for home isolation. Such patients should have a separate room with a washroom and they should have a caretaker. Besides, they should have oximeter, thermometer and a smartphone on which they could download the app for home isolation. The patients have to consult a doctor over the phone twice a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/836-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-under-home-isolation-in-bareilly/articleshow/77306906.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 2, 2020||Surat||Rs 2 crore ‘no-mask fine’ collected from over 1L violators in 40 days||Surat: The Surat city police have collected Rs 2.35 crore fine from people caught without a mask since June 20. A total of 1.17 lakh people have been penalised for the offence that attracted a fine of Rs 200. However, from Saturday the fine amount has been increased to Rs 500, for stricter implementation of the government order. Besides civic body officials, cops have also been authorised to collect fine from those not wearing masks. Since June, police have been checking commuters on two-wheelers and cars for masks. Those found without masks have been asked to pay the fine on the spot. Those refusing to pay the fine were booked for violation of government order issued and negligence that can spread Covid-19 infection. “Strict vigil was kept on city roads to ensure that people wear masks. After strict police action for over a month, the staff involved in the implementation have confirmed that a lesser number of people are now moving without a mask,” said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt. With new unlock phase commencing from Saturday, night curfew has been lifted. Hence, police deployment for night curfew will be withdrawn. But the deployment of cops in large containment zones will continue as before. “Now it is up to the people to behave responsibly and follow social distancing norms. We will have to adapt to the new lifestyle and follow it strictly to stay safe,” Brahmbhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-2-crore-no-mask-fine-collected-from-over-1l-violators-in-40-days/articleshow/77307755.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||10 new colleges for girls as CM’s ‘Raksha Bandhan gift’ from state||GURUGRAM: The state government has decided to open at least 10 new colleges for girls across nine districts, including Nuh (formerly Mewat). Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has called this a “Raksha Bandhan gift” for girl students, and is expected to make a formal announcement of the same on Monday via video conferencing. According to a recent order by the government, two colleges will be set up in Sonepat and one each in Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Jind, and Nuh. Sources have shared that, at the initial stage, these colleges will operate theexisting senior secondary schools before a dedicated building comes up. Also, the admission process for the coming academic session will be completed as per the rules. The higher education department has asked the respective district administrations to make arrangements for a meeting via videoconferencing with the panchayat members and residents of the villages. Speaking about the move, the education minister Kanwar Pal has said that promoting higher education is the top priority of the government and the recent announcement is in line with its previous commitment of opening at least one college within a radius of 20 km. “With this, the number of colleges in the state will increase to 350,” said Pal. The minister added that, at present, there are 155 government colleges, 97 state-aided colleges and 88 self-financed colleges. Additionally, there are about 10 government universities, 22 private universities and two government B.Ed colleges and 475 self-financed B.Ed colleges. Earlier this year, during the budget session, the education minister had claimed that over the past six years, the BJP government has established 52 colleges, out of which, 30 are for girls. However, of these 52 colleges, only 16 have dedicated buildings, while the work on remaining 36 is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/10-new-colleges-for-girls-as-cms-raksha-bandhan-gift-from-state/articleshow/77309469.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Fewer cabs at airport trouble passengers||VISAKHAPATNAM: People landing at Visakhapatnam airport are finding it difficult to get a cab home. With no Airport Express buses plying at the moment and few app-based cabs, auto-rickshaws are charging exorbitant fares. Speaking to TOI, SM Krishna, who works at a real estate company in Visakhapatnam, said, “When I arrived in Visakhapatnam from Bengaluru, I first checked out app-based cabs. However, they weren’t available. So I went to take an auto-rickshaw where the driver asked for Rs 1,000 for a distance of 19km.” The trouble with finding transport home from the airport began mid-July when the government decided to test only 10 per cent of fliers. Earlier, when domestic airports became operational on May 26, all fliers would have to go to Seetha Rama Kalyana Mandapam to get tested. APSRTC buses were used to ferry them. An airport official said, “There are only a few flights operating at the moment. The number of passengers is also low. Perhaps, this is why there are fewer app-based cabs at the airport now.” Drivers of these app-based cabs explained that in regular circumstances, passengers boarding flights would arrive at the airport around an hour or hour-and-a half before take-off. Meanwhile, a corresponding flight would land in Visakhapatnam and they would find passengers to ferry back to the city. “But now, due to Covid-19-related norms, passengers are arriving at least two to three hours before departure of their flights. So when we drop off a passenger, we check if there is any incoming flight within the hour. If not, we leave,” said S Sudheer, a cab driver. However, one way in which flyers can find an easier ride home is by registering on the Spandana app after purchasing a ticket. On the app, people can opt for a government-arranged paid transport service from the airport.MY Danam, regional manager of APSRTC said, “APSRTC is running buses from the airport to the city limits for the purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fewer-cabs-at-airport-trouble-passengers/articleshow/77307761.cms||Arpit Basu
August 2, 2020||Surat||Online medical camps to dispel Covid-19 fears among traders||Surat: With over 1,700 textile traders getting infected of the Covid-19 virus in the last two months, the Vyapari Pragati Sangh (VPS), an association of textile traders, has launched a unique initiative of organising free online camps are providing medical consultation to the traders and dispel fear of the virus.Till now, the VPS has organised three such camps over past one month benefiting more than 4,000 textile traders. The primary aim of the camp is to dispel the fear among the traders regarding the Covid-19 spread and help the traders overcome depression and stress caused due to spread of virus among textile workers through counselling by the doctors. Sanjay Jagnani, president of VPS told TOI, “It is the fear of Covid-19 infection that is taking a toll on the health of the traders as over 1,700 have tested positive in the last two months. Even if they are suffering from mild cough and cold, they rush to the hospital for medical check-up and end up exposing themselves to the viral load. However, we contacted few like-minded doctors who readily agreed to provide free consultation to the traders online.”Jagnani added, “There are few doctors in Surat and Jaipur who are providing 24x7 free consultation to the traders on Covid-19. If the doctors feel that the particular trader needs further medical examination, they are advised certain tests as per the Covid-19 protocol including CT Scan etc.”Besides consultation, they are also provided information on the home remedies to increase immunity, medical treatment for the patients under home isolation and those suffering from mild and moderate symptoms. A textile trader Prakash Beriwal said, “I was scared when I got cough and cold last week. My family members too were worried. I did not want to go to a hospital. Through the online medical camp, the doctor examined my condition and suggested there was no need for the Covid-19 test. There is no more cough and I am feeling relieved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/online-medical-camps-to-dispel-covid-19-fears-among-traders/articleshow/77307788.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||PHC opened at Palra, to offer dental, OPD services||GURUGRAM: To strengthen primary health care in the city, the health department on Saturday inaugurated a new centre at Palra in Badshahpur. The new centre was earlier announced by the chief minister and a 1.5- acre plot was given by the panchayat. With the new centre, Gurugram now has 19 urban primary healthcare centres (PHCs) and 12 rural PHCs. The new rural centre at Palra will have three rooms and will provide OPD and immunisation facilities and deliveries will be included later. At present, the centre has two doctors, a dental staff and an Asha and ANM staff. Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said, “We now have over 30 PHCs in the district. We will also start a delivery unit soon and have sent a proposal to National Health Mission for nurses.” These primary health centres are the backbone of the system. Apart from OPD services, they also provide dental services, treatment for dietetics and other diseases. The centres also provide counselling for family planning to residents. The doctors and staff of PHCs are also conducting Covid tests and contact tracing. They are also responsible for evaluating the condition of home isolation patients and keep a tab on their oxygen saturation levels. The PHCs have gained importance as the facilities are also dealing with testing and tracing of Covid 19 patients in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/phc-opened-at-palra-to-offer-dental-opd-services/articleshow/77309473.cms||Ipsita Pati
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 95 new cases push tally to 4,761||VADODARA: With 95 new Covid-19 cases reported since Friday evening, the total number of coronavirus cases in the city and district went up to 4,761. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 91. Among the new cases in VMC limits, city’s south zone was the worst affected with 29 new cases reported from these areas. This was followed by the west zone with 18 cases and the north zone where 12 tested positive. Eleven samples from the east zone were also found positive. The new cases were reported from Subhanpura, Vasna Road, Karelibaug, Navayard, Waghodiya Road, Manjalpur, Varasiya Ring Road, Raopura, O P Road, Vadsar, Tarsali, Gorwa, VIP Road, Makarpura, Nizampura, Pratapnagar, Sama, Chhani, Akota, Gotri Road, Ajwa Road, Danteshwar and Mandvi. The areas of Vadodara district outside VMC limits also saw 25 cases. These were from Padra, Dabhoi, Undera, Bil, Por, Karjan and Valan. As many as 48 persons were discharged from hospitals and home isolation on Saturday. This took the total number of discharged patients to 3,696. This leaves 974 under treatment including 39 serious patients on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/95-new-cases-push-tally-to-4761/articleshow/77307121.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||ID records, photos of GTU students leaked; complaint filed||AHMEDABAD: The registrar of Gujarat Technology University (GTU), with its headquarters in Chandkheda, on Friday filed a complaint with the Cybercrime police station of the city, alleging that identity records and photographs of its students had been stolen by unknown persons. The GTU official, in the FIR filed under the Information Technology Act, that they came to know about the leak from social media only. GTU registrar Kanji Kher stated that the university has given its students three options for their exams. The students could opt for an online exam, an in-person exam or they can take their exams when normalcy returns. The university instructed students to choose their option on the GTU website and log-in and upload their details. The GTU had on July 28 conducted a mock test, in which many students could not take the exam as they were either absent, could not log-in or could not submit their test even after logging-in, the FIR states. On July 29, GTU sent messages to some 1,900 students about another mock test, which 1,275 students had taken. On July 30, GTU authorities learned from social media that identity documents and photographs of various students of their had been were leaked. The university conducted an inquiry with the help of the agency given the work to hold the exams online and found that the data was leaked on July 29, when the mock test was conducted. After this, the university approached city crime branch and filed a complaint for the data breach against an unknown person. Social media posts by a city-based data security researcher and alumnus of GTU claim that the data was also leaked in September 2019, regarding which he had filed a complaint before the GTU authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/id-records-photos-of-gtu-students-leaked-complaint-filed/articleshow/77308224.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||All 5 clades of Covid-19 genome found in Odisha||Bhubaneswar: The analysis of the positive swab samples from Odisha by the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Bhubaneswar, and the ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), also in the state capital, showed the presence of all five reported clades —19A, 19B, 20A, 20B and 20C of the Covid-19 genome. Clade 20C, which was not present in any other isolates included in more than 1,000 genome analysis across the country, was found in Odisha. Five research institutions in the country, including ILS Bhubaneswar, have carried out the analysis of 1,062 genomes from 18 Indian states. The ILS and RMRC researchers have analysed 225 viral genomes of Covid-19 positive patients who migrated from 13 Indian states. The initial results indicated that multiple lineages of SARS-CoV-2 are circulating in India, probably introduced by travel from Europe, USA and Southeast Asia, the scientists said. Clade means a group having the same source of origin or characteristics. The majority of the 19A (mostly European origin source) and 19B clades (mostly Southeast Asian origin) were present in those who had returned from Gujarat in March and April. “Clade 19B was found to be much more prevalent in the analysed samples (17% of the total samples from the country) as compared to other genomes reported from India so far,” the researchers said. Sanghamitra Pati, director of RMRC, said it is obvious that Europe and Southeast Asia are the two major routes of disease transmission in Odisha. “The phylogenetic analysis (the study of the relationship between different strains of virus) showed that clades 20A and 20B evolved quite rapidly in the Indian population and are the major source of disease transmission in the country as well as in Odisha. Whereas 20C is rarely detected and appeared to be less adapted. Our study revealed that most of the symptomatic patients bearing the virus have clades 20A, 20B and 20C. Clade 20C which was found in samples here, was not present in any other isolates included in the 1,000 genome analysis in India,” she added. ILS Bhubaneswar director Ajay Kumar Parida said 20A, 20B and 20C clades have mutated from initial clades 19A and 19B. “As many as 73 of our samples have 20A clade, while 20B was found in 60 samples. These two classes have a high rate of infection. But 20C was found in four samples only. This one is not very infectous. Because of its low rate of infection, it is not spreading in Odisha or outside the state,” he explained. He added that the study also showed the occurrence of as many as 247 single nucleotide mutations from 202 SARS-CoV2 isolates. Some of these isolates have a number of mutations, while others have very less or no mutations of the virus. For example: one isolate has 156 variants. This indicates that these strains have some selective advantage with time for increased transmission, he said. Parida said, “This is a major development in understanding the disease dynamics through genome studies. We have used our in-house facility to sequence 225 viral genomes collected between March and July.” The sequencing, data analysis and interpretation was carried out by a team led by Sunil Raghav of ILS and Jyotirmayee Turuk of RMRC using advanced sequencing facility at the ILS. This study will pave the way for new avenues of research on Covid-19. Further sequencing of virus genome is being carried out at ILS using the latest samples,” he added. Union minister of science and technology Harsh Vardhan has announced the completion of over 1000 Covid-19 viral genomes by the these five autonomous institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/all-5-clades-of-covid-19-genome-found-in-odisha/articleshow/77307810.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa may ask SC to tag its plea with that of mining companies||PANAJI: The state government is considering filing an application before the Supreme Court to tag its review petition in the mining cases with the one filed by companies that seeks to extend their mining leases till 2037. The government had filed its review petition last year against the court’s February 2018 order which quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases and stopped mining activity in the state. Last month, the apex court adjourned the hearing in the Goa mining case to August 18. The case is crucial to the resumption of mining in the state. “We want the Supreme Court to take up both matters together so we can argue the matter on common point,” advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI, adding that the common points pertain to arguments on the Mines and Mineral Development and Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2015. Pangam said that as per the amendment, mining companies have stated that the lease period should be for 50 years, and that this point hasn’t been considered by Goa Foundation. “After the SC judgment in the Goa Foundation case, there is another judgment in a Common Case case which interprets the Goa Foundation judgment, and this has not been considered,” he said. “This is the view of both the state and mining companies.” The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) after the high court had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were converted into mining leases under the Abolition Act. The SLP stated that the Abolition Act should be made applicable from 1987 instead 1961. The state government, before the SC, said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. The state government said that their mining concessions, which were granted by the erstwhile Portuguese regime, were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act with effect from 1987, and consequently 50 years mining leases as contemplated under Section 8 A would be extended up to 2037. The SLP stated that the Abolition Act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-may-ask-sc-to-tag-its-plea-with-that-of-mining-companies/articleshow/77309816.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Surat||CM Vijay Rupani to visit Surat to review Covid situation on Sunday||SURAT: Chief minister Vijay Rupani will visit Surat city to review the Covid-19 situation on Sunday and hold meeting with officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and district collectorate. According to sources, CM will arrive at 3 pm and visit the newly set up Covid-19 hospitals at a stem cell building in New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus. This will be Rupani’s second visit after the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. Rupani was in Surat on July 4. Meanwhile, oxygen supply capacity of SMC-run SMIMER Hospital has been increased from current 10,000 litre to 30,000 litre with installation of a 20,000 litre oxygen tank. “Covid-19 patients admitted to SMIMER hospital will never face short supply of oxygen with this added capacity,” said an SMC official. On Saturday, Surat city reported 214 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 11,190. Eight more people succumbed to the virus as death toll rose to 497 in the city. Surat rural reported 48 fresh cases and four deaths on Saturday. Till now 2,735 have tested positive and 112 have died in Surat rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rupani-to-visit-surat-to-review-covid-situation-on-sunday/articleshow/77308749.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Markets to compete for adherence to Covid norms||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday started a competition among the markets to motivate traders to follow social distancing and other Covid-19 norms to contain the spread of the virus. At a special meeting with the market representatives on Saturday, the BMC said the market adjudged as the best in terms of ensuring Covid norms, will be rewarded. The BMC will make it a model worth replicating like the Bhilwara model of Rajasthan, BMC officials said. Anu Garg, special Covid-19 observer for the capital city, said the traders were motivated to take responsibility and set an example by adhering to all the norms like social distancing, wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene. “We started the competition to change things for the better,” she told TOI. Despite strict enforcement, regular raids and closure of markets violating norms, there has hardly hardly been any tangible result in terms of social distancing as people continue to jostle for space in grocery, vegetable and other markets. Rajdhani Haata Byabasayi Sangha president Gayadhar Swain said the competition will embolden the spirit of the markets. “The Unit-I market has little space to maintain social distance. But it has to be maintained. We will appeal to the vendors to remove the extension using polythene sheets. The representatives of different markets have agreed to cooperate with the enforcement squads,” he said, adding the announcement of competition has encouraged the market associations. The city has around 28 big markets that are managed by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and the Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA). Besides, there are a number of small and big markets, which are privately managed. The BMC officials said the squads will conduct surprise raids and evaluate the performance of the markets on a daily basis to prepare a weekly assessment report every Saturday. The city on Saturday reported 126 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the infected count to 2,861. Of the 126 cases, 77 have been reported from quarantine (home and institutional). With 17 deaths and 1,566 recoveries, the city now has 1,277 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/markets-to-compete-for-adherence-to-covid-norms/articleshow/77307818.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Surat||Keep buyers’ records, admn to drug stores||Surat: Valsad district collector R R Rawal has asked all medical store owners in the district to keep record of all customers buying medicines used in treatment of Covid-19 like treatment. Rawal has also asked pharmacists not to sell such medicines without doctor’s prescriptions. “Actions will be taken against those medical store owners who will be found selling medicine without doctors’ prescription and those who do not keep record of customers who purchase medicines used in treatment of Covid-19 like symptoms,” said an official. “We have come to know that many people who have Covid-19 like symptoms are purchasing medicines from the medical stores and not reporting to the hospital. They in turn become super spreaders. The health department will visit customer’s houses if they are found to have purchased such medicines and check whether they have Covid-19 infections or not,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/keep-buyers-records-admn-to-drug-stores/articleshow/77307822.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Theatre group launches online festival||Koraput: Hoping to provide much-needed moral support to theatre artists confined to their homes since the outbreak of Covid-19, Nandanik — a Koraput-based theatre group — launched a three-day online theatre festival here on Saturday. “Theatre artists are in distress as they are unable to perform owing to the restrictions for Covid-19. So, to keep the artists’ spirit high and to provide people with the opportunity to watch plays in their drawing room, we planned the online theatre festival,” said Monideepa Gupta, secretary of Nandanik. Monideepa said the virtual theatre festival, the first-of-its-kind in the state, would commemorate the sixth foundation day of Nandanik. Seven plays in five Indian languages — Odia, Telugu, Bengali, Hindi and Marathi — will be streamed on the Facebook page of Nandanik from 3 pm and 5 pm on Sundays and Mondays. “The content of the plays is both entertaining and carries messages on social issues. Each play is around 40 to 45 minutes long. We are hopeful that whoever watches the plays will not be disappointed,” she said. “While Padma Vibhushan recipient Sonal Mansingh delivers the foundation day lecture on ‘Abhivyakti and Abhinaya’, the festival will pay a tribute to theatre stalwarts like Girish Karnad, Usha Ganguly, Irrfan and Bijay Mohanty,” she added. Several theatre personalities of the region welcomed the initiative. “An artist can’t survive without performing. The online theatre festival will surely boost our morale,” said Sudhakar Patnaik, a veteran theatre personality of Jeypore. Founded in 2014, Nandanik has produced several classic and contemporary plays in Odia, involving both children and adults, and has organised several national-level theatre events in collaboration with Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi, and Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, Kolkata. Meanwhile, to encourage young theatre artists of the Koraput-Balangir-Kalahandi (KBK) region, the annual Asim Basu Memorial Award was given to Himanshu Ranjan Mohanty of Kotpad in the district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/theatre-group-launches-online-festival/articleshow/77307829.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Developers welcome state’s move to grant fire-safety certificate online||Bhubaneswar: City-based real estate developers and proprietors of commercial establishments on Saturday welcomed the move of the state government to issue fire-safety certificate for different categories of buildings online, through the Odisha Agni Shama Seva portal. “It is a welcome step by the state government. The issue of fire-safety certificate online will be an add-on since many other services for building plan approval have already been transferred online,” said Nishith Ranjan Nanda, President, Association for Odisha Real Estate Developers. He, however, said that since the data would be fed in the online portal by individuals, the state government should ensure that it was done on time and with sincerity and transparency. “Everything depends upon the officials’ intentions and sincerity in disposing of an application and issuing of the final certificate,” Nanda added. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday launched the Odisha Agni Shama Seva portal for the issue of fire-safety certificates online. As part of this, an applicant will be able to avail themselves of as many as eight services related to fire services online. The fire services directorate has been asked to include the remaining services by October 2, sources said. While launching the service, Naveen said the online service would enhance efficiency, improve transparency and help provide timely services to applicants. He said in a statement that this was one of the priority areas of his government under the 5T initiative that aims at bringing about a transformation in governance. In November last year, the state government came across massive irregularities in the grant of manual fire-safety certificates. Complaints poured in that people running commercial and business establishments were finding it hard to get fire-safety certificates despite running from one office to another office for days. In the same month last year, the state home department notified the new procedure for the issue and renewal of fire-safety certificates and the fire-safety recommendations in accordance with the Odisha Fire Prevention and Fire Safety (Amended) Rules of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/developers-welcome-states-move-to-grant-fire-safety-certificate-online/articleshow/77307831.cms||Sandip Mishra
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Decide if jawans’ husbands get priority in transfers: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government to “expeditiously” decide the issue whether the husband of a woman working in a paramilitary force is entitled to get priority marks like wives of military or paramilitary personnel get for transfer of teachers in the state. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asked the state to “consider and decide the issue expeditiously, preferably before starting the transfer drive” while hearing a petition filed by Vikram Singh, a resident of Rewari district, who has sought modification in the Haryana Teachers Transfer Policy, 2016. The petitioner has been working as a post-graduate teacher (PGT) in biology with the Haryana’s education department. His wife is a sub-inspector in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and is presently posted in Bihar. Their two minor children stay with him. According to the petitioner, during the online transfer of Haryana teachers weightage of 10 marks is granted by the school education department to wives of serving military or paramilitary personnel by considering them as a special category. The petitioner submitted that even teachers who are widows of military or paramilitary personnel with one or more minor children and have not remarried get five marks. “However, no provision has been made for a male teacher whose minor children are staying with him and whose wife is serving outside in military or paramilitary forces. Moreover, a great discrimination has been made between female and male teachers in case of special categories. Therefore, the Teachers Transfer Policy is liable to be quashed to that extent,” the counsel for the petitioner argued. According to the Haryana government’s teachers’ transfer policy, teachers are transferred through online mode by asking them to fill their choice of stations in different zones of a district. The teachers, who score high marks — because of their age, if their spouse too is a teacher, or are wives of military or paramilitary personnel — get postings of their choice. Female teachers are given 10 additional marks. Similar various other categories have also been notified. The Haryana school education department is expected to launch the online transfer drive in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/decide-if-jawans-husbands-get-priority-in-transfers-punjab-and-haryana-hc/articleshow/77309500.cms||Ajay Sura
August 2, 2020||Surat||Warriors beat Covid, back in fight||Surat: Since the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, this husband-wife have been on the Covid-19 duty at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital. Little did they knew that they would be admitted in the same ward where they were looking after the Covid-19 patients. After undergoing treatment of Covid-19 for 15 days, this corona warrior duo are back to serving their patients. Meet corona warrior husband-wife duo, Vikas Tailor, 54, a radiography technician and his wife Rekha Tailor, 48, head nurse of the Covid-19 hospital at SMIMER who were tested positive of Covid-19 on the same day on July 7. After 15 days of treatment at the Covid-19 hospital, the duo have resumed their duty to serve the Covid-19 patients. Vikas Tailor, a radiography technician said: “We both had mild symptoms when we tested positive of Covid-19. We could have opted for home isolation, but we both decided to remain with our patients in the Covid-19 hospital. We were strong mentally and physically with the firm desire to defeat the deadly infection and return on the front line of coronavirus duty as soon as we recover.” “After 15 days of treatment, our reports came negative on July 24. After remaining in isolation for two days, we both joined the Covid-19 duty on July 26,” added Tailor, who hails from Navsari district and resides at Ugat in Rander zone. Rekha, head nurse of Covid-19 hospital at SMIMER said, “It was a different feeling of becoming a patient in the same ward where you were involved in treating other Covid-19 patients. During my 15 days stay in the hospital, I know exactly what the patients need. This experience will help me in serving my patients better in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/warriors-beat-covid-back-in-fight/articleshow/77307848.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan CM names 2 more Union ministers in horse-trading plot||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Urging PM Narendra Modi once again to restrain BJP from trying to topple an elected government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal of being among the other big names “secretly” involved in the horse-trading conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “PM Modi should step in and stop the tamasha (drama) that is going on in Rajasthan. Union minister Shekhawat’s involvement in the conspiracy to topple the government is now known. He should resign on moral grounds. Many others like Pradhan and Goyal are secretly involved. We know this but we aren't bothered. All we care for is democracy,” he said. While targeting BJP, Gehlot sought to convey the message that for all the desert sand kicked up by his public fallout with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, he was still open to welcoming back all the Congress dissidents with “hugs” if the high command wanted him to. “There is no pressure on me. The party has trusted and given me a lot. I have thrice been a Union minister, thrice an AICC general secretary, thrice a PCC chief and thrice a chief minister. What else would I want?” Gehlot told reporters before flying back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where he got his flock to shift on Friday to keep the “poachers” at bay. “Whatever I am doing is for public service. Whatever the Congress high command decides, I have no objection,” Gehlot said. Asked whether he hadn't become aggressive of late, Gehlot said, “Where have I been aggressive? I talk with love and affection...I keep smiling because that is god's gift; I cannot help it.” In Jaipur, state BJP president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government had “mentally” already lost its majority, going by how all MLAs were whisked away to Jaisalmer with still two weeks to go for the special assembly session from August 14. “Sometimes, the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in this business (of horse-trading) for long,” he said. “On occasion, he talks about dictatorship as if he were the saviour of democracy. We have to remind him that he is from the party that declared Emergency,” he said. Responding to Poonia's remarks, the CM labelled the new crop of BJP functionaries as upstarts aspiring to take ex-CM Vasundhara Raje's place, but unable to walk the talk. He said leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was the exception, being “a good human” and less vocal. “The rest attack us before the media but have no guts. Raje has, of course, disappeared from the scene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cm-names-2-more-union-mins-in-horse-trading-plot/articleshow/77310653.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||In separate incidents, virus fear sparks suicide bids||Vijayawada: In separate incidents, two persons in the city attempted suicide on Friday due to the fear of contracting Covid-19. In the first instance, a woman jumped from the second floor of Covid-19 hospital building at Machavaram. The woman identified as Adi Lakshmi was found lying on the ground with injuries around 10 am. Eyewitnesses said she intentionally attempted suicide. Cops said that she was admitted to the hospital on July 26 with Covid-19 symptoms. Adi Lakshmi later issued a statement to the police claiming she fell from the second floor accidentally. In the second incident, a 56-year-old man attempted to jump from the bridge near Radham Centre. The man identified as Aakuniri Nageswara Rao is from Machilipatnam town. It was said Rao was depressed over his son’s health at Vijayawada GGH. Cops said he was sent to the hospital for treatment and is said to be stable. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-separate-incidents-virus-fear-sparks-suicide-bids/articleshow/77293383.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan CM names 2 more Union ministers in horse-trading plot||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Urging PM Narendra Modi once again to restrain BJP from trying to topple an elected government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal of being among the other big names “secretly” involved in the horse-trading conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “PM Modi should step in and stop the tamasha (drama) that is going on in Rajasthan. Union minister Shekhawat’s involvement in the conspiracy to topple the government is now known. He should resign on moral grounds. Many others like Pradhan and Goyal are secretly involved. We know this but we aren't bothered. All we care for is democracy,” he said. While targeting BJP, Gehlot sought to convey the message that for all the desert sand kicked up by his public fallout with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, he was still open to welcoming back all the Congress dissidents with “hugs” if the high command wanted him to. “There is no pressure on me. The party has trusted and given me a lot. I have thrice been a Union minister, thrice an AICC general secretary, thrice a PCC chief and thrice a chief minister. What else would I want?” Gehlot told reporters before flying back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where he got his flock to shift on Friday to keep the “poachers” at bay. “Whatever I am doing is for public service. Whatever the Congress high command decides, I have no objection,” Gehlot said. Asked whether he hadn't become aggressive of late, Gehlot said, “Where have I been aggressive? I talk with love and affection...I keep smiling because that is god's gift; I cannot help it.” In Jaipur, state BJP president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government had “mentally” already lost its majority, going by how all MLAs were whisked away to Jaisalmer with still two weeks to go for the special assembly session from August 14. “Sometimes, the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in this business (of horse-trading) for long,” he said. “On occasion, he talks about dictatorship as if he were the saviour of democracy. We have to remind him that he is from the party that declared Emergency,” he said. Responding to Poonia's remarks, the CM labelled the new crop of BJP functionaries as upstarts aspiring to take ex-CM Vasundhara Raje's place, but unable to walk the talk. He said leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was the exception, being “a good human” and less vocal. “The rest attack us before the media but have no guts. Raje has, of course, disappeared from the scene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cm-names-2-more-union-mins-in-horse-trading-plot/articleshow/77310654.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM names 2 more Union ministers in horse-trading plot||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Urging PM Narendra Modi once again to restrain BJP from trying to topple an elected government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal of being among the other big names “secretly” involved in the horse-trading conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “PM Modi should step in and stop the tamasha (drama) that is going on in Rajasthan. Union minister Shekhawat’s involvement in the conspiracy to topple the government is now known. He should resign on moral grounds. Many others like Pradhan and Goyal are secretly involved. We know this but we aren't bothered. All we care for is democracy,” he said. While targeting BJP, Gehlot sought to convey the message that for all the desert sand kicked up by his public fallout with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, he was still open to welcoming back all the Congress dissidents with “hugs” if the high command wanted him to. “There is no pressure on me. The party has trusted and given me a lot. I have thrice been a Union minister, thrice an AICC general secretary, thrice a PCC chief and thrice a chief minister. What else would I want?” Gehlot told reporters before flying back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where he got his flock to shift on Friday to keep the “poachers” at bay. “Whatever I am doing is for public service. Whatever the Congress high command decides, I have no objection,” Gehlot said. Asked whether he hadn't become aggressive of late, Gehlot said, “Where have I been aggressive? I talk with love and affection...I keep smiling because that is god's gift; I cannot help it.” In Jaipur, state BJP president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government had “mentally” already lost its majority, going by how all MLAs were whisked away to Jaisalmer with still two weeks to go for the special assembly session from August 14. “Sometimes, the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in this business (of horse-trading) for long,” he said. “On occasion, he talks about dictatorship as if he were the saviour of democracy. We have to remind him that he is from the party that declared Emergency,” he said. Responding to Poonia's remarks, the CM labelled the new crop of BJP functionaries as upstarts aspiring to take ex-CM Vasundhara Raje's place, but unable to walk the talk. He said leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was the exception, being “a good human” and less vocal. “The rest attack us before the media but have no guts. Raje has, of course, disappeared from the scene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-names-2-more-union-mins-in-horse-trading-plot/articleshow/77309503.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan CM names 2 more Union ministers in horse-trading plot||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Urging PM Narendra Modi once again to restrain BJP from trying to topple an elected government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal of being among the other big names “secretly” involved in the horse-trading conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “PM Modi should step in and stop the tamasha (drama) that is going on in Rajasthan. Union minister Shekhawat’s involvement in the conspiracy to topple the government is now known. He should resign on moral grounds. Many others like Pradhan and Goyal are secretly involved. We know this but we aren't bothered. All we care for is democracy,” he said. While targeting BJP, Gehlot sought to convey the message that for all the desert sand kicked up by his public fallout with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, he was still open to welcoming back all the Congress dissidents with “hugs” if the high command wanted him to. “There is no pressure on me. The party has trusted and given me a lot. I have thrice been a Union minister, thrice an AICC general secretary, thrice a PCC chief and thrice a chief minister. What else would I want?” Gehlot told reporters before flying back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where he got his flock to shift on Friday to keep the “poachers” at bay. “Whatever I am doing is for public service. Whatever the Congress high command decides, I have no objection,” Gehlot said. Asked whether he hadn't become aggressive of late, Gehlot said, “Where have I been aggressive? I talk with love and affection...I keep smiling because that is god's gift; I cannot help it.” In Jaipur, state BJP president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government had “mentally” already lost its majority, going by how all MLAs were whisked away to Jaisalmer with still two weeks to go for the special assembly session from August 14. “Sometimes, the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in this business (of horse-trading) for long,” he said. “On occasion, he talks about dictatorship as if he were the saviour of democracy. We have to remind him that he is from the party that declared Emergency,” he said. Responding to Poonia's remarks, the CM labelled the new crop of BJP functionaries as upstarts aspiring to take ex-CM Vasundhara Raje's place, but unable to walk the talk. He said leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was the exception, being “a good human” and less vocal. “The rest attack us before the media but have no guts. Raje has, of course, disappeared from the scene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cm-names-2-more-union-mins-in-horse-trading-plot/articleshow/77310652.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC orders release of man re-jailed wrongly||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Friday came to the rescue of a 55-year-old man who was illegally confined to prison on the basis of an erroneous conviction warrant that was issued seven years after he had already served his sentence of seven years in the case, and been released. The man was released from illegal confinement at the Dharamgarh jail following the high court’s intervention on a habeas corpus petition filed by his wife. Sibaram Das, a resident of Ghantiguda in Kalahandi, had been arrested as one of the accused in a dacoity case on July 7, 2003. The court of the assistant sessions judge, Dharamgarh, convicted him and sentenced him to seven years of imprisonment on February 15, 2007. As Sibaram was facing trial in another criminal case, he was released from jail only after his acquittal in that case, on December 22, 2012. Consequently, he had served over nine years in jail custody, including the seven-year sentence. However, it was found in the court of the additional sessions judge that no conviction warrant was issued against Sibaram and the case record was not updated. The court then issued a conviction warrant on April 27, 2019, and, on its basis, Sibaram was rearrested and recommitted to jail on February 20, 2020, to serve out a sentence he had already served. Sibaram’s wife Chandra Das (49) sought the high court’s intervention. A bench of chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and justice Debabrata Dash directed the deputy registrar (judicial) to communicate to the superintendent of the Dharamgarh sub-jail to release Sibaram. He was released from jail at 7 pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-orders-release-of-man-re-jailed-wrongly/articleshow/77307859.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||Accused who fled Covid centre held||VADODARA: The accused who had escaped from the Covid-19 quarantine centre at the Maize Research Station in Godhra late on Thursday night was held again on Friday night. Sangramsinh Rathod (24), a resident of Vaktapura in Desar taluka of Vadodara district, had been held by the police in connection with the vehicle theft. He was brought to the Covid-19 quarantine centre in the hostel of the research facility after collecting his samples for a Covid-19 test. Rathod escaped from the quarantine centre’s bathroom through the ventilator after he was taken there in the night. The Panchmahal police issued an alert about the incident and started tracing Rathod. It came to light that he had reached Derol Station and was going towards his home via Sanseli village. The police launched a search and located him. Sources said that after detaining him, he will have to be kept at a quarantine facility again. He can be taken on remand only after he is cleared for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/accused-who-fled-covid-centre-held/articleshow/77307168.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Registry without NOCs: More staffers under scanner||Chandigarh: After tightening the noose around tehsildars and naib tehsildars of Gurgaon division, the chief minister’s office (CMO) has put the role of patwaris and the revenue clerks also under the scanner. The CMO has also asked the town and country planning (TCP) department and the urban local bodies department to prepare complete report of such shortcomings in Gurgaon and other cities. The CMO has directed the Gurgaon divisional commissioner to provide complete details of the wrong revenue entries done by patwaris ahead of sale of land without no-objection certificates (NOCs). According to information, the revenue clerks have also changed the agriculture land into non-cultivable land and other categories so that sale deeds could be executed without any hindrance. In most of the registries, the report of revenue clerks have shown the properties as non-cultivable farmhouse and non-cultivable hills and of other such categories. Meanwhile, referring to action on the officials of TCP and ULB departments, sources in CMO said additional chief secretaries of both the departments have been told to submit their report within a fortnight. “The government has zero tolerance for corruption in any department. Idea of asking for report is to identify the officers responsible and to act against them,” claimed a CMO official. According to details available so far, revenue officials indulged in large scale irregularities in the registration of properties during the period of lockdown. It is alleged that several thousand properties were registered without obtaining the NOCs from the TCP and ULB departments. The CM flying squad had carried out inspections in 35 cities across the state. As a result on Friday evening, the CMO had placed six revenue officials under suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/registry-without-nocs-more-staffers-under-scanner/articleshow/77309599.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept teams spread awareness on precautions for Rakhi||Ludhiana: In view of the upcoming auspicious festival of Raksha Bandhan, the health department here has started a special awareness drive to sensitise people to follow all necessary precautions to keep the virus away while celebrating the festival. The department said that on Saturday, teams visited sweet shops and rakhi shops of the city, where they apprised the sweet shop owners and their staff to follow guidelines issued by the government. It added that the teams also urged the people to maintain proper social distancing while covering the mouth and nose with mask. Three teams of the civil surgeon office have been deployed for the purpose. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that, “These awareness teams have been deployed because the cases are increasing due to lack of information and through this people will know the guidelines of the government and the penalty if they don’t follow the guidelines. Three teams comprising of mass education and information officer and block extension educators (BEE) are doing the rounds of the city in their information education and communication (IEC) vans, where they are addressing the people on the public address system fitted in the vans. BEE Jagjeevan Sharma said, “It is evident that due to Raksha Bandhan, there will be rush of people in sweet shops and other gift shops, so on Saturday, all teams visited different sweet shops and other shops where they interacted with the shop owners, his staff and customers and told them in detail about the guidelines, so that they can keep themselves and their family safe from coronavirus.” He said that they asked the shops to operate as per the guidelines and should accommodate the appropriate number of customers at one time so that they don’t violate the social distancing norms. Also they should have provision of thermal scanning of employees and customers at the entry point and hand washing or sanitiser point at entry and exit points. Along with it, they should also sanitise their shops frequently, Sharma added. Dr Bagga said said that as per WHO’s latest statement wearing a mask was as effective as a lockdown. “So, we all should follow the preventive steps to control the spread of this virus,” he added. Apart from this, shop owners appreciated the awareness drive. Rakesh Gupta, owner of a reputed sweet shop, said, “It is a highly appreciable step of the district administration that awareness teams are doing work on the ground level that is benefiting everyone and people will surely remember everything they are telling for the safety of the community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-teams-spread-awareness-on-precautions-for-rakhi/articleshow/77308806.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Treasury employee siphons off Rs 2 crore from Thiruvananthapuram collector’s account||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a major financial fraud in the state treasury, Rs 2 crore was found to have been swindled from the account of the Thiruvananthapuram district collector through an account at sub-treasury in Vanchiyoor. The money is found to have been diverted by a treasury senior accountant M R Bijulal using the username and password of another official who retired from service on May 31. The official was suspended by the treasury director who also filed a police complaint against him. On June 29, it was observed that about Rs 2 crore was transferred from the district collector’s account to three other savings accounts. Further, it was found that he then transferred Rs 62 lakh to another bank account outside the treasury. After the matter came to light, district collector Navjot Khosa sought a report from the treasury director and also asked the director to lodge a police complaint. An internal inquiry by treasury joint director into the incident has also been launched. On the basis of complaint from the treasury director, Vanchiyoor police registered a case against Bijulal, a native of Balaramapuram, by including relevant sections of IPC and IT act. “The investigation is on. It has to be verified whether he has done it alone or in connivance with others. The police are exploring all options,” said city police commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyaya. Also, it is reliably learnt that there were lapses by the district treasury as the username and password of the retired official should have been deleted immediately after retirement. Sources in the treasury said that there are loopholes in the software system, and when the online system was implemented this was taken up with authorities several times. Meanwhile, the joint council of state service organizations, an organization of employees affiliated to CPI, has demanded that in the wake of several incidents of money swindling from the treasury, the government should undertake a probe by removing treasury director and joint director V Sajan who is also in charge of treasury vigilance. The organization demanded said that such issues are recurring because the treasury director is trying to protect the culprits. Joint council chairman G Motilal said that both the officials are protecting those who committed irregularities in the past, demoralizing sincere officials. Only if they are removed from the post and a vigilance probe is conducted, the faith in the functioning of treasury can be restored, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/treasury-employee-siphons-off-rs-2cr-from-collectors-account/articleshow/77307890.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||NGT committee fails to submit report on illegal riverbank use||Cuttack: The National Green Tribunal (NGT)-constituted joint committee report on allegations of illegal construction on the banks of the Birupa river (a tributary of the Mahanadi) is yet to be submitted, although the deadline to submit it has lapsed. Taking note of this, NGT’s principal bench, New Delhi, constituting justice SP Wangdi as judicial member and Nagin Nanda as expert member, on Thursday said, “We direct the committee to ensure that the action in terms of the order dated June 30, 2020 is taken before the next date and a report be filed without fail.” The NGT has posted the matter to September 14 for hearing along with the submission of the committee’s report. The June 30 joint probe order was issued on an application by Orissa Association for Rowing and Sculling (OARS)’s, seeking NGT’s intervention against relocation of slum dwellers on the Birupa riverbank between Nimpur village and the water resources department’s inspection bungalow close to the Jagatpur water sports complex. The order said, “Let the Cuttack Municipal Corporation, the collector and district magistrate (Cuttack) and state pollution control board verify and file a report on the facts before the next date (July 30).” But when the case was taken up on Thursday, the Cuttack Municipal Corporation’s counsel said they had not received a copy of the June 30 order. In the application, OARS president Binod Dash said the relocation of slum dwellers from near SCB Medical College Hospital campus will impinge on the rowing course, chosen to be the venue of the Asian Senior Rowing Championship in 2021. According to the petition, the Cuttack Municipal Corporation has undertaken reclamation work on the riverbed along the bank, construction of toilet blocks with leach pits and production well for water supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ngt-committee-fails-to-submit-report-on-illegal-riverbank-use/articleshow/77307863.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman hangs self after tiff with hubby||PUNE: A 30-year-old city-based architect was found hanging from the ceiling fan inside the bedroom of her flat in Kothrud on Friday afternoon. The Alankar police said the woman allegedly committed suicide following a domestic dispute with her husband. Senior inspector Kalpana Jadhav of the Alankar police said, “We searched the room but did not find any suicide note.” The police have registered a case of accidental death (AD) as of now. “Further legal action will be initiated after recording the statements of the woman’s parents, who have consented to come down to the police station in the next few days,” the officer said. Jadhav said the woman had been working from home with her husband, a software engineer with an IT company, ever since the lockdown came into effect. “The two picked up an argument on Thursday afternoon, following which she went to her bedroom and isolated herself. Her husband decided to check in on her when she did not come out of her room by Friday afternoon. He entered the room and found her hanging from the ceiling fan,” Jadhav said, citing the husband’s statement recorded by the police. Her husband stated he rushed her to a private hospital where she was declared dead upon arrival, Jadhav said. “Prima facie probe has revealed that the couple used to regularly quarrel with each other regarding several domestic issues. The woman had became fed up with the increasingly regular disputes during the continued lockdown,” she said. “The woman is a native of Shirur. She got married three years ago. It was an arranged marriage and the couple had no children,” Jadhav said. The woman’s body was handed over to her parents on Friday, the police said. There had been a steady increase in cases of martial disharmony leading to disputes, violence and even suicides during the lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, experts said.  They claimed that the number of people seeking counselling to tide over the crisis at home had been steadily increasing over the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-hangs-self-after-tiff-with-hubby/articleshow/77308807.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Surat||SGCCI seeks Rs 1 lakh assistance for Covid dead||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has urged the state government to provide financial assistance to the family members of the workers and other staff employed in the industrial units in Surat and south Gujarat if they die due to Covid-19. In a representation to deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, the SGCCI office-bearers stated that Covid-19 cases from the diamond, textile, engineering units and others are on the rise. Dinesh Navadiya, in-charge president of SGCCI told TOI that an estimated 25 lakh workers in the industrial sectors are paying professional tax to the government exchequer. “If the workers are paying professional tax, they should also get the benefit of government schemes, especially financial assistance of Rs one lakh for their death due to Covid-19,” said Navadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-seeks-rs-1l-assistance-for-ncov-dead/articleshow/77307894.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Shops in Ganjam to be open for 11 hours on weekdays||Berhampur: From Monday, traders in Ganjam district will be able to open their outlets from 5 am to 4 pm on weekdays by strictly following all Covid protocol. This will be followed by an 11-hour shutdown from 4 pm to 5 am. The weekend shutdowns on Saturdays and Sundays would continue, district administration sources said, adding that the new order would be in force till August 31. During this month, movement of people from urban to rural areas and vice-versa without sufficient reason will be restricted. Movement of people and goods to maintain supply chains will be allowed. These steps have been taken at a time the number of Covid cases in the district touched 10,672, with the addition of 308 cases on Saturday. The death toll reached 99 with five more persons, including a woman, dying of the infection. Six people admitted to the Covid hospital here died of other reasons. “Although the number of Covid cases is declining, the case load in Ganjam is higher compared to that in other districts. The month of August is very crucial for the district. After considering all aspects and consulting a cross-section of people, we have decided to continue with the weekend shutdowns and restrict movement for a month,” said collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. “While we have allowed shopkeepers to open their outlets for a longer time in August, we have asked them to follow our ‘panchasutra’ or five-point strategy,” the collector said. The strategies are — putting up a barricade in front of shops, making provision for hand-washing of customers, wearing masks themselves and refuse to provide goods to customers not wearing masks, marking out circles in front of shops for customers to maintain social distance and maintaining a register of customers. “Our squads will visit the shops frequently. If anyone is found deviating from the rules, action will be taken. A heavy penalty will be imposed upon the shopkeeper and the shop will be shut for a month,” he said. Traders in Berhampur have asked the administration to allow movement of people from outside the district and rural areas to the markets here. “If people don’t come to the city, who will purchase the items?” wondered Ch. Rabindra Nath, president of Odisha Byabyasai Mahasangh. Berhampur is the wholesale hub of essential and non-essential commodities for the people of the entire southern Odisha belt. People from far-off places visit the city to buy goods, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shops-in-ganjam-to-be-open-for-11-hours-on-weekdays/articleshow/77307896.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
August 2, 2020||Goa||Bail application declined, police form teams to nab Zenito||PANAJI: After the District and Sessions court rejected the anticipatory bail of Zenito Cardozo of St Cruz in the alleged shootout case, Goa police has formed multiple teams to nab the accused. Speaking to TOI, north Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said teams are gathering information and intelligence about Cardozo, including his out-of-state activities. “We are trying to locate his whereabouts. If he is not found, then we will approach the court to declare him absconder,” he said. Cardozo is wanted in the June 20 shootout case held in Santa Cruz, wherein one Sonu Yadav, originally from Uttar Pradesh, was shot in the chest. The police suspect Cardozo to be the mastermind of the incident and had opposed his anticipatory bail plea. The Goa police had stated that the shootout case was the fallout of a rivalry between the Boom Boom gang operated by Imran Bepari and the Bang Bang gang operated by Cardozo over supremacy. Initially, police had maintained that the shootout incident had its roots in rival gang members’ affection for a woman. The goons used to regularly issue threats against each other over the woman, which ultimately resulted into the shootout. A gang of ten masked men subsequently went to the residence of Imran Bepari and had a scuffle. It ended in the death of Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-application-declined-police-form-teams-to-nab-zenito/articleshow/77309544.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man reads 3 newspapers to spot needy, goes to help||CHENNAI: Every morning, since the lockdown began, R Ajith Kumar reads at least three newspapers — one English and two Tamil — to spot stories about people in need. He then gets in touch with the reporters and sends out resources to those suffering. When TOI reported the story “Man who turned disability into art left jobless” on May 29, Ajith deposited money into the account of featured stage artist S Kanagaraj, who is disabled. “It was of great help because I was running out of money. I will be always grateful to him for this,” said Kanagaraj. This is just one of many. Ajith provided financial assistance to the family of a barber, who died by suicide due to poverty. “I read at least three newspapers. I get to see many such stories appear in the TOI. This way, I know these are genuine cases. I don’t like middlemen so I call them directly and do whatever I can,” said Ajith. The money for the aid comes out of his own pocket. A resident of Medavakkam, Ajith visited camps for guest workers and houses of people with disabilities to bring them rice and other essentials, and said one such visit left him disturbed. “I walked into a tiny camp where guest workers lived, and found three men from Bihar who hadn’t eaten for three days. They were left in the lurch by their contractor. When I handed over the packets of rice and dal, they fell on my feet,” said Ajith, who is the managing director of Nsight and cofounder of Thuli trust. With cofounders Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala, Ajith opened two stores of Thuli Trust in Chennai for the poor. The trust collects clothes from donors, cleans them and puts them out in the store, from where those in need can take the clothes. The idea is to provide a shopping experience to the underprivileged, who can’t afford the retail experience. The 47-year-old has been funding the education of children whose parents were rendered jobless. “Many lost jobs due to the pandemic. It has affected the education of many students. I offer counselling and support when parents approach me,” he said, adding that he is trying his best to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-reads-3-newspapers-to-spot-needy-goes-to-help/articleshow/77308824.cms||M T Saju
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||365 kitchens to provide meals at subsidised rates soon in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The local self-government (LSG) department has planned to establish Indira Rasois at 352 locations across the state after spending Rs 100 crore. As per the strategy, these kitchens will be established near bus stands, hospitals and railway stations. The municipal corporations, councils and municipalities are on the task to earmark the locations. An official said, “To develop the infrastructure, the state government will provide Rs 5 lakh to the operator. Every year, Rs 2 lakh grant will also be provided. The cost per plate will be Rs 20, however, it will be provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8 per plate.” After the change in regime, the (LSG) department is all set to overhaul the Annapurna Rasoi scheme launched by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje to serve food at subsidised rates across the state. The reason for the move is that the existing Congress government wants to provide food to the poor, after spending the money in a transparent manner. In previous tenure, the state government spent approximately Rs 240 crore to provide food at 495 locations in 191 urban local bodies. After coming to power, on UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal’s direction, a team of officials went to Chennai and Bengaluru to study the Amma Canteen and Indira Canteen schemes, respectively, in order to study their models. Sources said that the team in its report had submitted that the government can provide food to the poor at subsidised rate after making the expenditure on the existing scheme half. It was also highlighted that under Amma Rasoi, food is provided at permanent structures and not vans. In permanent structures, hot and fresh food could be provided to the poor every time, which is not the case with vans. Moreover, the quantity of the food can be reduced or increased as per the demand. This would reduce the possibilities of serving stale food or wastage of food. The report further suggested that Rajasthan can replicate the model of Chennai and can provide employment to women involved in cooking food under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/365-kitchens-in-state-to-provide-meals-at-subsidised-rates-soon/articleshow/77309529.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: CCTV helps police arrest thief, kin booked for hiding valuables||PUNE: The Samarth police on Friday arrested Arbaz alias Baban Iqbal Shaikh (22) for stealing gold and other valuables worth Rs 1.76 lakh from a medical store in Bhavani Peth on July 26. CCTV footage helped the police ascertain Shaikh’s identity. His mother and grandmother were booked for hiding valuables in their house. During questioning, Shaikh said his mother and grandmother had hidden the gold ornaments and cash. The duo were questioned and probe revealed they were indeed privy to the theft and the police recovered the valuables thereafter. With Shaikh’s arrest, police also solved a case of theft in which he stole cash and speakers from BT Shahane High School when it was shut during lockdown. Police said his mother prodded him to commit crimes for the family’s survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cctv-helps-police-arrest-thief-kin-booked-for-hiding-valuables/articleshow/77308834.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs tracking those who aided smugglers||KOCHI: Customs sleuths are trying to track down high-profile persons who were part of a smuggling ecosystem that allegedly abetted and assisted smugglers in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Sources said that persons who were part of the ecosystem that enabled smuggling will be arraigned as respondents under Section 112 (b) of the Customs Act. “Any person who gave advice on smuggling, concealing smuggled goods or disposing it can be made a respondent in the case. If an accountant knew about smuggling and gave advice on how to spend the proceeds of smuggled commodity, he can be booked. Same goes for lawyers and government officials. Even the driver of a vehicle that ferried smuggled gold can be booked if he knew about it,” said an official source. Meanwhile, customs sleuths are investigating if Sivasankar had introduced Swapna to a chartered accountant. The said chartered accountant allegedly had a joint account with her. NIA had seized Rs 1 crore and nearly 1kg gold from Swapna’s bank lockers. But, there is no clarification if the joint account found by customs had a connection with these lockers. A source privy to the information added sleuths may collect Sivasankar’s statement again. “Sivasankar remains a person of interest. He was questioned not because his name came up in the media, but because the sleuths had some leads that pointed towards him. Having a lead doesn’t mean that a drastic action can be taken immediately. The probe is continuing and if contradictory statements or evidence arise against him then, he would be questioned again,” said a well-placed source. Meanwhile, Swapna and Sandeep Nair were remanded in judicial custody till August 21.Sources said that ED is likely to seek their custody on Monday. Customs continued to emphasize the role of diplomats in the case and said the accused used to misinform the diplomats about the quantity of gold to reduce their commission. “For instance, when they used to bring 7kg of gold, they would tell the diplomats that only 4kg was brought. They too were conned in this case,” said an official. Meanwhile, a team of top NIA officers visited Cochin airport on Saturday. Special branch sources said NIA came to study functioning of enforcement agencies, especially Customs, at airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-tracking-those-who-aided-smugglers/articleshow/77312406.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: State govt has ‘mentally’ lost majority, says BJP chief||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Saturday took a swipe at chief minister Ashok Gehlot on shifting of MLAs supporting him to Jaisalmer on Bakra Eid and calling the assembly session on August 14. The BJP leader said it is a coincidence that the chief minister who described horse trading of MLAs as ‘bakra mandi’ shifted them to Jaislamer on Bakra Eid. Similarly, the date for assembly session is on August 14, which is also the independence day of Pakistan. “Certain things are falling in place on their own which reflects the Congress party’s policies and programmes,” he said. Poonia said he follows the chief minister closely. Sometimes the CM announces the rate of MLAs as if he was in to this business for long or talks about dictatorship as if he was the saviour of democracy. “We have to remind him that he is from the party of Emergency,” Poonia told reporters. The BJP chief said the chief minister talks about morality and anarchy, but if he had the number (of MLAs) and faith in them why they had to be shifted to a hotel in Jaipur and now to Jaisalmer. He said mentally the government had lost majority and even in numbers, it is doubtful. Even in the fort (Suryagarh hotel in Jaisalmer), the chief minister is feeling insecure. He alleged that the MLAs were under strong security cordon even in hotel rooms. He said all the problems of the government are due to internal fissures within the Congress. The Congress and the chief minister had been alleging that the BJP is behind the trouble. He said the government is now in hotel. The people of Rajasthan are at the mercy of god. Poonia said Gehlot was very vocal on bajri mafia during BJP rule, but asked what the CM did after coming to power. Police officers were killed by the mafia, but there was no answer from the CM, he alleged. Replying to a question on Gehlot’s comment on former CM Vasundhara Raje’s silence on political developments in the state, Poonia said, “Gehlot must not worry about Vasundhara Raje and BJP, but worry about his own party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-has-mentally-lost-majority-says-bjp-chief/articleshow/77309532.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Concerns over domestic violence raised||PUNE: State Women and Child Development minister Yashomati Thakur and MP Supriya Sule have taken a strong stand against domestic violence, with the former launching a video on social media on how to handle the issue during lockdowns. “It’s time women speak up. The video is on the women’s commission website and in social media,’‘she told TOI. A three-and-a-half minute clip of top Marathi actors and artistes, including Rohini Hattangadi, Radhika Apte, and Dilip Prabhavalkar and Girish Kulkarni, tells viewers to “take a deep breath” every time they feel an angry or a violent moment comes along. The video has received wide response, Thakur said. MP Sule had recently gone on social media with the issue of domestic violence during lockdown.She sought suggestions on how policy-makers can respond and said several efforts have been taken to address it. “This shadow pandemic should be prevented and addressed,” Sule told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/concerns-over-domestic-violence-raised/articleshow/77308819.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs tracking those who aided smugglers||KOCHI: Customs sleuths are trying to track down high-profile persons who were part of a smuggling ecosystem that allegedly abetted and assisted smugglers in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Sources said that persons who were part of the ecosystem that enabled smuggling will be arraigned as respondents under Section 112 (b) of the Customs Act. “Any person who gave advice on smuggling, concealing smuggled goods or disposing it can be made a respondent in the case. If an accountant knew about smuggling and gave advice on how to spend the proceeds of smuggled commodity, he can be booked. Same goes for lawyers and government officials. Even the driver of a vehicle that ferried smuggled gold can be booked if he knew about it,” said an official source. Meanwhile, customs sleuths are investigating if Sivasankar had introduced Swapna to a chartered accountant. The said chartered accountant allegedly had a joint account with her. NIA had seized Rs 1 crore and nearly 1kg gold from Swapna’s bank lockers. But, there is no clarification if the joint account found by customs had a connection with these lockers. A source privy to the information added sleuths may collect Sivasankar’s statement again. “Sivasankar remains a person of interest. He was questioned not because his name came up in the media, but because the sleuths had some leads that pointed towards him. Having a lead doesn’t mean that a drastic action can be taken immediately. The probe is continuing and if contradictory statements or evidence arise against him then, he would be questioned again,” said a well-placed source. Meanwhile, Swapna and Sandeep Nair were remanded in judicial custody till August 21.Sources said that ED is likely to seek their custody on Monday. Customs continued to emphasize the role of diplomats in the case and said the accused used to misinform the diplomats about the quantity of gold to reduce their commission. “For instance, when they used to bring 7kg of gold, they would tell the diplomats that only 4kg was brought. They too were conned in this case,” said an official. Meanwhile, a team of top NIA officers visited Cochin airport on Saturday. Special branch sources said NIA came to study functioning of enforcement agencies, especially Customs, at airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-tracking-those-who-aided-smugglers/articleshow/77307919.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa among 10 worst states for data reporting: Stanford study||PANAJI: A Stanford University study that assessed the quality of Covid-19 data reported by states in India named Goa as one of the ten worst performers in this category, just behind Chhattisgarh. Goa, like most states, does not offer a finer look into the Covid-19 cases such as details about sex, age, co-morbidities and travel history. This data, as pointed out in the study, can assist policy makers and the scientific community to frame a stronger response to counter the pandemic. The study also pointed out the huge disparity across states in reporting Covid-19 data, and said that the lack of a common format makes it difficult to understand the pandemic and coordinate an effective nationwide response. The study also highlights the need for a central agency to monitor and audit the quality of data released by each state. The authors of the study said that given the months that have gone by since the nationwide lock-down was initiated, state governments had sufficient time to develop a good data reporting system. Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s position on community transmission, at times at odds with the stand taken by the health minister Vishwajit Rane and his BJP colleagues, has added to the confusion and uncertainty among residents about the spread of the pandemic in the state. On July 1, just days after stating that community transmission of coronavirus had set in in Goa, Sawant retracted his statement. He went on to say that the “virus is not in the air” in Goa. The confusion surrounding the deaths of former Congress MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu and the former health minister Dr Suresh Amonkar offers yet another example of Goa’s sketchy Covid-19 reporting. Amonkar passed away while undergoing treatment for Covid-19, but a day after he was cremated, state authorities reported that his sample tested negative for Covid-19. A similar situation is playing out currently at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, where Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias tested positive for Covid-19 just a few days after he was declared cured and discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Citing these instances, critics have held the view that the state government is under-reporting Covid-19 cases to paint a better picture of the state’s Covid-19 response. The Stanford study, which has been published in the preprint repository ‘medRxiv’, says that transparent and accessible reporting of Covid-19 data is critical during a pandemic. The study looked at availability of data across 29 states and Union territories, accessibility of the data, finer data points or granularity, and privacy. Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim were not included in the study as they had too few cases. The study found that Karnataka, with a score of 0.61, has the best reporting mechanism to disseminate data on a daily basis on Covid-19 cases, followed by Kerala, Odisha, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have the worst Covid-19 data reporting score (CDRS) at 0. Goa, with a score of 0.21, is slightly below the middle range. The study, authored by Varun Vasudevan, Abeynaya Gnanasekaran, Varsha Sankar, Siddarth Vasudevan and James Zou, also shows that states are not coordinating or sharing resources while framing a response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Coordination among states is particularly important as more people start moving across states in the coming months,” the study states. “The disparate reporting score also reflects inequality in individual access to public health information and privacy protection based on the state of residence.” “Unified high-quality data reporting also signifies transparency and hence increases public trust in the government. Containment becomes easier when the public is well-informed,” said the authors of the study. The disparity in CDRS across states shows that at the national level, there is a lack of a unified framework for reporting Covid-19 data, and thus, there is a need for a central agency to monitor or audit the quality of data reporting by states. “Without a unified framework, it is difficult to aggregate data from different states, gain insights from it, and coordinate an effective nationwide response to the pandemic,” said the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stanford-univ-study-goa-among-10-worst-states-in-covid-data-reporting/articleshow/77309539.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 2, 2020||Ajmer||Muslim MLAs offer Eid prayers at hotel, others play volleyball, do yoga||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his MLAs are enjoying the hospitality of the golden city Jaisalmer. Gehlot held a meeting of his MLAs at the Suryagarh hotel tried to boost their morale on Saturday. The MLAs were shifted here from a Jaipur hotel to keep them united ahead of the trust vote that the Gehlot-government might have to seek because of the rebellion in Congress ranks once the assembly session commences from August 14. Local MLA Ruparam Dhandev is playing the role of host ensuring that the MLAs do not face any problem. Police and other intelligence agencies are keeping strict watch inside and outside the hotel. Jaipur’s DCP North Rajeev Pachar and DIG Rahul Prakash are leading the security arrangements here. Majority of the MLAs are lodged in Suryagarh hotel, while eight MLAs including cabinet ministers are staying in Gorbandh Palace hotel. Ministers BD Kalla, Sukhram Bishnoi, Pramod Jain Bhaya, Bhanwar Singh Bhati and other MLAs are in the second hotel where they played volleyball on Saturday. On Eid, Maulvi Yaseen, who was specially called to the Suryagarh hotel, helped Muslim MLAs Ameen Khan, Wajid Ali, Ameen Kagzi, Rafik Khan and others in offering namaz. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad took charge of all arrangements, including distribution of sweets on Eid. Minister Pramod Jain Bhaya offered prayers to Lord Shiva at Devchandraeshwar temple in the city. He offered prayers for half an hour under police security. He later told media that he has deep faith in Lord Shiva and would try to come daily to the temple till his stay in Jaisalmer. Two MLAs, Amit Chachan and Jagdish Jangid, and three other Congress leaders reached Jaisalmer. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi was to come with them but stayed back in Jaipur, along with six ministers, on Saturday also. Speaking to the media they said that the government was out of danger and that they could not come to Jaisalmer with the rest of their colleagues due to technical problems in a charter plane on Friday. Both MLAs were taken to the Suryagarh hotel amid tight security. Some MLAs exercised and did yoga, while few others worked out at the hotel’s gym. Later, Gehlot had tea with the MLAs and discussed the strategy to save the government from falling prey to horse-trading of MLAs. Around 3pm, Gehlot, AICC leaders Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande left for Jaipur in a chartered plane. Jaisalmer: Two Congress MLAs who complained of minor illness were examined by a team of doctors and given treatment. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammed said it was a routine check-up and now there was nothing to worry. Dr JR Panwar, who checked the MLAs and is in the CM security, said MLA Gurmeet Singh Kunnar had requested for kidney test which he possibly gets done regularly but could not do so these days. Dr Rawta Ram, who assisted Panwar in checking the MLA, said Kunnar is a sugar patient and was suspecting some kidney infection. He said MLA Babulal Nagar had some problem in shoulder and had called a physiotherapist. Two other MLAs got their blood-pressure tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/muslim-mlas-offer-eid-prayers-at-hotel-others-play-volleyball-do-yoga/articleshow/77310679.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eight Ganapati mandals join hands to help Covid-19 patients||PUNE: The eight largest and most renowned Ganesh mandals in the city have come together to provide meals, medical and “spiritual” services to the Covid-19 care centre coming up at the Fergusson College hostel, as a part of the festivities this year. “We have all decided to celebrate together as a seva-utsav, which will be part of the Ganeshotsav this year as the celebrations have been scaled down because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Shrikant Shete, president of the Kasba Ganapati Mandal. The five manache Ganesh mandals including Kasba, Kesariwada, Tulshibaug, Tambadi Jogeshwari, and Guruji Talim, have been joined by three more — Mandai, Dagdusheth, and Bhau Rangari — who are pooling together funds and personnel for the cause. They all had announced plans to scale down celebrations in terms of the size of pandals, dimensions of Ganesh idols and ensure strict flow of crowd. Heads of the mandals said they will provide meals — lunch, dinner and tea or coffee — to patients at the 400-plus capacity care centre. They have empanelled doctors and yoga teachers to treat patients and to assuage their anxiety and mental health. “The administrative and medical issues at the centre will largely be handled by PMC and state government. The mandals always undertake social issues and perform community service during Ganeshotsav and we also want to contribute to fight against the pandemic. We have arranged for 20 oxygen beds at the centre too” Hrishikesh Neurgaonkar, secretary of the Tambadi Jogeshwari mandal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-ganapati-mandals-join-hands-to-help-ncov-patients/articleshow/77308843.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 2, 2020||Udaipur||Muslim MLAs offer Eid prayers at hotel, others play volleyball, do yoga||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his MLAs are enjoying the hospitality of the golden city Jaisalmer. Gehlot held a meeting of his MLAs at the Suryagarh hotel tried to boost their morale on Saturday. The MLAs were shifted here from a Jaipur hotel to keep them united ahead of the trust vote that the Gehlot-government might have to seek because of the rebellion in Congress ranks once the assembly session commences from August 14. Local MLA Ruparam Dhandev is playing the role of host ensuring that the MLAs do not face any problem. Police and other intelligence agencies are keeping strict watch inside and outside the hotel. Jaipur’s DCP North Rajeev Pachar and DIG Rahul Prakash are leading the security arrangements here. Majority of the MLAs are lodged in Suryagarh hotel, while eight MLAs including cabinet ministers are staying in Gorbandh Palace hotel. Ministers BD Kalla, Sukhram Bishnoi, Pramod Jain Bhaya, Bhanwar Singh Bhati and other MLAs are in the second hotel where they played volleyball on Saturday. On Eid, Maulvi Yaseen, who was specially called to the Suryagarh hotel, helped Muslim MLAs Ameen Khan, Wajid Ali, Ameen Kagzi, Rafik Khan and others in offering namaz. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad took charge of all arrangements, including distribution of sweets on Eid. Minister Pramod Jain Bhaya offered prayers to Lord Shiva at Devchandraeshwar temple in the city. He offered prayers for half an hour under police security. He later told media that he has deep faith in Lord Shiva and would try to come daily to the temple till his stay in Jaisalmer. Two MLAs, Amit Chachan and Jagdish Jangid, and three other Congress leaders reached Jaisalmer. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi was to come with them but stayed back in Jaipur, along with six ministers, on Saturday also. Speaking to the media they said that the government was out of danger and that they could not come to Jaisalmer with the rest of their colleagues due to technical problems in a charter plane on Friday. Both MLAs were taken to the Suryagarh hotel amid tight security. Some MLAs exercised and did yoga, while few others worked out at the hotel’s gym. Later, Gehlot had tea with the MLAs and discussed the strategy to save the government from falling prey to horse-trading of MLAs. Around 3pm, Gehlot, AICC leaders Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande left for Jaipur in a chartered plane. Jaisalmer: Two Congress MLAs who complained of minor illness were examined by a team of doctors and given treatment. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammed said it was a routine check-up and now there was nothing to worry. Dr JR Panwar, who checked the MLAs and is in the CM security, said MLA Gurmeet Singh Kunnar had requested for kidney test which he possibly gets done regularly but could not do so these days. Dr Rawta Ram, who assisted Panwar in checking the MLA, said Kunnar is a sugar patient and was suspecting some kidney infection. He said MLA Babulal Nagar had some problem in shoulder and had called a physiotherapist. Two other MLAs got their blood-pressure tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/muslim-mlas-offer-eid-prayers-at-hotel-others-play-volleyball-do-yoga/articleshow/77310678.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Muslim MLAs offer Eid prayers at hotel, others play volleyball, do yoga||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his MLAs are enjoying the hospitality of the golden city Jaisalmer. Gehlot held a meeting of his MLAs at the Suryagarh hotel tried to boost their morale on Saturday. The MLAs were shifted here from a Jaipur hotel to keep them united ahead of the trust vote that the Gehlot-government might have to seek because of the rebellion in Congress ranks once the assembly session commences from August 14. Local MLA Ruparam Dhandev is playing the role of host ensuring that the MLAs do not face any problem. Police and other intelligence agencies are keeping strict watch inside and outside the hotel. Jaipur’s DCP North Rajeev Pachar and DIG Rahul Prakash are leading the security arrangements here. Majority of the MLAs are lodged in Suryagarh hotel, while eight MLAs including cabinet ministers are staying in Gorbandh Palace hotel. Ministers BD Kalla, Sukhram Bishnoi, Pramod Jain Bhaya, Bhanwar Singh Bhati and other MLAs are in the second hotel where they played volleyball on Saturday. On Eid, Maulvi Yaseen, who was specially called to the Suryagarh hotel, helped Muslim MLAs Ameen Khan, Wajid Ali, Ameen Kagzi, Rafik Khan and others in offering namaz. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad took charge of all arrangements, including distribution of sweets on Eid. Minister Pramod Jain Bhaya offered prayers to Lord Shiva at Devchandraeshwar temple in the city. He offered prayers for half an hour under police security. He later told media that he has deep faith in Lord Shiva and would try to come daily to the temple till his stay in Jaisalmer. Two MLAs, Amit Chachan and Jagdish Jangid, and three other Congress leaders reached Jaisalmer. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi was to come with them but stayed back in Jaipur, along with six ministers, on Saturday also. Speaking to the media they said that the government was out of danger and that they could not come to Jaisalmer with the rest of their colleagues due to technical problems in a charter plane on Friday. Both MLAs were taken to the Suryagarh hotel amid tight security. Some MLAs exercised and did yoga, while few others worked out at the hotel’s gym. Later, Gehlot had tea with the MLAs and discussed the strategy to save the government from falling prey to horse-trading of MLAs. Around 3pm, Gehlot, AICC leaders Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande left for Jaipur in a chartered plane. Jaisalmer: Two Congress MLAs who complained of minor illness were examined by a team of doctors and given treatment. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammed said it was a routine check-up and now there was nothing to worry. Dr JR Panwar, who checked the MLAs and is in the CM security, said MLA Gurmeet Singh Kunnar had requested for kidney test which he possibly gets done regularly but could not do so these days. Dr Rawta Ram, who assisted Panwar in checking the MLA, said Kunnar is a sugar patient and was suspecting some kidney infection. He said MLA Babulal Nagar had some problem in shoulder and had called a physiotherapist. Two other MLAs got their blood-pressure tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muslim-mlas-offer-eid-prayers-at-hotel-others-play-volleyball-do-yoga/articleshow/77309538.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Muslim MLAs offer Eid prayers at hotel, others play volleyball, do yoga||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his MLAs are enjoying the hospitality of the golden city Jaisalmer. Gehlot held a meeting of his MLAs at the Suryagarh hotel tried to boost their morale on Saturday. The MLAs were shifted here from a Jaipur hotel to keep them united ahead of the trust vote that the Gehlot-government might have to seek because of the rebellion in Congress ranks once the assembly session commences from August 14. Local MLA Ruparam Dhandev is playing the role of host ensuring that the MLAs do not face any problem. Police and other intelligence agencies are keeping strict watch inside and outside the hotel. Jaipur’s DCP North Rajeev Pachar and DIG Rahul Prakash are leading the security arrangements here. Majority of the MLAs are lodged in Suryagarh hotel, while eight MLAs including cabinet ministers are staying in Gorbandh Palace hotel. Ministers BD Kalla, Sukhram Bishnoi, Pramod Jain Bhaya, Bhanwar Singh Bhati and other MLAs are in the second hotel where they played volleyball on Saturday. On Eid, Maulvi Yaseen, who was specially called to the Suryagarh hotel, helped Muslim MLAs Ameen Khan, Wajid Ali, Ameen Kagzi, Rafik Khan and others in offering namaz. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad took charge of all arrangements, including distribution of sweets on Eid. Minister Pramod Jain Bhaya offered prayers to Lord Shiva at Devchandraeshwar temple in the city. He offered prayers for half an hour under police security. He later told media that he has deep faith in Lord Shiva and would try to come daily to the temple till his stay in Jaisalmer. Two MLAs, Amit Chachan and Jagdish Jangid, and three other Congress leaders reached Jaisalmer. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi was to come with them but stayed back in Jaipur, along with six ministers, on Saturday also. Speaking to the media they said that the government was out of danger and that they could not come to Jaisalmer with the rest of their colleagues due to technical problems in a charter plane on Friday. Both MLAs were taken to the Suryagarh hotel amid tight security. Some MLAs exercised and did yoga, while few others worked out at the hotel’s gym. Later, Gehlot had tea with the MLAs and discussed the strategy to save the government from falling prey to horse-trading of MLAs. Around 3pm, Gehlot, AICC leaders Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande left for Jaipur in a chartered plane. Jaisalmer: Two Congress MLAs who complained of minor illness were examined by a team of doctors and given treatment. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammed said it was a routine check-up and now there was nothing to worry. Dr JR Panwar, who checked the MLAs and is in the CM security, said MLA Gurmeet Singh Kunnar had requested for kidney test which he possibly gets done regularly but could not do so these days. Dr Rawta Ram, who assisted Panwar in checking the MLA, said Kunnar is a sugar patient and was suspecting some kidney infection. He said MLA Babulal Nagar had some problem in shoulder and had called a physiotherapist. Two other MLAs got their blood-pressure tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/muslim-mlas-offer-eid-prayers-at-hotel-others-play-volleyball-do-yoga/articleshow/77310677.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||BJP announces fresh executive committee for Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The BJP on Saturday announced its new executive committee of 25 members, which includes eight vice-presidents and four general secretaries. State BJP president Satish Poonia said the party has taken care of social factors, beside the combination of young and experienced faces in the new executive committee. Adequate representation also has been given to women. CP Joshi MP, MLA Chandrakanta Meghwal, Alka Gurjar (former MLA), Ajaypal Singh, Hemraj Meena, Prasan Mehta, Mukesh Dadhich and Madhoram Chaudhary were appointed as the party’s vice-presidents in the state. MP Diya Kumari, Madan Dilawar, Sushil Katara and Bhajanlal Sharma were appointed as general secretaries. “The BJP is a political party which not only contests elections but also works on the social front. People have seen how BJP workers carried out relief work during the coronavirus pandemic. We will be carrying out confidence-building initiatives among the public,” he said. The list of 25 appointees also includes nine secretaries. Poonia informed that a disciplinary committee has also been formed under former Rajya Sabha MP Onkar Singh Lekhawat. He said the appointments to the party’s frontal organisations are under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-announces-fresh-executive-committee-for-raj/articleshow/77309534.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Low-key celebrations for Rakshabandhan this year||PUNE: Families across the city have opted for low-key Rakshabandhan celebrations this year because of the pandemic. Family gatherings have taken a back seat as most sisters have opted to send rakhis to their brothers even within the city to celebrate the bond between siblings on Monday. A city resident Seema Patil said, “Every Rakshabandhan, we have a get together at my brother’s house but this year we have cancelled the plan due to Covid-19. We sisters are going to meet our brother at his office to tie the rakhi. Our daughters tie rakhi to my brother’s son we will hand the rakhis over to our brother. It is safer to avoid any large gatherings.” Many families from the city have said that they are trying to minimize the number of people gathering at their house on the occasion. “All our relatives would come home for Rakshabandhan, even cousins. However, we have appealed to everyone to avoid visiting this year. The rakhis have been delivered to everyone through courier or parcel services,” said Santosh Jalan, a homemaker. Arati Joglekar from Articraft, who deals in handmade rakhis, said the celebrations are different this year. “We have got requests from women to deliver the rakhis directly to their brothers’ residence,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/low-key-celebrations-for-rakshabandhan-this-year/articleshow/77308847.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||SOG to send notices to min, MLA again||Jaipur: The Special Operations Group (SOG) will send notices to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma for the second time asking them to record their statements in the horse-trading of MLAs to topple the government. The agency’s attempt to locate Sharma has not yielded any result so far. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS said, “We will be resending the notices to both the persons again under Section 160 CrPC to record their statements in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-to-send-notices-to-min-mla-again/articleshow/77309540.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: 34-year-old stabs woman for rejecting his advances||PUNE: A man stabbed a 29-year-old woman to death in a open area at Shivtejnagar in Chikhali on Saturday and then attempted to end his life by stabbing himself with the same weapon, police said. Police said the 34-year-old man stalked the woman regularly and had harassed her in the past. “Probe revealed that the man decided to kill the woman for rejecting his advances. We booked the man later following a complaint lodged by the deceased woman’s husband,” an officer from the Chikhali police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-year-old-stabs-woman-for-rejecting-his-advances/articleshow/77308850.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||Fraudster tries to con lawyers with fake profile||VADODARA: A lawyer approached cyber-crime police station on Friday after an unidentified person tried to take money in his name from other lawyers in central Gujarat. Police are yet to register an FIR and have asked the complainant to come again next week for statement.The lawyer Shakeel Sheikh told cops that an unidentified accused tried to cheat people by making a fake profile on Facebook and Instagram. The incident came to light when Hitesh Gupta, an advocate, called out the fraudster’s bluff and informed everyone in the legal fraternity. The accused approached Gupta on Friday evening on Facebook asking him to transfer Rs 15,000 as he needed the money urgently since he was in hospital. Chatting through fake profile of Sheikh, the accused also promised Gupta that he will return the money next morning. He sent the account details and asked Gupta to send the money immediately. “I understood that something was fishy from the way he talked and I continued the chat to gain his trust. I also created a fake transaction image to convince him that I have sent the money through NEFT,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fraudster-tries-to-con-lawyers-with-fake-profile/articleshow/77307282.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tea-seller films accident scene, knifed||AHMEDABAD: A man who sells tea in Naroda filed a complaint on Friday against three men who knifed him for filming the scene of an accident involving them near Memco crossroads. Sohansingh Rajput, 28, a resident of Munshi chawl on Naroda Road, stated in his FIR filed with Shaherkotda police that he had witnessed the accident on Friday afternoon. An autorickshaw had turned turtle. Rajput shot the scene on his cellphone. He said that the autorickshaw driver and his three passengers left the site shortly after the accident. About an hour later, the three men came to Rajput’s tea stall and asked him why he had filmed the incident. One of the three men slashed Rajput’s thigh with a knife and others thrashed him. Passersby rescued Rajput and the attackers fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tea-seller-films-accident-scene-knifed/articleshow/77308370.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||By 2036, 88% of Goa will live in urban areas||PANAJI: Goa’s urban population is set to rise dramatically over the next 16 years, with 88% of the state’s residents expected to live in towns and cities. Currently, 62.5% of Goa lives in urban areas. The sharp spike has been predicted in the Union health ministry’s population projection report 2011-2036, released last week. According to the 2011 census — the latest available one — 9.2 lakh people live in urban areas. By 2036, this figure will be 14.7 lakh, with 90% of all males and 86.6% of all females in the state living in urban settlements. The report clubs Goa with mainly Union territories, as they comprise 1% of the country’s population. For these regions, a different method has been used to project future populations. As per the 2011 census, there are two criteria for an urban area — 75% of the male main working population must be engaged in non-agricultural pursuits, and the population density should be over 400 persons per sq km. Also, urban areas comprise all locations within a municipality, corporation, cantonment board or notified town area committee. Nationally, the urban population is 31.8%, and is expected to surpass 38% by 2036. Meanwhile, the report said that Goa’s population is set to be around 16.6 lakh by 2036. As per the 2011 census, that figure stands at 14.6 lakh. However, a statistician said that this grown prediction may not be accurate. The report has estimated Goa’s 2036 population using a method based on data pertaining to the state’s growth rate during previous census surveys from 1981 to 2011. “The mathematical method used for regions with smaller populations simply bases the projections of population size on past growth performance,” he said. “For the bigger states, population projection is done based on the component method of calculation, which is more reliable. The mathematical method is used where limited data on population size in the past is available.” He also said that this projection may reflect only the natural growth rate, and not account for in-migration. Goa’s fertility rate, according to the 2011 census, is 1.7. The government of India’s norm is two children per family, or, the total fertility rate (TFR) is 2.1 TFR is the average number of children per women in the 15-35 age group. Also, Goa’s population of children between 0-9 is the lowest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/88-of-goa-to-live-in-urban-areas-by-2036/articleshow/77309547.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctor loses Rs 40 lakh in attempt to secure loan||PUNE: The Nigdi police have lodged a complaint against a person for posing as a private bank employee and cheating a 36-year-old doctor of Rs 40 lakh under the pretext of sanctioning a loan of Rs 8 crore. The man had called the doctor on his mobile phone and told him to submit documents to complete the know your customer (KYC) process, mandatory to get a loan from the bank. The person sought the money to sanction the loan amount between June 18 and July 17 at Kalyaninagar. The complainant has been running a hospital at Akurdi in Pimpri Chinchwad since the last few years. Police inspector Machindra Patil of Nigdi police station said, “The doctor wanted to expand the existing facility. He received a call from the man last month. He met the doctor at his clinic but did not get out of his vehicle citing the Covid-19 threat. He had told the doctor to pay Rs 40 lakh as processing fees before sanctioning the loan amount. Without verifying the credentials of the person, the doctor, who had withdrawn the amount from the bank, handed it over to the man. He did not even visit the bank over the next few days to enquire about the loan.” Finally, the matter came to light when the man switched off his phone and it became difficult for the doctor to get in touch with the person. “The doctor approached us and subsequently lodged the complaint. The phone number of the man is not functioning anymore and his name also turned out to be fake. Since he didn’t not step out of his vehicle while accepting the money, we don’t have CCTV footage. Our investigation is underway,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctor-loses-rs-40-lakh-in-attempt-to-secure-loan/articleshow/77308845.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police bust ‘dabba trading’ in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: City police on Friday busted a dabba trading scam and arrested a person from a flat near Bahai Business Centre in Shahpur area of the city. Dabba trading is an informal trading that takes place directly among traders, who bet on movements on stock prices through cash and considered illegal. These trades are typically settled in cash. According to the FIR filed with Shahpur police, cops got an input that a man was running a dabba trading network from Borsalli apartment in the area. A police team conducted a raid on flat number D/408 in Borsalli Apartment and found a man with a laptop. The person, Sursh Vora, 45, resident of the same flat, admitted that he was illegally trading in stocks. Police said that a Kalupur resident, Dharmesh Shah, was also involved and he has gone on the run. Shahpur police registered a complaint of breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy along with charges under relevant provisions of Securities Contract Regulation Act 1956.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-bust-dabba-trading/articleshow/77308262.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Oppn has more questions for CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has raised 10 more questions before CM Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with the gold smuggling case. He had raised a set of questions last month, without eliciting a response from Vijayan. The new question he raised are: Did you turn a blind eye towards the close links of your former principal secretary M Sivasankar – who had controlled CMO as your confidant for 50 months – with the gold smuggling cartel or were you genuinely ignorant of the happenings in your office? Is CM ignorant of what is happening in his office? Was CM kept in the dark about regular illegitimate interactions of a minister in his cabinet with a foreign consulate and his deals involving them that violated norms? Why did CM defend consultancy agreements and other contracts with international agencies, like Sprinkler, entered into by Sivasankar, when they were of dubious nature and against existing norms? Chennithala also asked Vijayan why he is afraid of a CBI enquiry into the allegations and why did police intelligence wing fail to detect the gold smuggling right under the nose of the chief minister, using the fig leaf of a foreign consulate? Chennithala wanted to know why CPM CC was prevented from answering queries addressed to party general secretary Sitaram Yechury on LDF government’s major shift from CPM’s approved policies. He raised suspicion over the failure of state committee to hold a meet despite CMO falling under a cloud of suspicion in the smuggling case and the reluctance of the government in constituting an inquiry into the illegal appointment of unqualified people in top govt jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-has-more-questions-for-cm/articleshow/77307939.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan solar shines bright amidst gloom, adds max capacity in FY20 in India||JAIPUR: Solar sector continues to occupy a bright spot in the otherwise cloudy, overcast business environment in the state. According to a recent survey of states by JMK Research and Analytics, Rajasthan has added maximum capacity of 1,745 megawatt solar plants in the country in 2019-20, followed by Karnataka (1,443 MW) and Tamil Nadu (1,342 MW). The pipeline of projects also remains robust at 23,176 MW, which is within the striking distance of 30,000 megawatt, the five-year target announced in the solar policy 2019-20. While the state may have been dislodged from the number 1 position by Karnataka in about two years ago, it seems to be bouncing back aggressively. Karnataka currently has 7,045 MW installed capacity against Rajasthan’s 4,932 MW. While the state government officials are reluctant to comment on what slowed down the pace of new projects in the past, a senior official of the energy department said that the projects pipeline is very encouraging. “Rajasthan has become the hub for the solar movement in the country. Very few states have the size of land bank we have in Rajasthan. Solar irradiation is natural gift for the state. We have capitalized on the advantages introducing a policy that is unmatchable. That’s why the investors have put a lot of faith in the state. This is evident as Rajasthan continues to be the place where the lowest tariffs in the country are getting discovered,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, Energy Department and chairman, Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). With regard to achieving the target announced in the new solar policy, Sharma said it is steep but they can cross it. “We have given in the policy what the investors wanted. From resources, infrastructure, incentives, to ease of doing business, we have left no corners uncovered. It’s not been even a year since policy was rolled out, but we have a visibility of more than 23,000 MW capacity. That’s why hitting the 30,000-MW target is within the reach given we still have over 3 years to achieve it,” added Sharma. While the industry in the state admits that Rajasthan is attracting a lot of attention from investors, many said that without the growth of solar component manufacturing, the benefits will not be significant. “As far as generation is concerned, the state is on track. This advantage needs to be seized for developing a manufacturing base. As the call for reducing dependency on Chinese solar equipment imports grows, the state can play a significant role. Growth of manufacturing will create a lot of jobs and generate tax revenue for the state,” said Sunil Bansal, general secretary of Rajasthan Solar Association. Bansal also pointed out that state government projects should be used to promote distributed model. “Promotion of distributed ground-mounted projects has two big advantages. First, it can spread development of projects across the state, near sub-stations, creating multiple opportunities for local people. Secondly, the state’s MSMEs will be able to participate in these projects. Also, they would not overload the grid. That’s why at least the government projects should promote distributed model. A sub-station-wise capacity should be offered,” added Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-solar-shines-bright-amidst-gloom-adds-max-capacity-in-fy20-in-india/articleshow/77309546.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sarvajanik Ganesh mandals to have low-key festivities||The seriousness of the Covid-19 pandemic is certainly not lost on the sarvajanik Ganesh mandals across Goa. So, while visiting a large community Ganesh celebration in the neighbourhood forms an important part of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, this year, most groups have decided to curtail their usual 11 or 21-day celebrations to just a token one-and-a-half day and to not open to the public. Community idols installed at police stations across Goa, which are also a big draw, will also see festivities reduced to one-and-a-half days. At a meeting on Saturday, the Bicholim Sarvajanik Ganeshotav Mandal decided to curtail the celebrations, with police officials in Bicholim taking a similar decision. “It was unanimously decided to organise Ganesh celebrations only for one-and-a-half day,” said former mandal president Vismay Prabhudesai. There won’t be any cultural performances or the usual decorations. Even the canopy over the idol will have limited items, just for ritualistic purposes, said secretary Rajan Kadkade. Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi said that this year the idol at his police station will be a smaller one, with no immersion procession at the end of the one-and-a-half day festivity. Residents of villages in Bicholim too said that they have decided to limit the celebrations to bare ritualistic requirements and that the idols will be immersed in the wells attached to homes. They have decided to avoid public immersion at river banks. “We usually have a 21-day festival, but this year we will have a one-and-a-half-day festival considering the safety of devotees. All the rituals will be performed by the priest. There will be no programmes or lottery this year. We’re not even taking donations,” Prakash Morajkar, the member of the festival committee for the Ganesh temple at Parra said. Calangute Shantadurga Devasthan Sarvajanik Ganesh committee member Sudesh Shirodkar said the public will not be allowed to enter the temple during the celebrations. “They will have to worship from outside while maintaining social distancing and following all government rules,” he said. The Candolim Shantadurga Devasthan committee voiced similar sentiments. Many groups have even decided to shift the location of the festivities to smaller premises to avoid the regular visiting crowds. Valpoi Sarvajanik Ganesh Utsav Mandal, which installs the crowd-puller idol at the main market in Valpoi, has decided not to install the idol this time at the usual spot. “The idol will be installed in Valpoi’s Hanuman temple this year after taking necessary permission from the temple committee. We have decided to keep the celebrations simple in wake of the pandemic,” said mandal member Mahadev Dantye. Lotteries with expensive prizes, which included even luxury cars, were another highlight of the community Ganesh celebrations across the state. These too have been dropped this year. The Ganesh Utsav Mandal, Quepem, was known for its lottery prizes, which led to its tickets being sold out within the first five days. The group’s lotteries have been a feature since 1989, and, for the last 10 years, prizes to the tune of Rs 2 crore, including cash or gold and around 10 cars, were on offer. The group even distributes scholarships and felicitates top ranker students from the town. “This year, we will not be printing lotteries, neither will we be organising other programmes. If the authorities give us permission, we will bring a small idol and keep it inside the municipal garden stage, else we will perform rituals in our office,” said mandal president Ramdas Naik. In Canacona too, the large Ganesh idols at the Chaudi bus stand and Canacona police station will be missed. Mandal president Pramod Gaonkar said attractions like lotteries, competitions and music shows will be absent. Canacona PI Tukaram Chawan said that they haven’t received any SOP regarding the festival, but “the celebrations this year will be devoid of the fun, frolic and shows”. Mormugao waiting for SOPs on Ganesh celebrations Mormugao taluka has witnessed the most number of Covid infections and deaths in the state, but community groups in Vasco and surrounding areas are waiting for SOPs for sarvajanik Ganesh celebrations. The office of the Mormugao deputy superintendent of police wrote to the Mormugao deputy collector’s office on July 8 to issue an advance advisory for community Ganesh celebrations in view of Covid-19. “Under the jurisdiction of Vasco police station, there are at least 23 groups, which celebrate the Sarvajanik Ganesh festival and keep the idol for 5, 6, 7, 9 and 11 days. These mandals put up decorations which attract large crowds…,” the letter stated. Programme secretary and founder member of Vinayak Kala Sangh, Jayant Jadhav said, “We will be celebrating sarvajanik Ganesh Chaturthi at the Baina Garden for the 34th year and are anxiously waiting for the decision. Even if we don’t get permission to have grand celebrations, we will install the idol in our office for one-and-a-half days and perform the rituals.” If permission is granted, the committee has decided to perform pooja by putting up a small pandal, maintaining social distancing and following the government guidelines, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarvajanik-ganesh-mandals-to-have-low-key-festivities/articleshow/77309548.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Monsoon picks up, strong wind & rain till August 6||PANAJI: India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, has issued a warning stating that as monsoon is set to pick up momentum again, Goa will experience squally weather with wind speed of 40 to 50km per hour during the next five days. The IMD warning states that heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and later, extremely heavy rainfall is likely in isolated places in the next five days. On Sunday and Monday, heavy rainfall at a few places and very heavy rainfall in isolated places is likely to occur, as per IMD forecast. On subsequent days, August 3 and 4, the rainfall activity may intensify further and while few places may witness heavy to very heavy rainfall, more heavier rainfall is expected in isolated places. “There is a possibility of the rainfall increasing to 20cm in isolated places on these two days,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. IMD scientists said that as per present observation, the period between August 3 and 6 may be possibly among the season’s rainiest days. The IMD has asked fishermen not to venture out to the sea till August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-picks-up-strong-wind-rain-till-aug-6/articleshow/77309566.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa’s death toll now 48 with 3 new deaths, 280 fresh cases detected||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll shot up to 48 on Saturday after three persons succumbed to the infection. It also saw its highest single-day spike in fresh cases, with 280, pushing the total active count to 1,707. Also, 227 persons were cured. Two deaths — those of a 77-year-old man from Betim and a 64-year-old from Aquem — both having comorbid conditions, died at the ESI-Covid hospital. The third death, that of a 71-year-old woman from Velsao, was reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Since the pandemic began, at least seven persons admitted to the GMC’s isolation ward have died of Covid before they could be shifted to the ESI hospital. The Ponda primary health centre reported 25 new cases from areas under its jurisdiction on Saturday. Its health officer, Dr Smita Parsekar, said that most cases were linked to industrial workers and their families. A few cases were reported in central Ponda, too. Parsekar said that with antigen testing having commenced in Ponda, test results are being obtained faster. The new mode of testing has begun at the sub-district hospitals in Ponda and Chicalim. She said that all those who tested positive on Saturday were transferred to Covid care centres. “People having children and elderly persons at home don’t take the risk of staying in home isolation lest they infect their family members,” she said. Porvorim too saw a spike in cases, going up from 21 to 34 in a single day. A health official said that the new cases were detected at Penha da Franca and from the government and police quarters. All those who tested positive were being transferred to Covid care centres. Meanwhile, an employee of the food and drugs administration (FDA) residing in Candolim has also tested positive. Two family members of a boy from Bairo Alto, Saligao, who tested positive earlier this week, tested positive on Saturday. Candolim PHC health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth said that the family members were immediately shifted to a Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-death-toll-now-48-with-3-new-deaths-280-fresh-cases-detected/articleshow/77309567.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Health min inaugurates plasma bank in Kota Med College||Kota: State health minister Dr Raghu Sharma on Saturday inaugurated the plasma bank in Kota Medical College Hospital through video conferencing. “Plasma therapy is an effective way of treating Covid patients and citizens who have been cured of the virus need to be encouraged for plasma donation,” said Raghu Sharma on Saturday. Due to sincere efforts of doctors, corona death rate is constantly decreasing in the state and medical and health facilities are being expanded for the treatment, he said, adding five medical colleges of the state have already started plasma therapy. Doubts on plasma donation need to be cleared so that the people, driven by self-inspiration, can come forward, he added. “Now, the priority of the state government is to raise the recovery rate of corona infected patients and bring down death rate. No shortage of resources would be allowed to creep in medical and health services for this purpose,” said Sharma. The minister also reviewed the efforts and preventive measures being adopted for corona control in Kota district. Dr Vijay Sardana, principal of Kota Medical College, assured the health minister that Kota would play a leading role in plasma donation and claimed at least 11 persons have so far donated plasma in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-min-inaugurates-plasma-bank-in-kota-med-college/articleshow/77309568.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Tracing 11 contacts per Covid positive case: Chennai corporation||CHENNAI: In July, for every Covid-19 positive patient, the city corporation has traced 11 of his/her contacts. Of these, three have been home contacts and eight extended contacts. Of the 40,487 people testing positive for Covid-19 from July 1 to 29, the civic body traced 1.45 lakh home contacts 14% of who tested positive and 3.35 lakh extended contacts of who 8% tested positive. The corporation has had 120 field contact tracers in wards with high cases, while 200 workers call up people and trace them. Teachers in zonal control rooms also trace contacts. “Without specific treatment and viable vaccine, contact tracing is an important tool to limit the spread. It also helps in reducing fatality if we identify the high-risk contacts early and ensure they aren’t exposed to the virus,” said Dr P Ganeshkumar, scientist, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology. The task of tracing, however, is not simple as only 60% of patients cooperate, say corporation workers. “When they begin abusing us, we go to the field and inquire with the neighbours and somehow trace some contacts. But it is very difficult,” said a sanitary inspector. Teachers who call up patients said most didn’t want to be questioned about others. “They often tell us they don’t want to talk and they don’t remember. But we try our best,” said one teacher. ICMR-NIE are supporting the corporation in performing this exercise. “It is a tough job. So we conduct workshops for these volunteers and teach them how to interact with patients and contacts, how to determine the infectious period which is usually 3 days before the onset of symptom and ten days after the onset of symptoms and to enter these details in a portal,” said Ganesh. Corporation joint commissioner Madhusudhan Reddy said early detection and prevention of spread are important. “For early detection, we have surveillance and testing and for limiting the spread, we have contact tracing and isolation/quarantine. We have been doing it from day one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tracing-11-contacts-per-ve-case-corpn/articleshow/77308848.cms||Komal Gautham
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers begin symbolic stir at MLA houses||Jodhpur: Farmers began their symbolic demonstrations at the residences of MLAs in a prelude to a state-level indefinite agitation from August 5. The farmers took this decision in a series of tehsil-level meetings for submitting their demand charter to the competent officials after intimating them about their agitation. In the order of pressing their demands, the farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kissan Sangh held demonstrations at the residences of MLAs of Osian, Bhopalgarh and Bilara and MP (Pali) on Saturday and submitted their demand charter. The state president of the sangh Tulcha Ram Sanwar said that the agitation began with symbolic demonstrations at the residences of Phalodi and Lohawat MLAs on Friday and would continue till August 4. “It was a matter of deep disappointment and an indication of the seriousness of these legislators towards farmers’ issues that hardly any of them were present at their residences to receive our demand charter despite intimation,” said Sanwar. He said that it has been a month since the farmers launched their movement to draw the attention of the government to their demands. “But unfortunately, no ears have been lent to our demands so far in any manner or any assurance has been received from the government,” said Sanwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-begin-symbolic-stir-at-mla-houses/articleshow/77309564.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Forest officials transferred after farm owner’s death in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: The police investigation team has found that the farm owner, who was found dead in a well in Chittar in Pathanamthitta, was not taken into custody by forest department officials legally. The procedures needed to be taken before taking a person into custody was not followed and no case was registered against him, said a police source. Pathanamthitta crime branch have begun a probe into the death of T T Mathai, 41, of Kudappanakkulam in Chittar who was found dead in a well near his house on Tuesday night. The probe team is also investigating the involvement of a third person in the incident. The autopsy report has stated drowning as the cause of death. Meanwhile, Sheeba, wife of the deceased, said that her husband was murdered by the forest officials after taking him into custody. She also took a stand that the dead body will not be cremated until the culprits are brought to book. She also said that the death of her husband is a custody death and the case should be treated like that. She was also not ready to approve the autopsy report that stated that her husband’s death was due to drowning. Meanwhile, forest department have transferred seven officers including the range officer who were allegedly involved with the incident. The deceased was taken into custody by the forest officials in connection with damage of cameras installed in the forest. The primary autopsy report states that even though there were injuries on the body, they are not the cause of death. The surgeons consider these injuries might have been caused during the fall. There were no internal injuries too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-officials-transferred-after-farm-owners-death/articleshow/77307982.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents wait for using Jagraon bridge extended till Sept 15||Ludhiana: It seems that the long wait of city residents for using Jagraon bridge for travelling is not going to end soon as another deadline has been announced for the completion and opening of the flyover by the civic body authorities. The residents will have to wait for the completion, at least up to September 15. However, the mayor, Balkar Sandhu, blamed slow pace of work by contractor and weather conditions for the delay in the completion of the bridge. The residents are facing a tough time since July 2016 when one side of flyover was closed by the railway authorities as it was declared unsafe for the movement of vehicles. So, in the first two years of closure the arrangement of funds was a big question for the municipal corporation. However, Rs 24.30 crore were arranged to be handed over to the railway authorities and finally in 2018, the work got started. The deadline of this flyover was June 30, 2019, which could not be achieved. The railway officials were a little bit slow on this project work and the deadline was extended up to December 2019. The MC took over the work in December end and attempts were made to complete the project work by March 2020. However, the lockdown was imposed and again the project missed the deadline of June end. But work could not be completed even in July and after extending its deadline to August 15, now the civic authorities were claiming to complete the work in mid-September. The mayor said, “The contractor had stopped the work for a few days as he was asking the officials to revise the estimates first as the cost of construction had increased. But this was a clear case of blackmailing as we never stopped payment of this contractor.” He said he had to issue instructions to terminate the tenders and hire another contractor for the work and only then work started again. He said a lot of time got wasted and moreover, the kind of work is going on at the spot, it is quite risky and in this season it will go slow. He said they will try to complete the work by August end or September first week but September 15 is kept as the last deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-wait-for-using-jagraon-bridge-extended-till-sept-15/articleshow/77309032.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Satya Pal Malik raps Pramod Sawant again, says idea of new Raj Bhavan ‘irrational, imprudent’||PANAJI: A fortnight after Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant was ticked off by governor Satya Pal Malik for mismanagement of the Covid situation in the state, Malik again wrote a strong letter to Sawant for planning to construct a new Raj Bhavan and said it was “irrational and imprudent” to even think of it when the state is reeling under acute financial crisis amid the pandemic. Malik also clarified to Sawant that “his requirement for functioning as governor is very limited and he does not require any new Raj Bhavan building per se”. On July 24, Sawant after a meeting with chief secretary Parimal Rai and PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar had told TOI that the PWD had said it was difficult to maintain the Raj Bhavan and hence, the state government was in the process of identifying land for a new Raj Bhavan and it would be tendered by April next year. Malik made it very clear to Sawant that not only the proposal should not be taken forward, but also that the project “would be taken up only when the finances of the state improves and that too within the premises of the Raj Bhavan only”. The chief secretary had said during the meeting that the new Raj Bhavan should have sufficient space for three helicopters to land. The Cabo, which houses the Raj Bhavan, currently has a helipad and was the seat of power during the Portuguese era, and also the residence of the governor general. As per the official website, the year of construction is understood to be 1534. The governor, who had written the letter three days after Sawant and the chief secretary made public their grandiose plans of constructing a new Raj Bhavan and was released on Saturday as a statement, also said that “any new capital work would entail unnecessary additional financial burden on the state exchequer, thereby exacerbating the economic distress of the state”. Goa’s economy has plummeted since the pandemic with revenue receipts having missed budget estimates. With a 74% shortfall in revenue collections, the government had to resort to Rs 900-crore market borrowings in the April-June quarter of this fiscal. With the state’s coffers empty, Sawant has also sought a Rs 2,000 crore financial package from the Centre, which till now has been ignored by the Narendra Modi government. Except for forming high-profile committees for economic revival of the state and taking their recommendations, the government has done little else but studying those reports. “An economic revival plan is the need of the hour,” leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said. “It is the responsibility of every government to set its priorities. Giving basic comforts to the needy must top the agenda of every effective administration,” he said. On Friday, Congress had alleged that Sawant wanted to convert the existing Raj Bhavan into a casino and spa resort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/malik-raps-sawant-again-says-idea-ofnew-raj-bhavan-irrational-imprudent/articleshow/77309556.cms||Murari Shetye
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||‘Allow junior officers to impose penalty for flouting Covid norms’||Jaipur: Expressing displeasure over hardly any action against those not wearing masks in public places and not maintaining social distancing, Subodh Agarwal, officer in-charge of Jaipur, while reviewing the Covid situation on Saturday asked collector Antar Singh Nehra and other officials to be strict on “vigilance and enforcing Covid guidelines” and to be serious about creating awareness among people. He said powers must be given to junior-level officers to impose penalties for violation of the norms. Agarwal told the officials that “most people were seen without masks in public and there was hardly any crowd control in market places”. He recommended spreading short messages through social media to create awareness among people. “There are only around 5 to 6 auto-rickshaws for creating awareness among people about precautionary measures. For impact, there should be one auto-rickshaw to cater to a population of 5,000. They need around 600 auto-rickshaws. I told them to scale it up to 1,000 if they have e-rickshaws and rickshaws. “If they don’t have volunteers, I have asked them to seek NSS and NCC help. I asked them to use PCR vans (around 80) and Nagar Nigam vehicles for playing jingles for awareness. “I have asked them ensure that junior-level officers (up to level of head constables, tehsilars and incident commanders) are given permission to impose a fine or a penalty for violation of Covid norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allow-junior-officers-to-impose-penalty-for-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/77309573.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa govt clears dues of support price to sugarcane farmers||PANAJI: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar on Friday said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has cleared the support price of Rs 1,800 per tonne for sugarcane farmers and the amount would be credited in their accounts by Saturday. The state government has sanctioned funds totalling to Rs 5.8 crore for this purpose. On Friday, the chief minister held a meeting with Kavlekar, minister for cooperation Govind Gaude and sugarcane farmers at Panaji to discuss the issue. Kavlekar said that when the farmers had recently protested at the Sanjivani sugar factory over their demands and he had assured them that at least Rs 600 per tonne will be paid before Ganesh Chathurti, while the balance amount would be deposited in installments. “Except for the harvesting support price which will be given later, all other pending funds totalling to Rs 5.8 crore will be disbursed,” he said. He also said that the harvesting support price of Rs 600 per tonne was increased from Rs 200. Gaude said the assurance given to the farmers of disbursing the money before August 6 has been fulfilled. He also said that with only the harvesting support price pending, the farmers should not repeatedly agitate over this amount as the government will transfer the money later. He further said that no decision has been taken to restart the sugar factory||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-clears-dues-of-support-price-to-sugarcane-farmers/articleshow/77309825.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab pesticide consumption down to less than 5,000 tonnes||BATHINDA: Even as 27 pesticides potentially dangerous to human beings and animals are set to be banned, Punjab seems to be going on pesticide detox after decades of abuse. Provisional data of the Union agriculture ministry suggests that consumption of technical grade pesticides has come down to less than 5,000 t onnes for 2019-20 in Punjab. Punjab consumed 4,930 tonnes of pesticides in 2019-20, down from 5,543 tonnes in 2018-19, registering over 10% decline in consumption. In 2017-18, Punjab consumed 5,835 tonnes of pesticides, in 2016-17 consumption was recorded at 5,843 tonnes, in 2015-16 it was 5,743 tonnes and in 2014-15, Punjab consumed 5,689 tonnes of pesticides. Although there is progress, Punjab continues to be at third spot in pesticide consumption across the country after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. However, per hectare consumption of pesticide in Punjab is one of the highest in the country at .74 kg/hectares as suggested in 2016-17 data. The national average for the time was .60kg per hectares. Use of pesticides increased after the Green Revolution, when Punjab contributed immensely in increasing food production. Punjab constitutes only 1.54% of the total geographical area of the country but accounts for 2.5% arable area at 4.023 million hectares as against 159.7 million tonne arable area in the country. However, its share of pesticide use is over 8%. In 2014-15 and 2015-16, it was over 10%. The reduction in pesticide consumption, therefore, comes as good news. “It has happened due to persistent and collective efforts. Farm and food experts as well as environmentalists have been making earnest efforts to decrease the use of pesticides and insecticides. Besides, consumers’ preference for less chemical induced food has helped. Farmers are also becoming aware of the pitfalls of overuse of chemical pesticides,” said farm policy expert Devinder Sharma. Sharma added that people in Punjab also associate pesticides with cancer, culminating in the dreaded cancer belt. Still, he said, this year there could be an increase in pesticide consumption because much of paddy transplantation has been done through direct seeded rice (DSR) technique. Nevertheless, Umendra Dutt, executive director, Kheti Virasar Mission, who promotes organic farming, feels farmers need to turn to zero budget natural farming(ZBNF). Decrease in the use of pesticides will also play a positive role in saving the environment from further degradation. Ministry of agriculture and farmers' welfare has sought feedback on banning of 27 pesticides/insecticides till August 11. In August 2018, 18 pesticides were banned. Farm, food experts and environmentalists are raising their voice to ban these pesticides at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/state-pesticide-consumption-down-to-less-than-5k-tonnes/articleshow/77308909.cms||Neel Kamal
August 2, 2020||Amritsar||Aid for girl who got 99.55% in XII exams||BATHINDA: A US-based literary organisation, Raag, has announced to honour the rare feat of Jaspreet Kaur of Bajewala village in Mansa district — who secured 99.55% marks in XII exams of PSEB despite coming from an underprivileged family — with a Rs 1 lakh award. She scored 448 out of 450 marks in the Humanities stream. Raag, being run by writer Inderjit Purewal and poet Ajay Tanvir, has announced to provide the award any time before August 15 through its Punjab-based representatives. The achievement is considered almost unthinkable for a girl from a downtrodden family, with no facilities at her disposal and studying in a government school. Her father is into hair dressing for the last many years and the family lives in a small house in the village. Jaspreet, 17, now wants to support her family by doing some jobs, along with pursuing her further studies. Her ultimate aim is to become an English teacher and to accomplish it, she wants to do masters in English Literature. But, before that she wants to do the Elementary Teachers Training (ETT) and clear the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET). “When we learnt about the achievement of Jaspreet, we decided to support the girl in her further studies. We normally see celebrated authors are selected for such awards, but going by her determination to reach the top made us think twice and finally we decided to give award to her, so that she could inspire more underprivileged students, who fail to get the education they deserve for want of resources,” Inderjit told TOI while speaking over phone from New York, where he is settled for the last 23 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/aid-for-girl-who-got-99-55-in-xii/articleshow/77308918.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Viyyur prison gets a Miyawaki forest||Thrissur: The Viyyur central prison in Thrissur district will get lung space soon. A 'Miyawaki' afforestation project implemented by the central prison authorities and Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has started. The 'Miyawaki' method named after famed Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki is a technique of planting native species closely in a small space to mimic a mini forest. The authorities have planted over 2000 saplings comprising a variety of locally found species, including Kunthirikkam (white dammar), Plavu (Jack tree), mango tree, Kattujathi (wild nutmeg), Anjili (wild jack), Arjunamaruth (Strychnine) and Marotty (Chaulmoogra). “The 'Miyawaki Method' is a unique technique to grow forests," said Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad Thrissur district secretary T Satyanarayan. "It’s specialty is that plants receive sunlight only from the top. A Miyawaki forest can grow in even two cents. In the prison premises we have 20 cents for the project," he added. The KSSP says it plans to grow at least nine other similar forests in the Thrissur district before proceeding to other districts. Thrissur social forestry Assistant Forest Conservator P M Prabhu said: "In towns, Miyawaki forests consisting of lianas, shrubs, herbs, and creepers are practical." Viyyur central prison superintendent N S Nirmalanandan Nair said jail DGP Rishiraj Singh had directed to go ahead with the project that they have named, 'Gandhismrithivanam'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/viyyur-prison-gets-a-miyawaki-forest/articleshow/77308015.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Protocol in place, but not all home contacts are tested||CHENNAI: Despite the number of Covid tests in the city exceeding 10,000 daily, several home contacts of people who have tested positive are still not being tested. Though the Greater Chennai Corporation’s protocol is to test all such home contacts, many of its health workers wait for people to develop symptoms before testing them. In Anna Nagar, the family of a senior citizen who died of Covid-19 two weeks ago has still not been tested. “We got calls from the corporation volunteers inquiring about our health. However, we were not tested,” said one of them. V Sandhya, who was a contact of a patient in her area has not been called yet. “I am the extended contact. But the patient’s family is also not under surveillance. Some of them also had mild symptoms. But they have neither been traced nor tested. Sometimes, the problem is also with residents who hide information,” she said. Sweety, a resident of Anna Nagar, said her husband turned positive and is in a private hospital. “The doctor insisted that we don’t test until we have symptoms. The corporation also said the same. We didn’t know that all home contacts should be tested,” she said. As per ICMR guidelines, high risk contacts should be tested only five days after exposure. “This could also be the reason for private hospital doctors advising against testing asymptomatic home contacts,” said a doctor. P Madhusudhan Reddy, joint commissioner, health said they had a robust system with all information entered in a portal. “A few could have been missed. We try to test everyone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/protocol-in-place-but-not-all-home-contacts-are-tested/articleshow/77308882.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Boy abducted from Baran rescued in MP||KOTA: In a joint operation with Madhya Pradesh police, Baran district police on Friday rescued a 10-year-old boy who was abducted from his house in Kherkhedabura village under Bapcha police station of Baran, and arrested the kidnapper. The boy was abducted late on Monday night and the kidnapper had made a ransom call demanding Rs 5 lakh for his safe release. The kidnapper is a history-sheeter with at least 27 criminal cases against him in police stations in MP. Speaking at a press conference at Chabda police station on Saturday, Baran SP Ravi Sabharwal said the mastermind of the inter-state gang, identified as Shivraj Singh Meena (50), a resident of Kumbhraj police station area of Guna district in MP, was nabbed from his native place and the abducted boy, Rameshwar Lodha, was also rescued in sound health. Two other accused, who had held the boy captive in a deserted place and were guarding him, fled when the police team reached the spot. The boy was abducted from his house in Kherkhedabura village on intervening night of Monday and Tuesday this week while he was playing with his father’s mobile, the SP said adding the key accused the next day (Wednesday) called the boy’s neighbour and demanded ransom of Rs 5 lakh for the boy’s safe return. Taking a serious note of the matter, five police teams comprising cops from seven police stations of the district led by ASP Vijay Swarnkar under the supervision of DIG were engaged in the operation to trace and rescue the boy safely, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-abducted-from-baran-rescued-in-mp/articleshow/77309569.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: AAP, BSP slam Congress govt||CHANDIGARH: The death of 70 people after consuming spurious liquor has triggered sharp political backlash. Demands have been made for compensation and job to family members of the victims as well as resignation of the chief minister, who is being criticised for his failure to rein in the drug and liquor mafia. In Amritsar, Punjab AAP state core committee chairman and MLA principal Budhram as well as chief spokesperson and MLA Baljinder Kaur offered condolences to families of people who died after consuming spurious liquor on Saturday. They blamed the deaths on the liquor mafia of the state, which, they said, is being run under the patronage of the ruling Congress government. They said such tragedies were inevitable since leaders of the ruling party have forgotten their moral responsibilities and have ‘outsourced’ police stations and courts. AAP leaders also demanded registration of murder cases against those responsible for the deaths and a compensation of Rs 20 lakh besides a government job to eligible members of each family. In Jalandhar, Punjab state BSP president Jasbir Singh Garhi demanded the resignation of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on moral grounds for failing to control illegal liquor and drug trade. The CM has completely failed to control liquor and drug mafia, Garhi said in a statement issued here on Saturday. “He made solemn promises to people of the state before the 2017 polls saying that he would end drug mafia in four weeks but not only has the drug trade been thriving, the liquor mafia has also widened its operations. Despite illegal liquor factories found running in Patiala, Kahhan and Mohali, the bigger culprits have not been nailed, which reflected that Congress leaders had patronised the illegal business and were actively conniving with the mafia,” he said. He added that drugs are as easily available in Congress tenure as they were during the SAD-BJP regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-bsp-slam-cong-govt/articleshow/77308941.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Beneficiaries start applying online||Thiruvanathapuram: The local bodies started receiving applications online on Saturday from eligible beneficiaries who were exempted from an earlier list for the LIFE housing mission. Around 1500 applications were marked as completed online till noon and the local bodies are expected to publish the list of applicants after August 14. A team of officials will be deputed for scrutiny of applications and field visits will be done to ascertain the eligibility of applicants. Complaints can be submitted to block panchayat secretaries at the grama panchayat level and to urban local body secretaries at the municipality/corporation level. The list will be approved by the councils and committees of local bodies by September 26 and the final list will be done by September 30. Applications will only be received online through www.life2020.kerala.gov.in. The CEO of the LIFE mission had earlier given instructions to begin help desks at panchayat and ward levels. Applicants have been directed to make use of Akshaya kendras, panchayat help desks for filing applications online. More than 2 lakh houses have been completed under phases 1 and 2. There were complaints that some of the eligible families could not be included in the initial lists prepared in 2017. The local self-government department had recently prepared a guideline for preparing a new list for inclusion of such eligible beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/beneficiaries-start-applying-online/articleshow/77308040.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: ‘12 deaths not enough to stop illicit liquor sale in Muchhal’||MUCHHAL (AMRITSAR): Death of 12 village residents after consuming spurious liquor, which claimed 70 lives in three districts as well as the arrest of a woman involved in the illicit liquor trade has led to renewed focus on the “traditional business run by a few families” of the village. A few persons alleged that the hooch was being sold even after the recent deaths. While the grieving family members of victims arranged for their last rites, residents hesitantly talked about a few families operating the illegal business despite repeated warnings. Harjit Singh, whose father Balwinder Singh allegedly died after consuming the spurious liquor said, “A bootlegger’s family lives next door. We have tried to stop them several times but they say if you have guts you also sell liquor.” Harjit’s house is adjacent to that of Balwinder Kaur, who has been arrested. Her husband is one of the 12 persons who died after consuming the illicit brew. He said police raided Balwinder’s house many times but did not find anything illegal. Even if liquor is seized in some case, police arrest a few persons and let them off after some time, he added. A person who didn’t wish to be named said chemicals like methanol and even oxytocin are used to brew the illicit liquor. A few families in the village run the illicit liquor trade and sell cheap ‘whisky’ to consumers, he said. According to former village sarpanch Sukhraj Singh, Punjab is not new to indigenously brewed liquor but this concoction is different. Earlier, he said, illicit liquor was brewed using ‘gur’ (jaggery) and other herbal material but nowadays, chemicals are being used and these are not added in any specific measure. Such practices lead to the creation of a lethal cocktail. “They sell liquor pouches for Rs 10, Rs 20 or so. Unfortunately, even after 12 deaths, liquor is being sold in the village,” he claimed, adding that the brew was being sold in the village round the clock by a few families. Accusing a few influential families of being responsible for the sale of spurious liquor, Sukhraj said, “Police can trace them by questioning the arrested persons but they are not doing so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/12-deaths-not-enough-to-stop-illicit-liquor-sale-in-muchhal/articleshow/77308920.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu people most keen to skip hospital, meet doctors online||CHENNAI: As hospitals fight Covid, many people in Tamil Nadu are now getting their health status checked in less than six minutes at a click of a button. With 22,502 consultations, the state ranks number one in utilising the national free teleconsultation service esanjeevaniOPD, by the ministry of health and family welfare. For patients, this service has come as an alternative to hospital visits at a time when there is a fear of Covid spread. For doctors and government authorities, it is the best way to avoid crowds in hospitals busy treating Covid patients. The service is active in 15 other states. “We get not less than 1,200 calls a day. We have doctors in the state and district control rooms and we work along with 102 and 104 helplines,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of public health. “This service is for the common man when there is a difficulty in accessing their regular doctors. Minor ailments are handled and if need be, they are referred to a hospital. Though PHCs, medical colleges are working, this additional facility has become very useful during this lockdown,” he added. The portal works similar to a hospital/ clinic visit, except that the wait time to meet a doctor is less online. People from any corner of the state could log on to the portal. At a time, nearly 25 to 50 doctors attend patients’ calls. “I had skin allergy for the past three months and I was scared to go to a hospital. So, I used this service and a doctor from Nagapattinam attended. Within the next five minutes, she sent an e-prescription,” said Sundar R of Anna Nagar, Chennai. More than cities, the portal seems to have benefitted more people in the districts and rural areas. Tiruppur district was the first in the state to reach 1,000 consultations and has 2,293 consultations to date. “We aggressively took this up since its inception a couple of months ago. We wanted to avoid crowds in GH and other PHCs. So we have arranged computer systems in block hospitals so people from towns like Mulanur or Udumalpet need not come to the district hospital in Tiruppur,” said Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan, Tiruppur district collector. “We have suggested that prescriptions be forwarded to vendors and medicines be home-delivered to patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-people-most-keen-to-skip-hosp-meet-docs-online/articleshow/77308917.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Fee row: Delhi HC notice to private school over online classes||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has issued a show-cause notice to the principal and the chairman of a private school in the capital for barring two students from taking online classes over non-payment of fees. Justice Pratibha M Singh, while hearing a contempt petition filed by the father of the students — who are siblings — also directed the principal and the chairperson of Richmond Global School, Mianwali Nagar, Paschim Vihar, to remain present in the next virtual hearing on the matter. The court, after being informed that despite its earlier order the school had not allowed the students access to virtual classes, demanded to know why contempt action be not initiated against the school. The judge said the order of July 21 was passed keeping in mind the interest of the children, since education has completely come to a halt “and such a situation is not conducive for their growth, especially during the pandemic when all other students are able to access the portal and participate in online activities as also the classes.” The court also pointed out that as far as the question of fee hike is concerned, directions had been issued that once the school communicates the outstanding fee to the petitioner, the same will be deposited within one week. Appearing for the father, advocates Khagesh B Jha and Shikha Bagga told the court that the father could not deposit the fee online as his access to the portal of the school remained blocked. They said the examinations have also begun but the students were not allowed to appear for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fee-row-court-notice-to-pvt-school-over-online-classes/articleshow/77308953.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa drags government to HC over takeover of Veda Nilayam||CHENNAI: Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s legal heir J Deepa has approached the Madras high court challenging the acquisition of Veda Nilayam – her aunt’s Poes Garden residence — to convert it into a memorial. The primary grounds of her challenge were that the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, does not empower the state government to acquire a private land to convert it into a memorial and that the acquisition was done without conducting and publishing the mandatory social impact assessment. This apart, the land acquisition officer who has passed the acquisition order on July 22 is not a competent authority under the Act, as it empowers only the district collector to pass such orders, Deepa said. She further contended that the Land Acquisition Act does not provide for acquisition of movable properties in the residence like, gold, silver, jewelry and other precious items. Therefore, Deepa wanted the court to direct the authorities to handover the movable properties acquired from Veda Nilayam to her and grant an interim stay against the operation of the acquisition order. The plea filed in the high court registry is likely to be taken up for hearing in the first week of August. Besides the technical challenge put against the acquisition of her aunt’s residence, Deepa also alleged that the state government, under the guise of establishing a memorial to the late leader, was trying to usurp the residence and precious materials in it. Asserting that the acquisition and the announcement to create a memorial for Jayalalithaa by the government, which has only few months left, has been made only with political agenda in view of the forthcoming assembly election, Deepa said, the state, by making public the list of precious materials available in the home, has made it vulnerable to robbery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jayas-niece-deepa-drags-govt-to-hc-over-takeover-of-veda-nilayam/articleshow/77308944.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Frequent power cuts made July sweatier for residents||Nagpur: The MSEDCL claims that power cuts increases during rains but in July, the city residents underwent severe power cuts even if the month witnessed very scanty rainfall and the discom has not yet find the solution to the problem. There are several areas in the city where breakdowns occur 5-6 times for 15-20 minutes every day which is “very irritating specially when many people are working from home”. The city residents feel the breakdowns in fact have increased in last 3-4 months than the same period in 2019. “I want to draw attention of our energy minister Nitin Raut, who belongs to the city, that he should do something about this power failure issue. The services of MSEDCL has been going south and increase in tariff going north. Power goes off for 15 to 20 minutes for five to six times every day. We complain to MSEDCL and it sends a repair team but is unable to find a permanent solution to the problem, said Sasrang Kahu, a resident of Narendra Nagar, which is one of the worst-affected localities. A resident of Nandavan, Dipak Dhirde says power cuts of short durations took place four to five times a day almost daily. “I pay my bills honestly. Why shouldn’t I get uninterrupted power supply? On one hand, MSEDCL is sending us inflated bills and on the other it is not even providing us quality power supply,” he rued. There are some areas where, apart from power cuts, low voltage supply is adding to their woes. “During the lockdown, many people have been working from home. But in Subhash Nagar, the voltage goes down and many electrical appliances stop functioning the moment it starts raining. My husband works from home and he can’t use the broadband Internet. MSEDCL should realize the people, working from home, should be given uninterrupted power supply,” said Arti Jethani of Subhash Nagar. An MSEDCL spokesperson said that number of power cuts increases during rainy season and this July was no exception. “We are testing a new 10 MVA transformer in Chhatrapati Nagar substation. As soon as it gets commissioned, power problems will reduce in the areas,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP activists burned power bills in front of 32 substations of the city on Saturday morning to protest against exorbitant power bills. The prominent senior functionaries of the party who took part in the agitation, include MLAs Krishna Khopade, Vikas Kumbhare and Mohan Mate, Rajya Sabha MP Vikas Mahatme, MLC Girish Vyas, Dayashankar Tiwari, former mayors Nanda Jichkar, Maya Iwnate and Archana Dehankar and others. In a few places, BJP activists, apparently wishing to preserve the current bills, reportedly burned bills of 2019. BJP spokesperson, however, denied that any such thing had happened and said only June and July 2020 bills were burned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/frequent-power-cuts-made-july-sweatier-for-residents/articleshow/77309597.cms||Ashish Roy
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Fr Panattuparambil to lead Syro-Malabar faithful in Rome||Kochi: Fr Babu Panattuparambil belonging to the Archdiocese of Thrissur has been appointed as the rector of Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica in Rome and the chaplain of the Syro-Malabar faithful living within the territories of the diocese of Rome. The minor basilica was recently assigned to the Syro-Malabar Church by the diocese of Rome so as to take care of the spiritual and pastoral needs of the Syro-Malabar faithful in Rome. According to a statement issued by the Syro-Malabar Church, Cardinal Angelo de Donatis, the Pope’s vicar-general for the diocese of Rome, made the new appointments, as per the recommendation of major archbishop Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, the head of the Syro-Malabar Major Archiepiscopal Church. Santa Anastasia Minor Basilica in Rome, is one of the oldest Christian churches and one of the oldest minor basilicas in the world and it was assigned to Kerala-based Syro-Malabar Church (SMC) by the Vatican a few weeks ago. This basilica is set to become the centre of the pastoral activities of the faithful of the Syro-Malabar Church in Rome. Fr Babu Panattuparambil was born in 1963 at Puthukkad in the Archdiocese of Thrissur and was ordained a priest in 1990 by Mar Joseph Kundukulam. He was sent to Rome for higher studies after seven years of pastoral work in the archdiocese. He successfully completed a doctorate in philosophy in 2004 from the Gregorian University in Rome before his return to the archdiocese. He has served as the archdiocesan youth director, rector of Mary Matha Major Seminary, archdiocesan notary, promoter of justice and a member of the archdiocesan advisory committee. He had been serving as the vicar of Aranattukara parish when the new appointment was made. Apart from English, Fr Panattuparambil is fluent in Italian and German. A fine orator, Fr Babu will take charge of the new ministry in Rome on September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fr-panattuparambil-to-lead-syro-malabar-faithful-in-rome/articleshow/77308080.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Saving kids: 650 cameras to check crime in northwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: A spate of crimes against children around Kirari and Prem Nagar in northwest Delhi has spurred Delhi Police to put the entire area under CCTV surveillance, and 650 cameras are being installed to monitor the entrance and exits of residential colonies there. Under the project, 456 cameras will be installed in areas under the jurisdiction of Aman Vihar police station and 194 cameras under Prem Nagar police station. The installation of CCTV cameras became a priority following a high court order on enhanced security monitoring in the area to prevent kidnapping and human trafficking. A study conducted by Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights two years ago had identified colonies around Kirari to be notorious for crimes against children. Cops attribute the high crime rate in Kirari to its proximity to the state borders and the presence of many illegal colonies. “The regular appearance of new people in the localities makes it difficult to keep tabs on anyone. The open grounds also often turn into hubs for illegal activities,” noted an assistant commissioner of police with prior service in the area. The high-resolution CCTV cameras being installed will have infrared night vision that can detect number plates of vehicles entering or leaving the colonies. The cameras will also have a face-detection feature that will work even in dim lighting. Apart from these, the cops expect the cameras to assist them in reducing the number of hit and run cases in which the offending vehicle drivers escape taking advantage of the dark. According to police, each camera will have the capability of being remotely tilted or panned. The cameras will provide direct feed to the control room and a 50-day backup will be retained on the servers. Unlike old devices used for the purpose, the new cameras will have wireless connectivity to a server and will be interconnected with each other to provide seamless video feed. The cops have sought an aluminium casing for the cameras to prevent them from being vandalised. The number of cameras to be installed on a stretch has been decided by the nature of crimes committed in the area. The spots where the cameras will be installed were selected on the basis of a crime-mapping study carried out in 2018. In the study, police collected data on the time of crime, location, the area and crime frequency. This information was subjected to analysis by a software that collects data from phone calls made to the police control room. The software then collated the data and crimes and created a map. The areas were surveyed by a professional agency, which then specified the light condition, pixel strength and hardiness of the cameras required. Based on this recommendation, a tender was floated by Delhi Police. Police officers said the Kirari project is a part of the smart city initiative under which the city’s police force plans to spend Rs 10 crore to install more than 6,000 surveillance cameras over the next few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/saving-kids-650-cameras-to-check-crime-in-nw-delhi/articleshow/77309058.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees record 1-day spike in Covid cases, casualties||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday recorded 1,160 cases and 14 casualties, the highest single-day spike in both parameters. This was the eighth day in a row when the number of positive cases was above 1,000. As on Saturday, the state’s cumulative death toll stands at 694 and the number of cases at 43,243. According to data released by the medical and health department, out of the 14 deaths, seven were reported from Jaipur, two each from Bhilwara and Nagaur and one death each was reported from Kota, Pali and Jodhpur. “All these patients had co-morbidities and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 129 cases out of the total 1160 cases. “There was a dip in the number of cases compared to Friday. Most of the cases are being reported from the outskirts of the city especially from rural interiors of the district,” said a senior officer of the health department. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 207 new infections were reported on Saturday. The districts that recorded more than 100 cases included Jodhpur (163) followed by Jaipur (129) and Kota (127). However, it was some relief in some of the districts including Karauli, Dungarpur, Pali and Sirohi where no cases were recorded on Saturday. With seven deaths, Jaipur fatalities rose to 195 followed by Jodhpur with 84 deaths. Out of the total 43,243 cases in Rajasthan, 11,881 are active. “So far, 29,144 persons have been discharged from various hospitals till Saturday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-record-1-day-spike-in-covid-cases-casualties/articleshow/77309590.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Virtual ties to bring siblings closer this Rakhi||CHENNAI: Every year, Shailee Gupta makes it a point to go back home to Ahmedabad so that she can celebrate Rakshabandhan with her brother and family. But this year, while the sentiment remains the same, the festival that celebrates the special bond shared by brothers and sisters will be celebrated virtually on August 3. “Rakhshabandhan is a special festival for us, we tie rakhis not just to our brothers but also our sisters-in-law, nephews and nieces,” says Shailee, who lives in Egmore. With travel restrictions in place due to the pandemic, Shailee and her daughter Vipasha, 18, began the preparations early on. “We baked chocolate chip cookies and couriered it along with the rakhis almost two weeks ago to my brother Manas and his family in Ahmedabad, so they will get it well before the festival. We also sent rakhis to my cousins in Delhi, Kolkata and London. On the day, we will meet up on a Zoom call.” With Rakhi to be celebrated virtually, e-commerce sites are ensuring that you at least have the satisfaction of sending gifts. “My brother and his family live in Sowcarpet. We are all not meeting up because of the pandemic since he lives with our grandmother who is very old. We don’t want to risk any chance of infecting her,” says Sejal Jain, who lives in Adyar. “So, I made the rakhis myself and sent it by Dunzo to him. And he has promised to send me a very special gift,” she laughs. Online gifting has taken off in a big way. “We believe the tradition of tying rakhi cannot be replaced with virtual gifts as there are sentiments attached. However, customers are combining Rakhi with digital gifts and we are getting 400 to 600 orders a day for hiring guitarist on video call, personalized video messages, personalized app for best sister/brother, etc,” says Manish Saini, COO, eCommerce, Ferns N Petals. “More customers switched to online shopping of rakhis, and even want them delivered to the US, UK, Singapore, and UAE. We are getting 10,000 rakhi and gift orders every day and have received 3,00,000 orders already. We are anticipating to close this season with 1.5 million orders.” Some people, like Archana Choudhury, have made rakhi hampers with whatever is available at home. “For the past five years, I have been taking a flight to Mumbai for Rakhi and staying there for a couple of days with my family. This time, I sent my brother Abhishek rakhis as well as a perfume and some chocolates for the kids,” says Archana. Though she will miss being with Abhishek, she says the emotion behind the festival is what matters. “It’s a very special day for me and I will be praying for his health and happiness,” she says. “And we will definitely meet on a video call.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virtual-ties-to-bring-siblings-closer-this-rakhi/articleshow/77308948.cms||Priya Menon
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gym owners go extra mile to ensure all Covid norms in place||BHOPAL: Masks, sanitisation, and temperature checks will become the new reality for gym-goers as fitness facilities are expected to reopen from August 5 in the state capital. While standard operating procedures are yet to be announced, gym owners are geared up to overhaul their set-up that has remained shut since March 24. Gym owners said that in the post-Covid scenario, gym functioning has also changed.  “Gone are the days when very few gyms in the city were following proper norms. As the people are in a state of panic, it is quite obvious that even the gym members will demand that all Covid-19 rules and regulations are followed,” said Satish Kumar, owner, Crossfit gym, at Bhojpur Club. As the gyms have been closed for the past five months, the owners had to ensure that members don’t complain about anything. “Despite being closed, I ensured that the machines are regularly overhauled. That would help me in reopening the set-up smoothl,” said Satish. A few gym owners have decided to even hire full-time Covid medical experts for their gyms. “I have contacted a few experts who have a deep understanding of how to fight Covid,” said Pankaj, a gym owner in BHEL area. Gym owners are also taking precautious and have allowed only those workers who are needed for overhauling work. “Reopening of the gyms is a very critical stage. Machines and equipment were not used for the past several months. A single mistake on the part of the gym owner would affect other gyms also. I am not all taking any chance in my gym. In fact, it is my request also to other gym owners to ensure that they follow every possible norm,” said Mohd Tariq, owner of Fitnes M5 gym in Koh-e-Fiza. Tariq, a strength and conditioning specialist, said, “There were many doubts raised on the reopening of the gym. Let me tell you that the business is severely affected. I do not think gym owners would take any chances in ensuring that the gym is all ready to open.”  He added, “Once SOPs are announced, it would be easier for them to follow the norms. Doctors suggested that gyms should strictly follow the norms. “The biggest concern is the use of air-conditioners. I would suggest having proper ventilation instead of using air-conditioners. Even if it is required, the temperature should be above 24 degrees as suggested by the health department,” said Dr Jince Thomas Mathew, head sports science centre, Tatya Tope Stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gym-owners-go-extra-mile-to-ensure-all-covid-norms-in-place/articleshow/77308973.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees record 1-day spike in Covid cases, casualties||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday recorded 1,160 cases and 14 casualties, the highest single-day spike in both parameters. This was the eighth day in a row when the number of positive cases was above 1,000. As on Saturday, the state’s cumulative death toll stands at 694 and the number of cases at 43,243. According to data released by the medical and health department, out of the 14 deaths, seven were reported from Jaipur, two each from Bhilwara and Nagaur and one death each was reported from Kota, Pali and Jodhpur. “All these patients had co-morbidities and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 129 cases out of the total 1160 cases. “There was a dip in the number of cases compared to Friday. Most of the cases are being reported from the outskirts of the city especially from rural interiors of the district,” said a senior officer of the health department. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 207 new infections were reported on Saturday. The districts that recorded more than 100 cases included Jodhpur (163) followed by Jaipur (129) and Kota (127). However, it was some relief in some of the districts including Karauli, Dungarpur, Pali and Sirohi where no cases were recorded on Saturday. With seven deaths, Jaipur fatalities rose to 195 followed by Jodhpur with 84 deaths. Out of the total 43,243 cases in Rajasthan, 11,881 are active. “So far, 29,144 persons have been discharged from various hospitals till Saturday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-sees-record-1-day-spike-in-covid-cases-casualties/articleshow/77310859.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees record 1-day spike in Covid cases, casualties||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday recorded 1,160 cases and 14 casualties, the highest single-day spike in both parameters. This was the eighth day in a row when the number of positive cases was above 1,000. As on Saturday, the state’s cumulative death toll stands at 694 and the number of cases at 43,243. According to data released by the medical and health department, out of the 14 deaths, seven were reported from Jaipur, two each from Bhilwara and Nagaur and one death each was reported from Kota, Pali and Jodhpur. “All these patients had co-morbidities and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 129 cases out of the total 1160 cases. “There was a dip in the number of cases compared to Friday. Most of the cases are being reported from the outskirts of the city especially from rural interiors of the district,” said a senior officer of the health department. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 207 new infections were reported on Saturday. The districts that recorded more than 100 cases included Jodhpur (163) followed by Jaipur (129) and Kota (127). However, it was some relief in some of the districts including Karauli, Dungarpur, Pali and Sirohi where no cases were recorded on Saturday. With seven deaths, Jaipur fatalities rose to 195 followed by Jodhpur with 84 deaths. Out of the total 43,243 cases in Rajasthan, 11,881 are active. “So far, 29,144 persons have been discharged from various hospitals till Saturday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-sees-record-1-day-spike-in-covid-cases-casualties/articleshow/77310858.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees record 1-day spike in Covid cases, casualties||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday recorded 1,160 cases and 14 casualties, the highest single-day spike in both parameters. This was the eighth day in a row when the number of positive cases was above 1,000. As on Saturday, the state’s cumulative death toll stands at 694 and the number of cases at 43,243. According to data released by the medical and health department, out of the 14 deaths, seven were reported from Jaipur, two each from Bhilwara and Nagaur and one death each was reported from Kota, Pali and Jodhpur. “All these patients had co-morbidities and were above 55 years of age,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur witnessed 129 cases out of the total 1160 cases. “There was a dip in the number of cases compared to Friday. Most of the cases are being reported from the outskirts of the city especially from rural interiors of the district,” said a senior officer of the health department. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 207 new infections were reported on Saturday. The districts that recorded more than 100 cases included Jodhpur (163) followed by Jaipur (129) and Kota (127). However, it was some relief in some of the districts including Karauli, Dungarpur, Pali and Sirohi where no cases were recorded on Saturday. With seven deaths, Jaipur fatalities rose to 195 followed by Jodhpur with 84 deaths. Out of the total 43,243 cases in Rajasthan, 11,881 are active. “So far, 29,144 persons have been discharged from various hospitals till Saturday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-sees-record-1-day-spike-in-covid-cases-casualties/articleshow/77310860.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||‘Surge in cases due to testing in rural areas’||JAIPUR: The health department has attributed the rise in Covid cases across the state to intense testing especially in rural areas. Authorities said checking the spread of the virus in rural areas and its containment was also necessary. Districts including Jodhpur, Ajmer, Alwar and Jaipur have been witnessing significant rise in cases for the past one week. “Earlier, our focus was on the city. Now we have taken testing to rural interiors of Jaipur district. We are now reporting cases from Kothputli, Shahpura, Dudu and other outskirts. This has been done in order to check the spread in rural interiors and also putting efforts on creating containment zones from where cases are coming,” said a senior officer of the health department on Saturday. “Increase in cases is a result of enhancement in testing facilities. We are now capable of carrying out 40,000 tests every day,” the officer added. “Timely identification of positive cases is also helping us in containing the fatalities,” the officer added. After spike in cases was witnessed in Jodhpur and Alwar districts, it was decided to carry out random testings in both the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surge-in-cases-due-to-testing-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77309592.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Export of desi ventilators allowed as death rate dips||NEW DELHI: The group of ministers (GOM) on Covid-19 has agreed to the proposal of the ministry of health and family welfare to allow the export of made-in-India ventilators. A statement issued by the health ministry said, “This decision comes on the heels of India continuing to maintain a progressively declining rate of case fatality of Covid-19 patients, which currently stands at 2.15%. It means that fewer numbers of active cases are on ventilators.” As on July 31, only 0.22% of the active cases were on ventilators across India. The decision has been communicated to the director general of foreign trade for further action to facilitate the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators. There has been substantial growth in the domestic manufacturing capacity of ventilators from Januray 2020 with more than 20 manufacturers at present.The export restriction on ventilators was imposed in March to ensure sufficient domestic availability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/export-of-desi-ventilators-allowed-as-death-rate-dips/articleshow/77310045.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Tocilizumab & Remdesivir jabs only after consultation with medical colleges: Govt||JAIPUR: Now, no district hospital in the state can administer Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections to Covid-19 patients on their own. They will have to consult the senior doctors of the designated medical colleges across the state and will also have to follow certain protocol and parameters to assess if a patient could be given these injections. The medical and health department took the decision on Friday to streamline the availability and usage of both the injections. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, medical and health, issued some directions for usage and availability of these two injections which are effective for the treatment of high-risk Covid-19 patients. “SMS Medical College and its core team involved in the treatment of Covid-19 have successfully used the Tocilizumab and Remedesivir injections on critical patients and they are aware of the protocol needed in this treatment. So, we have designated six medical colleges in the state which would only supply these injections. Moreover, the district hospitals and their doctors will have to seek recommendations from medical colleges to decide if the injections could be administered to some patient or not,” said Arora while talking to TOI on Friday. “There are some testing protocol about which the doctors of medical colleges are aware. So, it is our duty to sensitize our doctors at district hospitals for academic guidance and knowledge sharing on these injections. They should be using these injections very carefully,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS Medical College, who also heads the core team treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tocilizumab-remdesivir-jabs-only-after-consultation-with-medical-colleges-govt/articleshow/77309600.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Transport min visits hospitals, meets patients, docs & nurses||Jaipur: While MLAs and a number of ministers of the Ashok Gehlot government are in Jaisalmer, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Saturday visited hospitals to know about the well-being of patients undergoing treatment in Jaipur. He assured that the state government was committed to providing the best facilities to patients besides good governance. Khachariyawas visited Kanwatia, Janana Hospital and TB Hospital and interacted with patients, doctors and nursing staff. “I visited these hospitals to know if patients are facing problems. Majority of them are happy with treatment. This shows that even during tough times, the Congress government is with them while BJP leaders are at their homes and are only into criticizing the government,” the minister said. He accused BJP leaders of damaging the reputation of the government. He assured that the Congress government will not only complete its term but also form the government in the state in 2023. “The BJP, which is merely into conspiring to de-stabilize the government, is going to lose,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transport-min-visits-hospitals-meets-patients-docs-nurses/articleshow/77309595.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||2,500 more samples collected on second day of sero survey in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On the second day of the monthly serological survey started by Delhi government in the capital, total 2,500 samples were collected from at least eight revenue districts on Sunday, sources said. As many as 1,500 samples were collected on Saturday. The first serological survey conducted between June-end and first week of July in Delhi had revealed the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in around 24% of the total 21,387 samples collected. After the survey results were declared, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had announced that a sero survey would be carried out in the city in the first week of every month to determine the actual spread of the novel coronavirus and the government believes that the result of the second round of sero survey will show around 35% prevalence of antibodies in samples. “On Saturday, the survey started from four districts and on Sunday, samples were collected from eight districts. The survey will gather more pace Monday onwards,” an official said. “For the first sero survey, teams comprising health workers had visited different areas and chosen every fifth house from a selected locality. For this survey, however, we are selecting residents of the identified locations through a randomised sampling technique and asking them to visit their nearest dispensary,” he said. Officials said that for the first sero survey, teams of health workers had to visit door-to-door and the team members collecting blood samples had to wear PPE kits, which made working in the heat very difficult. “We had to take rest after every couple of house as wearing a PPE kit even in room temperature makes you claustrophobic and wearing it in such humid conditions completely drains you out,” the official said. All 11 districts have to collect around 15,000 samples, which is less than the number of samples collected in the first round of survey. However, officials said that the sampling is being done very scientifically and is completely randomised and uniform, with proportionate samples being taken from each group, such as 25% samples from those below 18 years of age. The exercise is crucial to find out if Delhi is heading towards herd immunity from the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2500-more-samples-collected-on-second-day-of-sero-survey/articleshow/77322095.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Schedule for pre-primary, Plus 2 changed||Thiruvananthapuram: There will be a schedule change in the classes for pre-primary and Plus Two classes broadcast on KITE-Victers television channel from Monday. As per the new schedule, Plus Two classes that used to be available from 8:30am to 10:30am would be broadcast from 8am to 10am. Kilikonchal, the pre-primacy classes would be broadcast from 10am. Earlier, the pre-primary schedule used to start at 8am. The change is being effected in view of requests from a number of parents, a statement said here on Saturday. There would be no other change in the current schedule of ‘First Bell’, the educational content broadcast introduced by the general education department in the state. First Bell has now crossed over 1,000 classes. Through the First Bell program, 604 classes were aired through KITE-Victers channel in addition to 274 Kannada medium classes and 163 Tamil medium classes telecast through local cable networks in the state. In addition to the viewership of classes through the channel mode, the web-streaming platform of KITE-Victers has also seen tremendous response. The monthly views of the YouTube channel (www.youtube.com/itsvicters) is 150 million (Rs 15 crore). The average daily viewership of classes on YouTube alone is 54 lakhs. Despite limited advertisements, the advertisement revenue stands at an average Rs 15 lakhs per month.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/schedule-for-pre-primary-plus-2-changed/articleshow/77308104.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Relief at last: Delhi red zones down by 219||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Saturday reduced the number of containment zones from 715 to 496 following extensive assessment of the sealed areas in the last two days. During a review of the Covid situation on July 29, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed concern at the huge area of containment zones in the capital, which restricted the movement of a large population. Kejriwal had subsequently directed health and revenue department officials to regularly review the containment zones. “As desired by the chief minister, all the containment zones in the city were reviewed in the last two days with each district magistrate and surveillance team,” revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said. “An extensive review of containment zones was carried out with revenue and health officials. The result has been quite satisfactory. Against 715 containment zones affecting 3,48,099 people, the number of containment zones is now down to 496, which affects the movement of only 1,06,211 people,” the revenue minister added. In the fight against the novel coronavirus, containment zones have been used as a key strategy. Authorities in the districts started creating containment zones with East and Central districts taking lead in the exercise besides Shahdara. As a general practice, areas reporting more than three and more cases were contained with barricades being put around them to stop the unnecessary movement of people. Extensive screening and sensitisation exercises were followed. However, a few people in some of the sealed areas complained of problems faced in going to workplaces and in receiving essential items, including groceries and vegetables. The containment zones have been spread all across the city, but overall West and South West districts followed by South and North districts have reported the highest number of sealed areas. Taking cognisance of the problems people faced in prolonged periods of containment zones, the central government had recently revised its guidelines for de-containing the sealed areas. According to the new rules, the containment zones can now be de-contained in 14 days after the discharge of the last confirmed case. Earlier, 28 days were required after the discharge of the last confirmed case. The early denotification of the contained areas will help the residents a great deal. They were unable to go to offices for 28 days and shops and other commercial activities located in the areas were barred from operating due to the containment exercise. It may also support the government’s plans to kick-start the economy. Watch Delhi govt denotifies 219 containment zones after Centre modifies rules||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-at-last-city-red-zones-down-by-219-de-sealed-after-cm-ordered-regular-review/articleshow/77308998.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cop moves elderly woman abandoned by kin to shelter||CHENNAI: The space outside a public toilet in Kelleys was home for 83-year-old Rani, who was abandoned by her kin after her husband and only son died, until help arrived on Thursday. A caller tipped Secretariat Colony police inspector Rajeshwari about an ailing, elderly woman on the platform. Rajeshwari, who went to the spot, found Rani’s health condition was deteriorating fast and that she couldn’t even stand up as her legs were swollen. The inspector learned from people in the vicinity that Rani lived with her realtives after her husband and son died. The relatives abandoned her soon after. “Rani has been sleeping on the pavement for the past one year. She took cover under sunshades of buildings around during rain, but most of the times, she slept drenched in the rain,” said Rajeshwari. While people in the vicinity gave her food prior to the pandemic, Rani was surviving on handouts by good samaritans since the lockdown began. Though she is old, Rani’s eyesight and hearing has not faded and she was polite and soft-spoken, the inspector said quoting onlookers. Talking about the orphaned woman, Parthiban, a youth from the locality, said, “Her only happiness prior to the lockdown was the sight of little children playing around her. She became too lonely since the pandemic began. She was soft and never asked anyone for help, but she will not refuse help that comes her way.” On Thursday night, the inspector bought Rani new clothes and fed her, post which she was tested for Covid-19. After results came back negative, Rajeshwari admitted the octogenarian to an orphanage where she will be cared for. “Though Rani ma felt bad about her situation, she never blamed or disclosed details of her family,” said Rajeshwari, adding that nothing was worse about the society than people abandoning loved ones. Touched by Rajeshwari’s show of love, Rani asked the inspector to visit her every week in the orphanage and also perform her last rites after she dies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-moves-elderly-woman-abandoned-by-kin-to-shelter/articleshow/77308972.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||CAP process begins, city colleges join under protest||Nagpur: On Saturday, the Std XI Common Admission Process (CAP) for 2020-21 was formally inaugurated online by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. The event, though a mere formality, generated a lot of interest in here as over 20% of the participating colleges are doing so under protest. These 40-odd city colleges have approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against CAP. Since the matter is sub judice, petitioners did not want to speak on record. “We have questioned why CAP is limited to institutes within city limits. It gives those under Nagpur Metropolitan Development Regional Authority (NMRDA) an advantage. Here, coaching classes are full of students who have taken admission in colleges which are outside the city limits and which they attend only for practicals and exams,” said an academic. That’s the reason some parties have approached the court “because now only the judiciary can set things right”. “We tried to put our point in front of education department so many times, but nobody heard us out,” the academic added. Since there is no stay on the process, the education department has gone ahead the admission for this year. While inaugurating the CAP portal, Gaikwad said the current pandemic has forced everyone to adapt. “We will try to ensure that CAP is completely online with no physical interaction between stakeholders. Even the information booklet will be available online and payment too will be done through the site,” said Gaikwad. The online CAP system is applicable only to colleges in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati. In the last three years, an average of 18,000 seats have gone vacant in Nagpur city colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cap-process-begins-city-colleges-join-under-protest/articleshow/77309604.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Suspended jail official’s son arrested over threat to blow up prison in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: A crime investigation agency (CIA) team of Gurugram police arrested Ravi Chautala, son of suspended deputy jail superintendent Dharamvir, for allegedly threatening to blow up the high security jail in Bhondsi.Ravi was arrested from his residence in Sirsa district. Dharamvir Chautala is already in judicial custody after cops recovered narcotics from his possession this week. According to information, soon after Dharamvira’s team, an audio clip allegedly having Ravi’s voice had gone viral in which he claimed that he had links with gangsters and threatened a major mishap in Gurugram jail and attack on cops. Gurugram police registered the case on Friday night. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava had been personally monitoring the investigation into the case. Jails minister Ranjeet Singh Chautala has termed the incident as unfortunate. “Police have already initiated action into the case. Adequate action has been taken. Also, new measures have been taken in the jail too,’’ said Ranjeet. Ravi’s act was immature and law would taking its own course, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/suspended-jail-officials-son-arrested-over-threat-to-blow-up-prison/articleshow/77309603.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Sale of pvt vehicles to spur due to virus threat: Parab||Nagpur: The Covid-19 lockdown and a drastic decline in the use of public transport have severely hit the revenue of regional transport department across the state, leading to shortage of funds in the state government, according Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab. The minister was in the city on Saturday to review the transport department’s operation. Parab hoped that the transport department could make up for the income deficit over the remaining six months of this fiscal. The review meeting of the minister was attended by RTO Dinkar Manwar, deputy RTOs Vijay Chavhan, Bajrang Kharmate, Vinod Jadhav, Atul Ade among others. The minister said the department may see a spike in its revenue generation as demand for private vehicles may rise as people have stopped using public transport in many major cities including Mumbai and Pune due to coronavirus scare. Meanwhile, a delegation of Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation led by its president Vilas Bhalekar met Parab and demanded Rs10 lakh compensation to the next of kin of autorickshaw drivers who committed suicide due to the lockdown. He also demanded implementation of the old format for renewal of autorickshaw permits instead of scrapping vehicles. Bhalekar also drew the minister’s attention towards over two-month waiting period in conducting driving license tests and demanded more slots for autorickshaw drivers. Autorickshaw drivers also demanded to reduce the fine amount for renewal of permits from Rs5,500 to Rs200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sale-of-pvt-vehicles-to-spur-due-to-virus-threat-parab/articleshow/77309602.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: When tongue craves for something deep purple, jamun is worth its salt||NEW DELHI: Deep purple for most people recalls the attractive tones of rock music, but for Delhiites, it represents the jamun, which has been a part of many fables surrounding Delhi and its culture. It was chosen by Edwin Lutyens to be planted on the wide avenues leading to the government blocks he created for imperial India, and since then these trees yield their annual production to sellers, who supplement it with supplies from Azadpur vegetable and fruit mandi, and sell them in the city, especially along the streets in New Delhi Municipal Council area. On Ashoka Road branching off from the India Gate hexagon sit a number of jamun (Syzygium cumini) sellers. Like Radha, most of those squatting on the roadside with their heaps of the astringent, deep purple drupes are vegetable vendors who engage in the slightly lucrative trade during jamun season. It’s not as if Radha sits under the Boat Club green’s jamun trees with a sheet to collect the falling fruit. She, like other jamun sellers, goes to Azadpur every morning, and each buys jamun worth around Rs 2,000 to sell through the day. There are others who source it from the likes of Kishan, a Hathras, UP, resident who makes trips to Delhi during the purple season. Kishan gets his jamun from the trees on the mango farm on which he works. Most sellers on Ashoka Road confided to TOI that buyers think the jamun, or Indian black plum, is the local produce of India Gate, but the British-era trees there produce very small drupes that aren’t the best tasting. Sanjay Dhamija of Rajasthan Tamatar Agency, one of the biggest jamun suppliers in the city, said most jamuns in Delhi come from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab. He alone brings in 8-10 tonnes of jamun from across the country, while the Azadpur mandi gets 40 tonnes of jamun daily in peak season. Raj Kumar Bhatia, general secretary of Chamber of Azadpur Fruit and Vegetable Market, pointed out that the jamun season was short, lasting from April to mid-August at most. The first batch of jamuns arrive from Gujarat, then from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and what Delhiites eat at this time, from Punjab. Dhamija disclosed that those from Gujarat and Punjab are citrusy in taste, while the ones from Rajasthan are the sweetest. “If you eat jamun from Pushkar, you will not like any other variant,” the connoisseur said. Jamun has its own place in history and folklore. Jamubudvipa, or Berry Island — India’s ancient name — is believed to be derived from the abundance of the black plum in the subcontinent. The ancient scriptures of Thailand and Malaysia call the Indian continent by that name. The term is also mentioned in Buddhist and Jain texts. While the acreage under jamun tree in India is not known, the evergreen can stand a fair deal of neglect, the reason why it was of the 13 indigenous tree species that Lutyens chose for his capital. Yogacharya Surakshit Goswami claimed the jamun’s leaves, bark, fruit and seed are beneficial in Ayurveda. “Jamun seed is good for diabetics, the fruit powder beneficial for skin and digestion, the leaves and bark rich in calcium, potassium, iron and vitamins. The fruit itself is a one-in-all solution for numerous problems,” Goswami asserted. Once sold as a humble fruit tossed with salt, it is now being used for sherbets, jams, syrups and as a well-liked flavouring for sorbets. Many chefs are exploring its citrusy taste in salads. Chef Akshay Malhotra even lists jamun gosht as a signature dish, calling the tart drupe an “excellent base for stewed lamb, chicken, seafood and vegetables”. For those who love the ovoid fruit, Dhamija has wise advice. “In jamun, timing is everything. You have to be at the mandi at 4am,” he revealed. “Those who buy it at that time get the best variety at the best price.” The coming fortnight is the last of the jamun season, and Radha and Kishan will no longer be there to satisfy your craving for the astringent favourite. Remember, timing is everything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-tongue-craves-for-something-deep-purple-jamun-is-worth-its-salt/articleshow/77322111.cms||Amin Ali
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman leaves with husband, found dead||Karnal: A 25-year-old woman was found murdered along New Grain Market Road in Nissing village near here on Friday evening. Police have booked her husband and three others for murder. Neeru was a resident of Indira Awas Colony in Nissing, and the case against has been registered a complaint by her brother. Police said Neeru married Shishpal seven years ago and the couple had two children. The couple was not on good terms. A few days ago, she had started residing with her parents at Sadar Bazar in Karnal city. On Friday morning, Neeru’s husband took her with him for collecting the rent of their house in Nissing, but she was found dead in the evening. Nissing police station SHO Ramphal said a forensic team was also pressed into service to gather fingerprints and other clues from the spot. He said the case had been registered under sections 302 and 34 of IPC against Neeru’s husband Shishpal and three others. The official said it seemed she had been strangulated with her scarf. The exact cause of death would be ascertained only after the autopsy report, he added. The body has been handed over to family members of the deceased. The accused is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-leaves-with-husband-found-dead/articleshow/77309609.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||Peon given ‘collector’ honour on farewell||VADODARA/ ANAND: For nearly four decades, he sat outside the collector’s door serving a miultiutde of officers that occupied the highest seat in Anand district. But Fatehsinh Makwana had no idea that one day he will also sit on the seat that he cleaned everyday to a sparkle. Peon working with the district collectorate, 60-year-old Makwana, was a class four employee, who retired from his services on Friday after serving his duty sincerely for 38-long-years. Anand district collector R G Gohil gave Makwana a dream farewell that befit the man who served the officers with great dedication. Makwana was made to sit on Gohil’s chair as a gesture of respect while the latter garlanded him with a shawl and flowers. “As peon to collector, he spent his entire life sitting outside the collector’s chamber, serving the government and the officers who served as district collectors. I thought I should appreciate the sincere work, dedication and devotion to his service he has done during his long tenure, especially when he retires from his service,” Gohil told TOI. Makwana, a resident of Tranol village near Anand, served around 15 collectors during his tenure. He recollected that most of the time collectors work in their chambers for 10 hours a day. At times, it would extend to 15 to 20 hours. “I was just handling my small responsibility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/peon-given-collector-honour-on-farewell/articleshow/77307304.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Woman ends life 11 months after marriage, 7 booked||HISAR: Repeated demands for dowry allegedly pushed a 19-year-old woman to suicide after just 11 months of marriage in ward number 7 of Barwala. The deceased has been identified as Kiran. Hisar police said Barwala police station registered a dowry death case on the complaint of Rajwanti Devi, a resident of Dhani Phogat in Dadri district against Rajesh, his father Ishwar, mother Rajbala, sisters Reena and Sunaina, all residents of ward number 7 of Barwala in Hisar district, Madhu and brother-in-law Surendra of Mandala village in Bhiwani district. In her police complaint, she said her husband died in 2016 and she has four daughters and a son. Younger daughter Kiran was married to Rajesh on September 3, 2019 and she gave a TV along with other accessories as dowry. However, she said the accused were demanding an LED and motorcycle. “The accused also beat her several times over dowry and the panchayat was convened many times but the behaviour of the accused did not change. On Friday afternoon, I received information about my daughter’s death. When I went, I was told she committed suicide by hanging herself,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-ends-life-11-months-after-marriage-7-booked/articleshow/77309608.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Resolving Naga problem to operationalise Act East policy||The current stand-off on Northern borders started with an ugly fracas at Naqu La in Sikkim, in first week of May. Subsequent events at Galwan, Pangang Tso and Depsang have got the whole nation, literally glued to Ladakh albeit on TV screens. While some sort of tortuous disengagement is being attempted, in face of Chinese obduracy, possibility of this being ruse and main action unfolding on Eastern border is very real. China claims large tracts of territory in Arunanchal Pradesh (AP) as South Tibet and even in 1962, main punch came in AP, after an initial diversionary foray in Ladakh. History tends to repeat itself, hence, it will be prudent to keep additional vigil and take requisite measures to dissuade another surprise. It is high time that we discard peripheral focus on North East (NE). We need to take up two critical challenges in mission mode: externally — guard eastern border, and internally — resolve Naga problem. Armed forces are prepared to combat external threat, but more sinister, internal one, calls for taking note of recent ominous developments. On 12 July, Assam Rifles (AR) and AP Police launched joint encounter to neutralise six militants of NSCN (IM) in Longding district in AP. This was notwithstanding the fact that there is so called ceasefire (CF) in place since 1997. There have been more than 100 rounds of peace talks, over last 23 years. This agreement is most inappropriately called as CF pact, instead of suspension of operations and does not stipulate territorial limits. The basic stumbling blocks, in resolution of Naga problem, are centred on sovereignty (extent of autonomy) and concept of Nagalim. Factions seek to extend scope to include adjoining Naga habitation pockets in AP, Manipur and Assam. Groups owing allegiance to Khaplang, stretch Nagalim dream to include Heimi, Konyak tribal areas in Myanmar. AR justified this encounter, on the grounds of agreement being confined within territorial boundaries of Nagaland. IM faction countered, by reiterating that Bangkok agreement of June 2001, does not specify territorial limits and is between Government of India and NSCN. It has served an ultimatum asking for clarification on scope and territorial limits, concurrently NSCN leader Muivah has shifted base to Delhi, demanding direct talks. Naga peace process has been unfortunate litany of badly handled parleys, characterised by series of concessions, in the hope that factions will splinter and tire out. NSCN factions, after mutual agreement, were allocated ‘designated camps’ to intern their cadres. The first deviation in 2002 resulted in IM setting up unauthorised camps, including in Manipur. Our objections were disregarded with MHA accepting them as - ‘camps taken note of’. This was further compounded by neglecting process of registration, disarming, skilling and absorption of cadres in alternate vocations, including security forces. NSCN factions were allowed to maintain self-styled armies. Armed cadres continued to roam around outside, running parallel economy fuelled by extortion (euphemistically, termed as taxation) with all pervasive influence in elections, politics and controlling stake in shady under world, encompassing narco-terrorism, arms trafficking, timber and wildlife product smuggling, and government contracts. Anyone, who stands up to the group is likely to receive Azha (deadlier than Fatwa) and meet fate similar to my good friend, retired DGP Hesse Mao murdered brutally in state capital. This reprehensible practice provides measure of pelf and legitimacy to Naga factions. It is ironical, as Nagas working in NE, are exempted from paying income tax. Recently, central agencies finally turned heat on few kingpins, associated with IM faction, but only after they escaped to Ruili in China. This group included self-styled General Phunthing Shimrang, related to Muivah and designated representative in peace process. IM already has Alee (external) command based in China, orchestrating money laundering and arms trafficking. Overarching control of peace process vests with designated interlocutor, an ex-bureaucrat, assisted by CF Monitoring Group, headed by senior retired Army or police officer. Starting with Padmanabhaiah, who was reluctant to even visit Nagaland and preferred Bangkok, interlocution process, has undergone a full circle. The current incumbent, R N Ravi, ex-IB, doubles up as the governor. As per leaked letter addressed to CM, he has dropped major bombshell by flagging extortion and uncontrolled move of cadres. This has lead to virtual derailing of peace process as the person nominated to find solution, is now highlighting problems at most inappropriate time, when solution seemed almost imminent. The main reason is that our spooking experts, over play being Machiavelli; promising different things at Delhi and Kohima. It will be important to bring conflict resolution process, back on rails, urgently. Naga problem is the Gordian knot, with potential to bring regional stability and operationalise, stalled ‘Act East’ policy. Complexity is further exacerbated with reported busting of arms trafficking racket in Myanmar having Sino-Pak connection. Seizure of Chinese arms along Thai-Myanmar border lead to arrest of Pak operatives, linked to Lashkar (LeT). Arms were destined for Rakhine province for Arakan army insurgents. They were meant to target assets, being created for Kaladan multi-model project, to link Kolkata with Sittwe port in Myanmar with Mizoram and Manipur. Unresolved terrorism tends to have domino effect. There has been another dastardly IED attack in Chandel district, close to Indo-Myanmar border by very strange combination of RPF (PLA-Meitei), MNPF (Manipuri Nagas) and breakaway faction of ULFA, causing four fatal casualties. It is time to act in focussed and concerted manner in mission mode denying China and Pakistan, an opportunity to exploit internal faultline in NE. The key to stability and outreach to the East lies in resolving the longest festering Naga insurgency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/resolving-naga-problem-to-operationalise-act-east-policy/articleshow/77309605.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Autonomy to colleges good, but will require monitoring of standards: Educationists on NEP||PANAJI: The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 will aim at giving academic, administrative and financial autonomy to higher education institutes. It will mean that colleges will be gradually moving out of the system of affiliation to the university. Educationists previously at the helm of administration of higher education institutes in Goa said that the aim to extend autonomy to colleges is a good move, but will have to be followed up with close monitoring of quality and standards during the shift from affiliation system to autonomy. Former registrar of Goa University Vijayendra Kamat said that the policy is very ambitious and a good one and that it is heartening to know that its provisions are the same as those adopted by today’s developed nations around 40 years ago. He said that it is only a matter of effective implementation of the NEP now. “The policy has plugged many shortcomings. Too much regulation has been done away with and a single body called the Higher Education Commission of India will be established. Too many regulatory bodies were creating a problem as there were overlapping decisions and this was not conducive to growth of institutes. Earlier, decisions would not come on time and there was no follow up. Now decentralisation will be done and I hope good implementation of the policy takes place,” Kamat said. He said that now with the affiliation system being done away with it will be survival of the fittest eventually among colleges. “Only those who have potential to grow will be able to sustain and flourish,” Kamat said. Former director of higher education Bhaskar Nayak said that the policy seemed very good on the face of it, but it can only be implemented effectively when the promised funding by the Centre follows. “Till the time the promised 6% of the GDP is not spent on education, you cannot implement all the provisions of the policy. When the Rashtriya Uchatar Shiksha Abhiyan was launched, funding of Rs 44,000 crore was made, but only Rs 11,000 crore was available in the end,” Nayak said. He said that giving all colleges autonomy may lead to issues of quality and standards. “Some are meeting requirements at present for the fear of Goa University. With autonomy comes a great responsibility and colleges should be able to maintain the quality and standards,” Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/autonomy-to-colleges-good-but-will-require-monitoring-of-standards-educationists-on-nep/articleshow/77309623.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State to ask Centre to re-notify shipping corridor||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala government will approach the Centre to re-notify new shipping corridor at a distance of 50 nautical miles from state’s shoreline in the greater interest of fishermen along the coast as well to preserve their rights for fishing. Fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma, after listening to the concerns of fishermen organisations during a meeting held on Thursday, said it would be in the best interest of the fishing community if the shipping corridor is notified at a distance of at least 50 nautical miles away from the coast. The minister said the state government had earlier taken its concerns to the ministry of shipping, giving a representation to the Centre on November 22, 2018. The minister said it is clear from the notification that the Centre did not seriously consider the apprehensions raised by the state. The minister said the country’s south-western shipping corridor is only 12 nautical miles away from the coast, which is one of the zones with high-fish breeding capability. This is because of the plenty of rivers that joins the sea in this area. As many as 38,000 fishing boats are looking for fortune in this area. If the shipping corridor passes through this area, there are also high chances of accidents as the boats will be hit by the ships in the corridor. The minister also reminded the accident caused by Italian ship Enrica Lexie in the state’s coast few years ago. The minister said the state would prepare another representation by including all the concerns raised by the fishing community and send it to the Centre. At least nine incidents of ships colliding with boats have occurred in the shipping corridor during January 2017 to February 2020. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also demanded on Friday to realign the proposed shipping corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-to-ask-centre-to-re-notify-shipping-corridor/articleshow/77308123.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||India Pistons Venkatramani, an auto parts sector pioneer, dead||CHENNAI: N Venkatramani, 80, CMD of India Pistons, among the country’s oldest auto parts makers, died on Saturday evening following a brief illness. He is also the vice-chairman of the privately held Amalgamations group. Cremation is on Sunday, his son Gautham said. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Venkatramani has been with the company since 1967. A fellow of The Institute of Mechanical Engineers having completed his masters from Imperial College, London, he is also chairman of George Oakes, IP Rings and is on the board of Bimetal Bearings, Amalgamations VALEO, Stanadyne. Venkatramani was a pioneer of the auto component sector who held several positions at Auto Component Manufacturers Association, Madras Chamber of Commerce of Industry. “His strength was looking ahead for the auto components trade with the opening up of the economy in early 1990s and he was an expert in labour laws,” a close associate of Venkatramani said. “He was a champion of quality.” Venkatramani was the brother-in-law of Amalgamations group’s founder Anantaramakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/india-pistons-venkatramani-an-auto-parts-sector-pioneer-dead/articleshow/77309006.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Judge facing unnatural sex, harassment charges from wife moves HC||Nagpur: A sitting sessions judge facing mental and physical harassment as well as unnatural sex charges from wife moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, along with other family members, for quashing an FIR lodged against him at Warud police station in Amravati. A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Shreeram Modak granted them interim respite by directing police not to file a chargesheet without its permission. “Considering facts of the case, especially wife’s complaint after filing mutual divorce case under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, we keep in abeyance sessions judge directives in anticipatory bail application filed by petitioners,” the bench said while clarifying that the petitioners don’t need to report to police station till further orders. The judge approached the judiciary through counsel Pervez Mirza after his estranged wife lodged a police complaint against him and other family members labelling serious allegations, including capturing her obscene photos on mobile. The FIR was initially lodged at Muktai Nagar police station in Jalgaon after which it was transferred to Warud for want of jurisdiction. Subsequently, the petitioners, including his parents, sisters and brother-in-law, were booked under Sections 498A, 377, 323, 504 and 506 of IPC. After the petitioners rushed to the sessions court for anticipatory bail, they were directed to report to the police station every Sunday. They challenged the verdict in HC contending that most of them are government employees and it wasn’t possible to travel in lockdown period. Terming it to be a purely matrimonial dispute, they said allegations labelled against them are false, vague, cryptic, omnibus and contradictory in nature. “There is an unexplained delay of 13 months in FIR registration which makes entire charges highly doubtful and suspicious. The wife also suppressed the fact that a divorce case with mutual consent was filed at Malkapur court last year as they were residing separately since September 2018,” they argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/judge-facing-unnatural-sex-harassment-charges-from-wife-moves-hc/articleshow/77309607.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||2 newborns, ex-min PC Sharma test +ve||Bhopal: A total of 168 people tested corona positive on Saturday, taking the tally of positive patients in Bhopal to 6,835 in the city. Five deaths were also reported in the day and the total toll in city rose to 181. Among those who tested positive were newborn twins, aged 16 days, two doctors, former minister and Congress MLA PC Sharma and a 25-year-old staff of the state BJP office. PC Sharma was admitted to hospital on Friday itself. From 8 pm on July 24, lockdown was imposed in the state capital and, in eight days of lockdown, a total 1,595 new positive cases have been found in the city. Areas from where positive patients were found on Saturday includes Om Nagar near Laghati where six people tested positive, five of a family tested positive in Fatehgarh, one employee each of AIIMS and JP hospital tested positive, six of a family tested positive in Shivaji Nagar, one person was found positive in MANIT campus. Besides, two persons were diagnosed as positive in Swami Ganga Nagar in 74 Bungalow locality, two people were found positive in Neem Wali Gali near Jinsi and five people were tested positive in Arera colony. The state capital has has outnumbered Indore in terms of active cases. At present, there are 2,177 active cases in Bhopal against 2,060 in Indore. On the brighter side, 148 patients were discharged, pushing the city’s total recoveries to 4,111.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-newborns-ex-min-pc-sharma-test-ve/articleshow/77309060.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Doctor dies of Covid-19 in Delhi, wife appeals for compensation||NEW DELHI: A doctor, who used to run a private clinic in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, died due to Covid-19 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) recently. His wife has appealed to Delhi government for help. “My husband passed away on July 24 due to Covid-19. He died in the line of duty while treating Covid-19 patients. He battled for life for 38 days in hospitals,” his wife wrote on Twitter on Friday. The woman said her husband was the sole earner of the family and requested the government to help. A senior government functionary said they have sought all details from the woman about the doctor’s death and if it fitted the criteria set by the government for monetary compensation to corona warriors the same will be given. Delhi government has recently passed an order stating that heads of hospitals run by the government should send complete details about the demise of any healthcare worker, permanent or temporary, who contracts Covid-19 while doing duty and succumbs to it. His or her family will be paid an ex-gratia of amount Rs 1 crore, the order said. However, in this case, the deceased was a private practitioner so the officials said the rule may not be applicable. In the last five months, more than a dozen healthcare workers have died due to Covid-19 in the national capital. This include a 28-year-old junior resident doctor with a Delhi government hospital, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at SGRH and Dr Aseem Gupta, an anaesthesia specialist at Lok Nayak hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doc-dies-of-covid-19-wife-appeals-for-compensation/articleshow/77309106.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Railways prodding businesses to switch from road transport||KOCHI: Plunged into a financial crisis following a fall in freight and passenger earnings due to the Covid-19 situation, the Indian Railways is on a mission to generate income by attracting businesses that would want products transported outside Kerala in bulk. Railways officials are in discussion with traders and associations to convince them to switch from road to rail transport. As per an order issued on July 22, officials have been assigned, district-wise, to identify various industries, aggregators, including cooperatives and logistics. “Currently we are mapping various industries, including agricultural products that can be moved by rail to increase revenue," said a senior official in Thiruvananthapuram division. "There is a 40 per cent drop in freight movement and almost nothing in terms of passenger movement. We are mulling over introducing a roll on-roll off method, wherein lorries can be directly moved into wagons." A problem, however, is that large trucks won't pass the test due to the relative height of railway overbridges. Nevertheless, the Thiruvananthapuram division has got clearance from the headquarters in Chennai, and "we plan to increase the freight revenue first before moving to the passenger sector,” he added. In Ernakulam, railway officials are in discussion with pineapple farmers, plywood industries, and spice merchants with a promise of a 25 percent reduction in the freight charges. Though traders are eager to transport their products by rail, they raise practical difficulties like the need for a large quantity to qualify for the roll on-roll off process. “The railway officials approached us with a proposal to move pineapple to other states," said Jose Perumbillikunnel, president of All Kerala Pineapple Merchants Association. "As there is loading and unloading issues at various points, we demanded the lorry carrying the fruits should be moved to the wagon directly and transport to destinations. A decision has not been reached yet. But, transporting pineapple from Kerala to Mumbai and New Delhi will bring down our expenses from Rs 85,000 to Rs 60000 per vehicle. Also, the duration will be reduced," said Jose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rlys-prodding-businesses-to-switch-from-road-transport/articleshow/77308152.cms||T C Sreemol
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Gaurakshak’ held in Haryana for opening fire, snatching Rs 50,000||AMBALA/KURUKSHETRA: Haryana Police on Saturday arrested an Ambala based ‘gaurakshak’ under alleged charges of snatching of Rs 50,000, dacoity and shooting while chasing a pick-up vehicle of a Himachal Pradesh (HP)-based driver. The accused has been identified as Ajay Chawla ‘Monu’, a resident of Lajpat Nagar, Ambala City, who was presented in the Kurukshetra court on Saturday, which granted his three-day police remand, said the police. Ajay is president of Sri Krishna Gau Sewa Society, Ambala, and member of the national executive body of Gau Raksha Dal On the complaint of a pick-up driver Vishal Thakur of Sirmaur district of HP, a case has been registered against Ajay and nine others under sections 379-B (punishment for snatching while causing injury), 395 (punishment for dacoity) and 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25-54-59 (punishment for certain offences and renewal of licenses) of the Arms Act at Shahabad police station on Friday. Vishal stated to the police, “I and my friend Lalit of Sirmaur district had come to the vegetable market at Taraori in Karnal district to sell tomato. We were paid Rs 50,000 for it and were heading back to our village. At about 4am on Friday, we reached near Barara Chowk in Shahabad area, a vehicle with ‘blue beacon’ on top was parked under the bridge. Eight to nine men were also standing there and they signalled us to stop. Seeing the blue beacon, we thought that it was the police so we stopped our vehicle.” According to Vishal, one of the men was carrying a double-barrel gun and they started to harass them saying that they were carrying cow in the vehicle. And when they got closer, a man snatched Rs 15,000 cash from his shirt pocket, Vishal said. “I immediately turned back my vehicle towards Karnal and fled from there to save our lives. They chased us and when we reached near Tyori on GT Road, they fired at the rear tire of my vehicle. I continued to drive but it stopped near Gauri Shankar Dhaba. They confronted us from all sides and pulled us out of our vehicle and thrashed us with sticks and also snatched Rs 35,000 kept under a cloth on the dashboard. They fled the spot on their motorcycles and SUV vehicle,” added Vishal. Shahabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aatma Ram Punia said, “We have arrested main accused Monu Chawla of Lajpat Nagar, Ambala City and confiscated his vehicle used in the crime. On Saturday, he was presented in the district court which granted his three-day police remand for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gaurakshak-held-for-shooting-at-driver-snatching-rs-50k/articleshow/77309613.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Prisoner tests +ve 12 days after EoW said his condition OK||Nagpur: A 65-year-old Nagpur Central jail inmate with comorbidities was admitted for heart-related problem couple of days ago at Super Speciality Hospital (SSH) and tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Citing report of the chief medical officer of Central Jail, the Economic Offences Wing (EoW) in its reply to Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on July 20 had opposed a bail plea claiming his condition was satisfactory and his co-prioners were in good health. The prisoner, a former MLA, was admitted to GMCH Covid-19 isolation ward on Friday. The Central Jail had reported 306 Covid-19 patients, including police personnel, their family members, doctors and prisoners, till July 9. Following security issues and other reasons, the jail administration temporarily halted testing of remaining prisoners and claimed that testing and treatment will be done in case of symptoms. For couple of days, the prisoners had also observed hunger strike pleading for testing and treatment. On July 9, son of the former MLA filed a petition in HC pleading for temporary bail citing spread of Covid-19 in jail and stated his father was having blood pressure, hypertension, depression and serious heart ailments. Petitioner also claimed that during custody the prisoner was admitted for eight days to SSH for heart-related problems and his health was deteriorating due to lack of medical facilities inside the prison. The HC issued notice to EoW. In its reply, EoW said, “Applicant was seeking bail in connection with crime registered under section 406, 409, 420, 465, 471, 477-A, 120-B and 201 of IPC. The prisoner had surrendered before the special court on November 5, 2019 and is in custody since then. As per the Central Prison’s report, issued under the guidance of chief medical officer, the general condition of the prisoner is satisfactory and he is being provided medication as advised by two government hospitals.” The EoW also stated that the report further gives reference of the co-inmates being satisfactorily in good health. “Thus, there is no ground made out by the applicant for releasing him on temporary bail,” the EoW said. SP of Central Jail Anup Kumar Kumre did not respond to TOI’s repeated calls and message. The former MLA’s son said, “Covid-19 guidelines are not at all followed in Central Jail which resulted into large number of prisoners contracting the disease.” The prisoner’s advocate Devendra Chauhan said, “The condition inside the jail is very critical. There are no proper arrangements. Senior citizens with comorbidities should be considered for temporary bail and can be monitored with Aarogya Setu app and other mechanism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prisoner-tests-ve-12-days-after-eow-said-his-condition-ok/articleshow/77309071.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Police launches special drive to nab traffic rules violators||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana traffic police have gone strict with the traffic rukes violators on national highway. On Saturday, a special drive was started by the traffic police in which the city police have submitted kalandra of those caught driving on the wrong side and also found crossing from over the medians. The drive started at 2.30pm on the national highway-44 near Basti Jodhewal chowk and continued till 6pm in which the police nabbed 13 violators. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), traffic, Gurdev Singh said that, “The traffic police have been receiving complaints against people commuting on the wrong side of the national highway-44 near Basti Jodhewal Chowk. Moreover, some people have made a temporary way of crossing the highway from over the median. Thus, people not only were putting their lives at risk, but also those of others. Therefore, we decided to get strict with the violators.” “Rather issuing challan to such people, we have decided to submit kalandra against them. In almost four hours, we have nabbed 13 violators. They were put in the lock up for a few hours and then released on bail,” the ACP added. The official further said that Section 202 of the Motor Vehicle Act gives power to a public servant to arrest without warrant. In the violation under three sections of the Motor Vehicle Act, including 184 (dangerous driving), 185 (drunk and driving) and 197 (taking vehicle without authority), the officials have authority to arrest the violator. ACP Gurdev added that, “We have started this driver on Saturday and will continue it further. Importantly, under this procedure first-time offenders can get imprisonment up to six months and fine between Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000. Second-time offenders can get a fine of Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 and imprisonment up to two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-launches-special-drive-to-nab-traffic-rules-violators/articleshow/77309068.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Hazaripahad residents up in arms against country liquor shop in area||Nagpur: The excise department has allowed a country liquor shop to open in Hazaripahad, which besides being a residential area, also has six educational institutions and three religious places. Residents have approached Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and district guardian minister Nitin Raut against the liquor shop. Residents also met municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe who has reportedly assured them to look into the issue. In the past too, when there was a proposal to open the country liquor shop, a delegation of residents of Ashoka Apartment, Mandar Apartment, Hind Prerna Apartment, Prerna Duplex Society, Gajanan Prerna Apartment, Akar Nagar, Swami Colony, Prerna Nagar etc had met former district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and urged him to scrap the proposal “as it doesn’t fulfil the norms”. According to the residents, they have submitted an application to the district collector, commissioner of police, superintendent of state excise department and Gittikhadan police station for not permitting the liquor shop. Though excise department officials including SP Pramod Sonone refused to speak, sources in the department said the permit was issued before the lockdown was imposed early this year. The officials refused to divulge how permit was issued to open a country liquor shop in a densely populated residential locality. They claimed there is no rule about seeking no-objection certificate from the residents in the vicinity. When TOI visited the locality, drunkards were openly consuming liquor even on road entire day. According to the residents, if anyone objects, they (the drunkards) misbehave and even throw bottles along the road. It has become a permanent nuisance, they said. Residents, citing provisions while issuing the permit, said that the excise department can take action including termination of the licence if people are found consuming liquor outside the shop. Despite providing evidence, neither the excise department nor the Gittikhadan police have initiated any such action against the shop owner, they said. TOI had reported the issue in the past too. The excise department had then withheld the permission but recently issued the permit for running the country liquor shop in a two-storey building. TOI had reported how a large number of academic institutions including a Nagpur Municipal Corporation-run school and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Kamgar Institute (less than 50 metres away) which trains a large number of students including girls, is in the vicinity of the liquor shop. Liquor shop owner Manoj Madne claimed that he never allow buyers to consume liquor on his premises. “If they (drunkards) consume liquor on roads or at an open place, then it is the duty of enforcement agencies including police to act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hazaripahad-residents-up-in-arms-against-country-liquor-shop-in-area/articleshow/77309612.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress calls liquor scam probe a sham||CHANDIGARH: Even as the contents of the report submitted by the Special Enquiry Team (SET), which probed the liquor scam, are not yet out, the Congress party has once again trained guns on the BJP-JJP government of Haryana, accusing it of suppressing facts and shielding big names. The SET headed by senior bureaucrat T C Gupta on Friday submitted its report, which, according to sources, is limited to pin-pointing the loopholes in the excise and police departments and does not raise any pointing finger at any big shot, political or otherwise. Launching an attack, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said the BJP-JJP government has been complicit in the game of suppressing facts related to the liquor scam that took place during the lockdown. “It seems clear from the SET investigation report that an attempt is being made to save the big names involved in this scam. An investigation should be conducted under the supervision of a sitting judge of the high court,’’ she demanded. Selja went on to say that all records of corruption are being broken by this government, as the number of scams taking place in this government is increasing with each passing day. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a game of loot and scoot is prevailing in the state, she alleged. Selja claimed that as part of a conspiracy to cover up the scam, the SET was formed after rejecting the demand for a Special Investigation Team (SIT), which would have conducted an in-depth probe. “When this team did not have the powers to conduct an in-depth probe into the scam, what was this team investigating? The excise department did not even provide the information sought by the SET,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-after-set-report-cong-calls-liquor-scam-probe-a-sham/articleshow/77309610.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Amritsar||Pakistani Hindu fears more attacks after Ram Mandir foundation in Ayodhya||AMRITSAR: Barely two days after Islamabad objected to the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the killing of a young Hindu businessman in Sindh province of Pakistan has panicked the minority Hindu community, which foresees more such hate attacks after the laying of foundation stone for the temple on August 5. “Hindu community is vulnerable in Pakistan, our young girls are forcibly converted to Islam and married to Muslim men, and now in reaction to the construction of Ram Mandir in India, the fundamentalists have started targeting Hindu businessmen to create mass panic among Hindus, so they start fleeing Pakistan,” said a Pakistani Sindhi Hindu talking to TOI on Saturday. He pleaded not to give his name for security reasons. He said on Friday, a Sindhi Hindu businessman Raja Kishan Chand was murdered by fundamentalists at Khairpur Mir, while a couple of days ago, an attempt was made on the life of another Hindu Manik Mal, whose life was saved but he sustained injuries. Notably, Pakistan’s foreign office had on July 28 stated that while the world is grappling with the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, the “RSS-BJP combine" is advancing the “Hindutva” agenda. After Babri mosque demolition, there had been widespread vandalism of Hindu temples and attacks on Hindus in Pakistan. “I am forced to think that there is a conspiracy to force Hindus to leave Sindh. Some people in Pakistan don’t want Sindhi Hindus to live in Sindh anymore. The kidnapping of our girls, conversion of their faith, putting innocent poor Hindus’ houses on fire, land grabbing and now killing of Hindu traders are all part of a bigger conspiracy to instil fear in the hearts of the minority community,” said a UK-based Pakistani Sindhi Hindu, who also requested anonymity fearing backlash on his relatives still living in Sindh. He went on to say that deliberately a hiatus is being created between Pakistani Hindus and Sikhs taking benefit of a few elements among Sikhs, who speak against India and favour its disintegration. “Hindus and Sikhs were never two, we, here in UK, insist on Hindu-Sikh unity, yet a few Khalistanis push their own separatist agenda,” he said. A Karachi based Hindu leader said that on July 24, a 14-year-old Hindu girl Kariman Bheel was abducted by a 30-year-old Muslim Mohammad Rafiq and was forcibly converted to Islam to become Rahima. Sources informed that the family of the girl had filed a case of kidnapping, but police have not reacted so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-hindus-fear-more-attacks-after-temple-stone-laying-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77309618.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||808 new cases push state tally to 32,614||Bhopal: With 808 new cases, the Covid rise continues unabated in Madhya Pradesh. The state’s corona count stands at 32,614. Also, nine deaths were reported on Saturday, pushing the state toll to 876. Of these nine casualties, 5 are from Bhopal, 2 from Jabalpur and one each in Indore and Gwalior. Of the news cases, Bhopal accounted for 156 — highest in state, followed by 125 in Jabalpur — the district’s biggest single-day spike so far. On the brighter side, 698 Covid patients who were admitted in hospitals, were discharged, pushing the total recoveries to 22,969. However, the recovery rate stands at 70.4%.— 6% down from July 1. A total of 3,242 localities across 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/808-new-cases-push-state-tally-to-32614/articleshow/77309080.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Sero survey in Delhi: 1,500 samples on Day 1||NEW DELHI: The monthly serological survey started in Delhi on Saturday with an objective to analyse the prevalence of antibodies against the novel coronavirus in the population. The survey teams visited identified areas in their respective districts to collect samples from people, and on the first day, nearly 10% samples were collected in every district. All 11 districts have to collect 15,000 samples, much lesser than the 21,387 samples collected in the first round of the survey conducted towards the end of June and beginning of July. The exercise is crucial to find out if Delhi is heading towards herd immunity from the coronavirus. The last serological survey revealed that nearly a quarter of the population of the city has antibodies. Since then, the number of those recovered from Covid-19 has increased manifold. “Blood samples are taken in serological surveys and are analysed to check the presence of antibodies. Samples testing positive reveal that the person was infected with Covid-19 and has recovered. When 24% people tested positive in the last survey, it was believed (by some people) that 24% tested positive for the disease. But it actually means that 24% people were exposed to Covid-19 and recovered,” health minister Satyendar Jain told mediapersons. Jain said the government wants to check the difference in the prevalence of antibodies between the two surveys. An official said that all samples were collected before 2pm and were sent to the laboratories before 4pm. Each district has been allocated two to three laboratories where the samples would be tested. “All samples have been provided with a unique identification and all documentation was also completed,” said an official. The sero-survey will be carried out every month. The ongoing survey will finish by August 7. The areas for collecting samples were identified using a technical process to ensure collection of multi-stage systematic random and representative sampling as per the guidelines of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sero-survey-1500-samples-on-day-1/articleshow/77309108.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bareilly||Undertrial booked under Gangsters Act dies of Covid-19||BAREILLY: An undertrial, Guddu Qureshi (45), who was sent to Shahjahanpur district jail on April 14, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday night. He had tested positive on July 29. Ten other inmates and a security staff, whose reports arrived on Saturday, were found to be positive. Jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar told TOI that Guddu, booked under the Gangsters Act, was admitted to the L2 facility, where he complained of breathlessness and chest pain. "He was suffering from several other ailments for which he was sent to the district hospital several times," Kumar said. His family said Guddu was in good health when he was arrested. Aziz Ahmad, his elder brother, told TOI, “Guddu was quite healthy when arrested. How did he get the infection in jail because no Shahjahanpur citizen had tested positive when he was sent to jail in April?” The family was also aggrieved that Guddu was incorrectly charged under the Gangsters Act because "there were only two cases of cow slaughter registered against him". Ahmad said the family had a thriving authorized meat shop and blamed rivals for conniving with police to get Guddu framed under the Gangsters Act. Guddu was buried at Maraiyya village of Kaanth under Covid-19 guidelines in the presence of a team of district administration and health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/undertrial-booked-under-gangsters-act-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77307206.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 2, 2020||Delhi||After July rain, Delhi left with 25% deficit||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 12% excess rainfall at its base station, Safdarjung, in July. However, it was not enough to make up for the overall rainfall deficit for the season, that at present stands at 25%. IMD data shows North Delhi is the only district in the capital that has recorded ‘excess’ rain, while New Delhi and Southwest Delhi fall in the ‘normal’ range this season. At least five districts — central, east, northeast, south and west Delhi — are all in the ‘deficient’ category so far this season, while northwest Delhi district has a ‘large deficient’, the data shows. The capital recorded two ‘heavy’ rain days in July —July 19, when Safdarjung received 74.8mm of rainfall and July 23, when it recorded 67.6mm of rainfall. Rainfall above 64.4mm in a single day is classified as ‘heavy’ by the IMD. The most rainfall recorded in the capital in the month of July was at the Ridge station, with 86mm rainfall on July 19. A Met official say two heavy rain days are normal for the month of July, however, heavy rain eluded Delhi towards the end of the month. “August should remain similar, with spells of light rain forecast for this week,” said the official. IMD’s seven-day forecast states light rain and drizzle activity could occur till August 7, but moderate to heavy rain was unlikely. This season, Northwest district is suffering the most, recording only 76.2mm of rainfall so far — a deficient of 67%. North Delhi district, meanwhile, has received 293.9mm of rainfall — an excess of 24% as compared to the normal mark. The capital recorded light rain on Saturday, with 6.7mm rainfall at Safdarjung between 8.30am and 5.30pm. Delhi’s maximum on Saturday was 36.3 degrees Celsius, while humidity levels oscillated between 58% and 95% in the last 24 hours. Ayanagar received the most rain on Saturday, recording 20.2mm rainfall. Forecast for Sunday shows partly cloudy skies during the day with a chance of drizzle, added the Met official. Watch After July rain, Delhi left with 25% deficit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-july-rain-capital-left-with-25-deficit/articleshow/77309133.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Junior nurses seek pay hike, to strike work||Kozhikode: Demanding hike in stipend, junior nurses working in the seven medical colleges in the state will protest on August 8 and abstain from work on August 9. Kerala BSc Nursing Students Association president B P Arjun said that the stipend of the nurses was last hiked in 2016 from 6000 to Rs 13900, which is the basic pay of staff nurses. In the same year the pay scale of the staff nurses was revised as Rs 27800-59400, he said. From 2016, the nursing interns are getting the old pay while the stipends of other interns were increased. “There is a Supreme Court order that registered nurses working in hospitals that have more than 200 beds should be given the same salary of confirmed staff,” Arjun said. According to the association, the interns are placed on duty in non-Covid hospitals because staff nurses are deployed at Covid hospitals. They are managing all sections of the hospital including OP and ICU, the Association said. The petition demanding hike in stipend submitted to the Health Minister is pending for more than a year. The Chief Minister had announced an increase in salary to the staff who are on Covid duty but 375 registered nurses are working for just Rs 460 a day. The association claim that it had informed the Director of Medical Education on July 24 about the agitation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/junior-nurses-seek-pay-hike-to-strike-work/articleshow/77308170.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 2,000 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 2,083 cases on Saturday, taking the caseload to 64,786. Eleven new deaths were also registered in the last 24 hours, as the toll reached 530. The number of active cases in the state stands at 17,754. As many as 46,502 people have recovered of the disease so far. Testing has been on the rise over the last couple of days with 21,011 samples tested on Saturday, bringing it closer to the 25,000 mark per day set by the government. After a dip in numbers about a fortnight back, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is seeing an upswing in fresh cases again. On Saturday, 578 new cases were recorded in the GHMC area – the highest in the state. Neighbouring Medchal Malkajgiri saw 197 cases, Ranga Reddy saw 228 cases, while Sanga Reddy 101 cases. Karimnagar recorded 108 cases while Warangal Urban saw 134 cases. Other districts in the state recorded cases between 8 and 73 cases. “Extensive local spread is being seen in at least seven districts in the state. For instance, Mahabubabad, Khammam, Gadwal, Suryapet and Peddapalli are seeing a definite surge for the past 10 to 15 days. Each of these districts has recorded between 250 and 400 cases in a week,” said an official of the state health department. Meanwhile, bed occupancy in government facilities in the state has improved to 28% now against the earlier 20%. Currently, 6,082 beds are vacant across government hospitals in the state, although a few areas like Suryapet, Pedapally and Nagarkurnool continue to have fewer beds available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-2000-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77309126.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Man held for attack on meat trader, SHO shifted in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: A member of a local cow vigilante group was arrested for allegedly attacking a meat supplier in the presence of policemen in Gurugram on Friday. The station house officer of Badshapur police station was also attached to the police lines for dereliction of duty. Pradeep Yadav (28), who was arrested from Vatika Chowk, has told investigators that his group had tried to stop the pickup truck, suspecting that it was carrying beef. Their doubts were reinforced when the driver allegedly tried to speed away. The group of 8-10 men chased the truck, pulled down the driver, Lukman, and beat him up, he told the cops. A video circulated on social media showed the group of vigilantes thrashing Lukman twice in the presence of cops — first near a mosque in Sadar Bazar and then in Badshapur. The team of cops that chased the group trying to drive away with Lukman also came under attack from them. The police said they were trying to trace the other attackers. “We are checking if he (Yadav) has any criminal record. A search is on for the other people involved in the attack,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan. He added that the group should not have resorted to the attack even if the man was indeed carrying beef — the meat in the truck has been sent for examination. “It is the job of the police. The role of others is limited to passing on the information to us,” he said. Police commissioner KK Rao said anyone trying to disturb peace and harmony would not be spared. “We will not tolerate such behaviour. Strict action will be taken against the culprits of such crime. At the same time, police officers will also face action for dereliction of duty,” said Rao. Cow vigilante groups accused the police of being partial. Monu Manesar of Bajrang Dal said, “Four days ago, a group of gau rakshaks was attacked by a beef smuggler in Tigra village. A case was registered in Sector 50 police station, but no action has been taken till now,” said Monu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-held-for-attack-on-meat-trader-sho-shifted/articleshow/77309084.cms||Bagish Jha
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority told to act against illegal houses on bank of Yamuna||NEW DELHI: The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has asked the Delhi Development Authority to take necessary action against encroachment and illegal construction of houses on Yamuna river bank in Okhla area. The NMCG sent the communication to DDA last month. The letter mentioned that North East Delhi MP, Manoj Tiwari had raised the issue of “construction of 3,000 homes illegally on the bank of river Yamuna in Okhla region in Delhi and more are being constructed which should be stopped” during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha. The NMCG communication to DDA said, “As the matter is concerned with land encroachment and illegal construction of houses on bank of River Yamuna in Okhla region in Delhi, which are dealt by DDA, you are requested to take necessary action as deemed fit.” Tiwari told TOI that he will pursue the case with agencies including the Supreme Court appointed monitoring committee, DDA and Delhi Police to seek action against such illegal activities.“This is a matter of concern and the Parliament has also taken note of this,” he said. The former Delhi BJP president had also raised the issue within the party. He had flagged how illegal constructions had been carried out on government lands including at Okhla where the “illegal construction mafia” had encroached upon the bank of Yamuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-told-to-act-against-illegal-houses-on-bank-of-yamuna/articleshow/77309138.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 2, 2020||Goa||First commanding officer of Black Panthers takes charge of INS Hansa||PANAJI: The first Indian pilot to land a MiG-29K fighter jet on the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya has taken over as the commanding officer of INS Hansa where he will oversee the fighter and maritime reconnaissance squadrons stationed at the front-line airbase. Commodore Ajay Daniel Theophilus, who was also the first commanding officer of INAS 303 squadron - Black Panthers, took over as the commanding officer of INS Hansa from Commodore Hemant Padbidri on Friday. Cmde Padbidri heads to naval headquarters where he will head the directorate of air warfare and flight safety (AWFS). An accomplished fighter pilot and a qualified flying instructor with more than 3,000 flying hours experience on varied aircraft, Cmde Theophilus will oversee the operations of the seven squadrons based at INS Hansa. INS Hansa is home to two MiG 29K squadrons, INAS 300 and INAS 303, a Dornier maritime surveillance squadron INAS 310, the anti-submarine warfare squadron INAS 315, two rotary wing squadrons INAS 322 and 339 and the naval flight testing squadron. Cmde Theophilus has commanded frontline warships INS Sukanya, INS Talwar and INS Tarkash and has served as the head of the directorate of AWFS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-commanding-officer-of-black-panthers-takes-charge-of-ins-hansa/articleshow/77309654.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vadodara||MSU mock online exam ends in a fiasco, portal crashes||VADODARA: M S University’s first attempt to conduct online examination turned into a mockery of sorts on Saturday. The university had developed its own exam portal for holding the exams for which the first mock test was scheduled on Saturday morning. But as thousands of students tried to access the exam portal, they received message of ‘server error’, ‘service unavailable’ among others, as the portal crashed within minutes. MSU was the first publicly funded university of Gujarat to make such an attempt. Ahead of the mock test, getting user id and password had also become an ordeal for students, who had kept waiting for the details till last moment. On Saturday, when they tried to access the portal, most of them could simply not login. Those who logged in face hurdles of low speed and other technical errors. Officials confirmed that of the nearly 4,000 students who were supposed to appear for the exams, more than 3,000 students could not login. The university officials termed it as a cyber attack by unidentified outside ‘agencies and hackers’. “Since Friday evening, some professional agencies and hackers were trying to damage and hack our portal. There were many technical hitches that students faced today,” said K M Chudasama, officiating registrar of MSU, adding that the university will register a FIR with cyber crime. “They have not been successful in their attempt but there has been some damage. We will make the server strong and secure after which the new dates of mock test and semester-end exams will be declared. Both the exams will remain postponed till then,” he said. While the mock tests were scheduled on Saturday and Sunday, the semester-end exams in which over 17,000 students were to be appear, were scheduled from August 5 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-mock-online-exam-ends-in-a-fiasco-portal-crashes/articleshow/77307327.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Doctor on Covid duty among 9 fatalities in Mysuru||Mysuru: The city has registered the second death of a Covid-19 warrior. Dr Chandrakumar, who was serving in the Jayapura Community Health Centre, died on Friday night at a private hospital. “He was 53. He tested positive for the novel coronavirus a few days ago, and breathed his last at a private city hospital,” said DHO R Venkatesh. Health minister B Sriramulu condoled his death. He requested Covid-19 warriors to take care of their health. It can be recalled that a 55-year-old taluk health officer breathed his last three days ago. Meanwhile on Saturday, the district registered 365 new Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths. It is the second highest number of cases both in terms of deaths and number of positive cases in the state, next only to Bengaluru. Hassan registered 146 new cases and 2 fatalities. Shivamogga (119 cases, 4 deaths), Mandya (95 cases, 1 death), Chikkamagaluru (57 cases), Chamarajanagar (43 cases) and Kodagu registered 35 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/doctor-on-covid-duty-among-9-fatalities-in-mysuru/articleshow/77307652.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bareilly||SSB jawan on duty assaulted by villagers, several booked||PILIBHIT: A jawan of the Sashastra Seema Bal’s 49th battalion deployed at Tatarganj border outpost was injured in an attack by villagers on Friday evening. Following a written complaint by the jawan, five named and 10 to 12 unidentified assailants were booked on Saturday evening. Complainant Pradeep Barik, 32, told police that he was on evening guard duty at the outpost when a group of villagers attempted to barge into the post. When he tried to stop them, they assaulted him with sticks. The assailants fled when other jawans from the outpost rushed to his aid. Ram Sewak, SHO of Hajara police station, said the assailants were booked under IPC section 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 353 (assaults or use of criminal force to any public servant) 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace). He said the SSB jawan sustained injuries on the head and arm. Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, said the investigation of the matter had been assigned to senior sub inspector of the same police station, Sushil Kumar. The accused would be nabbed soon and only then the reason for the attack would be ascertained, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ssb-jawan-on-duty-assaulted-by-villagers-several-booked/articleshow/77307238.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Hairdressers, washermen apply for Covid cash benefits||Mysuru: Nearly 6,000 hairdressers and washermen (dhobis) have sought one-time cash compensation of Rs 5,000 announced by the government for being out of job during the lockdown in Mysuru district. About 62,000 washermen and 2,30,000 hairdressers from across the state are seeking the benefit by applying through Seva Sindhu portal. A C Thammanna, assistant director of the labour department, said their officials have started the verification of applications received through the portal. The department has also recommended the government to transfer the funds after verifying the applicants’ details like Aadhaar, bank account and others which have been sought by the government. Many more of them are expected to apply for the benefit as the government extended the deadline to August 15. Even those hairdressers and dhobis who do not have any licence and identity cards issued by the competent authorities of the government can apply by providing necessary supporting documents. As people from different sections of society were affected during the lockdown, the state government announced the one-time relief package of Rs 1,610 crore to farmers, flower-growers, autorickshaw/ taxi drivers, MSMEs, large industries, weavers, construction workers and hairdressers. “The government has been transparent in the selection of beneficiaries at villages, cities and towns. Over 62,000 washermen and 2,30,000 hairdressers working in rural and urban areas of the state will benefit,” Thammanna explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hairdressers-washermen-apply-for-covid-cash-benefits/articleshow/77307220.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Want Covid test? Walk in to 6 centres from Monday||Nagpur: With a motive to detect cases and provide treatment from the initial stage itself, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has developed six centres for a free-of-cost ‘Walk In Test For Covid-19’. They will start functioning from Monday. With this, the civic body hopes to control the spike in deaths. The civic body is targeting 2,000 tests a day in the long run. Those coming to these six centres, health centres for Influenza Like Illness (ILI) tests and special camps for high-risk persons in non-containment zones will be checked for Covid. After a meeting with officials of the medical department, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said that initially 500 persons should be tested. “There are ten zones in the city. Each zone will test at least 50 persons per day from now. Later, the number will be increased to 200 per day, per zone. This will increase the number of positive patients but will help in preventing deaths,” he said. The drives are part of four-T programme — tracking, tracing, testing and treating — announced by guardian minister Nitin Raut, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and Mundhe a day ago. TOI had on July 28 reported the NMC’s plan to launch the ‘Walk In Test For Covid-19’. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai on Saturday finalized Pachpaoli Covid Care Centre (CCC), Raj Nagar quarantine centre, Ravi Bhavan quarantine centre, Law College quarantine centre, Vasantrao Naik Girls Hostel quarantine centre, RPTS quarantine centre as the six centres for ‘Walk In Test For Covid-19’. Joshi told TOI that a trial run will be conducted on Sunday before beginning full operations. “Those with comorbidities and senior citizens can walk into the centres and get tested. The number of centres will be increased to 10 in the coming days. A team of doctors of Government Ayurvedic College was given training for collecting samples and testing using Rapid Antigen Kits, on Saturday. The samples would be collected through a kiosk,” he said. The project is probably a first-of-its-kind in the state. It is likely to get huge response as persons who test negative can be home quarantined and those testing positive and are asymptomatic can be in home isolation. In the ongoing testing of ILI patients at health centres using Rapid Antigen Kits, 1,027 were tested of which 88 came positive. In special camps, over 4,000 were tested of which around 130 came positive. The NMC has received a fresh stock of 8,500 Rapid Antigen Kits which will be utilized at the ‘Walk In Test For Covid-19’ and health centres. The NMC will collect samples at special camps and testing will be done at the state-run laboratories. Thirteen deaths were registered on Saturday taking the total number to 139 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/want-covid-test-walk-in-to-6-centres-from-monday/articleshow/77309140.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No Covid-19 field duty for cops over 50 years of age in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With more officers coming down with Covid-19, the state police chief has directed that no cop over 50 years of age should be placed on Covid-19-related field duty. They are to be reassigned to other duties, including office work. Loknath Behera issued the instructions on the same day that the state lost its first police officer to Covid-19. Grade sub-inspector V P Ajithan had been undergoing treatment at Kottayam Medical College Hospital. In his order, the DGP said that even police officials who are below 50 years of age but have comorbidities should not be put on field duty. Behera asked district police chiefs to brief officers on health protocols to be followed while on and off duty. “Their family members should also be asked to follow health protocols. Policemen should not travel except for official purposes and essential needs,” the DGP said. The treatment of officials who have tested positive is to be followed up to ensure they get the best available facilities. One officer should monitor colleagues under treatment. District police chiefs have been asked to organize online classes, webinars and briefings over wireless to uphold the morale of officers. The state police chief entrusted ADGP (training) B Sandhya with organizing such online programmes and other initiatives to help the rank and file cope with the mental trauma caused by the ongoing situation. Even otherwise, Kerala Police have been revising their training modules to include more stress-busting sessions for the psychological conditioning of inductees. These include yoga sessions and other mental fitness techniques. The department has also conducted workshops for select police officials from across the state. As many as 84 state police officers have tested positive for Covid-19, so far, out of which 18 are currently under treatment, the police chief said. In the phase-III of Covid-19 spread in the state the force restored its field strength, which was reduced to 50% in the initial phase, to earlier numbers, resulting in more number of officers falling ill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-covid-19-field-duty-for-cops-over-50-years-of-age/articleshow/77310351.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||Rise in Covid cases sees surge in fake med products||Mumbai: The Covid-19 pandemic has led to a surge in fake and inauthentic certificates endorsing a host of key medical products — right from masks, PPE kits, oximeters, thermometers, sanitizers, diagnostic kits to even ventilators. This has given rise to medical products of sub-standard or questionable quality being sold, and used by end-users like hospitals, jeopardizing the safety of healthcare workers and patients. Earlier, the extent of the problem was limited to about 20% of manufacturers, which increased to over 80% recently with the entry of new players. The rise of Covid-19 cases in March-April triggered a huge demand for these medical devices and equipment, leading to a mushrooming of cottage industries, some with poor quality control and inadequate knowledge of standards, industry experts told TOI. Worse, fly-by-night manufacturers surfaced, while there were also unauthorised imports from China, they added. Typically, medical devices are approved by BIS with the ISI mark, which denotes compliance to Indian product standards. Further, there’s a quality management certification, ICMED (Indian Certification for Medical Devices) by Quality Council of India (QCI), which gives a process certification by internationally reputed bodies (Intertek, SGS, TUV, UL) to medical devices manufacturers, which is voluntary at present. These certification bodies are accredited by NABCB, a constituent board of QCI for the ICMED scheme and for a Medical Devices Quality Management Systems (MDQMS) certification, as per the international standard ISO 13485, a subset requirement of ICMED scheme. If the company does not conduct proper tests on the product for its safety and efficacy, it may seek a fraudulent process and product certification to mislead the end-user, patient and consumers. Dr RP Singh, secretary general QCI, said “QCI is aware that many fake certifications are being issued by few certification bodies either accredited through foreign bodies without proper oversight in the Indian market, or not accredited at all. This is a serious issue, which is being pursued by the government and we expect that a notification will be issued soon by the appropriate authority to curb such malpractices. It is closely working with relevant ministries and regulators to facilitate accredited conformity assessment bodies (certification / inspection bodies and testing laboratories) for credible certification of such medical products, and thus to minimize fake/fraudulent certification”. A uniform certification, endorsing credible quality and processes, should be made mandatory for all medical devices as it will inspire confidence and trust in end-users like hospitals and patients. Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Manufacturers of Medical Devices, said, “India needs to have a legislative authority to regulate certification and accreditation bodies. It’s also important to create a registry of certificates and authentic certification bodies from credible sources”. Hospitals under Association of Healthcare Providers, doctors represented by Indian Medical Association, and consumer organisations have also sought clarity on credible certification. Dr Ganesh Mani, chairman Delhi-based Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, said, “ICMED certification should be made mandatory for all medical devices. This will inspire trust and confidence.” Hospitals should focus on strict verification protocols as part of their procurement practices, experts said. Rama Venugopal, executive director of Value Added Corporate Services, said, “The regulator should create a registry of certificates — authentic, inauthentic and fake. This is the only way the industry will develop confidence. Also, it has to call for a complete audit of procurement practices of accredited and certified hospitals to check certificates approved in-house as part of the vendor selection process. All agencies for accreditation, certification, inspections and testing should be registered. Now, global platforms have put up search registries asking user industries (healthcare organisations) to verify certificates online”. With the surge in Covid cases, the problem has multiplied as new manufacturers from the garments, textile and auto industry have diversified into medical devices to make PPE raw materials, coverall, masks, goggles, face shields etc to address the urgent demand. Many UK, European and US certificates from dubious bodies endorsing sub-standard and poor quality medical products like masks, PPE kits and oximeters are in circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rise-in-covid-cases-sees-surge-in-fake-med-products/articleshow/77303986.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bill wrong, patient asked to sign non-disclosure papers for refund||NEW DELHI: In a glaring example of the harassment patients go through in private hospitals, Max Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, officials tried to put pressure on 22-year-old Nitin Kumar to sign a “non-disclosure agreement” in order to get a refund of the money they had overcharged him for Covid treatment. He refused to be bullied into signing away his right to talk about his case to the media or anybody else. Kumar complained of overcharging in violation of the Delhi government order capping charges for Covid treatment to the Delhi and central governments. “I have not received even an acknowledgement for the emails and letters I sent to everyone from chief minister to health minister and so many other health officials,” Kumar said about the Delhi government. On Saturday, Kumar received a copy of a letter from the Union health ministry to Delhi’s principal secretary, health, asking for an inquiry and appropriate action on his complaint. This was after the complaint was forwarded by the Prime Minister’s Office to the health ministry. Kumar’s complaint stated that he had been overcharged one additional day of admission and for medicines and investigations that should have been part of the Delhi government-approved Covid package. It also pointed out that he had been administered favipiravir without his consent, though the drug was authorised for use only with informed consent from the patient and that he had been billed for two boxes of FabiFlu of 34 tablets each though he had been given only 26 tablets. Max hospital paid the full amount claimed by Kumar and took it from him in writing that his complaint had been settled and that he had received Rs 28,000. “There were five persons from the hospital including a senior doctor and they kept insisting that I sign the non-disclosure agreement (NDA) which was drafted in legalese on a stamp paper. I was not comfortable with that. So I took some pictures of it on my phone to seek advice on whether I should sign. When I finally did not sign it, they insisted that I delete all the pictures of the NDA and wanted me to show my phone to them to ensure I had done so,” said Kumar. A Max spokesperson said the refunded amount “had been charged due to an inadvertent billing error” and that an NDA was a part of “the internal process to ensure that redressal is to the patient’s satisfaction and there are no grievances left unaddressed.” He added, “However, since Kumar had reservations in signing the document, the hospital duly accepted and acknowledged his handwritten note.” “Patients pursuing grievances are often on their own against the legal teams of large corporate hospitals. Within this power dynamic, a patient can be pressured into signing an NDA as a condition for getting a refund. This is standard tactic to prevent the hospital’s wrongdoing from coming out in public,” said Malini Aisola of All India Drug Action Network, who has helped countless patients pursue cases of overcharging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bill-wrong-patient-asked-to-sign-non-disclosure-papers-for-refund/articleshow/77309298.cms||Rema Nagarajan
August 2, 2020||Kochi||No Covid-19 field duty for cops over 50 years of age in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With more officers coming down with Covid-19, the state police chief has directed that no cop over 50 years of age should be placed on Covid-19-related field duty. They are to be reassigned to other duties, including office work. Loknath Behera issued the instructions on the same day that the state lost its first police officer to Covid-19. Grade sub-inspector V P Ajithan had been undergoing treatment at Kottayam Medical College Hospital. In his order, the DGP said that even police officials who are below 50 years of age but have comorbidities should not be put on field duty. Behera asked district police chiefs to brief officers on health protocols to be followed while on and off duty. “Their family members should also be asked to follow health protocols. Policemen should not travel except for official purposes and essential needs,” the DGP said. The treatment of officials who have tested positive is to be followed up to ensure they get the best available facilities. One officer should monitor colleagues under treatment. District police chiefs have been asked to organize online classes, webinars and briefings over wireless to uphold the morale of officers. The state police chief entrusted ADGP (training) B Sandhya with organizing such online programmes and other initiatives to help the rank and file cope with the mental trauma caused by the ongoing situation. Even otherwise, Kerala Police have been revising their training modules to include more stress-busting sessions for the psychological conditioning of inductees. These include yoga sessions and other mental fitness techniques. The department has also conducted workshops for select police officials from across the state. As many as 84 state police officers have tested positive for Covid-19, so far, out of which 18 are currently under treatment, the police chief said. In the phase-III of Covid-19 spread in the state the force restored its field strength, which was reduced to 50% in the initial phase, to earlier numbers, resulting in more number of officers falling ill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-covid-19-field-duty-for-cops-over-50-years-of-age/articleshow/77307290.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bareilly||Five auto lifters held in Bareilly after encounter||BAREILLY: Bareilly police have nabbed five auto lifters and recovered six cars - mainly hatchbacks - and three bikes after a brief encounter in Bhojipura area on Saturday. All the recovered vehicles were stolen from Delhi and NCR and police have shared the information with the Delhi Police. Eight other members of the gang, including their leader Haseeb who belongs to Sambhal district, are still on the run. The accused had changed the chassis number of the cars and bikes and were using the registration certificate of some other vehicles to sell them. Police have collected the original registration details and the recovered vehicles may be handed over to the actual owner through court. The accused were arrested near a plot along the Delhi-Lucknow National Highway in Bareilly district following a raid by Bhojipura SHO Manoj Tyagi and his team after a tip-off. After seeing the police, members of the gang opened fire and tried to escape but the cops managed to arrest five of them. They were identified as Ibbe Ali, Nandram, Aman Kumar, Farhad alias Guddu and Akram. Police have recovered two Maruti Baleno, two Vitara Brezza, a swift and one Ertiga along with three bullet motorcycles. Apart from this, police have also recovered two country-made pistols and three knives. Additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “Haseeb is the gang's kingpin who used to manage its activities. Two of the arrested men are the investors who used to buy the stolen cars and sell them in the market after tampering with the chassis numbers and using forged documents. We expect to recover more stolen vehicles which have been already sold by this gang in Bareilly so far. Teams have been deployed to nab Haseeb who is at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-auto-lifters-held-in-bareilly-after-encounter/articleshow/77307268.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram has 28 less containment zones in new list||GURUGRAM: With Covid-19 infection spread slowing in the city, 34 areas were removed from the list of containment zones on Saturday, but six new ones were added. With this reorganisation, the total number of zones came down from 100 to 72. “Some of the containment zones that were sealed for 28 days did not see any new cases and so, were de-notified. While earlier in June, the average of daily cases crossed 200, now the average of daily cases has reduced to 100 or less than 100, which clearly shows the number of Covid cases are decreasing. The areas where five or more than five Covid cases were reported have been added to the list of containment zones,” said Dr MP Singh, who is the nodal officer for the containment zones in , Gurugram. At present, there are 64 containment zones in the Gurugram block, and also two in Pataudi block and six in Sohna block In some areas where entire blocks were sealed, smaller areas have been defined. For example, earlier, blocks A to H in DLF 1 and Silver Apartment in Phase 1 were containment zones but now, only houses 4 to 31, houses 4/16 to 5/5 in DLF Phase 1 and floors 3, 4, 5 in Silver Oak Apartment have been sealed. Similarly, J, K and L blocks in DLF 2 have been replaced by more specific areas like floors 16, 17, 18 of tower A in The Villa (DLF 2), houses 9/19 to 9/30, houses J5 to J16, houses J9/10 to J9/20, houses 6/6 to 6/16 in DLF 2. Some of the other areas that have shed the containment zones tag are blocks B and C of Ardee City in Sector 52, H block in DLF 4, Nirvana Country in Sector 50, Lantana Street (Vatika City, Sector 49), tower 19 (Central Park) in Sector 48, block N and Block J in Mayfield Garden (Sector 50), towers C1, C2, C5, C7, B2 in Power Grid Apartments (Sector 43), Garden Estate Apartment in DLF 3, towers B, B2, D in Jalvayu Vihar (Sector 56), tower 8 in Orchid Petals (Sector 49), block A in South City 2, and tower 3 in Malibu Towne (Sector 47). The last list of containment zones was announced on July 16. Since then, the city has added 1,816 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-has-28-less-containment-zones-in-new-list/articleshow/77309136.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Pulse oximeter tops the list of must-have med devices at home||Nagpur: With increase in awareness and knowledge about various health parameters during Covid-19 times, people have started monitoring their health at home itself with the help of various medical devices. After digital thermometer, it’s the pulse oximeter which seems to be becoming a household name. People are on a shopping spree, literally, to get this device which checks oxygen level in blood and pulse rate. “A month before lockdown we used to hardly sell 40 such digital pulse oximeters. Now, the demand has shot up to 550 per day,” said Vinod Jode of Roma Surgicals, a leading dealer of medical surgical items and gadgets in city. The huge demand for pulse oximeters can be credited to digital awareness created about the device on various social media platforms. “I came to know about this gadget from a WhatsApp video. A renowned doctor from Mumbai explained the importance of this instrument which is multi-user friendly. I decided to buy one for our family. It’s must during Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ashok Aage, a resident of Manewada. A pulse oximeter is a small device that like a chip clip or a big clothes pin. Cardiologist Dr Amar Amale explains, “You have to place your finger in between with the nail side up and within seconds it lights up with numbers indicating your blood oxygen level and heart rate. Most healthy people will get an oxygen reading around 95 to 98 per cent.” “Some people with existing health conditions may have a lower normal reading. So, there is no need to panic. You should check in with your doctor only if the number falls to 92 or below,” said Dr Amale. He also suggested users to take a six-minute walk before checking their oxygen levels. “Checking oxygen level is the best way to find out whether you have respiratory illness similar to Covid-19. So, it’s good to have this device at home,” he said. Thermal guns have become a common feature at entrance of every housing society where screening has been made mandatory. Also, people with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension are relying more on gadgets like glucometer and blood pressure meter. “Visiting a pathology lab to give blood for periodic check of sugar level is risky during Covid-19 period. So, I have purchased a glucometer now. It’s handy and quite accurate,” said Anubhav Dabir, a resident of Sahakar Nagar. Doctors suggest buying quality products to avoid false sense of security. “Due to sudden increase in demand, many substandard products are being sold in markets. Avoid buying cheap made in China products,” said physician Dr Vinay Mangrulkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pulse-oximeter-tops-the-list-of-must-have-med-devices-at-home/articleshow/77309202.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Former MLC Ivan D’Souza, wife test Covid-19 positive||MANGALURU: Former MLC Ivan D’Souza’s Facebook post on Saturday confirming his Covid-19 positive status, along with his wife, has caused anxiety in KPCC ranks. Ivan was an integral part of various functions that KPCC president D K Shivakumar and working president Saleem Ahmed were part of, on Friday and Saturday, along with the entire Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DKDCC) leadership. Ivan accompanied Shivakumar to all his public and private engagements in the city, right from the time that Shivakumar landed at Mangaluru International Airport on Friday morning and even to the house of former MLA Vijaykumar Shetty on Saturday. He was seated on the dais near Shivakumar and other leaders when the latter addressed media at the DCC office at Mallikatte, at the Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple and at the Bishop’s House, to name a few. Ivan, who is undergoing treatment with his wife at a private hospital in the city, said that he had got himself tested on Monday, and the test reports received the next day came out negative. “I went ahead with my public engagements from Tuesday till almost up to 3.30pm on Saturday, when I got a call from KMC Hospital that the swab reports of me and my wife, given late on Friday, had come out positive. We were feeling a bit feverish on Friday and got ourselves tested,” he said. A senior Congress worker who accompanied Shivakumar and Ivan to the house of Vijayakumar Shetty on Saturday said that Ivan was busy coordinating various meetings in the run up to the KPCC chief’s visit to the city. “The former MLC was at a lunch that was arranged for Congress leaders at Gokarnanatha temple which had more than 100 people in attendance, and where social distancing norms had literally gone for a toss,” the worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ex-mlc-ivan-dsouza-wife-test-ve/articleshow/77307293.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Soon, system to route sick on basis of bed availability||Kochi: In an effort to avoid delays in treatment for Covid and non-Covid patients, the government has decided to constitute programme management and support units (PMSUs) at the district level. The PMSUs will route patients to hospitals on the basis of availability of beds and facilities using a real-time monitoring system so that they are is not denied proper treatment. There will be a district-level control room and a 24x7 helpline to coordinate referrals and admissions. “The PMSUs, headed by district collectors, should have a system for real-time checking of availability of beds, ICUs, etc, in both private and government hospitals. Bystanders of patients or health workers can call up the dedicated helpline and officials at the control room will check availability in the area. Then, the patient will be sent to the hospital where beds and facilities are available,” an official with the health department said. “There have been incidents where patients have died following delays in treatment,” the official said. “The facility will help streamline referral and back referral to and from first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and Covid hospitals,” the official said. The system will also help provide patient care in a hassle-free manner. Based on availability of beds, non-Covid patients can be sent to such hospitals where there are separate blocks for Covid treatment or no treatment for Covid at all. This will help avoid mingling of Covid and non-Covid patients. The control rooms will be manned by MBA and MSW holders with adequate management skills. The facilities should have links to Disha, telehealth helpline, district control room and nodal officers of all the hospitals in the district. PMSU members will monitor allocation of beds and conduct review meetings every day. They should brief district collectors about shortcomings for corrective action. There will also be a state management unit to coordinate the activities of the PMSUs. The state unit, headed by Rathan Kelkar, state mission director of National Health Mission, will provide all support to district-level PMSUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soon-system-to-route-sick-on-basis-of-bed-availability/articleshow/77307294.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Renovation on at War Memorial||SECUNDERABAD: With the Independence Day celebrations a fortnight away, defence authorities are sprucing up the ‘War Memorial’, popularly known as Veerula Sainika Smarak. Located at the Parade Grounds, the venue of many national festivals, the memorial stands tall in Secunderabad. The black granite adorning it had been removed recently and cement plastering works are underway. “When chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao paid homage here last year he discussed with the defence officials regarding the memorial. Now facelift works are taken up. The CM even assured to help in sprucing up the memorial,” defence sources told TOI. However, the defence authorities are tight-lipped about the expenditure to take up these works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/renovation-on-at-war-memorial/articleshow/77309142.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In Covid times, Jama Masjid had room to spare at an ‘unlikely’ Eid||NEW DELHI: Jama Masjid would have a capacity congregation of 25,000 every Eid Ul Adha. On Saturday, there were half that number gathered at the historic mosque for prayers. It was just as well because this smaller turnout enabled social distancing norms. And in concession to the risks posed by the novel coronavirus the usual enthusiastic hugging with a cheery “Eid mubarak” was almost absent at the masjid. Before the namaz began at 6.05 am, there was continuous announcements on the loudspeakers asking people to be cautious while praying. “Saf banayein lekin faasla rakhein (form ranks but keep distance)” blared the PA system as people filed in. Mohammad Khalid, a businessman from Sui Walan, sitting with his brothers and son at the far end of the Jama Masjid, said, “This is so unlike the mosque that we are used to seeing on Eid. There would be no place even to stand, but this year people are sitting at a distance from each other and there are empty places in between.” Bakery owner Ameen Ilahi seemed to believe that the masjid was less crowded because other smaller mosques had been permitted to conduct Eid prayers. “Obviously, many who could not travel to old Delhi must have decided to pray at their local mosques,” he said. Ilahi also pointed out that the early morning showers had facilitated social distancing by creating puddles on the mosque’s compound that people avoided. Though most of the congregants had masks on as advised by Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the imam of Jama Masjid, on Friday, there were some who had discarded the precaution. Saifuddin, an old Delhi cloth merchant, decided to pray with the mask on. “I insisted with my sons and brothers too that they should not take off their masks. We have to be extra cautious in times like these,” said Saifuddin. Hardware store owner Javed Ali and his brother were among the hundreds who did not opt for the customary hug. They didn’t rush out of mosque’s two gateways either to reach home and offer their sacrifices. “The weather is nice and we decided to wait for the crowd to thin before we left,” said Ali. “Already, there is congestion at Gate No 1, and it is risky wading into that crowd.” The tangibly subdued celebrations did not dampen the spirit of the children though. Faces hidden behind masks, boys and girls arrived in their best attire. “The children could not enjoy themselves at Eid ul Fitr which happened during the lockdown. Today was a good day for them to come out and have fun,” smiled Haji Nooruddin, grandfather to four-year old Salim, who was gleefully romping on red sandstone compound after the prayers. While many revelled in a non-lockdown Eid, Irtiza Qureshi of old Delhi had a fulfilling day distributing mutton to slum residents. “We have this annual project of ‘Sab ki Eid’,” Qureshi explained. “We urge people to give us meat that we can cook and distribute to the poor people in different slums. Because of the pandemic, we couldn’t cook the meat, but we were able to collect mutton in the morning and distribute mutton, oil and masalas to the slum residents for them to cook and enjoy on Eid.” If Matia Mahal was deserted during Eil ul Fitr two months ago, there was a throng on there Saturday. Sweet shop owners were delighted to see some crowd. “It’s great to see so many people here,” said Naved, co-owner of the area’s popular Kallan Sweets, who had only on Friday felt there wouldn’t be much business on Saturday. “Thankfully our sales are higher than on Eid ul Fitr, and we sold a lot of kachoris, rasmalai and gulab jamun.” At Zakir Nagar in southeast Delhi, Eid saw fewer people on the streets. Resident Faiz Ilahi said many residents had left for their homes in UP and Bihar. “Plus, many people have not bought animals for sacrifice this year, so the crowd is smaller than usual.” He also revealed that to facilitate social distancing, the mosques in Okhla conducted two Eid prayers in a span of an hour. “My local mosque had prayers at 6.45am and then again at 7.30 am and these prevented crowding at the masjid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-covid-times-jama-masjid-had-room-to-spare-at-an-unlikely-eid/articleshow/77309204.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Proven in Kerala lab: Mask can save you from Covid-19||ALAPPUZHA: Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak happened in the state, the government has been repeatedly stressing on the need to wear masks. A recent incident at a laboratory in Alappuzha underlines its importance. It was on July 16 that a technician of Janakeeya Laboratory at Chettikkad in Mararikulam South grama panchayat, tested positive for the virus. Later, three of her colleagues too tested positive for the disease, triggering concerns about the visitors to the lab. When those visitors who came into contact with the staff were tested, none of them turned Covid positive as all of them had worn masks when they visited the facility. “The four staff had direct contact with as many as 206 people who visited the lab. But the technicians worked in the lab by following all the Covid-19 guidelines. The infection control mechanism of the lab was excellent and the staff had worn masks and gloves while on duty. All the 206 people who had direct contact with the infected lab staff tested negative and it should be mentioned that all of them went to the lab wearing masks. At the same time, the close family members of the four staff tested positive for Covid-19 as they or their family members did not wear masks while at home,” said an official attached to the district medical office. Janakeeya Laboratory, set up in 2014, and run by C G Francis Memorial Trust offers state-of-the-art testing facilities to the poor at reasonable rates. The trust president Jayan Thomas said that when the lab staff tested positive, they were really concerned about the people who visited the lab. “Our lab was closed on July 16 after one of our technicians tested positive. We had followed all the guidelines till the last working day. Our staff had been wearing face shields and gloves while at work and people who visited our lab also had face covers. We had also kept a register to record the details of the visitors. It helped us trace all the people who had come into direct contact with our staff. Later, we asked the 2,123 people who visited our lab to go into quarantine. Luckily, none of them had tested positive, thanks to masks,” Thomas said. Aryad block panchayat, under which the Mararikulam South grama panchayat falls, has shared the story on social media to spread awareness on the importance of wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/proven-in-lab-mask-can-save-you-from-covid-19/articleshow/77307314.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Balwant Singh Multani case: Three former cops turn approvers||MOHALI: Three accused former Chandigarh policemen — then inspector Jagir Singh, sub-inspector (SI) Harsahai Sharma and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh — have reportedly turned approvers in the case against former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who is accused for the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, said the sources in Mohali police. They have recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the judicial magistrates on different dates in Mohali. Members of the SIT constituted to probe the case are tightlipped over the issue, but senior police officers in Mohali and senior advocates, on condition of anonymity, have confirmed that the accused have recorded their statement before the judicial magistrates Amit Bakshi and Harjinder Kaur on July 30. Inspector Jagir Singh is also co-accused along with inspector Anokh Singh in another FIR registered at Kharar Sadar police station on July 27, on charges of fabricating the evidences booked under section 195-A (fabricating evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Kharar (Sadar) station house officer, inspector Sukhvir Singh. Inspector Anokh Singh was arrested by Mohali police against fresh FIR and after taking him on three days police remand, he was sent to judicial custody. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against former DGP Saini in alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are on bail in this case. On the other hand, the defence counsel for former DGP Saini, Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh has sought time to file the reply against the application filed by the prosecution for cancellation of the bails granted to the two co-accused former cops. The resumed hearing of the case came up in the court of additional district and session judge Rajnish Garg on July 30 and after hearing the pleas, the court adjourned the case till August 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-ex-ut-cops-turn-approvers-against-dgp-saini/articleshow/77309198.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Human milk bank likely to come up in Nagpur soon||Nagpur: Nagpur is likely to get its first Human Milk Bank in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) soon. The banks will be the best remedy to help mothers who are unable to provide enough milk for their babies due to medical reasons. Apart from the government authorities, the Rotary Club of Nagpur and Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynecology Society (NOGS) have joined hands to launch this project in the city. The official announcement will be made soon, confirmed NOGS president Dr Vaidehi Marathe. “Human milk banks are a service established for the purpose of collecting milk from donors and processing, screening, storing and distributing donated milk to meet the specific needs of individuals for whom human milk is prescribed by licensed health care providers. When possible, human milk banks also serve healthy infants who have been adopted or are not able to get their own mother’s milk,” said Dr Marathe. Milk banks accept donations directly at their sites or they can arrange for safe transportation of human milk at no cost to the donor. At GMCH, the department of pediatrics will house this milk bank. Two senior doctors from this department have already been trained in Mumbai for advanced training in milk bank management. Doctors at GMCH confirmed that the proposal of milk bank is already in the final phase. Site and infrastructure for the lab has been finalized and monitory proposals will soon get final nod from the state government. “A milk bank is needed for a big city like Nagpur which has emerged as a medical hub of Central India. We have big hospitals and a large number of newborns, including premature babies, every day. A comparatively smaller city like Amravati has milk banks that are running successfully,” said Dr Dipty Jain, professor and head of pediatric department of GMCH, adding that more such banks are needed in Nagpur. Primary consumers of milk from these banks are premature babies. The main reason why premature babies consume donor milk is that the mother cannot provide milk for the baby. BENEFITS OF BREAST FEEDING * Infants who are breastfed: Have a lower risk of asthma, obesity, type 1 diabetes, severe lower respiratory disease, acute otitis media (ear infections), sudden infant death syndrome, gastrointestinal infections (diarrhoea/vomiting) & necrotizing enterocolitis Benefit to mothers: Those who breastfeed their infants have a lower risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/human-milk-bank-likely-to-come-up-in-nagpur-soon/articleshow/77309225.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Nanora local arrested for possession of 1kg ganja||PANAJI: The crime branch of Goa police on Saturday arrested a 21-year-old man from Nanora, Bicholim, for allegedly possessing 1kg drugs. Crime branch superintendent of police Shobhit Saxena said, “On the intervening night of July 31 and August 1, a team from the crime branch, led by PIs Filomena Costa and Rahul Parab, apprehended one person in Bicholim carrying a shoulder bag containing 1kg of ganja. The accused has been arrested and a case registered against him. Further investigation is on.” Police said the accused is a second-year student and has changed three colleges. He would procure the drugs from outside the state and the exchange happened in the jungle area on the state’s border, they said. Further, they said the accused has been active in the drug trade since the last six months. Initially, he would sell drugs in small portions priced at Rs 100, but soon started supplying to small peddlers too. They said that while most of his clients were from Mapusa, the accused also supplied drugs to Anjuna and Mandrem. During investigation, the accused revealed that he would procure drugs from two persons and had recently changed his supplier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nanora-local-arrested-for-possession-of-1kg-ganja/articleshow/77309669.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hubballi||No lockdown on Sunday, curbs eased further||Dharwad: Following directions from the Union ministry of home affairs and the state government, the district administration has issued fresh guidelines for Unlock with effect from Saturday. Accordingly, there will be no lockdown on Sunday in the district. However, the restrictions in containment areas will continue to be in force. The following activities are permitted, except in containment zones: Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31, while online or distance learning are permitted. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will be permitted to operate. Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to function from Wednesday, for which SOPs will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Social, political,sports, entertainment, academic,cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will be allowed. Independence Day events at district, sub-division, municipal and panchayat levels will be allowed. ‘At-home functions’, wherever held, will be allowed with social distancing, and by following other health protocols like wearing of masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-lockdown-on-sunday-curbs-eased-further/articleshow/77307318.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy downpour in several parts of Hyderabad, roads inundated||HYDERABAD: With the south-west monsoon gaining strength across Telangana, heavy rains lashed several parts of the city on Saturday. According to the the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Kukatpally received highest rainfall at 86.5 mm followed by Serlingampally (80.3 mm) and Uppal (80.0 mm). The rains also left parts Old City, Somajiguda, Malkajgiri and Secunderabad inundated in knee-deep water. Visuals from the city showed showed Disaster Response Force (DRF) staff attempting to clear waterlogged roads at several places. “It finally looks like the monsoon has picked up pace. If these rains continue for a few days, they might help replenish the dried-up lakes and some agricultural wells in districts,” said P Somayajulu, a resident of Talabkatta. A warming from the India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad said there was the possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places in the state for the next four days. “Latest satellite imagery image shows moderate to intense convection over Telangana, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied by lightning at isolated places very likely over these areas during the next three to four hours,” the IMD tweeted earlier on Saturday. However, despite the rains, the maximum temperatures continued to settle at 32.7 on Friday and 32.8 on Saturday. Several parts of the city also witnessed power cuts due to the heavy rains. The monsoon has seen even even moderate rain disrupt power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-downpour-in-several-parts-of-city-roads-inundated/articleshow/77309207.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||India a ‘high-risk’ nation on Kuwait flight-ban list of 31||NEW DELHI: Kuwait on Saturday banned commercial flights to 31 “high risk” countries — including India, Singapore, Italy, Spain, Hong Kong and China — till further notice to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Indian authorities had on Friday said that recently a “transport bubble agreement had been signed with Kuwait to uplift stranded passenger both to/from India”. After the Kuwaiti move, officials said this special travel arrangement could now be affected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-a-high-risk-nation-on-kuwait-flight-ban-list-of-31/articleshow/77310051.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Broad Gauge, Narrow Mind||Greens rejoiced when state CM Uddhav Thackeray told the railway ministry that the metre gauge running through Melghat Tiger Reserve should not be widened and sought an alternative route. The upgradation will virtually split the reserve by 254 sq km, an area equal to Pench National Park. The railway track passes through 38km of the reserve, 17km of it in the core area. MPs and MLAs of Akola and Buldhana districts have stated that the optional route will cater to more rail passengers. There are no villages in the core, and just a couple in the buffer. The railway ministry, which already has started broad-gauging work, is yet to respond. Until such time, the threat of large-scale destruction of the reserve looms. TOI’s Sunil Warrier, Vijay Pinjarkar and Ranjit Deshmukh on a spot checkDear Uddhavji, When you as CM of Maharashtra put your foot down against the widening of the railway metre gauge section here, we, the beings of Melghat Tiger Reserve, found tears flowing unabashedly from our eyes. The broad gauging would have brought on untold and unpredictable miseries for all. As a senior inhabitant of this southern tropical dry deciduous forest, the animals, birds, insects, rivers and nullahs as well as the trees have asked me to thank you for giving us another life. You will find me swaying on the banks of the Wan River that gently flows past a village called Dulghat Railway. I am an Arjun tree (Termilia Arjuna), native to the area. I grow from seeds that flow downriver and are deposited on the banks, which is where I mostly grow. I am fortunate in that I do not have much market value and am not a target for illicit felling. But, the extract of my bark is still used in Ayurvedic heart medicines. Can you guess my age? Judging by my girth, I most likely shot through the ground early last century. That’s right, I’m well over a 100; four-to-five people holding hands in a ring would just about be able to ‘chipko’ me. The base of my trunk is like the giant foot of a creature from Jurassic Park. Trying to find my acme will give you vertigo. Metres away from me stands a British-inspired Indian-engineered stone bridge over which the metre gauge track was laid. I was several feet shorter in 1959 when the Akola-Khandwa railway route started. Shut your eyes for a moment and imagine a giant green amoeba; this is Melghat Tiger Reserve. If India were a living being, Melghat would be its lung. Everyone knows its value, yet for selfish reasons chooses to ignore the perils of endangering this lung. An amoeba may split and take another form, but any attempt at splitting Melghat will permanently impact its ability to regenerate. The beings of Melghat hope that the decision to forbid broad gauging is not a political stand and that you, CMji, genuinely mean every word of it. We know you as a mature nature and wildlife lover. Your message on Global Tiger Day recently was applauded not just by tigers but by all carnivores and herbivores of Melghat. But we must caution you about some danger signs and tricks. The Railways and highway authorities have notorious ways of creating infrastructure. They start construction assuming all environmental sanctions will soon be in place. In Melghat’s case, Akot station is almost ready, metre gauge tracks have already been ripped up and concrete sleepers lie scattered on forest land at many places. The intention is quite clear: The broad gauge project will go ahead. “Oh, we have already spent crores; if you disallow us, it will go to waste”: this will be the Railways’ excuse. Don’t fall for it, Uddhavji. Much like your visit to Pune to take stock of the corona situation last week, I suggest you and Aaditya — oh! To have a young environment minister — take a helicopter ride to get the real picture of the impending disaster if the Railways gets what it wants. Melghat Tiger Reserve is one contiguous forest with sanctuaries and parks like Ambabarva at the southern tip followed by Wan, Gughamal, Melghat and Narnala as you move north. The railway line passes through Wan. Broad gauging will bring in more trains running at breakneck speeds and hamper the movement of wildlife. We fear that Ambabarva and Wan will be completely severed from Melghat Tiger Reserve. From the air, Uddhavji, you will see a lush multi-shaded green ‘vasundhara’ carpet of trees. Their tops sway like the conductor’s baton in an orchestra — at times gentle, at others with vigour. The happy chirping of birds is a soothing chorus. It is monsoon now and the clearwater nullahs seem to be hurrying to keep a date with someone down below. Carry binoculars. If you are lucky, you will spot tigers, bears, gaurs and deer in numbers pleasantly more than the number of Covid cases in Maharashtra. The railway route passes through tunnels carved through hills and over quaint bridges. You must be aware, Uddhavji, that the Railways shut down the metre gauge route three years ago with the intention of converting it to broad gauge. Truly, metre gauge serves little purpose when broad gauge can provide enhanced connectivity. More trains can be run at faster speeds, delivering goods and transporting passengers in double quick time. But this will entail cutting down trees, building new bridges, stations, tunnels and what not. It will leave us brutalized. Uddhavji, you could opt to drive through the forests and meet some of the Aadhaar-card holders. You may bump into Rajiv Kulkarni, a resident of Dhulghat Railway. “The Railways want to convert the existing route as it is a short cut and cost-effective. The alternative alignment will be costly but beneficial in the long run.” And Mangal Kasdekar of Popatkhed village, a frequent visitor to the area will tell you, “Even if the Railways opt for the alternative route, it will benefit me as I can board the train from Tukaithad to visit my in-laws who stay in Mondra in MP.” After the closure of the metre-gauge rail route, the frequency of two-wheelers has increased on the road through Wan wildlife sanctuary. The forest takes a sympathetic view of this encroachment. Rajpal Gavte from Motakheda village will tell you he used to travel by metre gauge train but now takes a parallel road through the sanctuary to reach Hiwarkhed and Akot, the two big market towns “to meet our requirements”. “There are restrictions on road travel from 6 am to 6 pm,” he will add. Devi Dahikar will tell you that the alternate alignment will add a few kilometres of travel but not cause an inconvenience. “We can go to Tukaithad via Ranigaon on the Madhya Pradesh side and then take a train to Akot and Akola,” he will say. Uddhavji, you may want to hear out Murlidhar Chore, the sarpanch of Tunki: “We have absolutely no problem if the line is connected from outside the reserve. It will benefit hundreds of small villages connecting Tier-3 towns like Jalgaon (Jamod), Sonala, Tunki and Bawandir. Earlier, we travelled 35-40 km to Akot-Adgaon to board the metre gauge trains. Train movement will also help farmers to transport produce like cotton, oranges, bananas and other crops.” You should also interact with people like Vishal Bansod, who is the honorary wildlife warden of Amravati, and Manish Jeswani, an environment lawyer. Bansod will tell you this: “The metre gauge train was used by forested villages like Talai, Barukheda, Somthana and Nagartas. Villagers used to alight at Wan station and walk 4-8 km to reach their villages. All these villages have been relocated outside the sanctuary. So, the basic purpose of working on the same alignment has no meaning.” Bansod will also tell you that after the train stopped operations in 2017, theft of minor forest produce (MFP) like gum and teak wood became zero. “Many passengers indulged in illicit tree felling and poaching.” Jeswani will reinforce my thoughts on all-round destruction. “The topography of the area is such that broad gauge is impossible on the existing line.” Uddhavji, you need to do something that will ensure that no state or central government of any political hue will ever bring up the topic of broad-gauging the Akot-Khandwa route. Perhaps burying a time capsule at the modernized Akot railway station will serve the purpose. Yours truly, Arjun Tree||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/broad-gauge-narrow-mind/articleshow/77309680.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Covid positive woman gives birth to boy||Palakkad: A 28-year-old woman, who was tested positive for Covid-19, gave birth to a boy at the women & child hospital attached to district hospital on Saturday. According to health department, this is the first child born to a Covid-19 positive patient in the district. “It was a normal delivery and the child weighed 2.5kg at the time of delivery”, an official said. The woman was admitted to a private hospital at Ottapalam on July 27 for delivery. But she was tested Covid-19 positive and was referred to the women & child hospital here. The hospital superintendent, Dr P K Jayasree, said that this was the first case in which a woman with advance pregnancy was tested Covid-19 positive. “Soon after her admission, she was given special care by a team of doctors headed by gynaecologist Dr M Rekha. The doctors and the medical staff also gave her mental support through counselling,” said Jayasree. The infant is with the grandmother in the pay ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-boy/articleshow/77307322.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||City police’s ‘home drop’ scheme for stranded women stretched to migrants during lockdown||Nagpur: The ‘Home drop’ scheme, one of the most lauded measures started by city police chief BK Upadhyay for women post the Hyderabad gang rape and murder case in December 2019, was re-defined during the peak lockdown period. The concept was stretched to ensure that thousands of migrants returned to their native places. The project was a first of its kind in Maharashtra to prevent women from getting victimized at odd hours of the day at desolate places. Started to prevent heinous crimes like gang rapes and murders of women, the ‘Home drop’ system later became a model of reuniting migrants with their families back in their native places. This pattern was followed by 33 police stations. Addl CP Nilesh Bharne played a pivotal role in implementing the plan. Upadhyay, who completed two years in the city in July, had initiated ‘Home drop’ for women left stranded, especially between 9pm and 5am, without transportation available to return home. A call to ‘100’ at the control room or a helpline would mean cops from the nearest police station would reach a woman in need to take her back home in a police vehicle. The initiative, which was reviewed and revised by Upadhyay after a woman lecturer from Hinganghat was set on fire by a jilted lover in February, had ensured more than 90 women got a helping hand from the cops before the lockdown started in March. Later, the number swelled to several thousands by incorporating migrants and their families when they were required to be sent home with public transport getting withdrawn to break the Covid chain. Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station said cops had already nurtured a mindset and a system of escorting women back home which helped during the lockdown to extend similar help to families stranded at different places during the pandemic outbreak. “We helped more than 50 women during the lockdown phase as we saw them on the roads moving alone or in groups,” he said. Hiware expressed gratitude to Upadhyay for mentoring the city police. “Police later sent home thousands of migrants and their families during the lockdown by expanding the same concept,” he said. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar said the ‘Home drop’ system had of late become a model for the entire state as a measure to prevent women and girls from falling victims to crimes. “We had ensured that a woman from Jalalkheda reached home with the help of rural police after she was discharged from Mayo hospital and had nobody to take her home. During the lockdown, we helped at least one dozen stranded women and several migrants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-polices-home-drop-scheme-for-stranded-women-stretched-to-migrants-during-lockdown/articleshow/77309261.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 2, 2020||Hubballi||SP secures abandoned govt land||Dharwad: The district police department has finally managed to get its land at Mugad village that was encroached upon by locals. Superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar, who took pains to identify the land that was abandoned by the department decades ago, has got the land surveyed and fenced. Vartika told TOI on Wednesday that some people, who had encroached upon the land and occupied the building that housed police staff quarters, have been asked to vacate. “In view of the Covid situation we are not evicting them. They have agreed to vacate in due course,” Vartika said. A police station existed in Mugad, about 10km away from Dharwad and residential quarters for the sub-inspector and other staff had been constructed on 1.1 acres. However, the police station was shifted to Alnavar in the 1970s, and for almost five decades the department had not bothered to maintain the buildings and open space. Some local people had occupied the portion of the open land and the buildings thereafter. The SP said all the documents pertaining to the land have been handed over to the panchayat development officer and they have been uploaded in e-swathu, a dedicated website of government land records. A proposal will be given to the higher-ups to construct quarters for police personnel on this land, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sp-secures-abandoned-govt-land/articleshow/77307346.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Boulder falls on Jubilee Hills house||HYDERABAD: A part of a massive boulder came crashing on a house on Road Number 44, in Jubilee Hills, on Saturday evening — soon after it started raining heavily across the city. Although it was initially believed that the boulder collapsed as a result of the downpour, a further enquiry with the police revealed that the incident took place because of a construction activity going on in the vicinity. Jubilee Hills police inspector, Sattaiah, told TOI that a case was registered against the land owner and the contractor for not taking sufficient precautions while cutting the boulder. “As part of their plan to take up construction work in the open plot, they have been manually cutting this huge rock. Due to the rain, perhaps the soil became loose and suddenly a portion of the rock came apart and fell on the neighbour’s residence,” the police offocial said. The police further informed that there were no casualties reported as the family was not present in that particular part of the house when the boulder crashed into one of the pillars and the roof of the house. A similar incident took place in January this year where a labourer died after a boulder fell on his head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boulder-falls-on-jubilee-hills-house/articleshow/77309273.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||ABVP welcomes new education policy||Nagpur: The Akhil Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has welcomed the new national education policy. At a press conference held at the ABVP office in Sitaburdi, national president Aniket Ovhal elaborated his views of the policy. He stressed on school education in the mother tongue of students who will understand the syllabus more precisely and easily. “Concepts will be clear easily if education is in the mother-tongue of students in schools and colleges,” said Ovhal. The 5+3+3-4 pattern, which will include 12th class in schools, rethinking of the syllabus of BEd education, vocational education and internship for students from 6th standard will create scope for creativity, said Ovhal. He added that separate curriculum/software for deaf students, subjects like music, yoga, arts, sports, social services to be introduced as subjects and not extra-curricular activities are good signs. “6% of GDP will be spent to strengthen the Indian education system. Efforts for development of backward class students will be initiated,” said Ovhal. Slamming the corporatisation of education, Ovhal said, “The new policy will change things which haven’t improved since many years. It will benefit students from all classes. Private educational organizations which used to bully common people through enormous fees will not be able continue their practices.” The education system, which has been neglected for 34 years, will be job-focused and will undergo a radical change. He appealed to educational institutions to cooperate. “The new policy is very important in terms of higher education and will play a key role in empowering the young generation of the country,” said Ovhal. Member of RTMNU Management Council Vishnu Changde said that efforts are being made to implement this policy in Nagpur University considering its usefulness. Nagpur metropolitan joint minister Nidhi Ingole was also present in the press conference. (Reporting by Rushabh Rathod)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abvp-welcomes-new-education-policy/articleshow/77309264.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Man tests +ve after death in Tsr||Thrissur: Samples collected from the body of a 59-year-old man from Irinjalakkuda, who had died on Friday, came out positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The health department officials gave the name of the deceased as Cheloor Tharayil Chandran, who was staying near the KSRTC bus stand at Irinjalakkuda. They said Chandran was undergoing treatment for lung cancer for some time. He was also having fever and breathing problems.With this, the number of Covid deaths in the district rose to eight. Meanwhile, 76 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday. Of these, 53 people have contracted the virus through social contacts . Sources said the police officers from Thrissur East police station who have opted for quarantine have tested negative. Ministers A C Moideen and V S Sunil Kumar have also tested negative during antigen tests conducted at the government guest house at Ramanilayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-tests-ve-after-death-in-tsr/articleshow/77307339.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CR Park man tosses PPE kit from balcony, booked||NEW DELHI: A Covid-positive man residing in CR Park has been booked for carelessly discarding PPE kits, gloves and masks from his house’s balcony. The matter came to light after Shantanu Moitra, a famous music composer, tweeted a video of the protective gear hanging on overhead electrical wires and lying scattered on a stretch near his house. Moitra also asked the authorities concerned to urgently look into the matter. Police took cognisance of the video and a team was sent to the spot on Friday. An officer said the accused is Covid positive and will be arrested after he recovers. “This is a video of a house in CR Park, Delhi with likely Covid patients disposing their PPE kits in the gully behind…this is hazardous and dangerous. Many senior citizens live here and r petrified. Authorities please look into this urgently(sic),” Moitra had tweeted. Manju Moitra, Shantanu’s mother, told TOI: “I received the video from a neighbour and when I checked it, I realised it was our neighbourhood. I shared the video with my son as well because I found someone disposing of Covid-related protective gears like this a risky thing. My husband and I are both senior citizens and in this pandemic, we have mostly stayed indoors for our wellbeing. I was shocked to see the PPE kit hanging on a tree behind my house. We also informed the RWA members and the councillor who took immediate action.” “After seeing Moitra’s tweet, a team was sent to CR Park and the house of the Covid patient was identified. We have registered a case. Since the accused is corona positive, action will be taken after he recovers. He runs a beauty parlour in the area,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cr-park-man-tosses-ppe-kit-from-balcony-booked/articleshow/77309268.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 2, 2020||Ludhiana||College profs who blew the whistle get termination orders||Patiala: The three professors of Government Mohindra College, who had, last year, blown the whistle on the misappropriation of the college funds by the authorities, have been issued termination orders for ‘interacting with the media’. Last year, three assistant professors of the college — Amarinder Singh Tiwana, Mandeep Singh and Jashandeep — had filed a complaint with the state vigilance bureau and higher officials of the state education department alleging that former principal of the college had violated the rules and engaged in misappropriation of funds worth several crores of rupees. The complaint entailed a vigilance probe, which has not been completed till date. However, on July 29, the board of governors, headed by college principal Prof Simrat Kaur, ordered termination of the services of the three assistant professors, who had been appointed in the college on contractual basis. The reason mentioned in the termination letter is, ‘instead of resolving the issues through mutual interaction, the three assistant professors went to the media.’ As the vigilance probe was heading nowhere, the three assistant professors in February had held a press conference at Chandigarh alleging ‘lack of professionalism in the inquiry’. The professors had claimed that they had written to the principal secretary (higher sducation), the superintendent of police (vigilance), the drector public instructions and the college principal. Even as two separate inquiries — one by the vigilance and the other by the secretary higher education had been ordered — both the authorities continued to drag their feet over the issue. In their complaint last year, the three had stated that the college authorities had indulged in large scale misappropriation of funds of RUSA, the parent-teacher association (PTA) and the Higher Education Institute Society, a self-finance society of the college. According to them, payments were released without following any protocols on fake bills raised to embezzle money. While the state government had held back the retirement benefits of the former principal of the college, but till now no further action has been taken into the complaint filed by them. Tiwana contended that if no wrongdoing has been found in the working of the college, why the probe agency has not yet come on record and stated the same. “It means that the allegations levelled by us were correct,” he said. Meanwhile, principal Kaur said, “The decision to terminate the services of three assistant professors has been taken by the board of governors.” When asked if the board was being headed by her, she refused to take any further questions and switched off her mobile phone. The three assistant professors have now alleged that for the last 15 days “we were repeatedly called to the principal’s office and asked to withdraw the complaint”. These allegations has so far not been denied by the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/college-profs-who-blew-the-whistle-get-termination-orders/articleshow/77309262.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Day after Punjab hooch toll 86, CM suspends officials||CHANDIGARH/AMRITSAR: The number of deaths in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 on Saturday. The Punjab police arrested 17 more persons in a massive crackdown in the three affected districts, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and the Shambhu border (with Haryana). The total number of arrests in the case is now 25. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered the suspension on Saturday of seven excise and taxation officers and inspectors, two Punjab police DSPs and four SHOs, as well as an inquiry against them in connection with the hooch tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-after-punjab-hooch-toll-86-cm-suspends-officials/articleshow/77310080.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||238 fresh Covid-19 cases push Coimbatore’s tally beyond 5,000-mark||COIMBATORE: The district’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 5,000-mark on Saturday when it recorded 238 fresh cases. Of the 5,059 people who were tested positive for the virus in the district so far, 3,245 patients, including 216 who were discharged in the day, have recovered, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,750. The Covid-19 toll in the district officially stands at 64 as the state has included 10 more deaths, some of which had occurred as early as July 23, in its bulletin on Saturday. At least 89% of the new cases was reported from the city corporation limits. Among the new cases are a 41-year-old man and a 35-year-old man, who are employed with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation head office on Mettupalayam Road, and a 48-year-old officer with the Indian Bank on Raja Street. RS Puram saw seven new cases that were spread across West Ramalingam Road, Periyasamy Road, Arunachala Road, Bashyakarlu Road, East Sambandam Road and Light House Road. PN Pudur, Mullai Nagar and Thillar Nagar on Seeranaickenpalayam-Vadavalli stretch also reported new cases. According to health department officials, the entire city corporation limits has turned into a containment zone. Among the deceased are a 79-year-old man who died in a private hospital, where he was admitted with fever, coughing and breathing difficulty, on July 26 and a 63-year-old man who breathed his last at a private hospital on July 23. The latter had multiple comorbidities. Another four - a 64-year-old man, 64-year-old woman, 58-year-old man and a 54-year-old man - had died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) within 24 hours of hospitalisation. While three of them had diabetes, hypertension and heart issues, the 58-year-old, who didn’t have any comorbidities, died of pneumonia. There were also two others - a 48-year-old man and a 54-year-old man – who succumbed to the virus despite not having any comorbidities. The first one was brought dead to CMCH on Tuesday. The swab that was taken from his body later tested positive for the virus. The latter was admitted to hospital with respiratory distress on July 27. He died of pneumonia on Friday afternoon. Another deceased is a 60-year-old man, who was admitted to hospital on July 24 with head injury that he sustained in an accident. Later, he was tested positive for the virus. He also had pneumonia. He died on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/238-fresh-cases-push-dists-tally-beyond-5000-mark/articleshow/77308260.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Rapid antigen testing begins in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Bhopal has become the first district in MP to start rapid antigen test for confirmation of the coronavirus infection. The facility was to start in Bhopal and Morena simultenously, but was deferred at Morena at the last minute while Bhopal proceeded with the tests. According to chief medical & health officer (CMHO), Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, rapid antigen test was conducted on 500 suspects on Friday. The final data for Saturday would be known by the next day. He said that initially, Bhopal was given 1,000 rapid antigen test kits to begin with while Morena was allotted 500. After testing by rapid antigen method was deferred at Morena, those 500 kits were also transferred to Bhopal. And, before the stock could be exhausted, a fresh stock of 10,000 kits arrived on Saturday. Dr Tiwari said they would get another 5,000 kits next week and this way, they will have 15,000 to 17,000 rapid antigen tests to begin with. What is RAT, why is it preferred?Rapid antigen test (RAT) in India is conducted with a kit manufactured by a South Korean company — SD Bio Sensor — at its Manesar plant in India. Experts say it is being preferrered particularly at places where coronavirus has acquired pandemic proportion or nearing that stage because of its “affordability and quicker result”. Dr Tiwari said, “Result by rapid antigen method is received in half-an-hour to an hour and if the report is positive, we go ahead with the patient’s treatment. .” What if the report is negative?If the report is negative and the suspect is asymptomatic, i.e. has no symptoms of Coronavirus infection, he is given a clean chit. But, if the report is negative and yet the patient has symptoms of Covid 19-infection, he is referred for RT-PCR test. How is the test conducted?“ Nasal swab is used to detect the presence of coronavirus in the body and result is obtained in half-an-hour to an hour,” Dr Tiwari said. Who are preferred for RAT?There is a health department advisory on who should be subjected to rapid antigen test. They include people coming from abroad, residents of a "containment zone", inmates of quarantine centres. . Where are tests are conducted?In Bhopal, the tests are being conducted at 10 state government-run hospitals, five of them gas relief hospitals. They are- JNH gas relief hospital, Kamla Nehru hospital, Shakir Ali hospital, Master Lalsingh hospital, Rasool Ahmed Pulmonary Centre, Civil Hospital, Bairagarh, CHC, Berasia, CHC Kolar, CD, Govindpura and UPHC, Gulabi Nagar. It is conducted free of cost. Dr Tiwari said that as of now no private hospital of Bhopal has permission to conduct rapid antigen tests .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rapid-antigen-testing-begins-in-bhopal/articleshow/77309278.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||City students’ projects impress Modi at Smart India Hackathon||COIMBATORE: Two projects by the city students - health cards for waterbody embankments and chatbots to receive complaints directly from people’s houses - caught the attention of prime minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. They were among the 1,000 projects at the three-day software edition of Smart India Hackathon 2020, which was inaugurated in the day. Modi encouraged the teams to take their projects further. Organized jointly by the Union ministry of human resource development and the All India Council for Technical Education, the hackathon is being held virtually at 40 nodal centres across the country, where 1,000 teams, each comprising six members, would code to find solutions for problems posed by state governments and central government departments. Modi virtually interacted with the students at six nodal centres, including Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology in the district, from as many states on Saturday. M Shwetha, a fourth year MSc Software Systems student of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College, presented her project on creating health cards for embankments of natural water bodies. “If there is a breach in embankment, there would be loss of lives and property. This could be prevented if we know when the next breach would occur. With the help of machine learning, we will study breach patterns and predict possible future breaches for preventive measures.” Modi asked her team to prepare a prototype of the technology, which, if convincing, would be implemented. M Kundan, a student from PSG College of Technology in the district, explained his team’s work on developing a chatbot to receive complaints from people. “This would eliminate the need for people to visit a police station physically, thus addressing the stigma and fear associated with the same. The chatbot would also spread awareness on filing complaints. It aims to reduce crime rates.” Modi asked his team to develop the chatbot in all regional languages, so the same would be accessible to common people. He also asked them to apply artificial intelligence technology to the functions of police department. Of the total 40 virtual nodal centres across the country, six are in the state, of which two - Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, which woul host 27 teams, and Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology, which would host 26 teams - are in the district. Each team would write codes to solve problems posed by the of Bihar government and the departments of financial services and science and technology. The teams would be brought together on the virtual digital platform ‘Slack’. The hackathon would go on till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-students-projects-impress-modi-at-smart-india-hackathon/articleshow/77308264.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha gets award for Covid response work||Wardha: Wardha district has received the SKOCH award for outstanding work in response to Covid recently at New Delhi. SKOCH foundation recognizes people, projects and institutions that go the extra mile to make India a better nation. Wardha district was able keep Covid-19 at bay at the initial stage when patients were found in other districts. District had no patient for first 50 days. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar said, “This award is the result of hard work of all the citizens, departments of the district, police, zilla parishad and the district administration. So, far the district has done an excellent job in keeping Covid cases down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-gets-award-for-covid-response-work/articleshow/77309280.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||Sans mobile network, Gir kids lead Mowgli-life in lockdown||Rajkot: Jungle living is simply a battle for existence — survival at the foremost, besides languishing from want of basic modern needs. And so, having to walk 10km at the crack of dawn every day to reach school through the dense Gir jungle route was normal life for 8-year-old Yuvraj Ahir. But that was until five months ago as the schools thereafter closed down due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Class II student, however, still walks the same jungle route, but not with his books and school mates, but with a stick and herd of cattle that he takes out to graze with his father.Pipalva Gir Primary School is the only school for Pipalva village near the Gir (east) division forest. While the school, up to Class VIII, has 275 students in all, about 15 of these children, including Yuvraj come from within the jungle interiors. The affected children hail from Dhandha Nes, Rebdi Nes, Shir Nes, Loki Nes, Andhari Nes, Khajuri Nes, Mobh Nes, Chhapri Nes and Saap Nes in the forest region.Amid the lockdown, the new academic year began in the state with schools conducting online classes for students through mobile phone apps and Doordarshan. But without access to any one of the technologies, these 15-odd children of the forest are resigned to fate, languishing in the dark without any connection with books or learning.Parents of these kids say that even if they will have a smartphone that will also be not of any use as the area being a forest does not have a mobile phone tower. Without mobile network, even forest officials communicate with each other using walkie talkies.Talking to TOI, Principal Naresh Pipaliya of the primary school, however, said that he has instructed the school teachers to go to these remote interiors to teach the students there from time to time. “Our school is teaching through mobile app, and I have also asked our teachers to reach out to these forest children physically. But as the teachers too are not locals and stay far away, communication is a bottleneck.”But Manu Bhukan, whose son, 11-year-old Karan who studies in Class V and now accompanies him daily for cattle grazing, denied having seen any teacher come to the village in the past five months. “There is no coverage in the forest so having a mobile phone or studying through online classes is out of the question. Even the school hasn’t sent any teacher here. So, until the schools reopen, the future of our kids are totally in the dark,” he told TOI.Parents like Yuvraj’s father Lakhu Ahir also said that instead of idling at home, they are keeping their children busy with household activities though they fully understand that it is detrimental for academic performances.“It’s difficult to control idle kids who will only loiter around if left alone. Therefore, I take him along for grazing. For us, some alternative arrangements must be made to help our children with studies,” Ahir added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sans-mobile-network-gir-kids-lead-mowgli-life-in-lockdown/articleshow/77307392.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||‘Unhygenic’ Covid centres give inmates jitters||Bhopal: With Covid-19 tightening its grip, more and more people are getting desperate to leave the quarantine centres at small towns. They alleged large-scale irregularities and also expressed fears of “getting infected” in these centres. Inmates of a quarantine centre at a tribal hostel in Bundelkhand have urged the local administration to shift them to Bhopal. A local journalist even got permission to shift him to Chirayu hospital. In another related case, an ambulance carried a coronavirus patient to Bundelkhand Medical College (BMC), he was refused to be admitted. “It’s their ambulance that carried our kin who was found Covid positive on Friday evening. Now, they are refusing admission. It’s all so strange”, said the patient’s relative. Earlier this week, a dozen people had fled from the quarantine centres in Chhatarpur district and on Saturday, one of them turned out to be corona positive. Many high-risk potential coronavirus patients have been lodged at Gyanodaya hostel in Sagar where they don’t want to prolong their stay. One of them said, “I will not survive here. The toilet is so dirty. Even a healthy person will surely catch infection.” Making frantic calls to media persons and officials of the local administration, many inmates said, “This place lacks basic amenities. The mattresses and pillows are old and dirty. Pillows don’t have covers and are unusable. There is no one who would listen to our grievances here.” “No one takes our call when we call attendants on the numbers provided in the list made available here”, they said. The quality of food served has also been questioned. Denying irregularities at the quarantine centres, district collector Deepak Singh said that many people want to stay at their respective homes since they prefer “home quarantine” and at the same time it is not guaranteed that they would stay indoors while at home. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Sagar, swab samples of a woman turned out to be positive. She along with her husband had run away from a quarantine centre at Chandra Nagar. Later they were tracked down and shifted to a Covid centre in Chhatarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unhygenic-covid-centres-give-inmates-jitters/articleshow/77309279.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Custodial murder charge: Son asks for CBI investigation||AHMEDABAD: Petitioner Shaikh Salim has requested the Gujarat high court to shift investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the alleged custodial murder of his father Shaikh Babu Nisar in Fatehgunj police station. On Thursday, during the hearing of the habeas corpus petition that Salim has filed for his father’s custody, his advocates Imtiyaz Kureshi and K I Kazi requested the high court that the investigation, which is being conducted by Vadodara police, should be transferred to the central probe agency. It was submitted that the Vadodara police have not been able to arrest any of the six policemen accused in the custodial death. It was also submitted that the petitioner does not want any probe agency of Gujarat police, including the CID (crime), to conduct the probe looking at the abscondance of the accused persons. It was also pointed out that an accused in this case, former police inspector of Fatehgunj, Dharmendrasinh Gohil, has filed a petition in the high court in connection with the offence. But the investigators could not trace the accused. The high court has asked the public prosecutor to address the court on this issue on August 5. Meanwhile, the state government informed the high court about the investigating officer’s efforts to invoke murder charge in the FIR filed against the policemen. It placed the magisterial court’s order before the HC. The court in Vadodara asked the investigator to place the report for addition of charges with the FIR and submit before the court at the end of the probe. This happened after the investigator promised the HC to invoke murder charge against the absconding policemen after the FIR held them accused of only culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In this case, Nisar was summoned by Fatehgunj police on December 10, 2019 in connection with a theft case. Since then his family did not hear about him. His son, Salim, and his brother-in-law continued to request Vadodara police to investigate the mysterious disappearance of the person from police station. It was after he filed a habeas corpus petition in June that the police investigated the case and registered an FIR against six cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/custodial-murder-charge-son-asks-for-cbi-investigation/articleshow/77308276.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||School kids to get textbooks, bags for free||COIMBATORE: The state government has directed all schools to distribute textbooks and school bags for students in classes II to V, VII and VIII. In a recent communication, the directorate of school education has asked all district chief education officers to direct government and aided schools to start distributing free textbooks and bags to students from Monday. It said students in classes VII and VIII should be given books and bags first, followed by students in classes II, III, IV and V. “All students and parents, who come to collect them, must be instructed to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Steps should be taken to prevent crowding at schools,” the communication said. Schools are directed to call students in batches of 20 per hour to distribute the books and bags, to ensure there is no crowding. Teachers in the district said the books for classes I to IX and XI had arrived along with textbooks for classes X and XII that were distributed last month. “The books are ready. We will start distributing them from Monday,” a teacher said. However, as new admissions to classes I, VI and IX and transition from middle schools to high schools, and high schools to higher secondary schools are yet to take place, the teacher said books for those classes would not be distributed now. “Since we are yet to make new admissions to these classes, existing students in classes VI and IX wouldn’t also be given books and bags.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-kids-to-get-textbooks-bags-for-free/articleshow/77308266.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Forest dept issue notices to stone quarries in Gundlupet||Mysuru: The forest department has issued notices to stone quarries in Chamarajanagar, saying high decibel activity is causing disturbance to animals, which has led to man-animal conflict in Gundlupet. People are feeling jittery following the frequent sightings of big cats. Three days back, a leopard was seen by the residents of Mahadeva Prasad Layout and Zakir Hussain Layout in Gundlupet town in Chamarajanagar district. Villagers claimed that the leopard was seen near the Government Hospital in the evening. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) Gundlupet unit secretary Mahadevappa said that the leopard was seen by the watchman stationed at the hospital in the night, after which he shouted for help. “The people heard him shout and rushed to the hospital. They immediately called the forest department, who visited the spot and conducted an inspection, and found pug marks. They have placed a cage to catch the leopard. The leopard had come to hunt stray dogs, from the nearby Bandipur Tiger Reserve,” he said. However, the forest personnel who conducted the inspection of the place found no wild animal, but found that the animals are entering the towns and cities, as they are unable to bear the disturbance at their habitats near stone quarries. The loud noise in quarrying units due to blasting, drilling, crushing and use of heavy machinery and movement of vehicles, caused disturbance to wild animals. Gundlupet range RFO D Lokesh said that unregulated stone quarrying in the region had disturbed the environment and wild animals. “I have served notices to the stone quarries. There are quarries just 500m from layouts, which cause loud noises due to regular blasting, even during the night. It has to be monitored, and action should be initiated in this regard by the authorities of the mines and geology department to whom I have written to in this regard,” he said. RFO Lokesh said that after receiving complaints from the people, they had laid eight camera traps and a cage to track the movement of the leopard and trap it. “Since the past three days, the camera traps have not recorded any movement of the leopard, but we are continuing to track it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-issue-notices-to-stone-quarries-in-gundlupet/articleshow/77307364.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP: ‘Missing’ Mandarin adds to confusion at Sanchi University||BHOPAL: The ‘dropping’ of Mandarin from among the foreign languages in the new National Education Policy (NEP) announced two days ago, has led to confusion among students pursuing higher studies at the Sanchi University. The varsity offers a one-year diploma course and a short-term six-month certificate course in Chinese language. The NEP approved by the Union cabinet does not mention ‘Chinese’ among the foreign languages for students at the secondary level. The ‘Chinese’ language (rather than Mandarin or Cantonese) was mentioned in the draft released in 2019. It had named French, German, Spanish, Chinese and Japanese as foreign languages which could be offered as electives. Interestingly, the diploma and short-term course in Chinese language at Sanchi University were popular among the ITBP personnel. This could be gauged from the fact that 36 personnel were enrolled for the course. A faculty at the university specialising in Mandarin wishing anonymity said, “it is early to comment whether Chinese language courses will exist or not at the higher education level in India. The policy as of now has dropped it at the secondary level. Nevertheless, it is a matter of concern for both students and teaching faculty.” When contacted, university PRO, Vijay Dubey said, “The policy has just come and it is too early to comment at this stage. We will put the issue before the academic council and executive council if required.” This University is meant to address the global issues and shall generally cover educationalists, academicians, philosophers, researchers, practitioners from all over the world, but primarily focuses on Asian countries - the land of genesis and spread of Buddhist-Indic culture. All aspects of Buddhist-Indic Studies from philosophy to culture, from economics to governance are addressed in totality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/missing-mandarin-adds-to-confusion-at-sanchi-varsity/articleshow/77309281.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Contact tracing helps district identify many Covid-19 positive cases||COIMBATORE: The health department has been betting big on contact tracing to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the district and as on July 29 it had collected throat and nasal swabs from 38,271 people through the same. It accounts for 31.44% of total number of samples that were collected in the district. According to the data available with TOI, the health department has collected samples from about 1.21 lakh people in the district since March. At least 67,051 people were screened in July alone, which is nearly four times the number of people who were screened in April and May together. Around 5.2% (2,008) of people, who were identified through contact tracing, was tested positive for the virus. To say, 43% of the total positive cases in the district as on July 29 (4,647) was identified through contact tracing. According to a city corporation source, they had deployed domestic breeding checkers for door-to-door survey in all the areas and they had traced more than 10 contacts per a positive patient. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contact-tracing-helps-dist-identify-many-ve-cases/articleshow/77308278.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||Video calls and online gifts to bridge distance between siblings this Rakhi||KOLKATA: The best Rakshabandhan gift that brothers and sisters can give each other this year is to stay away from each other. These are Covid times that demand social distancing and that is applicable to all sisters married or otherwise, who live away from their brothers. The ornate wrist bands and accompanying gifts will, however, reach on time, thanks to online platforms and shops that are offering a bevy of varieties and deliveries, too, and the physical proximity will have to be replaced by video chats. At the household of the Rungtas on E M Bypass, Rakhi has been an occasion for the to get together for years. Businessman Vinay and his mother would have their siblings over at their house for the festival. However, this year would be different.  For years it has been the tradition of the family to have a big get together on this day at home. Vinay’s two sisters and Nirmala’s two brothers would come down to celebrate. “My sisters were keen on coming here, but I asked them it would be best not to visit, given the situation. They have sent me rakhis and gifts and I will transfer money to their accounts, as is the family tradition. We shall miss the feast, though,” Rungta said. Schoolteacher Radha Banerjee and her banker brother Ramesh Goswami, have been celebrating rakhi ever since they were kids and that tradition continued even after Radha got married. “The day was as important to our parents as bhai phonta. My mother will miss the family re-union this year. But it is for her sake as she is 79 years old and for the sake of my young nephew, Rudrik that I have decided not to visit,” she said. However, she sent rakhi and sweets to her brother. Many households have planned group video calls to bridge the distance. Naincy Jaiswal, a marketing executive, who lives in New Town and her brother in Bhowanipore. She would look forward to rakhi as her brother would spend the day with her. “He said it wouldn’t be safe to visit. I sent a rakhi and a box of chocolates instead,” she said. Their parents are in Bihar and would join the two over a video call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/video-calls-and-online-gifts-to-bridge-distance-between-siblings-this-rakhi/articleshow/77309288.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 2, 2020||Surat||Woman lawyer ends life in Surat||SURAT: A 27-year-old woman lawyer ended her life at her residence in Utran area in the outskirts of the city on Friday. She used a dupatta to allegedly hang herself from a ceiling fan, said cops in Amroli police station who have started investigation. The woman had recently got engaged in an arranged relationship and the family was preparing for her marriage when the extreme step left everyone shocked. Cops have registered a case of accidental death. Dhruti Kathiriya, a resident of Shloka Residency in Utran, was found hanging in her bedroom on Friday morning. According to family members, she had talked to someone over phone after which she went to her room and when she did not come out for long, they knocked on the door. When she didn’t reply, they broke open only to find her body hanging from the ceiling. The body was brought to SMIMER Hospital for post mortem. Preliminary investigation reveales that Kathiriya got engaged around two months ago and the family was preparing for the marriage. “Her family members informed police that they were shopping for her marriage. The date was not finalised but they were planning to organize it soon,” said a police officer at Amroli police station. Sources in police informed that, the woman’s phone was found to be formatted due to which her last call details are yet to be found out. Police are yet to examine the phone. “It is not clear if the calls are connected to her suicide. We are yet to question the family members in detail as they are busy with performing last rights,” said police. Police will collect call data records to find out with whom she was in regular touch. Kathiriya is survived by her parents, two sisters and a brother. Her father is a diamond broker. The family is native of Palitana in Bhavnagar but settled in the city for many years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-lawyer-ends-life-in-utran/articleshow/77308297.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Advani, Joshi yet to get invites for Ayodhya event||NEW DELHI/ LUCKNOW: L K Advani, who led the “rathyatra” for the construction of Ram Mandir and Murli Manohar Joshi who served as BJP chief during the intense phase of the temple campaign, are yet to recieve invitations for the grand function at Ayodhya on August 5. Sources close to Advani said with just four days to go for the function, the former deputy PM, who catapulted his party’s fortunes with the Ram rathyatra, had not got any invitation from any quarters till Saturday. VHP or the trust set up by the Supreme Court to supervise the construction of Ram Mandir have not spelt out whether the two saffron stalwarts are among the invitees. Although the campaign for the construction of Ram Mandir at Babri Masjid was conceptualised by RSS and VHP, it was Advani who became the public face of the moblisation by embarking on his “Somnath to Ayodhya” rathyatra in support of the temple “reconstruction”. He, along with Joshi, also figure among the accused in the Babri demolition case. In fact, Advani sat through his final deposition on the case last week, through a video conferencing facility, and is awaiting a verdict by the special CBI court which, as per SC’s orders, has to come by August 30. The formal invitations over phone are being coordinated by Champat Rai, general secretary of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. While sources remain tight-lipped on the list of invitees, some speculated that in light of the pandemic, the age of Advani and Joshi will have to be taken into consideration in deciding whether they should be invited. PM Narendra Modi will be attending the programme. The final guest list is being kept small because of Corona-related curbs and there were indications that efforts were being made to connect the two leaders and other veterans of the saffron family with the bhoomi pujan ceremony through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/advani-joshi-yet-to-get-invites-for-ayodhya-event/articleshow/77310085.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Sans mobile network, Gir kids lead Mowgli-life in lockdown||RAJKOT: Jungle living is simply a battle for existence — survival at the foremost, besides languishing from want of basic modern needs. And so, having to walk 10km at the crack of dawn every day to reach school through the dense Gir jungle route was normal life for 8-year-old Yuvraj Ahir. But that was until five months ago as the schools thereafter closed down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Class II student, however, still walks the same jungle route, but not with his books and school mates, but with a stick and herd of cattle that he takes out to graze with his father. Pipalva Gir Primary School is the only school for Pipalva village near the Gir (east) division forest. While the school, up to Class VIII, has 275 students in all, about 15 of these children, including Yuvraj come from within the jungle interiors. The affected children hail from Dhandha Nes, Rebdi Nes, Shir Nes, Loki Nes, Andhari Nes, Khajuri Nes, Mobh Nes, Chhapri Nes and Saap Nes in the forest region. Amid the lockdown, the new academic year began in the state with schools conducting online classes for students through mobile phone apps and Doordarshan. But without access to any one of the technologies, these 15-odd children of the forest are resigned to fate, languishing in the dark without any connection with books or learning. Parents of these kids say that even if they will have a smartphone that will also be not of any use as the area being a forest does not have a mobile phone tower. Without mobile network, even forest officials communicate with each other using walkie talkies. Talking to TOI, Principal Naresh Pipaliya of the primary school, however, said that he has instructed the school teachers to go to these remote interiors to teach the students there from time to time. “Our school is teaching through mobile app, and I have also asked our teachers to reach out to these forest children physically. But as the teachers too are not locals and stay far away, communication is a bottleneck.” But Manu Bhukan, whose son, 11-year-old Karan who studies in Class V and now accompanies him daily for cattle grazing, denied having seen any teacher come to the village in the past five months. “There is no coverage in the forest so having a mobile phone or studying through online classes is out of the question. Even the school hasn’t sent any teacher here. So, until the schools reopen, the future of our kids are totally in the dark,” he told TOI. Parents like Yuvraj’s father Lakhu Ahir also said that instead of idling at home, they are keeping their children busy with household activities though they fully understand that it is detrimental for academic performances. “It’s difficult to control idle kids who will only loiter around if left alone. Therefore, I take him along for grazing. For us, some alternative arrangements must be made to help our children with studies,” Ahir added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sans-mobile-network-gir-kids-lead-mowgli-life-in-lockdown/articleshow/77307409.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Scindia’s election to RS challenged||Bhopal/Jabalpur: Former minister and senior Congress leader, Dr Govind Singh, on Friday filed a petition in the high court challenging the validity of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia's election to the Upper House of Parliament. In his petition, Singh alleged that Scindia has “hidden” certain information in his nomination paper, including criminal cases against him, which was against the law and guidelines of the Supreme Court. Incidentally, Singh had filed a similar complaint against Scindia after he filed his nomination before the returning officer and sought his disqualification from contesting the Rajya Sabha polls, but his request was turned down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindias-election-to-rs-challenged/articleshow/77309293.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Elections heating up at GCCI; Pragati Panel formed||AHMEDABAD: After the election dates for the upcoming polls at Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) were announced, the electoral campaign has finally begun in full swing. On Saturday, a section of the candidates announced formation of a panel – Pragati Panel – which would jointly campaign for the elections. Several industry heavyweights are in the panel. Hemant Shah, Chairman of Navin Group, who is contesting for the post of senior vice-president, along with K I Patel, founder of Aries Group of Industries, who is contesting for the post of vice-president, have formed a panel. Others in the panel include Paras Desai, executive director of Wagh Bakri Group; Pravin Kotak, CMD, Iscon Group; Shaishav Shah, MD, GSEC limited; Anil Jain, CMD, Ascent Finchem Limited; Hiten Vasant, group CEO, Vasant Transport Corporation and Saurin Parikh, CMD, Pashupati Cotspin, among others. Heads of several other industry bodies and associations are also part of the panel. These include, Dinesh Navadiya, vice-president, South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry; V P Vaishnav, president, Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Gaurang Bhagat, president, Maskati Cloth Market Mahajan; Hargovind Singh Rajput, president, Kathwada Industries Association; Ambar Patel, president, Santej Industrial Area Association; Bhupendra Patel, chairman – Gujarat region, Chemexcil and Viranchi Shah, president, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA), among others. GCCI elections are scheduled to be held on September 5. The elections were deferred earlier because P K Laheri, the then election officer, had recommended that the same be held in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. After Laheri tendered his resignation from the post, retired IAS officer, H S Patel was appointed as the new election officer and the new dates were announced. On the other hand, Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) is in the fray for the post of the senior vice-president; whereas Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of BJP’s business cell for Gujarat, is in the fray for the post of the president. Despite a buzz in the inner circles of GCCI, a panel has not been announced from the opposite side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/elections-heating-up-at-gcci-pragati-panel-formed/articleshow/77308302.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Male elephant calf born at Bannerghatta Biological Park||Mysuru: Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) celebrated the birth of a male elephant calf on Saturday. According to BBP executive director Vanashri Vipin Singh, a 12-year-old elephant named Roopa delivered her second calf in the early hours of Saturday. Earlier, she had given birth to a female calf named Gowri on December 21, 2016. “Both mother and calf are healthy and doing well. With the addition of the new member, the elephant population has gone up to 24 at the park,” Vanashri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/male-elephant-calf-born-at-bannerghatta-biological-park/articleshow/77307395.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Cops quiz Umar Khalid in northeast Delhi riots case||NEW DELHI: Former Jawaharlal Nehru University scholar Umar Khalid, who is facing sedition charges for alleged anti-national sloganeering in 2016, was questioned by Delhi Police’s Special Cell in relation to the February riots in northeast Delhi. He was questioned for over three hours on Friday evening after his mobile phone was seized for forensic analysis. Khalid was asked around 40 questions, all aimed at learning about his movements prior to the riots. The cops also interrogated him about his meeting with the members of “United Against Hate” groups and the Popular Front of India. Police reported that Khalid did not co-operate during the questioning and gave evasive replies centred on free speech and freedom of expression. Also, citing his constitutional rights, the JNU student denied any role in the riots. Special Cell had filed a separate FIR under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act to examine the possibility of a conspiracy leading to the Delhi riots. All other cases pertaining to the riots are being probed by three teams of the Crime Branch. Though the FIR was registered soon after the riots, there weren’t enough leads to question Khalid for five months. Khalid had come under the scanner of intelligence agencies for the speech given by him on February 17 in Maharashtra’s Amravati. In a video clip of the event, Khalid is heard asking people to come on the streets during US president Donald Trump’s visit. In the 17-minute clip, Khalid is heard saying, “The home minister had said that no matter how much we protest or complain, the government won’t back-track on its decisions… I promise you that on February 24, when Donald Trump arrives in India, we will let him know that the Indian Prime Minister has been trying to divide the country… If the government wants to divide India, the citizens will unite and step out on the roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-quiz-khalid-in-ne-riots-case/articleshow/77309294.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||City lad’s AI platform identifies butterflies from just a photo||COIMBATORE: How many times have you chanced upon a spectacularly colourful butterfly and wanted to learn more about it? If you happen to have a photo of the winged beauty, head straight to https://butterflyvision.in and upload the picture to get details like general and scientific names of the butterfly and its habitat. The site is the brainchild of Vadavalli-based Theivaprakasham Hari, who is pursuing an MTech in Data Science at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. “I wanted to develop an application for easy identification of butterflies in 2012 after finishing Class XII. I used to participate in butterfly walks. Those days, we did not even have a database of butterflies and were referring Kerala’s database, expensive books and depending on experts. I wanted to make the identification process easy for the common man,” Theivaprakasham, who is also the secretary of the Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS), told TOI. It took him seven years to collect photographs of various species of butterflies and make the website powered by artificial intelligence (AI). “I took as many as 1.5 lakh photographs of butterflies based on parameters such as life stages and seasonal forms from various angles. I also sourced close to 25,000 photographs from butterfly enthusiasts. The photographs were used to train the AI. I launched the site last November” The AI can identify 340 butterfly species found in the southern parts of the country with 95% accuracy. Theivaprakasham is now developing an app that can identify butterflies even in offline mode. “The application will be launched for Android and iOS within a couple of months. It will provide details like description, host plant and habitats.” The website was used for several surveys, including the one conducted in collaboration with the forest department in the Sathyamangalam forest range. “After the website was launched, people contributed over 500 photos of butterflies. I need more photos to increase accuracy,” Theivaprakasham added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-lads-ai-platform-identifies-butterflies-from-just-a-photo/articleshow/77308300.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||People limit Eid-al-Adha festivities to their houses||COIMBATORE: Unlike the previous years, Eid-al-Adha celebrations in the district this year were limited to the four walls of houses because of the pandemic situation. A Faizal, joint secretary, Sunnath Jamath Federation, said, “Until last year, friends and families used to gather either at mosques or open grounds in large numbers to offer prayers. But this year, we had no option but to pray at our houses. The timing of special prayers was conveyed through social media platforms.” People had to cut down on their shopping because of the economic slowdown caused by the contagion and many purchased new clothes only for children. Pointing out that friends and families from other districts and neighbouring states used to visit them on the festival day, M Abdul Hakkim, secretary, Jamaat e Islmai Hind, said this time they couldn’t make it because of restrictions on travelling. “We used to distribute sweets and meat to friends from other communities to maintain the communal harmony and the needy. But this year, there was a hesitation both to give and receive the same because of the Covid-19 scare,” he said. A Abdul Jabber, general secretary, Coimbatore district united Jamaath, said the festival would normally be celebrated for a couple of days. “But we had to wind up the celebrations before the end of the day to facilitate the complete lockdown on Sunday. Special prayers were conducted for the speedy recovery of those affected by coronavirus and normalcy to return at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-limit-eid-al-adha-festivities-to-their-houses/articleshow/77308294.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 2, 2020||Pune||PMC’s own medical infrastructure lies untapped: Activists||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which is set to spend crores on three large temporary Covid hospitals, has been sitting on idle medical facilities, health activists have alleged. Nearly eight newly built community clinics and hospitals, built across the city, have been lying unused or under-utilised for over a year. An approximate Rs 100 crore was spent by the PMC to develop these units. If there were operational, the activists said, the city would have had at least 400 more hospital beds for seriously ill Covid-19 patients. Some of these units are either partially operational or vacant. According to sources, the units never had enough doctors or equipment to make a real difference in the city’s health infrastructure. Activists have now demanded the PMC inject funds into these facilities to help boost patient management during the pandemic. The Corona Virodhi Jan Abhiyan, a citizens’ group, has now approached the PMC with concerns regarding the under-utilised facilities. Members of the group said some of the Rs 300 crore that will be spent on building the three giant temporary hospitals — PMC, PCMC and the PMRDA are supposed to pay half the amount — should be used for permanent capacity building. The PMC’s healthcare network includes around 40 dispensaries, 18 maternity homes and three major hospitals: Naidu hospital, Kamla Nehru hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital. But except for Naidu, which has 70 operational oxygen beds, none of the other hospitals, clinics or maternity homes have been deployed at full capacity to treat Covid-19. The PMC-run Sonawane maternity home in Bhavani Peth, which has been treating Covid-positive pregnant women and new mothers with the virus, still does not have functional oxygen beds for patients with mild to moderate breathlessness. Abhijit More, an activist, said the PMC has unused facilities that can be turned around. “The Kamla Nehru hospital is a 450-bed unit with piped oxygen supply at the bedside. Its beds can be set aside for Covid-19 patients,” he said. More said civic officials are preparing to spend crores on temporary units when they should be developing more permanent solutions. The activists said facilities at Karvenagar, Yerawada, Gadikhana and other locations have remained under-utilised. Hospitals such as the Bindumadhav Thackeray hospital, Rajiv Gandhi hospital and Karne hospital can also boost anti-Covid infrastructure, they said. The PMC said some of these facilities are being used for “coronavirus-related activities”. “We have started a swab collection centre at one of these hospitals,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s Establishments department. “The decision on whether to use all of them for Covid-19 treatment will be taken after consultation with the health department, in due course of time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmcs-own-medical-infra-lies-untapped-activists/articleshow/77309305.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Antigen test camp screens 840 people, 26 +ve||PUNE: A total of 26 people employed at shops along the busy Laxmi Road tested positive for Covid-19 during an antigen testing camp held between Wednesday and Friday. The camp, set to continue for another week, is being organised by the PMC and the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP). According to FTAP secretary, Mahendra Pitaliya, a total of 840 individuals were tested over the three days. “Of these, 26 tested positive — they are all asymptomatic. Some were advised home isolation while others were asked to isolate at PMC facilities,” he said. President of FTAP, Fatehchand Ranka, has now urged all employees working at hopes to get themselves tested. “In the coming days, more such testing camps will be organised by officials from the PMC’s ward offices and trade associations,” he said. Pitaliya said details of all those who were tested last week have been collected. “We have their names, contact details, addresses and Aadhaar details,” he said. The PMC’s additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal also tweeted about the camp. She went on to thank members of the traders associations for organising the Laxmi Road camp. Antigen test kits look for antibodies that are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. They are quicker than lab-based RT-PCR tests as they can produce results in about 30 minutes. But they have been prone to errors. According to Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, symptomatic individuals who test negative on this test should undergo the regular RT-PCR test for confirmation. But a positive result from an antigen kit should be considered as confirmation. The PMC’s own antigen testing plan is expected to cover one lakh people in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/antigen-test-camp-screens-840-people-26-ve/articleshow/77309295.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Surprise check reveals horror of elderly home in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With no separate space for men and women, senior citizens were forced to share beds at an old age home in outer Delhi’s Nangloi. The one big room all of them lived in lacked even basic hygiene and sanitation facilities. Moreover, they had to clean the premises themselves as there was no caretaker at the place. Women and child development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam ordered a probe into the matter after he paid a surprise visit to the shelter, along with Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chairperson Swati Maliwal, on Friday night. Officials of DCW said the stench in the room was unbearable as there was only one toilet and many elderly people had defecated on the beds itself. “In times of Covid-19, when social distancing and sanitation are of extreme importance, the condition of the home was miserable. There was no provision of sanitisers and masks for the residents. While talking to some of the residents — most of them specially-abled — it was evident that they were very scared and hesitant to talk about their miseries,” Maliwal said. The DCW chief said, “One of the women showed courage and told us that her son had left her at the home six months ago. She wanted to go and live with her daughter. But whenever she tried to leave, she was tied up and even beaten by the home officials. She was safely sent to her daughter’s home by the DCW team.” The residents said that the owner used to cut off electricity for four-five hours daily to save electricity costs. Officials said that some of the residents also had serious health issues, but there was no provision for any special medical care for them. Further there were no means of recreation whatsoever in the home, which resembled a jail, they said. Gautam ordered a probe into the matter and directed the social welfare department to ensure rehabilitation of the residents. Maliwal, meanwhile, issued summons to the social welfare director and told Delhi Police to ensure registration of FIR against the owner and rescue of the residents. Gautam said, “I am deeply disturbed by the condition of the home. I have directed the department to initiate strict action against the owner of the home. Such abuse will not be tolerated under any circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/surprise-check-reveals-horror-of-elderly-home/articleshow/77309325.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Mormugao awaits SOPs for celebration||Mormugao taluka has been Goa’s epicentre for Covid-19 cases and deaths, but community groups in Vasco and surrounding areas are awaiting SOPs for sarvajanik Ganesh celebrations. The Mormugao DySP wrote to the deputy collector on July 8 to issue an advance advisory for such events. “Under the jurisdiction of Vasco police station, there are at least 23 groups that celebrate the Sarvajanik Ganesh festival and keep the idol for 5, 6, 7, 9 and 11 days. These mandals attract large crowds…,” the letter stated. Programme secretary and founder member of Vinayak Kala Sangh, Jayant Jadhav said, “We will be celebrating sarvajanik Ganesh Chaturthi at the Baina Garden for the 34th year and are anxiously waiting for the decision. Even if we don’t get permission to have grand celebrations, we will install the idol in our office for one-and-a-half days and perform the rituals.” If permission is granted, the committee has decided to perform pooja by putting up a small pandal, maintaining social distancing and following the government guidelines, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-awaits-sops-for-celebration/articleshow/77309712.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tiny, eco-friendly Ganeshas keeping makers afloat this year||HYDERABAD: Hit severely by the Covid-19 pandemic, the idol makers in the city have decided to construct Ganesh idols only between eight inch and five foot in height this year. While the makers are seeing huge plunge in sales, scarcity of clay due to difficulty in getting transportation during the prolonged lockdown was also a key factor to construct smaller idols. “The Covid-19 pandemic has put cold water on our plans. But relief has come in the form of a greater demand for smaller idols. We are now getting bulk orders from wholesale retailers,” R Chandra Mohan, a city-based Ganesh idol manufacturer, told TOI. “We have prepared and sold 1.20 lakh idols that are eight inch in height, 40,000 idols with 10 inch height, 20,000 that are a feet tall, 10,000 idols with 1.5 feet height and 5,000 idols with two-feet height,” added Mohan. The makers have even started accepting bulk order online this year. They are also preparing idols with eco-friendly clay that can be installed in apartment buildings, gated communities and group housing complexes, and can be immersed on the spot. “The dissolved soil can be used for gardening,” said Mohan, who has 14 years of experience in idol making. Speaking about the dip in profits, he said that while their turn over used to be around Rs 1.5 crore, this year, they have only been able to earn 50% of it. Another idol maker Shiva Raj said: “In view of the pandemic, we have greatly reduced the size of the idols. They are sold between Rs 80 per piece and Rs 150, based on the height and design. We are supplying bulk order in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.” “The state has to rescue us during the current crisis and ensure that we get bookings from government departments to save the livelihood of hundreds of artisans,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiny-eco-friendly-ganeshas-keeping-makers-afloat-this-yr/articleshow/77309291.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||Dholes dogged by neglect, study moots conservation plan||Nagpur: Scientists from Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), India, University of Florida (USA), Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), and National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) have proposed a framework for conserving the endangered dhole, also known as Asiatic wild dog, in India using a combination of ecological, social, political and administrative interventions. Country-level species conservation plans serve as a blueprint for identifying important areas, prioritizing management actions and channelling conservation funds. India is a biologically mega diverse country, yet many threatened and endangered species do not have scientific conservation plans. The researchers first made a detailed assessment of current status of dholes in each state. Based on the relationship between dhole occurrence, forest cover, protected areas, human population and cattle densities, they identified tehsils for targeting management interventions — areas where dhole population needs to be recovered, areas warranting improvement or expansion of forest habitats, and areas with potential for dholes to expand their distribution range. The study also evaluated state-wise conservation capacity using multiple criteria, like GDP share, poverty levels, state and central budgetary allocations for forest and wildlife sectors, and rejection rate of forest clearances. “Dholes play an important role as apex predators in forest ecosystems. Besides tiger, dhole is the only large carnivore in India that is under International Union for Conservation of Nature’s ‘endangered’ category. As a country that perhaps supports the highest number of dholes in the world, we still do not have targeted management plans for scientific monitoring of the species,” said Arjun Srivathsa, lead author of the study. “Our study recognizes tehsils and states that need to be prioritized, and thereby offers a primer for designing a country-level plan to conserve their population,” he adds. The study reports that Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh ranked very high on the priority scale, and are adequately equipped to maintain status quo, consolidate forest habitats, and recover dhole population by increasing prey densities and reducing pressures on forests. On the other hand, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and Goa will need to increase financial investments towards forest and wildlife sectors, and also resolutely reduce the ease of granting forest clearances for infrastructure projects. Additionally, improving habitat conditions and prey densities in the Eastern Ghats of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha would strengthen the link between dhole population in Western Ghats and Central India. Despite their endangered status, there is a persistent lack of resources and policy focus on dhole conservation. “Alongside a comprehensive assessment of dholes in India, our study also provides an analysis of the current state of knowledge through a review of all published literature on the species. We identify critical gaps which can be explicated through improved funding for dhole research and conservation in India and across its distribution range,” said co-author Girish Punjabi. The study titled ‘A strategic road map for conserving the endangered dhole (Cuon alpines) in India’ was published in the recent issue of reputed international journal Mammal Review. The authors include Arjun Srivathsa (WCS–India & University of Florida), Sushma Sharma (WCS–India), Priya Singh (NCBS), Girish Punjabi (WCT), and Madan Oli (University of Florida). Conserving The Wild DogsDholes occupy 49% of potential habitats in 685 of mainland India’s 2,342 sub-districts Study reports that Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh rank very high on priority scale The study identified 143 sub-districts with potential for dhole population recovery, 145 for habitat recovery, and 404 for range expansion Of 34 mainland states/Union Territories, 17 were identified as high priority for dhole conservation Of these, 9 are adequately equipped to implement management actions to conserve dholes, while 8 need to improve capacity towards increasing likelihood of conservation success Literature on dholes (from 1874 to 2019) was dominated by natural history notes, followed by distribution records and studies of population ecology Review of published literature revealed significant knowledge gaps in terms of quantitative ecological assessments across all dhole range-countries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dholes-dogged-by-neglect-study-moots-conservation-plan/articleshow/77309725.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man kills wife’s lover, arrested||COIMBATORE: A 21-year-old youth was murdered by his lover’s husband at Gandhi Nagar in Nagarajapuram here on Thursday. The deceased, A Isakki Lingam, a native of Thisayanvilai in Thoothukudi district, had been working in a sweet shop at Kuniyamuthur for the last three years, police said. “He had befriended his colleague, a Podanur resident, last year and the friendship turned into an affair. The woman brought Lingam to her house four months ago and requested her husband S Abubacker Siddiq, 36, a labourer, to let him stay with the family as the shop was closed due to Covid-19 and he had no place to go. Siddiq agreed. After coming to know that his wife was having an affair with the youth, he warned her and the youth. On Thursday night, Siddiq called Lingam’s relative L Elisha Mary of Vilankurichi to inform her that the youth died following an epileptic attack,” a police officer said. Mary, who noticed injuries on Lingam’s body, approached the Podanur police, who arrested Siddiq. He told police that he had stabbed Lingam to death using a knife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-wifes-lover-arrested/articleshow/77308327.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Drought scare looms over 38% of Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The gloom of drought hovers over Madhya Pradesh as monsoon clouds play hard to get. At least 20 districts are 25% rain deficient though half the rainy season is over. In some districts the shortfall is 35-40%. Unless monsoon gets into make-up mood, and soon, there is a cruel summer ahead for large parts of the state. There have not been widespread showers for many days in several places and people are reeling under hot, humid weather. The districts in MP where rainfall deficit was more than 20% on Saturday morning are Balaghat, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Jabalpur, Katni, Mandla, Narsinghpur, Sagar, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur, Bhind, Dhar, Guna, Gwalior, Hoshangabad, Mandsaur, Sheopur and Shivpuri. They add up to over 38% of MP’s land area. Overall, the state is 13% rain deficient. MP had received 385.7mm rain till Saturday morning while the normal for this period is 443.9mm. Bhopal, which had the driest July in a decade, is still 13% above normal because of a wet June. Indore is barely 3% surplus. But large parts of MP are not this lucky. The two other main cities of state -- Gwalior and Jabalpur -- are deficient by 37% and 35%. Meteorological officials say 20% less or more rainfall is considered as ‘normal’. But monsoon has to get into make-up mood to fill the 20% gap. Met officials of Bhopal circle said there are two months of monsoon left and there is every likelihood that it will be a ‘normal’ rainfall year. All hopes now rest on August as rainfall activity tapers off in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/drought-scare-looms-over-38-of-state/articleshow/77309320.cms||Ankur Sirothia
August 2, 2020||Salem||Vegetable vendor found dead in Dharmapuri district||DHARMAPURI: A vegetable vendor was found dead under suspicious circumstances near Palacode in Dharmapuri district on Saturday. The Panchapalli police identified the deceased as M Viji, 24, of Ottarthinnai area in Palacode. He returned to his native from Bengaluru, where he was a vegetable vendor, after lockdown was imposed. He and his wife were separated after a quarrel two months ago. Theirs was a love marriage, a police officer said. Police said Viji went to Rayakottai on his bike on Friday evening, informing his parents he would be back by night. His parents got worried when he did not return in time. Meanwhile, locals alerted Viji’s father Mahadevan that his son was found dead near Parorankottai area. Mahadevan and his wife went to spot and confimed that the body was their son. The body was sent to Palacode government hospital for postmortem. Based on Mahadevan’s complaint, the police registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/vegetable-vendor-found-dead-in-dharmapuri-district/articleshow/77308336.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||High court clarifies on ‘senior Muslim advocate’ for nomination to Waqf board||Madurai: Madras high court has observed that the words “any senior Muslim advocate” according to the provisions of the Waqf Act do not refer to the designated senior Muslim advocate but to senior among Muslim advocates for their nomination to Tamil Nadu Waqf Board.The government had superseded the board through a GO dated September 18, 2019 since its number of elected members became less than the nominated members. Since the period of continuous supersession cannot exceed more than a year, election notification was issued by the government on July 15 under Rule 8 of Tamil Nadu Waqf Board (Conduct of Election for Members) Rules, 1997.The court was hearing a petition filed by M Imam Hussain, a practising advocate who sought to quash the election notification and nominate designated senior Muslim advocates to the board according to Section 14(1)(b)(iii) of the Waqf Act. According to the provision, the board should comprise two Muslim members of the Bar Council of the concerned state. If there are no Muslim members in the Bar Council, the state government may nominate any senior Muslim advocate from the state.Justice G R Swaminathan observed that the argument of the board’s standing counsel is that the proviso on hand does not even talk of “senior advocate” but refers to only “any senior Muslim advocate”. Agreeing with this stand, the judge observed that the expression “senior advocate” comprises two words which, like siamese twins, are inseparable. “The proviso relied on by the petitioner contains the expression ‘any senior Muslim advocate’. The word ‘advocate’ is qualified by the adjective ‘Muslim’. This adjective stands in between the words ‘senior’ and ‘advocate’. The legislature has not used the expression ‘Muslim senior advocate’. Courts have to give effect to legislative intent and not play the game of scrabble,” observed the judge.Therefore it only means the senior among the Muslim advocates and it cannot be confined to the Muslim advocates designated as senior advocates under Advocates Act, 1961, observed the judge. While nominating any senior Muslim advocate, the choice has to be confined to those advocates who completed 45 years of age and are ordinarily practising in the HC or the subordinate courts or the tribunals for not less than 10 years preceding the date of consideration for nomination. “If a narrow construction as contended by the counsel for the petitioner is accepted, that would mean the government will not be able to tap the services of a large number of persons,” observed the judge and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-clarifies-on-senior-muslim-advocate-for-nomination-to-waqf-board/articleshow/77309678.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown makes traders unhappy||Madurai: Aadi Perukku, which is considered the most auspicious day for starting new ventures, is falling on a Sunday much to the disappointment of traders, who were hoping to restart their operations. The state observes complete lockdown on Sunday in view of Covid-19. Public are also disappointed that the government’s orders would prevent them from celebrating this day. Many, who had closed shops and establishments during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 crisis, had decided to re-start their operations on this day hoping the government would lift the lockdown by July 31. However, as the lockdown has been extended, many traders have been forced to put their plans on hold, according to the president of the Tamil Nadu chamber of commerce and industry, N Jegatheesan. The chamber made a representation to the chief minister to give relaxations on August 2 alone, but to no avail. K Dhanabal, a trader said that he was planning to open his sanitary-ware store on this day as there has been no sale at all for the past four months. “I decided to clean the shop and start afresh, now this too, is not happening and I have stocks worth lakhs, which I will find very difficult to sell,” he said. V S Manimaran, former president of the Madurai district tiny and small scale industries association (Maditssia), said that many traders and industrialists had been urging the association to take steps to get the lockdown lifted at least for this Sunday, but, the district collector, Dr T G Vinay had told them that it was not possible. While all shops will remain closed this Sunday, newly-married couples will have to forgo their Aadi month ritual, where they are offered new clothes by their parents. Sarojni of Arapalayam said, “We have to give our daughter her new clothes on this day, and hence, I have decided to purchase them and my husband is trying to get an e-pass to travel to Coimbatore and hand it over,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-makes-traders-unhappy/articleshow/77309683.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters will fine liquor shop owner for cutting tree branches||Mysuru: Forest department fined a liquor shop owner for chopping off two huge branches of a tree without permission on Saturday. The branches were cut as they were blocking the view of the shop. The branches of 25-year-old Peltophorum tree (aka yellow-flame tree) in front of the liquor shop near Panchavati Circle on Kalidasa Road were cut early on Saturday. Green activist Banu Mohan said that she, after knowing about the incident, rushed to the spot and found two huge branches on the ground. “When I enquired about it with (liquor shop owner) Krishnappa, he claimed that a small branch was leaning on the shop, and that he had requested the local corporator Bhagya Madesh to clear it. I summoned forest officials and DRFO Manju to visit the spot,” she said. Banu said that tractors shifted the branches to the forest department. Foresters said that the owner will submit an affidavit seeking apology for getting the tree branches cut without permission, and he will be penalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-will-fine-liquor-shop-owner-for-cutting-tree-branches/articleshow/77307424.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune's tally breaches 87,000, casualty count hits 2,035||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 2,709 cases on Saturday, taking the total caseload in the area to 87,474 so far. Besides, 54 more patients succumbed to the contagion in the region, pushing its toll up to 2,035. Of the 54 deaths, 24 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, while 16 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. Among the fresh cases, the PMC areas added 1,506, while the PCMC limits recorded 849 patients. The rural and Cantonment parts added 354 cases in the last 24 hours. When it comes to total tally, the PMC areas continue to be at the top in PMR with 55,761 cases, followed by PCMC with 22,782 cases. The PMC’s share of positive cases is around 63%, while the remaining region’s share is 37%. The the total discharge too is incidentally 63% as per the figures issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. In PMC limits, as many as 36,914 people have been discharged so far. Official from the municipal corporation told TOI as many as 1,791 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after being declared cured, taking the cured count in the municipal limit to 36,914. Besides, 638 were at critical stage in PMC limits, of whom 389 were on ventilator support. “The active cases in PMC are 18,847 and as many as 5,863 tests were conducted on Saturday, which also included the rapid antigen test,” the official added adding that 2.79 lakh tests had been conducted so far. In PCMC limits, as many as 15,676 patients have been discharged so far. The deceased included a 40-year-old man from Kothrud, a 73-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 53-year-old from Aundh, a 70-year-old from Nana Peth and a 71-year-old from Shaniwar Peth. Health officials have urged residents to avoid venturing out as far as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-tally-breaches-87k-casualty-count-hits-2035/articleshow/77309319.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government, NSDC to establish GSDC||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has partnered with National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to establish Gujarat Skill Development Corporation (GSDC). The approval to set up GSDC was given by the board of NSDC in its meeting on Friday. “The approval to GSDC institutionalises a strategic partnership between Gujarat and NSDC. It will enable private sector investment in skill development in the state through replication of national-level public-private partnership (PPP) model. It is projected that there will be a requirement of more than 20 lakh skilled workforce in Gujarat by the year 2022. Setting up of GSDC will add pace to the existing skill development programmes and play a big role in making available trained workforce in the state,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department. The state government will hold 25% share in GSDC, and NSDC will hold 24%. The remaining 51% shares are proposed to be held by 10 private companies from the state, with each of them holding 5.1% stake. A sum of around Rs 100 crore will be required as seed fund for GSDC. The state government has made a provision of Rs 30 crore towards the same in the budget for 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-nsdc-to-establish-gsdc/articleshow/77308341.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Dissolve SCB elected body: BJP to Kishan||Secunderabad: With the tenure of the current elected body of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) expiring in 10 days, the BJP state unit has demanded the ministry of defence (MoD) dissolve it. The MoD extended the tenure of the body for another six months by issuing orders on February 10, 2020. On Saturday, Cantonment BJP leader, G Shravan Kumar met Union minister of state for home affairs, G Kishan Reddy, in the presence of senior BJP leader and MLC Ramchander Rao here. “Major demand is, Cantonment Board officials have to reverify the electoral rolls to eliminate hundreds of bogus voters, before announcement of board polls. Another demand is that the polls should be conducted on party symbols,” Shravan Kumar told TOI. The MoD has to appoint a three-member Constitution Board under Section 13 of the Cantonment Act-2006, to ensure transparency for the Cantonment civilians in implementation of various schemes. The Union minister assured that these demands will be taken up with Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, said Shravan Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dissolve-scb-elected-body-bjp-to-kishan/articleshow/77309317.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand education department plans home delivery of academic books to school children||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand education department is mulling to deliver academic books to the doorsteps of children studying in government schools. According to department officials, the decision will be taken provided certain conditions are met and it will be part of the DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) programme. The idea was put forward with the schooling badly affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown. There have been several complaints about online teaching as many students don't have an android phone at home. Also, many educationists have raised concerns that online teaching will help neither the teachers in completing syllabi nor the students in understanding lessons. Therefore, the hard copy of NCERT books, which is being made mandatory in all government schools, is necessary for the schoolchildren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-education-department-plans-homedelivery-of-academic-books-to-school-children/articleshow/77307442.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Kidnapped man rescued in hrs||Madurai: A private local cable TV channel owner was kidnapped by unidentified people over a monetary dispute in Madurai city on Friday night. The victim Jeyaraj was in his office at Pasumpon Thevar Street in Ellis Nagar when a gang barged in, threatening the employees and abducted him in a car and sped away. On information from employees, Jeyaraj’s wife J Murugeswari alerted the city police. A team led by SS Colony police inspector Flower Sheela conducted an inquiry, traced the location and rescued Jeyaraj. The kidnappers escaped from the spot sensing the police. Inquiries revealed that Jeyaraj had taken a few lakhs from one Jeyaram and he kidnapped him to get his money back. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kidnapped-man-rescued-in-hrs/articleshow/77309697.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ward boy held for molesting Covid patient||PUNE: A 40-year-old ward boy of a private hospital in Hadapsar was arrested on Saturday on the charge of molesting a 35-year-old woman patient undergoing treatment at the Covid ward of the facility on Friday evening. Senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of the Hadapsar police told TOI, “We have arrested the ward boy, Ashok Namdev Gawali (40), of Vadgaon Sheri. He is an employee of a private hospitality firm, which supplies manpower to private hospitals.” The complainant had tested positive for the virus four days. According to the complaint, the ward boy entered the Covid ward wearing a PPE kit and a face mask. He directly walked up to the bed of the woman and asked her if she had recognized him. “When she said no, he started demanding her cellphone number,” the police said. “When the woman warned him of raising an alarm, he molested her,” the FIR stated. “Another woman patient saw the man troubling the complainant and intervened. She identified the ward boy,” Sathe said, adding women constables in PPE kits recorded the woman’s statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ward-boy-held-for-molesting-covid-patient/articleshow/77309330.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris’Covid-19 tally breaches 800-mark||UDHAGAMANDALAM: With 36 new cases, the Nilgiris’ Covid-19 tally breached 800 on Saturday. As many as 18 patients were discharged. The district accounts for 150 active cases with a recovery rate above 80%. The total cases registered is 802. The new cases, including 19 women, were from Ooty, Coonoor, Gudalur, Cherambadi and villages such as Adhikaratty, Kuruthukuli and Sholur. With four cases recorded from the Madras Regimental Centre in Wellington, the defence area is emerging as a hotspot. As many as 18 cases are contacts of positive cases with travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-tally-breaches-800-mark/articleshow/77308351.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Discom alert on kite flying during Independence Day in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Kite flying is an integral part of Independence Day celebrations in Delhi, but this decades-old tradition can be hazardous, even fatal, when metal coated manjha (kite string) is used. Metal coated manjha is a good conductor of electricity and not only poses grave danger to the kite flyer but may also disrupt electricity supply of an area. Every year, these strings lead to mishaps and power discoms have come up with advisories and will run campaigns for public awareness. A spokesperson of Tata Power-DDL, which supplies electricity in north Delhi, said that tripping of one 33/66 KV overhead line can disrupt power supply to over 2,500 houses in an area and tripping of a single 11 KV line to over 600 housewholds. “Last year, there were around 12 instances of kite flying-related trappings in Tata Power-DDL areas,” he said. A BSES spokesperson said a multi-pronged campaign will be carried out in areas where electricity is supplied by BRPL and BYPL, which will include a three-minute video promoting safe ‘kite flying’. He said that tripping related outages can take up to two hours to rectify. Disrupting power supply and causing damage to power equipment is punishable under Electricity and the Delhi Police Acts, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discom-alert-on-kite-flying-during-i-day/articleshow/77309340.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 2, 2020||Surat||1,523 people in Rander under home quarantine||SURAT: The civic body on Saturday declared 11 cluster zones in Rander asking 1,523 residents living in 332 houses to stay in home quarantine until further orders. Residential colonies under clusters include Crystal Avenue, Rajhans View (A and B building), Suman Chhaya (J building), Bhagunagar Society, Mahavir Flats, Shreeji Nagar (House number 108 to 125), Nakshatra View (C and D building), Krishna Complex (A building) and Vivekananda Township (house number 131 to 174).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1523-people-in-rander-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/77308373.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Pune||Hard-hit Khed tehsil forms panel to probe high charges||PUNE: The Khed tehsil administration has set up a committee to investigate complaints of overcharging by private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Sanjay Gade, sub-divisional officer of Khed and incident commander for Covid-19, set up the panel after receiving several complaints over the last few days. Khed, which has recorded 1,299 cases so far, has been one of the worst affected tehsils after Haveli in Pune rural. Thirty people here have succumbed to the virus. Another 781 have been discharged while 488 remain active cases. The probe committee comprises the tehsildar, doctors and revenue officials. They will submit their findings to the Pune Zilla Parishad. Ayush Prasad, CEO of the zilla parishad, said, “These are dedicated Covid Health Centres for Chakan and Khed that are supposed to charge rates levy charges set by the state government. But patients have alleged that they have been overcharged. We have asked the committee to verify each bill." Prasad said they have also received complaints about ambulance services charging exorbitant rates.“In some cases, ambulances charged families as much as Rs 3000 for a distance of just three km. We have asked the the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO to hold a meeting with owners of ambulance services to resolve the issue,” he added. Prasad, who visited Covid Care Centres in Khed on Friday, said many of the patients in the region are employees at the Chakan industrial zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hard-hit-khed-tehsil-forms-panel-to-probe-high-charges/articleshow/77309337.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for molesting minor girl||COIMBATORE: A 39-year-old man was arrested on Friday for molesting a 10-year-old girl in Tirupur city. Police identified the accused as K Abdul Rasheed, who was working in a banian company. He was staying in a rented house in the city with his wife and two children. Rasheed’s wife had left for her brother’s house along the children some days ago after the couple had an altercation, a police officer said. “On Thursday evening, Rasheed lured the girl into his house by promising to get her a laptop to play games and molested her. The girl managed to escape and told her mother about the incident. The mother lodged a complaint with the Tirupur North all women police on Friday.” Police registered a case under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and arrested Rasheed on Friday night. He was lodged in the Dharapuram sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/77308358.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||High price stifles gold retail; January-July imports decline 66%||AHMEDABAD: Gold, which has recently become the darling for investors with a 38% rally since January, has unfortunately no takers at jewellery stores. Gold imports in Gujarat declined by a whopping 66% from 29.06 metric tonne (MT) in January to July 2019, to 9.94 MT during the same period this year, according to data by Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex. During the same period, gold price rose from Rs 40,300 per 10 gram on January 1 to Rs 55,500 per 10 gram on July 31. The prices have remained high due to the global economic uncertainty caused by escalating tensions between US and China and the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Gold analysts attribute the decline in retail demand of gold to the increase in prices, liquidity problems faced by people and even the losses during the lockdown when shops remained shut for close to 60 days. “Since February, gold price has shown an increase of up to 10% every month. Rising prices are a major deterrent for demand of gold jewellery. Even before the lockdown, high price of gold deterred the demand for jewellery and at present, people are facing income shortfalls and liquidity issues due to which gold buying has come to a standstill. On the other hand, investors are heavily moving towards gold as yellow metal prices are expected to rally in the days to come,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA).  Jigar Soni, vice-president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “The demand for jewellery has declined by 80%. During the ongoing festive season, there are barely any inquiries; let alone sentimental buying of jewellery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-price-stifles-gold-retail-jan-july-imports-decline-66/articleshow/77308366.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||Married man arrested for raping Ahmedabad woman||RAJKOT: A man from Popatpara area was arrested for allegedly raping a woman from Ahmedabad after promising to marry her. Police arrested the accused identified as Rizwan Juneja, 37, on Saturday after the woman lodged a complaint against him. The rape survivor is a student and was looking for a hostel in the city few months ago. The 25-year-old woman had came in contact with Juneja who helped her find accommodation. Later, they fell in love and developed physical relations, said police. Sometime back, the woman came to know that Juneja was already married and there was a fight between the two over the issue. However, Juneja promised her that he would divorce his wife and marry her. On Friday again there was a heated argument between the duo as the woman persisted with her demand that he marry her. Juneja got furious and allegedly thrashed her, following which she called the police lodged a complaint with Pradhyumannagar police station late in the night. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-man-arrested-for-raping-abad-woman/articleshow/77307445.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Wife, relatives murder man over ‘sexual torture’||MADURAI: Unable to tolerate his sexual torture, a school teacher murdered her engineer husband with help from her relatives. The deceased was identified as E Sundar alias Sudeer, 34, from Mayandi Street in Thirumangalam. He was assisting officials from the survey department by sketching land layouts. He got married to S Arivuselvam, 31, a government teacher, eight years ago. The couple have a daughter. Early on Friday morning, Arivulselvam rushed Sundar to a hospital, claiming that he became unconscious after falling off from a bed. But, doctors declared him brought dead. A police team from Thirumangalam police station conducted an inquiry. Police said that they noticed injuries on his private parts, raising suspicion. Arivuselvam was picked up by the police for an inquiry. During the grilling, she admitted that she along with her relative B Balamani, 43, and her son B Sumaiyar, 26, murdered Suresh. In her statement, she stated that Sundar, a drunkard, often forced her to involve in unnatural sex. When she denied, she was beaten up. On Thursday night, she mixed sleeping pills in the milk he drank. After sometime, she invited Balamani and Sumaiyar and the trio suffocated him with a plastic bag. When Sundar tried to get away, Sumaiyar attacked him on his private part, resulting in his death. Based on a complaint from Sundar’s uncle A Somasundaram, 63, a case was registered under the CrPc section 174 (suspicious death) and a detailed inquiry was conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wife-relatives-murder-man-over-sexual-torture/articleshow/77309698.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Meerut||Eid observed at homes in UP's riot-prone dists under strict security watch||Meerut: Close to 1,800 security personnel, including several contingents of Rapid Action Force (RAF) and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), patrolled sensitive areas of Meerut district divided into zones and sectors on the occasion of Eid-al-Adha on Saturday.A similar arrangement was witnessed in Shamli, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur as the festival of sacrifice was observed inside homes. All these districts are communally sensitive in nature where large scale violence was reported during anti-CAA protests last December.On Saturday, all senior officials, including DMs and SSPs, walked on the main roads as special security manned the main gates of Eidgahs and mosques. There were several memorandums and requests made to the government to provide some relief during lockdown, but the Allahabad High Court refused to exempt the festival from the restrictions.A Bench of Justice Pankaj Mittal and Justice YK Srivastava heard a PIL filed in this regard on Saturday and observed, "Covid-19 restrictions are neither arbitrary nor unreasonable. These have been imposed in view of public welfare and health. The fundamental right to religious freedom in the Constitution is not uninterrupted and the state has the right to impose appropriate restrictions on it.”While the restrictions on public gathering stayed put, there was no ban on animal sacrifice and it was done inside homes, though, financial constraints did now allow many to perform the ritual like previous years.Shamli-based Ahmad Hasan, a teacher, told TOI, "Sacrifice is indeed an important part of Eid-al-Adha but financial constraints due to the pandemic was certainly a big spoiler. May God forgive us for not being able to complete the ritual."Overall, the festivities though curtailed, passed off peacefully. Meerut zone ADG Rajeev Sabharwal said, "Police and civil administrations of all eight districts of Meerut zone met religious leaders of both communities particularly the minority community for the past one week and all guidelines were communicated in a cordial manner. Foot patrols were in place since the early hours of Saturday."The Meerut zone ADG added, "I visited Meerut, Hapur and Ghaziabad regions while all senior officials were on the streets from early morning. 'Qurbani' was allowed but within homes and surveillance was done from ground as well as drones. We all worked as one unit to ensure peace."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/eid-observed-at-homes-in-ups-riot-prone-dists-under-strict-security-watch/articleshow/77307425.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Hubbali-Ankola rail line poses threat to tiger migration: Greens||Mangaluru: For the government, the Hubbali-Ankola railway line is considered a boon for the development of North Karnataka, as it connects coastal Karnataka to the hinterland. Conservationists opposing this project have raised concerns about the threat it poses to the migration of tigers. Wildlife activist Guruprasad said that the Western Ghats are home to tiger reserves, and that there are several protected areas around the proposed Hubballi-Ankola railway project. “Tigers migrate over long distances when they want to move to a new territory. Tigers from Bhadra migrate to Kali tiger reserve and tigers from Sahyadri in Maharashtra migrate to the Kali tiger reserve. The project passes through all such migration routes, and there is no doubt that a railway line going through such areas will affect the movement of tigers. Such linear intrusion projects are detrimental to tigers, elephants, and other big mammals,” he said. The over 600-page report on ‘Status of tigers, copredators and prey in India’ of the fourth All India Tiger Estimation, 2018, released by the Union government states that a total 461 camera traps were deployed in Kali tiger reserve yielding 43 tiger images from which 4 individual tigers were identified. The report states that a total 28 species of ungulates, carnivores, domestic animals, omnivores, and galliformes were photographed using camera traps in the tiger reserve. Wild pig, leopard, and porcupine were the most common animals to be photographed. Bonnet macaque was the rarest species to be photographed, followed by pangolin. Appreciating the efforts of the State government MoEF&CC towards tiger conservation, wildlife activist, Giridhar Kulkarni pointed out that, “It is evident that the tiger numbers are increasing outside the tiger reserves as well, which is a very good indication. However, at the same time, such habitats and corridors are under serious threat, especially due to linear infrastructure projects like railways, highways and transmission lines. Hence, the government needs to plan such projects outside such areas. The government must make sincere efforts to notify the potential wildlife habitats as either sanctuaries or national parks, especially in districts like Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, and Belagavi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hubbali-ankola-rail-line-poses-threat-to-tiger-migration-greens/articleshow/77306684.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt distributes Rs 110 crore as incentives to migrants||Bhubaneswar: The state government said it has so far distributed over Rs 110 crore as incentive among more than five lakh migrant workers who have successfully completed quarantine after returning from various states. The money is being released from the chief minister’s relief fund. The returnees, after successful completion of quarantine norms, receive Rs 2,000 each through the respective gram panchayat office. As promised by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, all the returnees who have successfully completed the quarantine period will receive the full incentive. The distribution process is on, said an official. Amid allegations that returnees are not being given the full amount of Rs 2,000 in some cases, the district administrations have been asked to ensure that there are no irregularities in the distribution of incentive. While around Rs 160 crore has been released to the panchayati raj department to be paid as incentive to returnees in the rural areas, Rs 5.54 crore has been released to the housing and urban development department for returnees to urban areas, said official sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-distributes-rs-110-crore-as-incentives-to-migrants/articleshow/77307452.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Manamadurai MLA earns praise as wife delivers in government hospital||MADURAI: There has been much joy in the household of AIADMK’s Manamadurai MLA S Nagarajan in the past few weeks ever since he became the proud father of a baby boy, that too after 16 years of marriage. However, it was in the past 24 hours that congratulations began pouring in after word got out that he and his wife had relied on a government hospital for the checkups and delivery. Practising what one preaches is no small achievement especially when most politicians, including ministers, who speak highly of government hospitals prefer to be treated at private hospitals when they fall sick. No wonder then that people from across the state have been calling him and wishing him on the birth of his son, and lauding him for being a role model. Nagarajan, 49, from Keelanettur in Sivaganga, had married his sister’s daughter Sivashankari in 2003. His election victory was virtually crowned by his wife’s pregnancy last year, after 16 years of marriage. Shivashankari went for her routine check-ups to the Muthanendhal primary health centre in his constituency while a scan was performed at the Manamadurai government hospital. As doctors told them that she would have to undergo a caesarean section, they decided to get it done at the Sivaganga Government Hospital. “We have the most skilled doctors at the government hospitals and the government has equipped our hospitals well, so there was no second thought. I did not doubt my decision even for a second,’’ said Nagarajan. Their son was delivered on July 9 along with 349 other children at the government hospital and she was discharged a week ago. She says she had trusted her husband’s decision and her family had also supported them. “The entire treatment procedure gave us confidence to have the delivery at the Sivaganga GH,’’ they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/manamadurai-mla-earns-praise-as-wife-delivers-in-govt-hosp/articleshow/77309699.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||38 more dead, over 15,600 Covid cases active in southern districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: With 1,758 new Covid-19 cases being detected in the southern districts, the total number of active cases in the region touched 15,605 on Saturday and the overall number of Covid positive cases till date 53,137. However, 38 deaths were reported in the region taking the toll to 722. In all, 36,810 people have been discharged so far. In the central region of the state, the state media bulletin reported 564 fresh cases and no deaths though the toll so far stood at 149. The fresh positive cases pushed the tally to 13,944 in the region while a total of 4,901cases were active in the eight districts. Theni saw the highest number of fresh cases in the south with 327 and one death while Virudhunagar and Tuticorin recorded 286 and 242 respectively. Kanyakumari’s active cases crossed 2,000 with 198 new cases while Madurai added 162 new cases taking its active cases to 2,297. Tirunelveli recorded 181 cases but the district had six deaths. The other three districts had less than 100 cases — Dindigul 81, Sivaganga 61 and Ramanathapuram 37. Apart from Madurai’s 10 deaths, Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli had six victims each while Virudhunagar had five and Tenkasi four deaths. Dindigul had three and Ramanathapuram two while Theni and Tuticorin reported one death each. In the central districts, while fresh cases increased by 54 compared to Friday, the number of active cases dropped to 4,901 from Friday’s 5,021. Thanjavur surpassed Trichy with 167 fresh cases pushing the district tally to 2,915 cases. Trichy’s tally touched 4,282 with the inclusion of 136 more cases. A total of 91 cases were reported in Pudukottai district taking the total to 2,258. Tiruvarur recorded 45 cases taking the total to 1,738, Nagappattinam 37 cases (Total 772), Karur district reported fresh 36 cases (total 532 ) while Ariyalur recorded 32 cases though only 170 were active. Perambalur reported 20 cases and 193 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/38-more-dead-over-15600-covid-cases-active-in-southern-districts/articleshow/77309702.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid shadow on Eid, mosques & streets empty||HYDERABAD: The city was shorn of its vibrant Eid-al-Adha celebrations this year owing to social distancing norms in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Hyderabad had not seen such low-key Bakrid celebrations in recent decades as roads, idgahs and mosques remained empty across the city. “Every year, there are at least 25,000 to 30,000 people offering prayers at Mecca Masjid alone,” Mohammad Yousuf, a resident of Shalibanda. “The entire road from Shalibanda, Gulzar Houz and Mecca Masjid used to be filled with people every year. The number of people who visited the mosques for prayers was nothing compared to what it was earlier.” A few mosques at Nampally, Red Hills and Lakdikapul organised multiple ‘jamaats’ (prayer congregations) to limit large gatherings at one place at the same time, and to observe social distancing. After offering prayers, some people symbolically sacrificed a goat or a sheep as an act of ‘qurbani’. While traditionally the sacrificed meat is divided into three equal parts, out of which one portion is kept for the family, the second goes to friends and relatives, and rest is distributed among the poor, this year, in view of the Covid-19 situation, people donated the entire portion to the poor. “Most confined the festivities to their homes, and donated the entire portion of meat to the poor,” said Zubair Ahmed, a resident of Mehdipatnam. “People also avoided hugging each other, and extended Eid greetings orally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-shadow-on-eid-mosques-streets-empty/articleshow/77309334.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Tree plantation drive around waterbody near Alanganallur||MADURAI: ‘Pasumai Nanbargal’, a youth forum from Madurai planted 100 saplings around a waterbody in a village near Alanganallur on Saturday to create awareness on the importance of planting trees in the Tamil month of Aadi. With lockdown prohibiting public gathering, the forum carried out the plantation drive with the help of 100 workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which is permitted by the government. Each worker carried a sapling on their head and walked around Pillaiyarnatham village in Vayalur panchayat to reach a water tank, where the plantation drive took place. All 100 saplings belong to the tamarind tree variety. It was chosen since it can not only provide shadow and prevent soil erosion, but also financially rewarding. The trees will start yielding three and a half years later. They can be leased out among villagers for harvesting. The villagers themselves will take care of the saplings until they can grow on their own. Rs 10,000 cash award has been announced for people who take care of the saplings in the best way, members from the forum said. Pon Kumar of Pasumai Nanbargal said that Aadi is known for starting agricultural activities for its favourable weather condition. There will be rains for the next four months, which will help crops and trees grow better. “We had initially planned to conduct the event on Aadi Perukku, an auspicious day for sowing seeds and planting trees, which falls on Sunday. We had to advance it since Sunday is a full lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tree-plantation-drive-around-waterbody-near-alanganallur/articleshow/77309704.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Man lynched over child abuse, 3 held||MANDYA: Three people were held after a 30-year-old man was beaten to death for allegedly sexually abusing a minor girl in S I Kodihalli village of Mandya taluk. The deceased, identified Bhairappa, sexually exploited a 7-year-old child in a secluded place on Wednesday and the distraught child revealed her ordeal to her family, said police. Enraged over the incident, the family members of the girl thrashed Bhairappa and he sustained grievous injuries incident. Later, he succumbed to the injuries at a hospital on Thursday. According to police, the deceased was earlier caught showing porn clips to minor children by the villagers and was let off with stern warning. A case has been registered in Keragodu police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-lynched-over-child-abuse-3-held/articleshow/77307467.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||Ammonia gas leak creates panic in Patna||PATNA: Leakage of ammonia gas inside an ice manufacturing factory on Saturday created panic among the residents of densely populated Jakkanpur area in Patna. An NDRF team of its chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) unit rushed to the spot and managed to plug the leakage, which was detected in a valve of one of the gas tanks in the factory. The factory is situated on Bihari Path under Jakkanpur police station. It was locked from outside. People came out in the open from their residences after feeling severe burning sensation in their eyes as gas had spread out in the area. Three major educational institutions — NIFT, CNLU and CIMP —are located on the opposite side of the road. Source said the incident took place at around 6.30pm. The NDRF team was pressed into action around 8pm. Patna Sadar SDO Tanai Sultania, who himself rushed to the spot, told TOI that the specialised NDRF team in safety gears reached inside the factory after assessing the situation around 9.15pm. “Only they can tell how many gas cylinders are there and what is the condition inside. The situation is presently under control. NDRF personnel would suggest us if any evacuation is required,” Sultania said. “Some people had come out due to burning sensation and pungent smell after the gas leakage,” he said. The SDO said fire fighters, police and all required machinery swung into action soon after the incident. NDRF sources said the team members were at the spot till late in the night and would leave the spot only after ensuring that the factory was safe and there was no threat to people’s lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ammonia-gas-leak-creates-panic-in-patna/articleshow/77308390.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||With no word from Gujarat, confusion at schools, colleges||AHMEDABAD: With the Gujarat government yet to issue separate guidelines for ‘Unlock-3’, there is confusion among principals, teachers and other staff at schools and colleges, who are to attend work from Tuesday in the absence of any directives from the state. According to the last guidelines from the state education, officials at schools and college need to ‘work from home’ till July 31. The Central government released new directives on Unlock-3, according to which the ‘work from home’ deadline has been extended to August 31. In absence of fresh directives from the state, the Gujarat University Educational Association demanded that ‘work from home’ be extended in the state till August 31, in lines with the Centre’s directives. An association of principals of various colleges also wrote to the state education minister to clarify the position on re-opening of colleges. The letter states that professors are currently teaching online, which has picked up smoothly, without much loss in classroom studies, sources said. Some officials at Gujarat University have also contracted Covid and the government should immediately issue directives for schools and colleges to stay closed till August-end, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-no-word-from-state-confusion-at-schools-colleges/articleshow/77308385.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides block several roads, including Yamunotri highway||Uttarkashi: More than one dozen roads, including the crucial Yamunotri national highway, got blocked due to landslides triggered by heavy rainfall in Uttarkashi district late on Friday night. According to TOI sources, vehicular movement at Yamunotri highway got interrupted after heavy landslides at Khaneda, Ranachatti, Ojari Dabarkot, and Paligad areas. Consequently, more than one dozen villages got disconnected from Barkot tehsil. Similarly, landslides in several other places blocked as many as 13 link roads of the district including Naugaon Pounti, Silkyara Bangaon, Kujjan Tihar, and Brahamkhal Junga road. Meanwhile, the traffic movement got affected for several hours at Gangotri highway after deep cracks emerged on the road due to soil erosion at Bhatwari region. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “The concerned departments started road opening efforts soon after the weather became clear on Saturday morning. All the blocked roads will be restored till late evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-block-several-roads-including-yamunotri-highway/articleshow/77307455.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||OCA plans new academy near twin cities||Cuttack: The Odisha Cricket Association (OCA) has decided to set up a new academy by acquiring around 20-40 acres of land near Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. OCA secretary Sanjay Behera on Saturday said the proposed academy, costing around Rs 50 crore, will have two to three cricket fields and all other modern amenities required for an academy of international standard. The modern amenities will include practice pitches, game venues, swimming pool, sand pit, gym, rehab room, residential complexes and recreation room. The academy will be completed on a priority basis, he said. Behera said the association has also decided to renovate Barabati Stadium. The major infrastructure at the stadium will be taken up for repair and refurbishing will include gallery number 7, club house, Sachin Tendulkar Indoor hall and Barabati Stadium ground. Landscaping will be done in major areas of Barabati Stadium, he said. Presently, the OCA has an academy on the southwest corner of the stadium. It has 10 pitches, six natural turfs, two synthetic (one designed to help pacers and other one for spinners) and two concrete. The academy is also supported with a hi-tech multi-gym facility. Lalmohan Patnaik||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/oca-plans-new-academy-near-twin-cities/articleshow/77307458.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||SU teacher detained for harassment||Rajkot: Police have detained an assistant professor of Master of physical education (MPED) department of Saurashtra university (SU) on Saturday who was sacked by the university for harassing a female student for five years. Cops will arrest the accused after his Covid test are done.Vikram Vankani was sacked by the varsity last week while an internal complaints committee of SU is investigation into the allegations. The complainant is studying in the varsity since 2014 and is currently pursuing her doctoral studies. Deputy commissioner of police, Manoharsinh Jadeja told TOI, “The accused was being harassed mentally and physically from 2014 to 2019. She was afraid that her education will be affected and so didn’t want to file a complaint. We encouraged her to file the complaint and also approached other girls to voice complaints for similar grievances.” The student alleged that the accused would put her in an embarassing position many a time when she was in her periods. Vankani would force her to painful physical exercises on the ground. According to the complaint, he also allegedly told her in 2014 that “if you won’t seduce me you will suffer a lot.” The girl further alleged that the accused would play vulgar sons when she would go to his chamber. Vankani is booked under IPC section 354 C, 509, 294 and atrocity act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/su-teacher-detained-for-harassment/articleshow/77307466.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Judge not to recuse self from granite firm cases||MADURAI: A single judge of Madras high court refused to recuse from hearing a batch of petitions pertaining to PRP Exports, observing that the judges while swearing in have solemnly affirmed that they will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution as by law established and will perform the duties of the office without fear or favour, affection or ill will and that they will uphold the Constitution and the laws. Justice B Pugalendhi observed that the advocates representing the granite firm sought to place the cases before some other judge, as he had earlier appeared as a special government pleader and additional advocate general (AAG) representing the state government against the granite firm in other cases. The judge said though he had represented the government in the high court and Supreme Court in other granite-related cases, he had not represented it in the present batch of pending cases and hence he fails to understand the merit in the plea. He observed that the government, based on merit and other things, hires advocates as law officers to represent it before various courts of law, for which personal motive cannot be attributed. As special government pleader and as an AAG, if he had represented the state, it simply meant he had represented the government against the opposite party, in the official capacity. The judge said that the apex court has held that the relationship between the government and law officers is that of a client and counsel. Merely because he has represented several government bodies as government counsel, it cannot be a bar for him in taking up any case filed by the government or against the government. “Even before commencing the arguments, such a plea has been raised, not once, but twice. Withdrawing from a case merely on a party’s request allows the parties to cherry-pick a bench of their choice,” observed the judge. The judge observed that if the plea is entertained and the court recused itself from hearing the case, such an act will be a breach of the solemn responsibility vested upon the court by the Constitution, apart from deviating from the roster allotted by the Madras high court Chief Justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/judge-not-to-recuse-self-from-granite-firm-cases/articleshow/77309707.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Come clean on fruitripening: HC to govt||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state government to make its stand clear on two pleas that charged police with booking FIRs on ethylene sachet traders despite they being approved by the central government and the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to ripen fruits with the help of ethylene gas. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing two writ petitions filed by Gold Ripe International Private Ltd and SGS International and clubbed it with a pending public interest litigation plea connected to the subject. The bench directed the state government and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to file their counters by August 14. Amicus curiae S Niranjan Reddy earlier made a suggestion that ethylene was a safe option when compared to calcium carbide to ripen fruits like mango, papaya, etc. “In the current case, we have to examine whether ethephon sachets that generate ethylene gas can be used. Though ethephon was permitted to be used to ripen fruits, at the same time it was also classified as an insecticide. Hence, the traders must use a standard operating procedure (SOP) while ripening the fruits,” he said. Appearing for one of the petitioner companies, senior counsel D Prakash Reddy said that the FIRs booked by Hyderabad police against them speak nothing about the SOP or their violations. “They simply say that these ethephon sachets cannot be used at all. This stand of the police is contrary to the approvals we got from the central food authorities,” he said. Ethephon produces ethylene gas in a natural form within the fruit itself without any direct contact with the fruit, he argued. “There is no complaint saying that we are not following the SOP even in the FIR,” he said.  Food Safety and Standards Authority of India counsel Divya Adepu sought two weeks’ time to file its counter. “Tell Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to clarify whether it prescribed any SOP while approving the use of ethephon sachets. Also, to explain whether ripening fruits through ethylene sachets without following the prescribed procedure will endanger the lives of the consumers,” the bench said. The case was posted to August 14. The bench was hearing two writ petitions filed by Gold Ripe International Private Ltd and SGS International and clubbed it with a pending public interest litigation plea connected to the subject||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/come-clean-on-fruitripening-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77309329.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Leopard attacks 3-year-old, drags him over 20-feet||RAJKOT: A three-year-old boy was severely injured after he was attacked by a leopard near Jafrabad town on Friday evening. The boy was attacked by the wild cat when he was playing near the light house. According to forest officials, the boy Naved Sorathiya was dragged by the leopard for at least 20-feet before his family members chased away the animal. The boy is a resident of Savarkundla and had come to Jafarabad with his maternal uncle’s house with mother to celebrate Bakr Eid. Naved had received injury on his back and was admitted in Rajula hospital before his discharge on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-attacks-3-year-old-drags-him-over-20-feet/articleshow/77307501.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Judge has first-hand account of hinterland||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 spreading to rural hinterland, a senior civil judge has taken upon himself to educate tribals on how to care of themselves to beat the virus. Senior civil judge and secretary of Adilabad district legal services authority Kancha Prasad, who is touring the remote tribal tracts in the last three days, explained to the people on the prevailing pandemic and how it spreads. Urging them to maintain physical distance and cleanliness, he also distributed masks and sanitisers to them. The judge also observed that water consumed by tribals in most of the interior areas is not potable. “The medical facilities are not up to the mark and since they are far away from their dwellings, it is difficult to reach them in times of emergency. I will soon file a report to the state legal services authority, which has directed me to undertake this 10-day ‘people connect’ initiative,” Prasad told STOI. He was able to reach inaccessible areas like Guttaguda, Makrala, Chaprala, Soneraoguda in Utnoor division of Adilabad district and Devapur and Kasipur near Mancherial and talk to Gond and Kolan tribes people there. Prasad had to walk six km and traverse difficult terrain to reach some of the interior villages. At some places, he had to cross flowing streams. “The tribals have been cultivating land for several decades, but they do not have pattas issued by the revenue authorities. As a result of this, they are unable to avail benefits under Rythu Bandhu,” he said. He said lack of pattas was depriving them of crop loans and insurance benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/judge-has-first-hand-account-of-hinterland/articleshow/77309346.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Accused cop in Sathankulam case moves HC seeking bail||MADURAI: S Murugan, suspended head constable, who was arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, has moved the Madras high court seeking bail. In his petition, Murugan, a resident of Tirunelveli district stated that he came to the Sathankulam police station at around 8.15pm on the day of the incident after conducting an inquiry in another case at the government hospital. When he came to the station, inspector Sridhar and sub-inspector Balakrishnan compelled him to sign in the typed complaint registered against the deceased duo. Since he had to obey the order of his superiors, he signed in the complaint. He stated that he did not touch the deceased and did not assault them. He also stated that he did not know the deceased persons prior to this incident and there was no previous enmity between them. Murugan said that he was taken into custody for interrogation and the prosecution had already collected the evidence. Since the custodial interrogation was completed, keeping him in judicial custody may not be required. He further stated that he is in judicial custody since July 1 and his bail application was dismissed by the Madurai principal sessions court on July 23. Stating that he was innocent and not involved in any offence as alleged by the prosecution, he sought bail. Murugan’s bail plea is to be taken up for hearing on Monday. Meanwhile, the CBI officials conducted an inquiry with three friends of Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-cop-in-sathankulam-case-moves-hc-seeking-bail/articleshow/77309709.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Turnaround in state’s July GST collection after dull first qtr||Cuttack: Despite the intermittent lockdown and suboptimal functioning of many sectors owing to the pandemic, Odisha has witnessed a positive growth in the state’s July GST collection for the first time in the current financial year. Sushil Kumar Lohani, commissioner of commercial tax and GST on Saturday, said, “The collection of state GST (OGST) in July 2020 increased to Rs 794.02 crore as against Rs 702.44 crore in the corresponding month last year (July 19), registering a growth rate of 13.04%.” This comes amid the poor performance in the first quarter of 2020-21 owing to the lockdown of the state economy during the months of April to May, he added. This turnaround in July is primarily owing to regular persuasion and facilitation by the field officers, continuous monitoring and hand holding supported by data analytics by the Commissionerate of CT & GST as well as better performance in the mining sector, he said in a communiqué to the press. Though the trend has now been reversed with the encouraging results in July 2020, efforts are being made to continue this and also recover the shortfall of the first quarter to the extent possible in the remaining period of the financial year. The field officers have been advised to maintain the momentum by focusing on the collection of arrear revenue under various heads of the pre-ST regime as well as ensuring compliance by the GST tax payers by filing correct and timely returns. They have also been advised to expedite the scrutiny of the past returns of taxpayers and identify incidences of tax suppression by them so that the tax due to the government could be collected, Lohani said. “The potential sources of revenue leakages should be plugged with a special focus on the detection of tax frauds. The tax officers have been advised to complete all the adjudications in time and dispose of appeal and revision cases promptly to facilitate revenue collection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/turnaround-in-states-july-gst-collection-after-dull-first-qtr/articleshow/77307480.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Online classes for MKU PG students||MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will start online classes for post graduate (PG) students from Monday onwards, except for first year students from August 24. MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan said that online classes were being started to avoid falling behind schedule. “We have asked all teachers to conduct three hours of live classes and share study materials like presentations,” he said. He added that most of the students have access to internet. “We had also asked how many students have access to internet and can join the classes. Currently, around 60-70% of students have no issues and are able to attend. The remaining students can attend the classes and access study materials by going to their nearest government e-seva centres,” said Krishnan. The Choice-Based Credit System (CBCS) academic calendar for PG (odd semester) courses was released on Friday. As per the schedule, students will have six hours of online classes per day - three hours each in the morning and evening. The classes will either be live lectures or tutorial sessions using Google Meet. All reading material and power point presentations shared during classes will also be made available through the MKU App after every session. The online registration for the common entrance test for admission to M Phil/PhD courses is still open on the university’s website https://mkuniversity.ac.in/new/ and the last date for registering is August 10. “Registrations are underway but as of now we have put conducting of exams online on hold as some negotiations are underway,” said the VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-classes-for-mku-pg-students/articleshow/77309711.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: On Day 1, addition to ECA admission rules||NEW DELHI: Students who would have carried on with a particular extra-curricular activity (ECA) even after receiving awards and certificates will be getting four extra marks for admission to Delhi University under the category. In case of a tie between two applicants, the one with higher marks in his/her best certificates will be awarded admission. As the ECA admissions began on Saturday, the university issued additional guidelines. The admission under the category will be held on the basis of the best three certificates out of the five uploaded by the candidates. Following the intervention of artistes, the Vice-President of India and a petition at Delhi high court, the university had recently decided to hold ECA admissions. Earlier, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it had decided to skip admissions under ECA disciplines, except for National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme, for this year. The university has reserved up to 5% seats for admissions under sports and ECA quotas. Based on certificates, there are marks for participation/prizes of competition, training examination, workshop and performance/published work. Leaving the performance/published work, extra four marks will be given to students for the sustained activity. “Sustained activity” marks will be given to the applicants who would have continued the activity even after receiving certificates and awards. The one who has done solo performances will have an additional advantage. For group activities, four marks will be deducted. If a candidate has received training in multiple activities (for instance, if a student has received training in Hindustani Vocal as well as Carnatic Vocal), the same scheme of marking will be followed for each training activity and the marks will be added. For evaluation of examination certificates, the highest level of examination passed by a student in that particular system of exams will be considered. For example, if a student has a certificate from Gandharva for second year as well as third year, only the third-year examination certificate will be considered. In case of applicants securing the same total marks in ECA certificates in the same ECA category and eligible for admission in the same college and the same course, the candidates securing higher marks in the best certificates shall be awarded admission. If the tie still cannot be broken, an applicant with a higher percentage of marks (aggregate of best four subjects, including one language) in the qualifying examination will be given preference for allotment/admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-day-1-addition-to-eca-admission-rules/articleshow/77309355.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid worsens in Punjab, infects record 944, kills 19||Chandigarh: A day after crossing a tally of 16,000, the number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab crossed the 17,000 mark on Saturday as it got a record 944 new patients — the highest in a day so far and the fourth time in the last one week. For the first time, cases were reported from all 22 districts of the state. Also, a record 19 people died of the coronavirus during the day, with which the death toll rose to 405. This is the second time in the last one week that 19 people have died of Covid-19 in the state. Among the new patients, 38 are jail inmates and 26 are police officers. Among the patients who died, 10 were from Ludhiana, two each from Sangrur and Amritsar, and one each from Barnala, Mohali, Kapurthala and Muktsar districts.  The trend of high number of deaths is expected to continue in coming days as 145 patients are on oxygen support and 13 are on ventilator. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 17,063. For the sixth consecutive day, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 166 people were tested positive in the district, of whom 79 were contacts of positive cases and 60 patients were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Jalandhar reported 162 cases, followed by 89 in Gurdaspur, 76 in Bathinda, 66 in Patiala, 49 in Amritsar, 48 in Ferozepur, 37 each in Sangrur and Fazilka, 35 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mohali, 26 in Barnala, 21 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 19 in Pathankot, 16 in Moga, 14 each in Tarn Taran and Mansa, 12 in Ropar, four in Muktsar, three in Nawanshahr, and two in Faridkot. A total of 341 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the overall tally of patients discharged so far to 11,075.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-worsens-in-punjab-infects-record-944-kills-19/articleshow/77309354.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Centre has no role in deciding the state’s capital city, says BJP||Amaravati: In a curious development, BJP has made it clear that the Centre has no role in deciding the state’s capital city. The state BJP unit has opposed the party MP Sujana Chowdary’s comments on the issue. “Sujana Chowdary’s remarks that the Centre will intervene to protect Amaravati at an appropriate time is against the party’s principles. The Centre has no role in deciding the capital city,” said the state unit in a series of tweets on Friday. The party said that although the state unit continues to support the cause of Amaravati, dragging the Centre into the issue is not correct. It said that it is the right of the state government to decide its capital city. Interestingly, the state unit’s rebuttal of pro-Amaravati leaders in the party came only a couple of hours before governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan gave the green signal to the controversial decentralization of capital city bill and repeal of CRDA bill. The tone in the state unit of BJP on Amaravati had witnessed a visible change soon after Somu Veerraju was named as president by replacing Kanna Lakshminarayana. The party had participated in agitations and protests against the trifurcation of the capital city under the leadership of Kanna Lakshminarayana. The BJP had demanded that the Amaravati should be retained as the single capital city of the state. It is widely speculated in party circles that the national leadership had decided to replace Lakshminarayana chiefly due to his anti-YSRC line. Incidentally, Veerraju has backed decentralization of administration immediately after being named as state unit president. “As a principle, BJP had always favoured decentralization of administration,” said Veerraju. Party national spokesperson and MP GVL Narasimha Rao had been contending that the Centre would never ever intervene in the issue of capital city of AP. BJP had promised to relocate the high court to Rayalaseema in its manifesto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centre-has-no-role-in-deciding-the-states-capital-city-says-bjp/articleshow/77291429.cms||Samdani MN
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R alumnus bags Zinnov Award for contribution in field of AI||Roorkee: Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R) alumnus Dr Sunil Kumar Vuppala has won the prestigious Zinnov Award 2020 for his contribution to the field of Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Analytics. Vuppala was from 2004 batch of Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of IIT-R. The objective of the award is to recognise the contribution of individuals as well as the organisations that enable business innovation along with diversity. Vuppala, a data scientist, is currently serving as the Director of Data Science at Ericsson. “I am elated to have received the award. The tech-driven education at IIT Roorkee laid the foundation for my strong fundamentals in the emerging technologies domain,” said Vuppala. Vuppala shares this recognition with Manish Bhide from IBM. Both of them were conferred the award jointly in the Technical Role Model-Emerging Technology - AI & Big Data Analytics category in a virtual ceremony on Friday at Bengaluru. The award event host — Zinnov — is a leading global management consulting firm. “It is a proud moment for IIT- Roorkee,” said Professor AK Chaturvedi, director of IIT Roorkee. This was the 11th edition of the annual awards that witnessed participation from over 600 companies of 10 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-alumnus-bags-zinnov-award-for-contribution-in-field-of-ai/articleshow/77307493.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Dil’ Raju offers to take care of orphans from Yadadri dist||HYDERABAD: A day after actor Sonu Sood announced he would adopt three orphan children from a family in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Saturday announced film producer ‘Dil’ Raju agreed to take care of them. Meanwhile, in a conversation with the children on Saturday, Sonu Sood said he would make flight arrangements for the children for either Tuesday or Wednesday to fly to Nashik. He said he has made arrangements to pick them up from Nashik and take them to Shirdi. The children would be enrolled in an ashram and a school. “I will take care of you. You will have a good future,” Sonu Sood told the children. Minister Dayakar Rao said he had spoken to the local sarpanch and also Alair legislator Gongidi Sunitha. After verifying all details about the children, he called producer ‘Dil’ Raju requesting that he adopt them. Though it is not clear who the kids would go with, Sonu Sood or ‘Dil’ Raju, the family members said they were waiting to complete some rituals next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dil-raju-offers-to-take-care-of-orphans-from-yadadri-dist/articleshow/77309344.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH online classes likely from August 20||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad’s (UoH) task force has recommended resumption of online teaching for post-graduate students from August 20. It also suggested a series of exam and assessment reforms. On June 2, the UoH had constituted a 12-member task force to chalk out a road map for resumption of teaching-learning activities that were suspended on March 15 because of coronavirus. An in-house survey (with responses from about 2,500 students) revealed issues of connectivity and digital access by about 20 per cent of the student population. In a four-page document enlisting all recommendations submitted by the task force to the vice-chancellor recently, a copy of which is with TOI, the members have recommended a detailed plan to resume online teaching. “Considering Telangana is among the vulnerable states, we have decided to conduct classes online at least for the ensuing semester. We have formed sub-teams within the task force who are addressing problematic areas into online teaching,” Vinod Pavarala, chairman of the task force, said. The task force has recommended that unfinished learning objectives and non-fulfilment of prerequisites for more advanced courses, caused by abrupt stoppage of classes last semester, may be addressed u additional webinars and/or short bridge sessions.  All the departments have been advised to design innovative and continuous modes of assessment. “A range of options may be considered for evaluation and assessment, including assignments, take-home exams, projects and presentations instead of over-emphasizing the end-semestesr exam,” reads the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-online-classes-likely-from-aug-20/articleshow/77309347.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 2, 2020||Aurangabad||189 index cases linked to 13,662 patients in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad district, including municipal limits and rural areas, officially had only 189 ‘index cases’ of Covid-19 for 13,662 positive cases till July 30. In medical parlance, an index case refers to the first identified case in a group of related cases of a particular communicable disease. As per official data, Aurangabad district has a somewhat skewed ratio between index cases and total cases when compared to other Marathwada districts. For instance, Jalna had 1,265 index cases for 2,122 positive cases by July 30. Latur had 727 index cases for 1,912 confirmed cases. Aurangabad district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni on Saturday said the district was consistently improving its record. “The index case parameter is helpful in reading the overall Covid situation only in the early stages of the pandemic. The parameter becomes less significant as the disease starts spreading,” he said, adding that the Aurangabad district has highest (over 70%) recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in Marathwada. Kulkarni said Aurangabad, till recently, was placed fourth in the total number of cases after Mumbai, Thane and Pune. But it dropped by two places due to concerted efforts. As per the health authorities, Aurangabad district recorded its first Covid-19 index case on March 15, followed by two confirmed cases on April 5. “The spread in Aurangabad was relatively slower. It gave us time to gear up to combat the pandemic. The scaled-up antigen testing and recent curfew have augmented our efforts,” Kulkarni said. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad touched 14,194 by 4 pm on Saturday. This includes 10,192 cured patients and 478 casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/189-index-cases-linked-to-13662-patients-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/77307517.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||5 charred to death as bio digester explodes in Manas plant||Nagpur: Five labourers were charred to death after a bio digester exploded at the Manas Agro Industries and Infrastructure Limited, the erstwhile Purti Power and Sugar Limited, at Bela village, around 50km from the city. Sugar and ethanol is manufactured at the unit. All five deceased were on atop the bio digester which is a 60 feet structure. They were thrown in the air for at least 15 feet after the explosion. Three of them landed on the tank while the other two fell on the ground. The explosion occurred around 2.15pm reportedly due to welding sparks that came in contact with gases present in the bio digester. The deceased have been identified as Mangesh Naukarkar (21), Liladhar Shende (42), Wasudeo Ladi (30), Sachin Waghmare (24) and Praful Moon (25). All were residents of Wadgaon and Salai villages located near Bela. They were trying to weld cracks on the bio digester. The bodies were shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital here for post-mortem in the evening. As per information available from police, district administration and Umred MLA Raju Parwe, the company had assigned Nashik-based SP Engineers for maintenance of the bio digester. The agency had engaged a private contractor of Wadgaon which is near Bela. Union minister for road transport and highways and city MP Nitin Gadkari had founded Purti company and constructed the plant in 2000. Though he is not part of the company, a member of his family is a wholetime director. Immediately after the incident, family members of the deceased and villagers from Wadgaon, Salai and Bela gathered at the plant and started protesting. Slogans were raised accusing the company for the death of five labourers. Parwe also reached the spot. Nagpur Rural SP Rakesh Ola said, “Police are invoking charges of causing death due to negligence under section 304 (A) of the IPC against the companies who were entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the tanks. An FIR will be filed at Bela police station.” Umred tehsildar Pramod Kadam said that the industrial safety officer, labour commissioner, sugar commissioner and his department would investigate the incident. Parwe told TOI that Manas company has announced compensation of Rs15 lakh and employment to the nearest kin of the deceased. “The situation was getting out of hand. The protesters had to be calmed down, else there would have been a law and order problem,” he said. Claiming that it was negligence that resulted in the accident, Parwe demanded a “proper enquiry”. “Only one of the five had welding experience to work on a bio digester. Another had joined work only today,” said Parwe. Sources from Bela said work was on without any safety measures in place. “Combustible gas was present in the bio digester and yet welding work was being done. Also, the labourers were not wearing any safety gears,” they said. Bela police brought in reinforcement to tackle the protesters. They managed with great difficulty, said sources. Nitin Kulkarni, PRO of Manas company, said, “It was a very unfortunate incident. The company will extend all necessary help to the families of deceased. The labourers of a private agency were engaged for the work. Our officials rushed to the spot immediately on learning about the incident. They gave a detailed information to police who would be inquiring into the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-charred-to-death-as-bio-digester-explodes-in-manas-plant/articleshow/77317008.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 2, 2020||Madurai||90% of docs who died in pvt sector, help them: IMA to govt||Madurai: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai branch has appealed to the state government to grant ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh each to all deceased doctors and healthcare providers affected by Covid-19 in private sector, and offer a government job to one of the family members. In a statement, president of IMA, Madurai Dr Alagavenkatesan and secretary Dr Amanullah appealed to the government to aid private healthcare providers affected by Covid-19 on a par with public sector. In July, Dr Abdul Majith, 60, and Dr DR Deyanesh, 50, both general practitioners, died due to Covid-19 on July 6 and 12 respectively. Both doctors were treating only non-Covid-19 patients. “Around 90% of Covid-19 deaths in doctors from Tamil Nadu is from the private sector. This is because they run small practices with limited staff and get exposed easily to any asymptomatic patient with other illness,” said Alagavenkatesan. “We are following directions to keep open all private healthcare establishments, clinics, nursing homes, hospitals etc. At the same time, loss of life due to contracting Covid-19 while treating the patients is real and we hence appeal for an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the deceased and Rs 2 lakh for treatment expenses,” said the release. The IMA also proposed to include private doctors in the insurance scheme (Rs 50 lakh) announced by the government and bring in regulations. “We want the government to take up the issue of screening select pre-operative patients with the ICMR and simplify the standard operating procedures for RT PCR testing in private health establishments. This would enable safe treatment and better service for patients,” said Dr Alagavenkatesan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/90-of-docs-who-died-in-pvt-sector-help-them-ima-to-govt/articleshow/77309713.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Cantt Board vice-president visits Covid care facility||Nashik: Bhagwan Kataria, vice-president of Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD), visited the Covid Care Centre in Deolali Camp on Saturday to take stock of the facilities that are being provided to the patients admitted and also to check if the doctors treating them were also provided with every facility to prevent transmission of the infection. With coronavirus wreaking havoc across the country, the virus has also spread inside Deolali Camp area and surrounding villages. Kataria said that 11 doctors and 21 employees of the cantonment hospital as well as the two doctors and three employees provided by the district health department are looking after the patients.There were claims regarding lack of facilities, mainly regarding non-availability of warm water for shower, at the hospital. Taking note of the same Kataria visited the Covid facility to take stock of the situation. Kataria instructed the hospital management to take up the process of purchasing two water heaters and also enquired with the patients if they were getting regular breakfast and two-time meals at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-board-vice-president-visits-covid-care-facility/articleshow/77307524.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana count crosses 35,000, 7 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: With 793 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Saturday reached 35,758 cases with 428 casualties. The recovery rate reached another high of 81.32% as 853 patients were discharged. So far, 29,080 patients have recovered. Now, there are 6,250 active cases, including 111 patients on oxygen support and 16 on ventilator, The doubling rate continued to be stable at 25 days. Faridabad had the highest number of 175 new patients and it reported three deaths as well. With this, the district’s total rose to 8,830 with 134 deaths. With 252 patients getting discharged, the total number of recoveries in the district rose to 7,547. Gurugram got 99 new patients, taking the district total to 9,166. A death took the district’s casualty count to 124. Also, 120 patients were discharged and this the number of recoveries in the district to 8,124. Now, there are 918 active patients in the district. Panipat, Rewari and Ambala emerged as new hotspots. Panipat got 93 new patients and a death, and it was followed by 85 caes in Rewari and 83 in Ambala. Yamuanangar got 40 new patients, followed by 38 in Panchkula, 37 in Kurukshetra, 34 in Rohtak, 28 in Karnal, 27 in Hisar, 17 in Fatehabad, 15 in Palwal, 13 in Kaithal, five in Jhajajr, two in Nuh, and one each in Bhiwani and Sonipat. The testing-per-million rate has risen 24,808 as over 6.28 lakh persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-count-crosses-35k-7-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77313075.cms||Manvir Saini
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government school principals go beyond the call of duty||NEW DELHI: With the students who have failed in classes IX and XI being given another chance, principals of Delhi government schools are going an extra mile to ensure that they do not miss out on the opportunity. As the assessment has to be conducted through online mode in the wake of the Covid-19 situation, one of the principals has asked his school teachers to send the assignments through Speed Post to students who do not have access to phones. Earlier, Central Board of Secondary Education had asked schools to conduct re-examination. But as the lockdown got extended, the board asked schools to find innovative ways to conduct the examinations. The directorate of education (DoE) subsequently asked schools to assess students on the basis of projects and assignments. A principal of a school in Sultanpuri has asked the subject teachers to send the assignments via Speed Post. “For some students, the phone number may not be reachable or does not exist or out of service. As per the order of the DoE, it is important that the assignments reach students. So each subject teacher should send the photocopy of the assignment via Speed Post and keep the receipt of it. The list of students’ addresses will be provided,” the order read. However, a teacher said that it should be the responsibility of the school. “About 50% of students have to appear for the exam out of which 45% have failed in more than three subjects,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-school-principals-go-beyond-the-call-of-duty/articleshow/77309370.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Continuous landslide from Mansa Devi hill puts Har-ki-Pauri at risk||Haridwar: Landslides from the hills of Mansa Devi temple (of Shivalik range) have been happening continuously in the Hill by-pass region close to the revered Har-ki-Pauri ghat in Haridwar, putting the ghat under risk of damage. The situation gets worse during monsoons, when mud and boulders frequently tumble down on adjoining roads. According to local residents, a short-term treatment of the hill was done by the district administration after the 2010 floods in Haridwar, but the solution didn’t prove effective in the long run. District disaster management officer of Haridwar, Meera Kaintura told TOI, “The Hill by-pass region, including the stretch from Har-ki-Pauri to Bhimgoda, is an eco-sensitive zone. Landslides from the hill, locally known as Mansa Devi hill, are common. Boulders and debris keep falling on the road, which is dangerous. After floods in 2010 and 2013, heavy landslides took place in the region. Several experts suggested long-term treatment of the hills to avoid any untoward incident in the future. Instead, the administration resorted to some short-term techniques, like erecting retaining walls along the hills. A long-term solution is still pending.” “The recurring Mansa Devi landslides started nearly 25 years ago. Its geo-morphology, due to anthropogenic pressure and various other factors, should have changed by now. The issue certainly requires an all-new scientific investigation. Latest mitigation methods will be needed to protect the nearby areas from any kind of catastrophe,” said PS Negi, senior scientist, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun. Environmentalist Mallika Bhanot, who has been at the forefront of opposing projects like the Char Dham all-weather road project for the impact they are having on the Himalayan eco-system, told TOI, “Uttarakhand is constantly facing landslides, as human settlements and development works continue to rise at an unprecedented scale, most of them not in keeping with environmental norms. Some places are sacrosanct. They need to be conserved and not encashed. The Mansa Devi landslides are a signal that congestion in and around the hills needs to be reduced immediately, without allowing any further tourism activity there.” Tanmay Vashishtha, general secretary of Shri Ganga Sabha, Haridwar, the apex body of priests entrusted with the management of Har-ki-Pauri, added, “Landslides from the hill are a big threat for Har-ki-Pauri and adjoining areas. We have requested the administration to look into it, so that the lives of local residents as well as pilgrims aren’t threatened.” To recall, barely 10 days ago, on July 21, a nearly 80-feet-high wall in Har-Ki-Pauri had collapsed due to heavy rains, raising a question mark on the safety of the ghat, which attracts thousands of visitors on auspicious occasions. Local residents had alleged that the wall’s foundation had become weak because of trenches made along it by the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL). When queried about the landslides happening from the Mansa Devi hill, Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, “We are planning to conduct a fresh, detailed survey of the Mansa Devi hill by getting in experts. We will prepare a project for a long-term treatment of the hill based on their report.” (With inputs from Shivani Azad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/continuous-landslide-from-mansa-devi-hill-puts-har-ki-pauri-at-risk/articleshow/77306796.cms||MS Nawaz
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLAs not contributing 30% of salary & perks for Covid-19 fight: Cong MLA||Dehradun: Launching an attack on BJP lawmakers for not abiding by the decision of the state government, Congress legislator from Kedarnath Manoj Rawat has said that while each MLA is supposed to give Rs 57,600 per month to the state government to help fight Covid-19, BJP lawmakers are making a lesser contribution and going against their own party's command. He pointed out that as many as 16 BJP MLAs are contributing Rs 30,000, four are giving just Rs 12,600 per month, and another 13 are giving only Rs 9,000 per month. CM Rawat had filed an RTI in the state assembly on July 14 this year — seeking information funds provided by each legislator for the cause — and recently the details were provided to him. “On one hand, the BJP leaders and their spokesperson on repeated occasions have launched a scathing attack on Congress and accused us of not contributing for the cause, but at the same time the ruling legislators are unwilling to follow their own government’s decision. This shows the double standards of the elected BJP MLAs,” said Rawat. In the 70-member House, BJP has 57 MLAs, Congress has 11, and the remaining two are Independents. The RTI reply provided to Rawat shows that all Congress MLAs have contributed Rs 57,600 for the month of June and some chipped in the same amount in the month of May as well. The Congress lawmakers did not contribute anything in April as they claimed “the situation was not clear at that time”. Rawat, a first-time MLA, said that such decisions should be taken after consulting the Opposition parties. “In a one-sided decision, the state cabinet decided to give 30% of salary and perks to the government to help fight Covid-19. Salary is a personal issue and the Cabinet cannot decide on it. But still, our leader of the House Indira Hridayesh said that we will fully support the government and contribute accordingly,” he said. Quoting the details provided by the state assembly office, the Congress legislator said, “While, they are targeting the Opposition party, there seems to be no clarity on the issue among the BJP legislators. The Assembly has not provided information about the CM and ministers, but Indira Hridayesh, who is leader of Opposition – which is equivalent to the status of a minister – is getting Rs 75,600 deducted each month. I hope the CM and ministers too are contributing a similar amount,” he added. A five-time legislator and BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat – who is contributing Rs 9,000 per month said that the order was for 30% of the basic salary. “Above that, an MLA is free to contribute whatever amount he wants to,” said the legislator. The basic salary of an MLA in Uttarakhand is Rs 30,000 per month and after adding all the perks and allowances it comes close to Rs 3.25 lakh per month. Meanwhile, despite several efforts, state urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik could not be contacted for his views on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mlas-not-contributing-30-of-salary-perks-for-covid-19-fight-cong-mla/articleshow/77307518.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Webinar for students of classes IX & X||Nashik:The divisional secretary of Nashik division of Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (MSSHEB) has organised a webinar for students of Class IX and Class X across the division to guide them on the new mode of online education system due to the outbreak of Covid-19.Nitin Upasani, the divisional secretary of MSSHEB Nashik, said they are planning to organise the webinar on the second week of August. The schools will be informed and both students and their parent can attend the webinar.The cybercrime experts and counsellors will also be called to guide the students, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/webinar-for-students-of-classes-ix-x/articleshow/77307516.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 2, 2020||Rajkot||Fake GST billing racket worth Rs 100 crore busted||RAJKOT: State GST department unearthed a fake billing racket involving 50-odd traders of groundnut and its seeds in Junagadh, Mangrol amd Dhoraji towns on Saturday.They found that the traders had issued bogus invoices to the tune of Rs 100 crore in last two years to evade tax. These traders were allegedly providing bills of purchase to other traders who were claiming input tax credit (ITC) on value addition of peanuts. The GST rate for this commodity is 5% . The GST officials found that the groundnut traded figures did not match with the tax collected. According to sources a few oil miller are also involved in the alleged racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-gst-billing-racket-worth-rs-100cr-busted/articleshow/77307527.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana count crosses 35,000, 7 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: With 793 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Saturday reached 35,758 cases with 428 casualties. The recovery rate reached another high of 81.32% as 853 patients were discharged. So far, 29,080 patients have recovered. Now, there are 6,250 active cases, including 111 patients on oxygen support and 16 on ventilator, The doubling rate continued to be stable at 25 days. Faridabad had the highest number of 175 new patients and it reported three deaths as well. With this, the district’s total rose to 8,830 with 134 deaths. With 252 patients getting discharged, the total number of recoveries in the district rose to 7,547. Gurugram got 99 new patients, taking the district total to 9,166. A death took the district’s casualty count to 124. Also, 120 patients were discharged and this the number of recoveries in the district to 8,124. Now, there are 918 active patients in the district. Panipat, Rewari and Ambala emerged as new hotspots. Panipat got 93 new patients and a death, and it was followed by 85 caes in Rewari and 83 in Ambala. Yamuanangar got 40 new patients, followed by 38 in Panchkula, 37 in Kurukshetra, 34 in Rohtak, 28 in Karnal, 27 in Hisar, 17 in Fatehabad, 15 in Palwal, 13 in Kaithal, five in Jhajajr, two in Nuh, and one each in Bhiwani and Sonipat. The testing-per-million rate has risen 24,808 as over 6.28 lakh persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-count-crosses-35k-7-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77313076.cms||Manvir Saini
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana count crosses 35,000, 7 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: With 793 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Saturday reached 35,758 cases with 428 casualties. The recovery rate reached another high of 81.32% as 853 patients were discharged. So far, 29,080 patients have recovered. Now, there are 6,250 active cases, including 111 patients on oxygen support and 16 on ventilator, The doubling rate continued to be stable at 25 days. Faridabad had the highest number of 175 new patients and it reported three deaths as well. With this, the district’s total rose to 8,830 with 134 deaths. With 252 patients getting discharged, the total number of recoveries in the district rose to 7,547. Gurugram got 99 new patients, taking the district total to 9,166. A death took the district’s casualty count to 124. Also, 120 patients were discharged and this the number of recoveries in the district to 8,124. Now, there are 918 active patients in the district. Panipat, Rewari and Ambala emerged as new hotspots. Panipat got 93 new patients and a death, and it was followed by 85 caes in Rewari and 83 in Ambala. Yamuanangar got 40 new patients, followed by 38 in Panchkula, 37 in Kurukshetra, 34 in Rohtak, 28 in Karnal, 27 in Hisar, 17 in Fatehabad, 15 in Palwal, 13 in Kaithal, five in Jhajajr, two in Nuh, and one each in Bhiwani and Sonipat. The testing-per-million rate has risen 24,808 as over 6.28 lakh persons have been tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-count-crosses-35k-7-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77309357.cms||Manvir Saini
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath temple’s prasad can now be bought online||Dehradun: Hit by the pandemic and the low footfall that came with it this pilgrimage season, the Badrinath Temple will now sell its prasad online. The Chamoli district administration has signed a contract with Amazon to sell the ‘Badrinath Prasad Bag’. “The bag will also have holy water of the Saraswati river, Badrish Tulsi, a pack of herbal incense, Badri cow’s ghee, Himalayan rose water and a book of Badrinath’s aarti,” said district magistrate Swati Bhadauriya. The Panch Badri Prasadam pack was launched in 2018, as part of a scheme in the Char Dham temples to help small-scale businesses dependent on the Char Dham Yatra for revenue. Last year, it raised Rs 33 lakh for the self-help group that made Panch Badri Prasadam. But this time, business had been lean. A record 34 lakh pilgrims visited the Char Dham temples last year. This year, the yatra started on July 1 for Uttarakhand residents and on July 25 for pilgrims from the rest of the country. Till now, 2,600 people have registered and about half have visited. “The footfall has been low because of the pandemic. The 18 self-help groups in the district involved in manufacturing the prasad have been affected. The online sale will definitely help them, while allowing the faithful to get prasad at home when they can’t come here,” Bhadauriya added. Last month, Rudyaprayag district officials had done the same for prasad from the Kedarnath Temple — a pack on onlineprasad.com can be bought for Rs 451. In 11 days, some 600 orders have been placed. The district administration of Uttarkashi is also planning to enter the online space, selling Gangotri and Yamunotri prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-temples-prasad-can-now-be-bought-online/articleshow/77307540.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 2, 2020||Nashik||2 men robbed in Satpur industrial area||NASHIK: Two people were robbed of their cash and cellphones in the NICE industrial area of Satpur on Saturday afternoon. The complainant Shivram Khirari, a resident of Hirawadi in Panchavati, said that he, along with another colleague, was guarding the bungalow they work at when four people barged in and started assaulting them. “The suspects took away two cellphones worth Rs 15,000 and Rs 2,700 cash from the victims before fleeing,” a police officer said. Satpur police have registered an offence of robbery against the suspects and are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-men-robbed-in-satpur-industrial-area/articleshow/77307541.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||All passed, but 35% norm worries Eamcet aspirants||Hyderabad: Despite the state cancelling Intermediate examination of Telangana Open School Society (TOSS) and declaring all students as pass, students are worried as they are ineligible to appear for Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance (EAMCET) with 35% marks. They said that it is complete injustice on part of the state to award them minimum marks—35% in each subject. “I don’t think we will be able to get into any professional courses with these marks,” said S Madhu Brahma, an MPC student registered with TOSS. Students said that many of them were planning to get admissions in BSc, BCom, BA courses, but now it looks like a distant dream. “Even though there is no cut off for degree admissions, seats are filled by considering marks. When marks are considered, we will be at a receiving end,” said Md Abdul Sarfaraz, a CEC student who wants to seek admission in BA. SSC students also pointed out that unlike regular students, they were given only minimum marks making it difficult for them to secure an admission at a decent intermediate college. Student leaders said that awarding about 40-45% marks would have made it easy for students during admissions. “Even at intermediate and degree colleges, they have to take leftover seats as they have bare minim marks,” said Venkat Balamuri, president, NSUI. TOSS director S Venkateswara Sharma, meanwhile, said that only 1, 800 out of 35, 000 intermediate students are going to appear for EAMCET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-passed-but-35-norm-worries-eamcet-aspirants/articleshow/77309352.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Quarantine jails to fight coronavirus||Chandigarh: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab government has converted six jails into quarantine jails for new inmates. Two jails in Gurdaspur and Malerkotla have been declared as level-1 covid care centres for treatment of infected inmates. Jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said under Mission Fateh campaign launched by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the jails department has taken several steps to combat the pandemic effectively. He said six jails in Punjab have been converted into quarantine jails for new inmates. In the first phase of this exercise, the facilities located in Barnala and Patti were converted into quarantine jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/quarantine-jails-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/77309366.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to help if Sushant Singh Rajput’s father seeks a CBI probe: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: The state government will act only if Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput’s father demands a CBI probe into his son’s suicide case, chief minister Nitish Kumar told a TV news channel on Saturday. He said the Maharashtra police should cooperate with Bihar police in the investigation as it is their legal duty and role because an FIR has been lodged in Patna. Sushant’s father K K Singh lodged an FIR in Patna on July 25, alleging that actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family members abetted his son to commit suicide after cheating and unlawfully confining him. Sushant had allegedly committed suicide at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. Nitish said if any legal issue arises, the state advocate general will act. “There is no clash between Bihar and Maharashtra police,” he told the TV channel. The Bihar government and Singh have already filed caveats in the Supreme Court on the Rhea’s plea that the Patna FIR should be transferred to Mumbai. The matter will come up in the Supreme Court for hearing on August 5. State water resources department (WRD) minister Sanjay Jha also said CM Nitish will act if Sushant’s father wanted an investigation into his son’s suicide case either by CBI or any other investigating agency. “Bihar government is committed to bringing justice to the actor’s family and would take every step required to ensure a logical end in the case,” said Jha, a confidante of CM Nitish. “The CM will cooperate with him (Singh) if he wishes the investigation to be handed over to the CBI or any other investigating agency,” Jha told TOI over the phone. The minister said a four-member Patna police team is in Mumbai and investigating the case legally and professionally. “The first FIR has been lodged in Patna by Singh. The Mumbai police, as per information, have still not registered any formal case in connection with the incident,” he added. He accused the Mumbai police of not conducting proper investigation in the case for the last 45 days to unravel the mystery shrouding the Sushant’s suicide. “And now when the Bihar police team is conducting a sincere probe, they are creating hurdles,” he alleged. Jha also tweeted that the Bihar police team was well within its rights to investigate the case. Earlier, Sushant’s elder sister Sweta Singh tweeted seeking PM Narendra Modi’s intervention for a fair investigation into the case. The demand for a CBI probe into the case has also come from leaders across party lines. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad, LJP chief Chirag Paswan, Congress Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and former BJP MLA Rameshwar Chaurasia are among those who have favoured a CBI investigation into the actor’s suicide case under mysterious circumstances. Bihar’s deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi also tweeted on Friday, “The BJP feels the CBI should take over the case for investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-state-to-help-if-ssrs-father-seeks-a-cbi-probe/articleshow/77308431.cms||Ramashankar
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Triple talaq: With low arrest rates, justice yet to be served||HYDERABAD: Although the triple talaq law came into force a year ago, women continue to struggle to get justice in cases where they were granted instant divorce. The city has seen four instances of triple talaq in the past year, but no arrests have been made in at least three of those. It is also learnt that women have been under pressure to withdraw the cases. The world came crashing down on 28-year-old Shehnaz (name changed) when her husband said he wanted to remarry. “My daughter’s husband Dastagiri started harassing her for a divorce after her miscarriage and the doctors had said she might not be able to conceive another child,” Shehnaz’s father told TOI. “It’s been seven months and so far no arrest has been made. He has visited our house thrice and created a nuisance. My daughter is trying to make a living by working in a tailor shop but he is asking us to withdraw the case,” said Shehnaz’s father. A case was registered in November last year in Charminar women police station under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act apart from criminal breach of trust, criminal intimidation and cruelty by husband or relative of husband. “The family has been asked to come to the police station. We will look into the matter. The case is under investigation,” said Charminar WPS inspector K Madhulatha. Rukhsana Begum’s husband wanted to divorce her because of her crooked teeth. “My sister was very shook when her husband Mustafa said he doesn’t want to be with her because of her teeth. He didn’t say anything about her teeth during the engagement,” said Shaik Khaleel, brother of Rukhsana. Police said Mohammed Mustafa was arrested soon after the case was booked in October last year but he is out on bail. “The case is pending trial in court,” said the Kushaiguda police. “We are hardly in touch with Mustafa’s family now. The case will be heard once the court starts functioning properly,” said Khaleel. Haseena’s husband Abdul Samee had pronounced talaq thrice in June this year. He dropped her and her two-year-old son at a relative’s house. “He is threatening me. He called and asked how much money I want to withdraw the case. I just want justice,” said Haseena. “So far we have not arrested the offender but served a notice to him. The case is still under investigation,” said LB Nagar inspector Ashok.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/triple-talaq-with-low-arrest-rates-justice-yet-to-be-served/articleshow/77309356.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to build country’s first snow leopard conservation centre at Bhaironghati in Uttarkashi||Dehradun: In a move aimed at conserving the elusive snow leopard and providing livelihood to the locals residing close to border area through winter tourism, the Uttarakhand forest department has got in-principle clearance from the state government to construct a first of its kind, eco-friendly snow leopard conservation centre at Lanka at Bhaironghati at an altitude of over 7000 ft near Gangotri National Park in Uttarkashi. This was confirmed after a meeting of state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and senior officials of the department with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday. The centre, to be built at a cost of almost Rs 5 crore, will be helmed by Dutch architect, Anne Feenstra, who specialises in sustainable mountain architecture. Feenstra, who was also present in the meeting and gave a presentation to the CM and other officials on the proposed conservation centre, told TOI, “This is an all-green conservation centre, and would be constructed with local stones, wood and other sustainable materials. Our entire focus would remain on promoting sustainable living among the villagers as well as visitors of this landscape.” CM Rawat said that the conservation of snow leopard and other rare species will help in boosting winter tourism in the state. “The initiative to set up the snow leopard centre is a step forward in our attempts to save the rare species as well as give a boost to the economy of border areas through winter tourism, We will also try to have a census of the snow leopard population in the state and undertake more steps to increase their numbers.” Anupriya Rawat, a resident of a border village in Uttarakashi, who along with her husband Mahendra Rawat, conducts adventure tours in the area, expressed happiness at the move. “The setting up of the centre will be a big help for the local people who are dependent on tourism, besides being a major step towards the conservation of snow leopards,” said Rawat. A sketch of the elusive big made by her was presented to the CM on Saturday. Incidentally, under the project, Gartang Gali, a historical wooden walkway bridge in Nelong valley, lying on the old trade route between India and Tibet, will also be opened for tourists and work is currently underway on this, as per officials. Uttarakhand is presently home to around 80 snow leopards according to wildlife scientists, although a current estimation of their numbers is due to take place in September this year. Also known as ‘ghost of the mountains’ for their elusive nature, snow leopards are in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, and are classified under the 'vulnerable' category. They are mostly found in Uttarakhand in the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, Gangotri National Park, Askot Wildlife Sanctuary in Kumaon and other places having altitudes between 3000-4500 meters. The species has also been placed among 16 priority mammal species of Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board. “We have trained selected youth in nature guide training and hospitality so that they can acquaint themselves with the landscape where such enigmatic wild cat species are found as well as earn their livelihood and do monitoring work for us as well,” said Rajiv Bhartari, chairman, Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-build-countrys-first-snow-leopard-conservation-centre-at-bhaironghati-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/77306807.cms||Shivani Azad
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kunvarji Bavaliya, secretary advised home quarantine||GANDHINAGAR: Water supply and animal husbandry minister Kunvarji Bavaliya, the animal husbandry department’s secretary Manish Bhardwaj, and other officials were advised self-quarantine on Saturday. The advice was given after Falguni Thakar, the director of the animal husbandry department, tested positive for Covid-19. All officials and employees of the department who have been in contact with Thakar will observe self-quarantine. Thakar is the wife of Gandhinagar Congress MLA C J Chavda. Bavaliya will be in quarantine at his home in Jasdan. Bhardwaj was given the additional charge of agriculture only a couple of days ago. He is also in charge of the Covid control mission in Junagadh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bavaliya-secy-advised-home-quarantine/articleshow/77309374.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘70 doctors trained in telemed’||CHANDIGARH: To protect women from Covid-19, Punjab health department has imparted special training to 70 gynaecologists for providing telemedicine consultation. Also, separate labour rooms have been set up in all district hospitals for deliveries of pregnant women who are infected. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said instructions have been issued to all civil surgeons to promote tele-medicine consultations on eSanjeevani App. He said the app was available on Android phones, so there was no need of a laptop or PC. “Anyone can avail free services of online consultations by using their mobile phones,” he said. Sidhu said 90,463 ANCs had registered from April to June and 63,827 deliveries had taken place in the state. He said Covid-19 test had been made mandatory during the third trimester of pregnancy and 12,479 women had been tested from April to June. Of them, 118 were positive. He said 56 deliveries of Covid patients were conducted successfully in government facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/70-docs-trained-in-telemed/articleshow/77309359.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia asks Amit Shah to intervene on hotels||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote a strongly-worded letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, accusing him of getting the decision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to open hotels and weekly markets from August 1 overturned through the lieutenant governor, Anil Baijal. He said the Delhi government took the decision in compliance with the Centre's guidelines and requested Shah to immediately direct the LG to approve the chief minister's decision. The LG had on Friday overturned the elected government's decision to allow hotels and weekly markets to open. The government will resend the proposal to the LG on Tuesday. "We know that the pandemic has battered the economy. Delhi is being subjected to a policy of double standards when the Centre is unfolding the process of unlock in the country and is trying to bring the economy slowly back on track," Sisodia stated in the letter. ‘Govt to send file back to LG tomorrow’The deputy CM explained that Delhi’s Covid-19 situation is largely under control for the past one month and is inching towards normalcy. Delhi is currently in the 11th position in the country in terms of active Covid-19 cases. “At a time when hotels and weekly markets are open throughout the country — even in states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka which are reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases — what does the central government want to achieve by keeping hotels and weekly markets of Delhi shut is beyond comprehension,” Sisodia wrote. He asked why Delhi was being forced to keep economic activities shut though it has excelled in managing the Covid-19 situation. “Eight per cent of businesses and employment in Delhi are affected due to the closure of hotels. The closure of the weekly markets has left five lakh families without a source of income. Now when they hope that due to the Covid-19 situation coming under control, they will get an opportunity to restart their business, forcing them to keep their businesses closed is injustice to the economy and the hope of lakhs of people,” Sisodia said in the letter. Sisodia urged the home minister to change his decision, indirectly claiming that the decision of the LG was actually the decision of the home minister. “I request you to change your decision and immediately direct the LG to approve the proposal of the chief minister. The government will resend the file to the LG on Tuesday. Convey to him not to stop the file again. The economy will get a boost and new jobs will be created when the traders of Delhi will start their businesses,” the deputy CM stated, hoping that the home minister would take cognizance of the matter and issue directions in favour of the traders. The LG’s decision came as a shock to hotel owners who are facing acute financial distress. Their establishments have been closed for the past four months but they have to pay fixed electricity charges, water charges, house tax and conversion and sewerage charges. Many are finding it difficult to stay afloat. After a meeting of hotel owners from Karol Bagh and Paharganj on Saturday evening, Jaspreet Arora, president of Hotel Association of Karol Bagh, said they have urged the LG to reconsider his decision because thousands of families are suffering. “Hotels are permitted to open even in Maharashtra which has the maximum number of cases,” said Arora. Chamber of Trade and Industry convener Brijesh Goyal also wrote to the LG, asking him to reconsider his decision. After rejecting the AAP government’s decision, the LG’s office had on Friday explained that the LG took the decision because the Covid-19 situation in Delhi continues to be fragile. The statement said that the proposals for opening of hotels, hospitality services and weekly bazaars were being deferred for the time being and would be reviewed later by Delhi Disaster Management Authority. The Disaster Management Act, currently in force, empowers the LG to take a final decision in all matters related to any disaster and its management. The LG is the chairperson of the Authority. Watch COVID cases plummeting in Delhi, LG should allow reopening of hotels: Satyendar Jain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-asks-amit-shah-to-intervene-on-hotels/articleshow/77310101.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Man booked for stalking IAS officer||MARGAO: The Fatorda police on Saturday booked an offence against Shailesh Sagle, a resident of Beed, Maharashtra, on charges of stalking a probationary woman IAS officer based in Goa. Police said that the officer lodged a complaint with the Fatorda police accusing Sagle of posting messages on social media platforms aimed at maligning and defaming her. The complainant also accused Sagle of creating fake accounts of both, his as well as that of the complainant on social media, and posting objectionable posts , including a one that threatened to kill her and her family, thereby creating mental distress to her. Acting on the officer’s complaint, Fatorda police booked an offence against Sagle, under provisions of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-booked-for-stalking-ias-officer/articleshow/77309746.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Dairy agitation comes to a boil, farmers spill milk, block roads||NASHIK/AURANGABAD/ KOLHAPUR: Dairy farmers across Maharashtra staged agitations to draw the state and central governments’ attention to the crisis they have been facing due to the falling milk prices. They wanted the governments to meet their demands immediately. According to the distressed farmers, milk prices have dropped due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the lockdown started, they have been forced to sell milk at around Rs 17-18 a litre, considerably lower than the pre-lockdown price of Rs 30 a litre. Consumers, however, continue to shell out Rs 48 for every litre. The agitation was spearheaded by the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and the Dudh Udpadakh Saethkari Sangharsh Samiti. In many districts, BJP functionaries also threw their weight behind the farmers, who poured milk on the roads and staged rasta rokos. State general secretary of AIKS Ajit Navale told TOI that the stir was a success. “We will be holding a meeting within the next few days to plan a future course of action. Our agitation will continue until the dairy farmers’ demands are met,” Navale said. He added that the BJP workers participated in the stir on their own.  “If they are concerned about the plight of dairy farmers, they must convince the Centre to meet our demands. Our organisation does not have any pact with the BJP,” Navale said. “We want the state government to compensate for the losses by providing Rs 10 a litre as subsidy. The amount must be transferred directly into the bank account of the dairy farmers,” said Navale. According to him, even the Union government is not paying any heed to the farmer’s demands. “We want Centre to rescind the June 26 notification clearing imports of 10 lakh tonne of milk powder. This will ruin dairy farmers across India. Moreover, the Centre must also roll back its decision to import milk and milk products from the USA,” he added. In Kolhapur, local BJP functionaries agitated at several places seeking grants for the farmers who have incurred losses because of dairies buying milk at lower prices. They also demanded 50 per kg for the dairies to convert the milk into milk powder. Workers, led by senior BJP functionary Dhananjay Mahadik, blocked the national highway for 15-20 minutes. The police then detained the agitators. “The state government should provide Rs 10 per litre to the cow milk and Rs 50 per kilogram for milk powder. The dairies are buying milk at Rs 16 to Rs 18 per litre. The government should buy excess milk.” In Islampur, workers of MLC Sadabhau Khot’s Rayat Kranti Sanghatana obstructed the vans carrying milk to the dairies. The workers poured milk on the road. In the evening, Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil criticised the BJP activists adding that since the Centre has taken a decision to import about 10,000 tonne of milk powder, the milk prices have dropped. “The BJP is doing meaningless stunts targeting the state government. It is because of the Centre’s decision to import milk powder that the dairies are facing the crisis. Also, many dairies are controlled by BJP leaders. These dairies pay less to the milk farmers and sell the milk at Rs 50 to Rs 55 per litre in Mumbai and Pune. The BJP leaders should ensure that dairies controlled by them increase milk procurement price.” In Aurangabad, the local BJP workers poured milk on a cut-out of NCP chief Sharad Pawar as a part of their protest.  Three different entry points of the city and many other parts of Marathwada witnessed the related demonstrations. Here too, the BJP workers staged rasta-rokos. BJP’s Marathwada spokesperson Shirish Boralkar said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra was pushing farmers to the brink, so much so, that some may even be considering suicide. “Milk production is the lifeline for many farmers. Instead of supporting their business, the state government is slashing purchase price of milk,” he said. On allegations that the BJP’s milk agitation is politically motivated, Boralkar said the wholehearted participation of milk producers refute such charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dairy-agitation-comes-to-a-boil-farmers-spill-milk-block-roads/articleshow/77307580.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||6 ghantagadi workers booked for refusing to lift garbage||NASHIK: Police have booked six ghantagadi workers for allegedly assaulting a public servant and not lifting the garbage despite knowing that it could endanger public health. Deepak Chavan, a sanitary inspector of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) lodged a complaint against the six workers. As per the complaint, the six workers had an unlawful assembly at the filtration plant in the Topovan area of the city and refused to lift the garbage due to various reasons at 7am on Friday. Adgaon police said the ghantagadi workers also heckled their contractor and abused him. The workers threatened the contractor of influencing other Ghantagadi workers of other divisions to not lift the garbage despite being aware that it could lead to spread of diseases. They also discouraged Chavan from performing his duty. The ghantagadi workers have been booked under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging of his or her duty) 147 (punishment for rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and other sections of the National Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Prevention Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-ghantagadi-workers-booked-for-refusing-to-lift-garbage/articleshow/77307568.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Meerut||UP: Lawyer assaulted for confronting cops who 'detained' minor at midnight, SI suspended||MEERUT: A local lawyer Gaffar Khan, in a written complaint, has alleged that he was assaulted and locked up by policemen from local Kankerkhera police station on the night of July 30. Khan has suffered several injuries, including fracture on his right hand. A sub-inspector (SI) has been suspended for the alleged police excess. The confrontation began when policemen, conducting raids in the Meerut neighbourhood in search of a suspect Imran based on a complaint, allegedly detained Imran's minor son to which lawyer Khan objected. According to the complainant, the confrontation turned ugly after cops, allegedly in inebriated condition, began assaulting Khan and bundled him into a police van along with his acquaintance Akhlaq. "Yogipuram outpost in-charge Jitendra Singh and a few other cops barged into the house of my neighbour in search of Imran around midnight. The commotion broke my sleep and I went to check on my neighbours. The family began screaming when cops started detaining Imran's minor son. When I confronted, the team began assaulting and detained me instead," lawyer Khan said. After the confrontation, the minor was let off. Khan was allegedly again tortured by the police in the lock-up before his family showed up and bailed him out later on the same night. The matter was temporarily resolved when the local SHO arrived and released the detained lawyer and another neighbour Akhlaq who had also sustained injuries in the assault. Later, the following day, Meerut Bar Association raised the issue and wrote to SSP Ajay Sahni against the excess by the local police. "Following a preliminary probe, the accused sub-inspector was suspended while a detailed probe will be conducted by the Sardhana circle officer," police said. Though police have initiated a departmental probe in the matter, lawyer Khan claimed he would take his complaint to the court if police failed to register an FIR against the erring policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lawyer-assaulted-for-confronting-cops-whodetained-minor-at-midnight-si-suspended/articleshow/77307519.cms||Piyush Rai
August 2, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Armymen, children among 70 positive in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: In Himachal Pradesh, 70 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported on Saturday, while 43 patients recovered. Of the new patients, 15 were from Sirmaur, 11 from Bilaspur, 10 from Una, nine from Solan, eight from Kangra, seven from Mandi, four from Chamba, three from Shimla, two from Kullu, and one from Hamirpur. Among the recovered patients, 32 were from Solan, five from Shimla, three from Mandi, and one each from Bilaspur, Kangra and Kullu. The state has now total 2,634 positive cases, of which 1,103 cases are active, 1,502 positive patients have recovered, 12 have died, while 15 have migrated out of state. A total of 1,47,997 persons had been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Saturday, of which 1,44,814 persons tested negative, while results of 549 samples were awaited. In Kangra district, a 21-year-old Army man from Chowki village of Jawalamukhi tehsil, who had arrived from Leh on July 21; a 31-year-old paramilitary personnel from Morad village of Jawalamukhi, who had arrived from Leh on July 18; a 5-year-old girl from Gopalpur in Palampur; a 22-year-old Army personnel from Salli village of Shahpur tehsil, who had arrived from Leh; a 45-year-old man from Tirthipur village, who worked in Pathankot; a 27-year-old Army man from Kandwal village of Nurpur tehsil, who had arrived from Jamnu on July 21; a 28-year-old man from Sudyal village of Nurpur, who had arrived from Delhi on July 26; and a 4-year-old boy from CSIR Palampur, whose family members are already positive, have been tested positive. In Kangra district, a 57-year-old woman from Barwara, Jwalamukhi who was at Dedicated Covid Care Centre in Dadh, has been tested negative for Covid-19, and is being discharged with advice of home isolation for next seven days. Solan district has maximum 663 positive cases in the state, of which 386 cases are active, 271 have recovered, while six have migrated out of state; Kangra district has second highest number of 468 positive cases, of which 129 are active, 334 have recovered, three have died, while two have migrated out of state. Hamirpur district has total 307 positive cases, of which 25 are active, 279 have recovered, while 3 have died. Sirmaur district has total 345 positive cases, of which 189 are active, 148 have recovered, one has died, while seven have migrated out of state. Una district has total 217 positive cases, of which 67 are active, while 150 have recovered. Bilaspur district has total 99 positive cases, of which 35 are active, while 64 have recovered. Chamba district has total 109 positive cases, of which 34 are active, while 74 have recovered. Kinnaur district has total 45 positive cases, of which 11 are active, while 34 have recovered. Kullu district has total 37 positive cases, of which 19 are active, while 18 have recovered. Lahaul-Spiti district has total four positive cases, and all four have recovered. Mandi district has total 172 positive cases, of which 123 are active, 46 have recovered, while three have died. Shimla district has total 168 positive cases, of which 85 are active, 80 have recovered, while two have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/armymen-children-among-70-ve-in-hp/articleshow/77309371.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Meerut||From Mukhtar Ansari to Baddo, UP cops’offensive against gangsters picks pace||Meerut: From don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari in eastern Uttar Pradesh to Bhadaura and Baddo in the west, the crackdown on gangsters — close on the heels of the Kanpur ambush that claimed lives of eight policemen — is beginning to show all across the state. After revoking arms’ licences, the UP Police has now begun confiscating properties of infamous gangsters and their associates. For instance, properties worth Rs 8 crore — including land and a dozen vehicles, among other things — of Paras Sonkar, a fish mafia in Mau district, were confiscated recently. Similarly, mining machinery and a hot mix plant worth Rs 9 crore were seized in Ghazipur. These plants were allegedly run by one Bhim Singh. According to police, both Sonkar and Singh were close associates of jailed don Mukhtar Ansari. Besides them, Jaunpur-based gangster Ravinder Kumar Nishad’s properties worth Rs 4.73 crore were confiscated and he was booked under the Gangster Act. Notably, after revoking arms’ licences of their associates, police are all set to confiscate properties of four dreaded gangsters in western UP — Yogesh Bhadaura, Udham Singh, Sushil Mooch (all in jail) and fugitive don Badan Singh Baddo. According to Uttar Pradesh ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar, “The illegal economic activities of these gangsters are run by their gangs even when they are behind bars. The crackdown will certainly break their backbone. Once financial inflow is arrested, their tentacles will automatically collapse.” The crackdown on organised crime in UP gained momentum after the Bikru killing of eight policemen by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides on July 3. Later, Dubey was killed in a police encounter — that was mired in controversy — on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/from-mukhtar-ansari-to-baddo-up-copsoffensive-against-gangsters-picks-pace/articleshow/77307513.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Former US Nagar SSP alleges harassment by seniors, moves HC against transfer||Rudrapur: The former senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Udham Singh Nagar, Barinderjit Singh has moved the high court of Uttarakhand, challenging his transfer from the post, and alleging harassment by senior police officials of the state. Singh, a 2008-batch IPS officer, was transferred as Commandant of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) to Ramnagar on July 10. He had been holding the post of SSP of Udham Singh Nagar for almost one-and-a-half years. In his plea, Singh stated that the transfer was “arbitrary and malafide” and was done “solely with the purpose and intent to victimise” him. He alleged that during his tenure, he carried out fair and impartial investigations in several sensitive matters “despite being stopped by Director General of Police (DGP) Anil Raturi”. He has also accused DGP (law and order) Ashok Kumar and former inspector general (IG) of Kumaon, Jagat Ram Joshi of harassment. He added that as the district’s apex officer, he discharged his duties fairly and that there is “a deliberate attempt to demoralise” him and that is why, he has been transferred eight times in just a decade of his service. Hearing the plea, the double bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Kumar Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik issued notices to DGP Raturi, DGP (law and order) Kumar, and IG Joshi. All of them have been asked to submit their responses by August 20. The next hearing of the matter has been scheduled on August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-us-nagar-ssp-alleges-harassment-by-seniors-moves-hc-against-transfer/articleshow/77306814.cms||Aakash Ahuja
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Truck driver who ‘killed’ ACP nabbed near Delhi's Vasant Kunj||NEW DELHI: The driver who had allegedly hit and killed ACP (traffic) Sanket Kaushik near the Rajokri flyover with his truck was caught from the Rangpuri area near Vasant Kunj on Saturday. Police say that the driver, Amit Pulami (28), is an alcoholic and is being interrogated to find out whether he had hit the cop intentionally. After crushing Kaushik against a jersey barrier in the service lane, Pulami drove the truck towards the airport and parked the vehicle at a cargo bay where he hid for three hours. The next day, he parked the truck at a garage in Rangpuri and went into hiding. Earlier, six police teams were formed to identify the truck. Details of all the trucks with similar body and colour that passed through the toll tax booth at Delhi-Haryana border, NH-8 were collected and about 50 vehicles were examined. Movement of vehicles at all the warehouses in Rajokri, Mahipalpur, Kapashera, Samalkha and Bijwasan areas was also checked. “While scanning CCTV footage, it was found that the vehicle came from Rangpuri towards Gurugram through the service lane and took a U-turn under the Rajokri flyover and moved towards the place of incident,” said a police officer. “A vehicle of similar dimensions was found to have left a warehouse near Rangpuri around the same time. The truck was finally identified and found to be parked at a garage in the same area and Pulami was arrested.” During interrogation, the driver told the cops that he was heading to the IGI cargo area at a high speed and hit the ACP who was walking on the right side of the road. When he noticed the senior officer’s staff members chasing him, he fled. He then parked the vehicle at the cargo parking area and examined the damage. He later drove to a garage where he got the vehicle repaired the next day. Pulami told the cops that he is a resident of Nepal and had come to Delhi two years back. He has been booked under sections of causing death due to negligence and negligent driving. The truck has been impounded from the garage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/truck-driver-who-killed-acp-nabbed-near-vk/articleshow/77309373.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad district deaths cross 1,600; last 100 in 24 days||AHMEDABAD: With four deaths reported in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Ahmedabad district has now recorded deaths of 1,601 Covid-19 patients so far. The last 100 deaths took place in 24 days, which is more than double of the 11 days it took the district to record 1,401 cases to 1,500 cases. Over the last 100 deaths, between 1,401 and 1,500, the district’s death rate reduced to 2.3% from 4.6%. The district’s case tally reached 26,663 with 146 fresh cases in 24 hours. The district has recorded 1,700 cases in the past 10 days at the average of 170 daily cases. With the update, the number of active patients in the district reached 3,477, which is 13% of the total cases. In comparison, the state has 23% of total patients active. A total of 875 patients in Gujarat got discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 45,782 patients discharged. Saturday’s patient discharges include 187 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 85 from Gandhinagar and 64 from Patan. With the update, the number of active patients in the state reached 14,327, which is 23% of total cases. Out of total Covid-19 positive patients in Gujarat, 73% have got discharged whereas 4% have died due to infection. Gujarat carried out 26,303 tests to find new cases, taking the total number to 7.91 lakh. The state is carrying out 405 tests per day per million people, claimed state health department. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 4.8 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which around 2,000 were in quarantine at designated Covid care facilities. The city as on Saturday morning had 2,946 active cases of which the West Zone of the city has the maximum, 507 cases. The zone comprises Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, Vasna and Vadaj among other areas. The worst three zones in terms of active cases are all from the western part of the city. These are the West Zone (507 cases) North West Zone (494 cases) comprising Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota and Chandlodia, and the South West Zone (445 cases) comprising Bopal, Jodhpur, Sarkhej Vejalpur and Maktampura The Central Zone has 287 active cases, which is the lowest. AMC officials said that for the past one month there has been a spike in Covid cases in the western part of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-district-deaths-cross-1600-last-100-in-24-days/articleshow/77309418.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Illegal mining destroying Beas, locals fear man-made calamity||MANALI: The brazen quarrying of sand and boulders in the Beas in Kullu district is giving residents sleepless nights as they fear the river could change its course any time due to flash floods during the rainy season. The mining mafia with its tractors, tippers and earthmover machines are active along the length of the Beas. They disappear for a day or two after police challan them but return without any fear, say locals. Wielding sledgehammers and shovels, they scoop up tons of sand and gravel from the river bed and its banks to load tractor trolleys, they add. To their horror, the mafia digs out even sand and boulders that protect the river embankments. Upset with the government for not taking strict action against the mafia, residents of Mahili area in Kullu, which is one of the hotspots for illegal quarrying, have formed a committee to keep eye on illegal activities. It is mostly the influential people who are behind such illegal mining, they allege. Lal Chand, president of the committee against mining mafia, said, “I live near the Beas and I know how dangerous the river is in the monsoon season. I’ve grown up watching the mafia quarrying lakhs of tonnes of sand and boulders. They fear nobody. When challaned, they return within a few days. The river has already damaged many houses, fruit orchards and government properties. The illegal quarrying helps river spread wider and cause more destruction,” he said. Beas has already caused destruction along the boundary of Kullu and Bhuntar town and Palchan, Bahang, Aluground, Kalath, 18 Mile, 17 Mile, Patlikuhl and many other villages. It wreaks havoc in the district between July and September, damaging properties worth crores of rupees. While the government’s project of channelising the Beas failed to take of, the mafia is making settlements close to the river more vulnerable to floods. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said police are dealing strictly with the miners. “Seventeen miners have been challaned under the Mining Act in the last week of June. While a fine of Rs 49,800 was collected in nine cases, the remaining eight challans have been sent to court. Tractors and tippers used in the quarrying have been impounded,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/illegal-mining-destroying-beas-locals-fear-man-made-calamity/articleshow/77309376.cms||Suresh Sharma
August 2, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC budget likely to see major cut this year||AURANGABAD: The annual budget of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which is likely to be presented on Monday, may see major cuts in proposed expenditure given the financial strains brought on by the pandemic. While the AMC had approved an annual budget of Rs 2,750 crore during the last fiscal, speculations are rife that this year’s budget may get downsized to Rs 700 crore to Rs 1,000 crore. A senior AMC official said on Saturday that municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey held a meeting with different heads of departments as a part of the budget preparations. “The financial condition of the civic body is not good as the recovery of property tax and water tax among other taxes plummeted during the Covid-19 outbreak. The depleting financial resources will have an impact on the budget,” said the official. Earlier this year, the civic administration had proposed a 25% hike in property tax. The proposal was struck down most of the corporators. The tax recovery further came to a standstill after the Covid-19 outbreak. The budget, which will be presented under the administrator, is expected to leave out projects which had been approved during the last budget presentation but have not yet commenced. The likelihood of a downsized budget worried the local politicians cutting across party lines especially when the AMC election is due. Former deputy mayor of Shiv Sena Rajendra Janjal said the AMC must not put a brake on the development of Aurangabad. “Different ongoing and proposed works related to civic facilities and infrastructure must not face any hurdles. Citizens will be affected due to such a stand and the AMC authorities will have to face the heat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-budget-likely-to-see-major-cut-this-yr/articleshow/77307559.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Amar Singh: A friend of netas in distress||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: Even as India was pre-occupied with the threat of a looming Corona pandemic, Amar Singh managed to intrude into political chatter with the simple words “Tiger Zinda Hai”. It was his way of announcing that reports of his death were not true. Singh did not live long after that March tweet from a Singapore hospital but it captured the man. He was a man of words, but also garrulous. He was aware of his importance and preferred to be pompous. From the humble beginning as “punter” of Kolkata Congress leaders in the ’70s to Thakur Amar Singh of the ’90s who was sought after by netas, corporate houses and celebrities in distress, his metamorphosis is a tale that has long peppered gossip sessions of Delhi and Mumbai evenings. He shot into national prominence virtually overnight when he emerged as the Man Friday of then Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav in the late ’90s. Singh hand-held the rustic leader through his natural barriers with industry and the upper classes who had emerged politically critical in the post-liberalisation era. What the modern era would remember about him was his nimble-footed shuffling across the political divide. His bid to break through the Congress citadel post 2004 is a story that put him in the national spotlight for years. Having defeated Vajpayee’s BJP and formed UPA, Congress was in no mood to forgive and forget Mulayam, who had snubbed Sonia Gandhi in 1999 when the BJP government fell by one vote. For 10 years, the Congress leadership left him at the mercy of its managers as it secured the support of SP’s large contingent in Lok Sabha for minor favours which mostly went undelivered. It was during these years that Singh became a permanent feature on national TV, regaling with his ditties and one-liners if also with jibes that bordered on profanities. He also became infamous for “recording telephones” to “arm-twist” rivals. Amar Singh was once seen to be part of a quartet. Anil Ambani, Mulayam Singh and Amitabh Bacchan were friends he hung out with. He later fell out with most of them. Subsequently, he would tell journalists that he was the “father” of cash-for-votes, warning that he could spill some embarrassing beans. Singh’s split with the SP in 2017 turned him bitter. He tried his best to be rehabilitated but failed. For over a year, he had receded from public view. The “Tiger Zinda Hai” tweet was his bid to recapture spotlight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amar-singh-a-friend-of-netas-in-distress/articleshow/77310092.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Former minister Ganta to join YSRC on Aug 9?||Visakhapatnam: Former minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao is likely to join ruling YSRC on August 9. The TDP leader, who represents Visakha North in the state assembly, was the HRD minister in Chandrababu Naidu’s cabinet. Rumours about his joining the ruling party have been there for quite sometime now. There were also talks that he might join the BJP. The three-time MLA and one-time MP (from Anakapalli) reportedly wanted to join the YSRC before the 2019 general elections but his efforts could not materialise. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao is also believed to be against his entry into the party. Ganta, when contacted, neither denied nor admitted his reported jump. However, his close aides say he will take a call once he gets a clear assurance about the role he will get to play in the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/former-minister-ganta-to-join-ysrc-on-aug-9/articleshow/77291492.cms||Siva G
August 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna teacher bags MIE Expert award||AURANGABAD: A 32-year-old zilla parishad teacher in Jalna has been awarded the Microsoft Innovative Educator (MIE) Expert award for the fourth year in a row for the use of ICT and technology in educational activities. Neeta Bhaskar Arsule, a primary teacher with 10 years of experience, is currently posted at Dodadgaon village of Ambad tehsil of Jalna district. By using the free software and applications she has been trying to transform the way education is imparted in rural areas. Every year, Microsoft gives MIE Expert award as digital batch and certificate to teachers around the world. “We are following the state board syllabus and using the online tools and applications to make the subjects and chapters more interesting for the students,” Arsule said. The school has already been using various offline and online applications to educate the students. Moreover, to make topics easier to grasp, Arsule has created her own Youtube channel so that the students can access her lectures in their mother tongue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-teacher-bags-mie-expert-award/articleshow/77307582.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Hospitals alerted about health workers’ safety||NASHIK: The district health department has alerted all Covid hospitals in the district to exercise utmost caution while treating Covid-19 patients to prevent its frontline health workers from contracting the infection. Official sources said the officials of the district health department and the Nashik Municipal Corporation are keeping a close vigil on all Covid-19 hospitals to ensure all safety protocols are being adhered to by the health workers. “There are about three to four hospitals where the number of Covid patients admitted are high. We have specially asked these hospitals to be vigilant,” said the officials. According to sources, all frontline health workers have been trained about wearing and disposing of PPE kits, masks, goggles, gloves and use of sanitisers. Sources in the health department said the issue was discussed during the recent Covid-19 review meeting involving state NCP chief Sharad Pawar and state health minister, Rajesh Tope. The latter had directed the hospitals to be cautious. So far, around 36 doctors and other frontline health workers like nurses and paramedical staff have contracted the infected while carrying out their duties. “There is a shortage of frontline health workers in our district and the existing ones are working overtime to treat Covid-19 patients. But they should also take care of their own safety,” said health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hosps-alerted-about-health-workers-safety/articleshow/77307589.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Meerut||Missing for eight days, murdered UP lawyer’s body found dumped in marble godown||MEERUT: The massive manhunt to trace Bulandhshar lawyer Dharmendra Chaudhary who had been missing for the past eight days ended with the recovery his body from a marble godown in Khurja area on Friday night. Police suspected a money dispute behind the murder — which kept policemen on their toes for over a week — and arrested Vicky, the godown owner and a close associate of Chaudhary, and two of his domestic helps — Hakimuddin and Amit. Additional police force and companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were deployed in the area after the body was found. Chaudhary, in his late 40s, had mysteriously disappeared on July 25 after he left home in Bulandshahr’s Khurja locality to join Vicky, who had hosted a dinner for him at the godown. The family began a frantic search for Chaudhary and alerted police after he did not return home till late in the night and his mobile was found to be switched off. On July 26, Chaudhary’s motorcycle was found abandoned at a desolate spot, nearly 6 km from his last known location based on the cell tower record. This first breakthrough was an early sign of a foul play as police began a massive manhunt with several teams, dog squads and drones pressed into action. Police kept combing the forest area around the spot where Chaudhary’s motorcycle was recovered without a lead on his whereabouts. As per his call details, Chaudhary’s last known location was around his friend Vicky’s godown. Police took Vicky on the radar, but for the want of evidence, they were treading carefully and were unwilling to ruffle feathers by rounding up a close friend of the missing lawyer without any concrete evidence at hand. “The family found Chaudhary’s ledger and it was learnt that he had lent at least Rs 50 lakh to Vicky. There was no technical evidence to nail Vicky for the disappearance of the lawyer, and hence, we asked him to undergo a lie-detector test,” said Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar. Vicky, who was part of the police team searching for the missing lawyer, has been “misleading police since the beginning”. Police had “to some extent suspicion” on him till July 31 when he refused to undergo a lie-detector test at a Delhi lab citing health issues. “He (Vicky) initially agreed to undertake the lie-detector test, but refused at the last moment, citing health concerns. This emboldened our suspicion on him. On Friday night, we conducted a thorough search of the godown where the deceased was invited for the dinner,” said the SSP. After a search that lasted for three hours, police found Chaudhary’s body in a concrete pit inside the godown. The pit was covered with tiles to dodge police of all evidence, but the pungent smell of the decomposed body showed the away, said police. Opposition parties, which have been attacking the UP government over the deteriorating law and order, linked the incident to a spate of kidnapping and murders in the state. Taking a potshot at the Yogi Adityanath government, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “Shri Dharmendra Chaudhary was abducted 8 days ago in Bulandshahr. His body was found yesterday. Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, in every incident there is lethargy of law and order and signs of “jungle raj”. Do not know how long the government will sleep?” Refuting the allegations of abduction, Bulandshahr police claimed it to be a “murder of trust”. “Dharmendra Chaudhary was murdered by his close friend to gulp Rs 70 lakh lent by the deceased. He was murdered and his body was hidden. This is not abduction but “murder of trust”,” Bulandshahr police said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-for-eight-days-murdered-up-lawyers-body-found-dumped-in-marble-godown/articleshow/77307528.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Meerut||UP: Wife, paramour among 3 held for man's murder||BIJNOR: Amroha police has arrested a woman, her paramour and an aide for murder. The woman's husband was found murdered in a forested area near Gajraula four days ago. Police said victim Dileep was rendered unconscious with a blow on the head and then strangled to death. Dileep was killed as he objected to his wife, Sheela's affair with one Ziraj, police said. Dileep, a native of Dayawali Khalsa village, under Hasanpur police station area, was reported missing after he went to his sister's house at Ahraula village five days ago. In the meantime, Sheela went to Gajraula, where she met her Ziraj and his uncle, Samarpal, to plan Dileep's murder. According to police, Sheela called Dileep to Gaujrala to settle matters with Ziraj. On his arrival, they plied him with drinks till he became drunk. Then they allegedly took him to a nearby jungle and killed him, dumping his body there. Vipin Tada, Amroha superintendent of police, said, "Police have arrested the trio and sent them to jail. They have confessed to their crime."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wife-paramour-among-3-held-for-mans-murder/articleshow/77307539.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Patient couple flouts isolation, goes to Pune||AHMEDABAD: A couple, residents of the Maninagar area, was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive and instructed to remain home quarantined but they left for their home town Pune. After which a complaint was filed against them. Dr Tejas Shah, 41, medical supervisor, south zone, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, stated in an FIR with Maninagar police that Neelam Gaekwad, 30, and her husband Manish Gaekwad, 30, residents of Shridhar Apartment in Maninagar, were asked to remain home quarantined for 14 days since July 27. “On July 27, Neelam and her husband were tested for coronavirus in a mobile medical van, Dhanvantari Rath. As they were diagnosed as Covid-19 positive, they were asked to remain isolated and home quarantined for 14 days,” states Shah in the FIR. Shah said that a team of health department went to their home, gave medicines and put a label that the house has Covid-19 positive patients. On July 31, a medical team visited Gaekwads’ house and found that it was locked. Shah told an officer of urban health centre in Maninagar Dr Neha Parikh to inquire about the couple. An entomologist of AMC Parth Panchal called up Neelam and asked on where they had left the place. Neelam told Panchal that she had gone to Swargate area in their home town Pune where they have their house. She also informed that she and her husband were treated for Covid-19 at a hospital in Pune. Shah states in the FIR that the couple had violated rules of home quarantine as they went to their home town. “They intentionally spread the viral disease and also disobeyed a public servant order asking them to stay in their home only,” states the FIR. Inspector S M Patel of Maninagar police said that he was unaware on how the couple went to Pune and what mode of travel they used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patient-couple-flouts-isolation-goes-to-pune/articleshow/77309413.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Secretariat design: Cabinet to meet on August 5||HYDERABAD: Telangana cabinet will meet on August 5 and is likely to approve new secretariat designs. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, will be held at 2 pm at Pragati Bhavan. The CM is holding a series of meetings with architects and R&B officials on the new secretariat building designs, tenders and demolition of old secretariat works. On Friday, the CM held a 11-hour long meeting with architects Oscar and Ponni and officials to finalise the designs. Officials said the cabinet will approve the designs and also give nod for floating tenders for construction of the secretariat. On August 5, the Union ministry of water resources proposed an Apex Council meeting with CMs of Telangana and AP to resolve water sharing disputes between the two states. KCR wanted to defer the meeting to a later date after August 20. CMO officials said apart from the new secretariat issue, the cabinet would discuss regulatory farming during the meeting. The cabinet is also likely to take a decision on the new academic year, examinations for final year students of graduation and PG courses and common entrance tests. The cabinet will discuss the Covid-19 situation and measures to be taken to enhance medical facilities in the government hospitals. “The government has earlier released Rs 100 crore additionally for the health department. More funds will be given to the health department to combat the situation,” a senior CMO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secretariat-design-cabinet-to-meet-on-august-5/articleshow/77309372.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IIC utility worker at kitchen tests Covid positive||NEW DELHI: A utility worker who assisted cooks at the India International Centre’s (IIC) kitchen has tested positive for Covid-19. The remaining staff that was in contact with him has been asked to self-quarantine. The kitchen, however, will continue to function as there had been a ‘long’ enough gap since the person last came to work, IIC officials said. IIC says a 35-year-old, who had been working with them for the past eight years, last came to work on July 21, after which he applied for a leave, stating someone in his family was ill. Kanwal Wali, secretary at IIC told TOI that they were informed that he had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, following which all staff workers that came in contact with him have been asked to self-quarantine. “He was a utility worker and would assist chefs and other staff. All the precautionary measures are being taken,” said Wali. On being asked if the kitchen services will be stopped temporarily for disinfection, Wali said there the premises was being sanitised regularly long before the case was reported. “High-contact surfaces and objects are sanitised every hour, while the entire premises is sanitised through the day. It has already been about 11 days since he last came to work, so there is no need to shut down the kitchen,” said Wali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iic-utility-worker-at-kitchen-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/77309381.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: ‘Won’t stop Dussehra rituals due to Covid, will follow all norms’||MANALI: While all fairs and festivals in the country have been cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic this year, Maheshwar Singh, the chhadivardar (first servant) of Lord Raghunath, said the rath yatra of weeklong Kullu Dussehra will be held in October while keeping in mind social distancing. The four-time MP and scion of the royal family of Kullu, Maheshwar said he would not discontinue the centuries-old tradition of Kullu Dussehra. He said festivities will start with rath yatra of Lord Raghunath from Rath Maidan of Kullu and all important rituals would also be performed. “If rath yatra of Lord Jagannath can commence in Odisha, we can also organise the yatra keeping in view social distancing and other norms. I still remember the blackout order during 1962 Indo-China war when administration had refused to take responsibility of Dussehra, but my father knew that traditions could not be broken. We still performed rituals in presence of palanquins of just five deities. Later, we heard news on radio that blackout orders had been revoked. We have a similar crisis this year. We cannot say what will happen in future, but I can say we will perform all rituals and traditions of Dussehra,” Maheshwar said. The Kullu Dussehra committee had invited 331 deities last year. Maheshwar said he cannot say anything about inviting deities from other parts of the valley as it will depend on government orders and condition of Covid-19 cases in future. He said temporary shopping markets and other programmes of Dussehra area were also not important and the focus would only be on important rituals. Lakhs of people throng Kullu from different parts of the state, country and the world to catch a glimpse of Dussehra celebreations in Kullu. According to historians, the idol of Lord Raghunath was brought to Kullu from Ayodhya in 1651 when Raja Jagat Singh was the ruler of Kullu state. Dussehra celebrations in Kullu started after 1660. The government had declared it an international festival in 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/wont-stop-dussehra-rituals-due-to-covid-will-follow-all-norms/articleshow/77309378.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Friend in Covid need is friend indeed!||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: Dr Krishna Lakhani’s friend Dr Sandip Patel’s father was recently admitted to a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment and needed convalescent plasma. “Plasma has been used in Covid-19 patient’s treatment by doctors and its results are encouraging. So, I contacted one of my friends who is a Covid-19 recovered person and motivated him to donate his plasma so that Patel’s father had a better chance of recovery. His health is improving, and we hope he will soon be discharged from the hospital,” said Dr Lakhani. “This is the time to be with friends especially when they or their family members are infected with Covid-19,” she added. “We have come across many cases in which friends of Covid-19 patients are coming to donate their plasma to help their friends or their friends’ family members and it’s a great gesture to help one another in the time of need,” said Dr Mayur Jarag, HOD, immunohematology and blood transfusion, New Civil Hospital, Surat. The city hospitals also introduced the concept of ‘Covid buddies.’ Dr Rakesh Joshi, deputy medical superintendent at Civil Hospital, said that the PPEs were introduced to the fraternity due to Covid-19. “In the initial days, it was very difficult for us to don and doff it properly even after the tutorials. PPEs were the only protection for us against the virus. Thus, we had devised pairs of doctors who would ensure that we have donned it properly,” he said, adding that he had Dr Ranjish Patel with him for the task. “It of course went much beyond PPEs as the doctors also ensured that their buddies don’t get infected,” said Dr Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/friend-in-covid-need-is-friend-indeed/articleshow/77309416.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Erring motorists fined Rs 2 crore since beginning of lockdown||NASHIK: The city traffic branch has imposed challans of nearly Rs 2 crore on motorists since the lockdown began on March 25. Most of the violations were related to motorists ignoring the curfew timings, followed by motorists carrying more than the permissible number of passengers in their vehicles. The police said that since the lockdown has relaxed, they have been booking even more cases against motorists who are indulging in illegal parking, not wearing helmets/seat belts, jumping signals and violating other traffic rules. Traffic officials said they are mostly issuing e-challans to motorists and sending the challans electronically. Officials, however, said they were not interested in challaning motorists without any reason as their aim is to streamline traffic on the city streets. The police said that it has been observed that once a motorist pays the fine, s/he becomes extremely conscious of not violating traffic rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/erring-motorists-fined-rs-2cr-since-beginning-of-lockdown/articleshow/77307610.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 264 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded three Covid-19 related deaths and 264 positive cases on Saturday. With this, the toll of the virus mounted to 83 and the total case count surged to 7,447 on the day. The victims include two 42-year-old men, both of whom died at AIIMS-Rishikesh and another 49-year-old man who died at Dr Sushila Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani on Friday night due to multiple organ ailments, including cardiac issues. All the three Covid-19 positive patients suffered from comorbidities, the health department said. Till Saturday, as many as 2,996 cases were active in Uttarakhand and the test results of 8,106 samples were awaited. The state capital Dehradun holds the unwanted distinction of the maximum 46 Covid-19 deaths and also of the maximum 1,686 positive cases. However on Saturday, the maximum of 95 cases were reported from Nainital, followed by 42 cases from Haridwar, 31 from Bageshwar, 30 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 27 from Dehradun. Total 162 patients recovered on the day, taking the total count of recoveries to 4,330 in the state. The percentage recovery for Covid-19 patients in the state was at 58.14% on Saturday. Notably, the state has 330 containment zones. Among these, the maximum of 301 are in Haridwar, followed by 13 in Dehradun, 11 in Udham Singh Nagar, four in Uttarkashi, and one in Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-264-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/77307608.cms||Shivani Azad
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Nimmagadda files counter in SC||Vijayawada: Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who has been restored as state election commissioner, filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Friday in response to the special leave petition (SLP) moved by the state government seeking a stay on the contempt proceedings in the AP high court. Ramesh Kumar, in his affidavit, said the SLP is a complete abuse of process and only reinforces the sheer disregard and contempt of the government towards judicial institutions. He justified his argument by saying that the HC had struck down the ordinance and consequent GOs because of which he ceased to be the SEC, and directed the government to restore him. The Supreme Court, on two occasions, refused to give a stay on the operation of the judgement as the state government choose to challenge the HC order. Ramesh Kumar further stated that he was constrained to move contempt proceedings in the high court after the state government demonstrated wilful disregard to its orders. Many ruling party leaders and those in the government issued statements on numerous occasions stating they will not implement the high court order and will not allow him to take charge as SEC. Further, he was prevented from entering the state capital to assume office. He stated that he fears for his life as his security has been withdrawn. He also mentioned about the comments made on the high court and on him by ruling party members and on social media. He opposed the plea by the state government to issue a stay on the contempt proceedings as the government’s intentions through its actions have been proved as mala fide and disregarding the judicial institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nimmagadda-files-counter-in-sc/articleshow/77291531.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Land fraud case lodged against Sachin Upadhyay||Dehradun: Sachin Upadhyay, the brother of former state Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay, was booked on Friday in connection with a case relating to alleged land fraud. The case was lodged at Patel Nagar police station on the complaint of Pramod Badoni, a Gurugram resident. According to the police communication, Badoni alleged that Sachin had offered a plot in Sheesambada area in 2011. The complainant maintained that he had made the payment but after that Sachin neither returned the amount nor handed over the plot. On Badoni’s complaint, a case under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Upadhyay. Despite repeated attempts, Sachin could not be contacted for his comments on the matter. Earlier, Sachin, who runs an upscale club in the city, was accused of fraud by his former partner. A case was also registered against him in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/land-fraud-case-lodged-against-sachin-upadhyay/articleshow/77307607.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 2, 2020||Patna||45 lakh affected by floods, many rivers still above danger mark in Bihar||PATNA: Several rivers in north Bihar continued to flow above the danger level on Saturday even as number of flood-affected people crossed 45 lakh-mark in 14 districts. Some rivers, however, showed receding trend at a few places in the last 24 hours. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department (WRD) on Saturday, Bagmati was showing either falling or static trend in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts. The water level came below danger mark at one flood gauge in Sitamarhi district after around a week. The turbulent Burhi Gandak also showed static trend after nearly a week, though it continued to flow above danger level at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. Kamla Balan, on the other hand, showed falling trend at both flood gauges in Madhubani district, but continued to flow above danger level. Khiroi, one of the rivers of Adhwara group which has wreaked havoc in Darbhanga district, also showed static trend after many days. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha attributed the ease in flood situation to comparatively less rainfall in the last 48 hours. “There has been considerable reduction in intensity of rainfall in north Bihar in the last 48 hours. Accordingly, the discharge in the embankments is gradually coming down. Repair of embankments of Gandak is underway and nearing completion at a few places,” Jha told TOI. Dinesh Kumar Bharati, an official at Patna Meteorological Centre, said southwest monsoon was active in Bihar in the last 24 hours. “Many places in the state received light to moderate rainfall in the last 24 hours,” he added. The water level in rivers is unlikely to rise much in the next 48 hours as weathermen have ruled heavy rainfall anywhere in the state. They said only light to moderate rainfall would occur in the state over the next 24 hours. The weather bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday stated that scattered intensity showers are expected in Bihar on Sunday and Monday. However, fairly widespread rainfall may occur in the state next week. Meanwhile, the railways has continued to operate several trains from diverted routes owing to the swollen rivers flowing close to railway bridges or tracks on Samastipur- Darbhanga route. Rajesh Kumar, central public relations officer, East Central Railway, said two pairs of special trains – New Delhi-Darbhanga and Darbhanga-Ahmedabad – were being run on diverted routes. “Jainagar-Amritsar special (04673) started from Samastipur in place of Jainagar. Similarly, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (Mumbai)-Darbhanga special train, which started on July 31, will terminate at Samastipur station instead of Darbhanga station,” the CPRO added. 45% surplus rainfall in stateAccording to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bihar has received 45% surplus rainfall in the first two months of monsoon season – June and July. As per data available on the IMD’s website, Bihar received 768.5mm of rainfall from June 1 till Saturday against the average normal rainfall of 526.7mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/45l-affected-by-floods-many-rivers-still-above-danger-mark/articleshow/77308474.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mining leases in Sakhawada tiger corridor put on hold||JAIPUR: Around 36 mining leases proposed in the tiger corridor at Sakhawada near Ranthambore National Park (RNP) have been put on hold. Mining activities were proposed to supply raw materials for construction of the ambitious 1,250km Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project. After the issue was highlighted by TOI in its report Mining threatens to destroy tiger corridor’ on July 27, the mining department is re-examining the proposal. A mining engineer said, “We have received objections from locals and green activists. Following this, process to grant leases to three companies has been put on hold. As many claimed that there is tiger movement in the area and it’s a corridor, we would also seek no objection certificate (NoC) from the forest department.” Three companies, which were given the work by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), have applied for 36 short-term permits for mining in Sakhawada area, barely 100 metres from the buffer zone and falling on the crucial natural corridor junction between Ranthambore National Park (RNP), Ramgarh Vidhashri Tiger Sanctuary and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR). While one company has applied to grant 20 leases measuring 0.9-hectare area, the other two companies have applied for 10 and six leases of the same size. The total leases will cover mining activity in 324 hectares. Green activists fear that mining will destroy the habitat corridor between tiger reserves, which is an important means of maintaining these ecological processes and may hold the key to the survival and adaptation of the species. Moreover, the need for keeping tiger corridors undisturbed is required to facilitate free movement of big cats from RNP, where they are facing space crunch. At present, the area is frequented by tiger T-110. Also, it has proved to be a safe passage for many big cats including T-115, T-62, T-98 and T-91. Near RNP, the expressway is also proposed to pass through the 22km stretch of Lakheri and Indargarh having tiger corridors. There is already some disturbance and space crunch in the area due to a railway line and existing four-lane highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mining-leases-in-sakhawada-tiger-corridor-put-on-hold/articleshow/77308454.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Doubling rate in Nashik rural up to 13 days||NASHIK: Notwithstanding the continuous rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the rural areas of the district, senior health officials said the spread is steadily coming under control as the doubling rate of cases is getting slower. While initially, it took 10 days for Covid cases to double, the time-frame has risen to 13 days now. By the end of June, there were 879 positive cases in the rural areas of the district. By July-end, the number increased to 3,536. This means there was a more than four-fold rise in July in rural areas. Currently, there are over 800 active cases across the district. Nashik taluka, Sinnar, Niphad and Deola talukas have more than 100 cases each. So far, 118 people have died in rural Nashik. Sources in the health department said that given the current doubling rate of 13 days, by August-end there might be roughly 15,000 cases in rural Nashik. However, senior health officials allayed these fears. District health officer Kapil Aher said, “There are many complicated calculations involved in the projection. And the doubling rate is calculated weekly and its dynamics keep changing. It takes no time for cases to increase from two to four. But that does not happen if the number of cases is 25,000.” Aher said according to their observation, there is a daily rise of 80 to 120 cases. The number could even drop in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doubling-rate-in-nashik-rural-up-to-13-days/articleshow/77307623.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: He lent support to +ve friends’ families||AHMEDABAD: Kamlesh Patel, a resident of Khokhra, reached out to families of Rajesh Patel, Mohan Marwadi and Yogesh Vyas – three of his close friends – who were hospitalized due to Covid-19 infection in April and May to ensure that the families never ran out of ration. “It was in the early days of the epidemic – in fact, we had recorded some of the first cases of the city in Khokhra at the end of March. There was so much stigma attached to it. People used to learn of someone’s health status when the regular sanitation worker stopped visiting a home,” remembers Patel. At that time, one of the biggest worries for a patient’s family was to ensure the supply of essentials. “I would get PPE kit, ferry the family members if necessary, get the provisions and essentials and also ensure that they get medical attention. In one family, there were three senior citizens and three members infected with the virus. In such a scenario, more than anything else, they needed moral support,” says Patel. Vyas said their friendship spanned several decades. “If it were not for Patel, sustaining our families would have been difficult for those days. He even got a fumigation machine on his own so that he could fumigate the houses,” Vyas said, adding that amid the stigma over the virus, the bonds of friendship helped them tide over the epidemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-lent-support-to-ve-friends-families/articleshow/77309407.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||Crane collapse at Vizag shipyard kills 11 workers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Eleven people were crushed to death when a giant crane came crashing down at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) here on Saturday, reports Siva G. Four regular employees of HSL and seven contract workers were among the deceased. The accident happened around noon when the crane, weighing 70 tonnes and standing 100 feet tall, collapsed while its load-holding capacity was being tested. The crane was built by Mumbai-based Anupam Cranes and was procured by HSL around two years back. The manufacturer, however, had not conducted a trial run to certify its load-holding capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crane-collapse-at-vizag-shipyard-kills-11-workers/articleshow/77310107.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Gang behind ATM thefts busted; 3 held in Chittor||JAIPUR: Three members of a gang involved in ATM thefts, who had stolen money from various places in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, were arrested from Chittorgarh on Saturday. They had targeted places like Jaipur, Udaipur, Kanpur and Lucknow among others. The accused include a woman and Rs 36 lakh were seized from their accounts. They have been identified as Manmohan, Harish Chand and his wife Maneka Ketwa. “We had received a complaint that the gang was hacking ATMs and taking out the money. We started a search after a complainant said that approximately Rs 5 lakh was withdrawn from his account. We extended our scope of investigation and found that similar incidents had occurred elsewhere as well,” said an official from Chittorgarh police. According to the officials, the accused took the ATM cards of their acquaintances and used them to hack the systems. “They would use one ATM card at a machine and use it for hacking. In case the money was not dispensed, they would file a complaint with the bank that though they had given the correct pin, the money was not withdrawn but they had it credited from the account following which the banks would reimburse it”, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-behind-atm-thefts-busted-3-held/articleshow/77308487.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Park named after police constable||NASHIK: City police on Friday named a renovated park at the police headquarters after police constable Arun Tongare, who died of coronavirus after catching the infection during the course of duty. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil said that while the entire world is fighting against coronavirus, police force has never lagged behind. “Constable Tongare of Indiranagar police station was working continuously on the field when the virus was wreaking havoc. He died as a Covid warrior. The park in his name is a tribute to him from the police commissionerate,” he said. Meanwhile, the building of the police club was also inaugurated on Friday and it has been named after IPS officer Himanshu Roy, who had worked as Nashik police commissioner on couple of occasions. “We would soon be starting Arvind library and study centre for the wards of police employees in memory of former DGP Arvind Inamdar,” Nangare Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/park-named-after-police-constable/articleshow/77307651.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: HC notices over pension benefits for grade-III teachers||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to principal secretary, education, director, elementary education, Bikaner, secretary, board of education, Jaipur and district education officer Dausa for not considering earlier service for pension benefits and salary to ‘prabodhak’ (Grade-III teachers) recruitment 2008. The single bench of Justice Indrajit Singh issued the order on the petition of Dharmachand Meena and others. R P Saini, counsel for the petitioner, said the petitioners were working as ‘Shiksha Sahyogi’ before their appointment as Prabodhak. He said according to an order issued by education secretary on March 12, 2001, Shiksha Sahyogi will be given seniority and pension benefits as government employees. The state government amended Prabodhak service rules on October 1, 2010, under which their old service period was counted for annual increment but not considered for pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notices-over-pension-benefits-for-grade-iii-teachers/articleshow/77308504.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR, Jaganmohan have secret pact over water sharing: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Alleging a conspiracy behind seeking postponement of the Apex Council meeting on water sharing between Telangana and AP, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao was intentionally holding a cabinet meeting on August 5 to avoid attending the important meeting called by the Centre. “KCR is keeping silent on the Krishna water issue despite gross injustice being done to the state,” he said and alleged that there was a secret pact between KCR and AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy on Krishna water sharing and projects. Speaking to reporters, he said the AP government is getting ready to complete tenders on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP). “It will be a huge loss to Telangana if AP diverts 3 tmc water from Pothireddypadu head regulator through RLIP on Krishna river. If RLIP is completed, Nagarjuna Sagar won’t get any water and the entire south Telangana will be deprived of Krishna water,” he said. He said the Telangana government did not react even after Jagan announced that they would enhance the Pothireddypadu head regulators capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-jagan-have-secret-pact-over-water-sharing-uttam/articleshow/77309380.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Five-day-old girl operated for hiatus hernia||AHMEDABAD: A team led by Dr Rakesh Joshi at Civil Hospital operated upon a five-day-old girl suffering from hiatus hernia — a condition where the part of stomach pushes into chest cavity. “The girl could not drink milk and she also had issues breathing. Thus, she was operated to adjust her diaphragm. Her stomach was brought down surgically and her diaphragm, which was wide, was narrowed down with stitches,” said Dr Joshi, adding that the girl could drink her mother’s milk on 10th day of her birth. He said that such anomalies should be detected and adjusted early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-day-old-girl-operated-for-hiatus-hernia/articleshow/77309409.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag builders complain of sand shortage||Visakhapatnam: Several realtors in the city have alleged that poor implementation of the sand policy has led to its paucity, which has had a cascading effect on the industry. Giving an insight into the repurcussions, a Visakhapatnam builder, K Srinivasa Rao, told TOI, “For each tonne,we are spending Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500. We sold flats before the outbreak of coronavirus spread, but the enhanced prices of sand and cement are now forcing us to request the buyers to pay more. We are helpless.” Sources alleged that the protracted process of allotment of sand has pushed builders to get sand from Odisha or private suppliers in north Andhra. For each lorry of sand, builders are having to pay an additional Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 for transportation, sources said. And the additional cost incurred by the builders to source the sand is being transferred to the buyers. “I paid an advance for a double bedroom flat in Madhurawada area. Now the builder is saying that prices have increased per square feet. Now I have to pay around Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh more for the flat,” said a private company employee, Y Madhusudhan. Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) chairman Peela Koteswara Rao told TOI that each project needs 800 to 100 tonnes of sand. “We urge chief minister YS Jaganmohhan Reddy to focus on the issue. He is trying to save the construction sector by bringing in a new sand policy. A tonne of sand costs only Rs 375. But the implementation of the policy is poor.”Joint collector M Venugopal Reddy said, “We will convene a meeting with the builders and resolve the problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-builders-complain-of-sand-shortage/articleshow/77291577.cms||Siva G
August 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer observes 865th foundation day||Jaisalmer: A variety of cultural programmes were organised on Friday and Saturday, as part of ongoing celebration of the 865th foundation day of Jaisalmer. On Friday, former Maharawal Brijraj Singh offered prayers to their family deity Ma Sawangeeya and Jaisal Dev. Later, he organised a yajna at Swangiya Chowk at the fort for peace, prosperity and happiness of people. Guests offered their tributes to Jaisalmer’s founder Maharawal by lighting a lamp. On Saturday, a mask distribution drive and an awareness campaign were also organised against coronavirus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-observes-865th-foundation-day/articleshow/77308515.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation, cops restrict temple bell touching||AHMEDABAD: Temple bells have been silent in the wake of Covid. To further protect devotees’s health, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and city police have started keeping strict vigil on these bells to see that visitors do not touch them. The exercise has been undertaken to ensure temple bells do not mean the death knell for devotees, said sources. For the past few days, officials have been visiting temples warning priests and trustees to strictly apply the Centre’s guidelines for re-opening of temples, especially regarding the ringing of bells. In Hindu temples, bells are usually hung in the area preceding the inner sanctum and devotees ring them as an invocation to the deity. Narayan Shukla of Kamnath Mahadev temple in Memnagar said AMC and police officials had recently met him and advised that he tie a cloth or handkerchief over the bells so devotees do not ring them. The temple has a large bell used during aartis that is operated by a machine and there is no contact of devotees with it. “We have been asked to not operate this bell as well till further instructions. We have followed their advice. We have covered other bells as well,” he said. Samir Rawal, president of Karnavati Vidvat Parishad, said the sound of ringing bells release positive energy in the area. Popularly known as Shastriji, Rawal who is a pujari at Bahucharmata Mata at Bhulabhai Char Rasta said there is mention in the ancient Hindu scriptures about how the vibration of ringing bells creates positivity. After a hiatus of more than two months, temples in Gujarat began reopening on June 8, while adhering to guidelines issued by the Centre. Circles have been drawn along darshan lines at regular intervals, in certain instances they zigzag to restrict overcrowding. From mandatory wearing of face masks, to single entry and exit points, placing of steel rods on both sides, to placing sanitizers, thermal scanners and additional security to ensure physical distancing, the temples of Gujarat have re-opened after taking various precautions. Some temple authorities have started e-aartis as the guidelines prohibit them from allowing people to gather for aartis. Kunal Shastri, a pujari at various temples in Naranpura, said that a lot of people have the habit of ringing the bell on entering the temple. “If a Covid-19 patient touches the bell, he can put the lives of other devotees at risk. The officials have taken the right decision and we are strictly implementing it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-cops-restrict-temple-bell-touching/articleshow/77309420.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Bathing ghats out of bounds this Aadi Perukku||TRICHY: Trichy city police have asked people to refrain from visiting the six bathing ghats of Cauvery and Coleroon rivers on Aadi Perukku festival which falls on Sunday, a complete lockdown day. Bathing ghats in Amma Mandapam, Vadakku Vaasal, Thillai Nayagam, Ayyalamman, Geethapuram and Odathurai would be out of bounds for the public, police said. The entrances of the ghats have been cordoned off by the police from Saturday evening. “It is a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the disease during the gathering,” commissioner of police, Trichy, J Loganathan told TOI. He added that violators will be booked as per the Acts. Bathing ghats at Mutharasanallur, Gunaseelam, Vengur, Panayapuram, Musiri Santhapalayam, Parisal thurai, Thirunarayanapuram, Ayyampalayam, Sevanthilingapuram, Varadharajapuram, Srinivasa Nallur, Kodiyampalayam, Manamedu, Kokkuvettaiyan kovil, Unniyur, Sri Rama Samudhram, Chinnapallipalayam, Periyapalli palayam, Seelaipillaiputhur, Kaaduvetti, Natham, M Puthur, Pazhoor, Allur, Uthamar Seeli on the banks of Cauvery are under surveillance. Despite several drowning incidents in the past and warning from officials, youths continue to take bath risking their lives. Fire and rescue services personnel have been put on alert to deal with emergency situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bathing-ghats-out-of-bounds-this-aadi-perukku/articleshow/77309415.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Dehradun||Selaqui industrial area turning into garbage dump, allege residents||Dehradun: Roads in the Selaqui industrial area, in the outskirts of Doon, have turned marshy from all the muck dumped on it. Water of the nearby Sarna river has also turned dark due to pollution. Residents allege that the area is treated like a landfill, as vehicles carrying garbage keep dumping trash in the area without any authorisation. Mohammad Jamaal, a resident, said, “Several vehicles come here to dump garbage throughout the day and the area is getting more polluted by the day. Since the locality is not covered directly under any civic body, no sanitation activities take place here.” Another resident, Sandeep (who uses only his first name), said, “We have frequent confrontations with the people who come here to dump garbage. The practice, however, hasn’t stopped. We have requested authorities to stop letting this area be used as a garbage dumping ground and start development projects here.” The polluted river water has started to damage to the ecosystem around it, local residents said. The condition of the roads, already poor due to the garbage, gets slippery in the monsoon, making travel extremely risky, especially for heavy vehicles. Potholes have filled with rain water, breeding disease-causing mosquitoes. When contacted, mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama said that Selaqui did not fall under his jurisdiction. Vikasnagar sub divisional magistrate Saurabh Aswal could not be contacted after repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/selaqui-industrial-area-turning-into-garbage-dump-allege-residents/articleshow/77307648.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Independence Day: ‘Honour Covid warriors’||GANDHINAGAR: Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government on Saturday issued guidelines regarding the celebration of Independence Day on August 15. According to the guidelines published by the general administration department, chief minister Vijay Rupani will hoist the tricolour in Gandhinagar. Members of paramilitary forces, home guards, and state police personnel will be among those participating in the ceremony. The government has said that large gatherings for flag hoisting functions should be avoided at all district headquarters and towns and cities. District administration officials have been asked to invite corona warriors such as doctors, nurses, and health and sanitation workers. Citizens who have recovered from the corona infection will also be invited. Everybody participating in the Independence Day celebrations will be required to wear masks and observe social distancing norms. The Gujarat government has also directed local authorities to invite prominent citizens, sportspersons, artists, and others. Prominent persons and corona warriors will be felicitated with shawls. Police and military bands will perform at various sites in the state. The performances will be available for viewing on several digital platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-day-honour-covid-warriors/articleshow/77309436.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid positive man flees hospital, found dead at railway station||HYDERABAD: A coronavirus patient who ran away from the Covid ward of Kothagudem government hospital was found dead at a railway station in the area on Saturday. Pilli Venkateshwarlu of Nacham village in Dammapet mandal went missing from the hospital around midnight on Thursday. Hospital authorities also brought this to the notice of Aswaraopet Police. It appears the man reached the railway station on Friday night and slept there. The next day, a few people noticed that he wasn’t moving at all and alerted the police who arrived there. The identity of the deceased was ascertained and the family was informed. The body was shifted to the mortuary. It is not immediately clear why the 40-year-old ran away from the hospital. It is suspected that he could have died due to breathlessness. Pilli Venkateshwarlu had got a Covid test done on July 28. On testing positive, he was admitted to the isolation ward of the area hospital. Hospital authorities are checking CCTV footage from the hospital to see how the patient left the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-positive-man-flees-hosp-found-dead-at-rly-station/articleshow/77309412.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 2, 2020||Nashik||603 fresh Covid-19 cases in Nashik district||NASHIK: The district recorded 603 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 178 from rural Nashik and 397 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 15,019. As many as 217 patients were discharged in the district on Saturday. With this, 1,134 patients have recovered. The death toll rose to 505 after six deaths due to the infection were reported on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/603-fresh-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/77307661.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||‘Discard artificial food for babies, save Rs 40,000 per year’||TRICHY: Concerned over many people preferring packaged formula food for their babies even before the mandatory six months of breastfeeding is over, paediatricians at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, have urged new mothers to discard such foods. They also said that it would cut costs incurred by the family by up to Rs 40,000 per year. The hospital is observing World Breastfeeding Week 2020 on the theme --‘Support breastfeeding for a healthier planet’ -- from August 1 to 7. “We promote exclusive breastfeeding for six months. Urban mothers are ignoring the practice in their fast-paced lifestyle,” dean of MGMGH, Dr K Vanitha told TOI on Saturday. Neo-natal specialist, Dr K Senthilkumar said that one has to spend Rs 7,200 on 24 feeding bottles, Rs 4,800 on 48 feeding bottle rubbers and Rs 28,000 on 80 packs of artificial food for one child for one year. All these expenses add up to Rs 40,000. “Avoiding formula food will not only give a healthy life to the children but also saves money. Shunning such products will also protect the planet,” said Senthilkumar. Senthilkumar said that comprehensive lactation management centre formerly known as breast milk bank at this hospital has received more than 400 litres of milk from the mothers to provide them to children in need. Head of the department of paediatrics, Dr B Mythili reiterated that obesity could be a major consequence of feeding artificial food to the children. “The practice of prolonged bottle feeding leads to weight gain. Since such food items are rich in sugar component, it will lead to unhealthy life. Children will face the risk of obesity at the age of two to three years,” Mythili said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/discard-artificial-food-for-babies-save-rs-40k-per-year/articleshow/77309422.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Chirala SI arrested for Dalit youth’s death||VIJAYAWADA: Chirala Two-Town sub-inspector Vijay Kumar was placed under arrest on Saturday for causing the death of a Dalit youth due to negligence. The incident took place on July 18, when Y Kiran Kumar along with another man Shiny Abraham were caught travelling on a motorcycle without face masks. After intercepting his bike, cops also found that both ere drunk and the breathalyzer reading showed 122 ml of alcohol. Cops claim that they had behaved in a highhanded manner with the police and SI Vijay Kumar reached the spot and took both of them into custody and boarded them into the police jeep. While taking them to the police station, cops claim that Kiran had opened the rear door of the jeep and jumped from the moving vehicle, following which he sustained grievous injuries, and subsequent death while undergoing treatment. However, Kiran’s family members accused the cops of custodial torture and based on their complaint a custodial death case was registered. After a detailed inquiry, cops registered a case against Vijay Kumar under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence). “In order to ensure transparency, taking into account the plea of the family members of the deceased Y Kiran Kumar and to instill confidence in the public about Chirala police, further investigation of the case was handed over to DSP of special branch M Bala Sundara Rao attached to Guntur urban police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chirala-si-arrested-for-dalit-youths-death/articleshow/77307657.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Officias bury 70-year-old Covid-19 victim after kin refuse to accept body||TRICHY: A 70-year-old man who died of Covid-19 at Ariyalur government medical college hospital was laid to rest jointly by Ariyalur police, municipality and health officials after his relatives refused to accept the mortal remains on coming to know that he had tested positive. The victim, a native of Idayakkudi in Cuddalore district, had come to his relatives’ house last month. On July 29, he developed symptoms for Covid including fever following which he was admitted to Ariyalur GH. RT-PCR test confirmed that the man was infected, and on July 31 he died at the government hospital. “The victim’s elder brother’s sons came to receive the body on Friday evening but said they were unwell and will be back after taking medicine. However, they did not return and disowned the man’s body,” M Muthu Mohammed, a sanitary inspector in Ariyalur municipality said. The health officials waited for some time and tried to contact the relatives to take part in the burial, but they had switched off their mobile phones. Though the deceased man had a daughter residing in Cuddalore, officials said she could not reach Ariyalur to receive the body. JCB operators also hesitated to deploy their vehicles knowing that the deceased was Covid-19 positive and it being a rainy evening. Later, the Ariyalur municipality and police rented a JCB to dig a trench at the municipality’s burial ground on Hospital Road. “Our workers were given PPE kits to bury the body and its expenses were also managed by us,” N Kumaran, commissioner, Ariyalur municipality, told TOI. As the workers hesitated to bury the body, officials including sanitary inspector Muthu Mohammed, health inspector M Vaheel, non-medical supervisor Simon and sub-inspector of police K Nandakumar took it upon themselves to bury the elderly man’s body in the trench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kin-abandon-man-70-who-died-of-covid-19/articleshow/77309432.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Railways starts Kisan Vishesh from Devlali||NASHIK: The Bhusawal division of Central Railway will start Kisan Vishesh parcel van trains for transportation of perishable goods from Nashik district to other places. This will ensure speedy delivery of perishable goods but at a higher price. The Kisan Vishesh will originate from Devlali near Nashik Road railway station and run till Danapur Junction in Bihar, said a senior railway official. The train will run from August 7 on a weekly basis. The decision to run these trains came up after the successful trial run of delivering onions from Nashik district to Rohanpur Junction in Bangladesh. The parcel van trains runs at 110 km per hour whereas a freight train has a maximum speed of 60 km per hour. He said though the parcel trains cost more, it will help the agricultural producers as goods of smaller quantity can be delivered for destinations instead of dedicated points of origin and destination, and assorted goods instead of one kind of goods. Due to the speedy delivery, the perishable goods will be in a better shape, thus will get a better price for it. Currently, the trains will halt at several places like Nashik, Manmad, Jalgaon, Bhusawal, Burhanpur, Manikpur, Chivki, Varanasi, and others before the destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-starts-kisan-vishesh-from-devlali/articleshow/77307667.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Intense lockdown in Gandhi market from today||TRICHY: A two-week intense lockdown has been imposed around Gandhi Market vicinity from Sunday. As many as 10 entry and exit points to the market will be cordoned off to prevent people from visiting the commercial streets near the market. The streets to undergo lockdown include Thanjavur main road, Palakkarai road, Dharbarmedu and Thanneerpandhal, which have shops selling essential commodities and fertilisers. Trichy Corporation officials said the congested Nelpettai Road which has at least 50 fruit shops, has witnessed huge footfall throughout the lockdown. “The decision was taken after eight people including street vendors and policeman tested positive during a mass screening. If we don’t contain the area, public movement will result in Covid-19 spread,” a corporation official said. On Saturday, the civic body workers through public address system appealed to the shopkeepers in ward number 14 falling under Ariyamangalam zone to adhere to the restrictions from Sunday. Officials added that fish and meat markets in Gandhi market will continue to function as the vendors have assured to ensure social distancing. Barricades will be put near Dharbarmedu, Eda street junction, Nelpettai road-EB road junction and near Big Bazaar street arch. Last week, corporation had enforced a similar lockdown at Big Bazaar street. “After the intense lockdown, the spread of infection to other parts of the city was restricted. We expect the same results in the Gandhi market containment zone,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/intense-lockdown-in-gandhi-mkt-from-today/articleshow/77309426.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Banker among 2 who get bail in corruption case||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Friday granted bail to two people who were arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on July 2 for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.25 lakh to sanction and help a beneficiary of the Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal to get a loan. Jagannath Khanderao Jadhav (71), chairman of the Lok Vikas Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd and an educationist, and accountant of his management institute Atmaram Santram Pawar (52) had been arrested by the ACB sleuths. When Jadhav had demanded the bribe, informant Dipak Shridhar Bharad, a resident of Rahegaon in Vaijapur taluka had approached the ACB. Jadhav had instructed the informant to hand over the bribe to his accountant Pawar. The ACB sleuths caught Pawar red-handed when he was accepting the bribe. Subsequently, on the basis of evidence, Jadhav also came to be arrested. Both of them were granted police custody till July 5, after which they were kept in judicial remand. Earlier, the sessions court had rejected their bail plea, following which Jadhav and Pawar approached the high court through lawyer Joydeep Chatterjee and senior counsel V D Sapkal respectively. The matter came up before Justice Shrikant D Kulkarni through video conferencing on Friday. While granting bail to both of them, Justice Kulkarni observed, “The offences alleged against the applicants under Sections 7 and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, provides sentence up to seven years. In the cases of trap under the Prevention of Corruption law, most of the interrogation is over soon after the trap. There is no need to have custodial interrogation of the applicants. There are no extraordinary circumstances to keep them behind the bars.’’ The HC ordered them to be “released on bail on their furnishing P.R. bond of Rs 15,000 each with one or two solvent sureties of the like amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/banker-among-2-who-get-bail-in-corruption-case/articleshow/77307658.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Cops to launch cyber-safety initiative tomorrow||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh police are launching a programme called e-rakshabandhan as a cyber-safety initiative on August 3. Designed by the crime investigation department (CID), the programme is intended to spread awareness on cybercrimes aimed at women as well as children. E-rakshabandhan (eRB) will start on August 3 and go on for a month. Two webinars will be conducted every day to explain to participants how they can fall victim to cybercrimes. Various modus operandi employed by cybercriminals including cyber stalking, cyber bullying, honey-trapping and matrimonial phishing will be discussed. According to experts, nearly 63 per cent people in the country don’t know what to do if their identities are stolen. Thus the CID and cyber experts will conduct these webinars on the various ways in which people are defrauded and the measures to be taken to be safe in the cyber space. The programme will be launched by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on August 3. The state government has already declared August as the ‘cyber security month’. The webinars will be available on CID’s Youtube channels at 11am every day from August 3. The CID is considering uploading short films to raise awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-to-launch-cyber-safety-initiative-tomorrow/articleshow/77307666.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ‘Sorcerer’ held for assaulting woman||HYDERABAD: A man claiming himself to be a sorcerer and his associate were arrested by police on Saturday for assaulting a woman in Jaipur mandal of Mancherial district. The accused, Duggala Shyam, made Rajitha’s family believe that she was possessed by evil spirits and that he would rid her of the same. Rajitha of Kundaram village delivered a baby four months ago. As she has not been keeping well since then, her family members approached Shyam for help. Police said Shyam, who arrived at the house of Rajitha’s in-laws, pulled her by her hair, slapped her and beat her up. At the end of what seemed to be an ‘interrogation’ of the spirit, he pushed the hapless woman on to a cot and left, cops said. Police arrested Shyam of Shayamapet in Jammikunta mandal and his associate Pulikota Ravinder of Gaddipaka village at different places and handed them over to Jaipur police.—Sushil Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sorcerer-held-for-assaulting-woman/articleshow/77309421.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||A mobile inhalation chamber||AHMEDABAD: Dashrath Parmar, a resident of Vadaj, has made an ‘inhalation chamber’ as a preventive measure against Covid-19. Parmar’s apparatus consists of a wooden chamber in which the steam from a cauldron is diverted. The cauldron has about 12 types of herbs steamed at 70 degrees celsius temperature for a couple of hours. “We got this idea from a village of Kadi taluka where the response of the locals was good. We believe that it can improve breathing of a person and can also clear the nasal pathway,” said Parmar. He takes the box to various societies in the area to offer the service for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-mobile-inhalation-chamber/articleshow/77309430.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Low-key celebrations mark Eid-ul-Zuha in cities||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: Keeping in line with the safety protocols promulgated by the state government to prevent the spread of Covid-19, members of the Muslim community did not congregate in public places and instead offered prayers at home on Eid-ul-Zuha on Saturday. The usual practice of rushing to marketplaces to buy goodies and gathering at public places to offer ‘namaaz’ and to greet each other was missing this year. Shahar-E-Khatib Hafiz Hisamuddin Ashrafi from Nashik said, “People respected the need of the hour and contributed towards the fight against Covid-19 by staying indoors.” In Nashik district, the mosques were kept closed. Police manned the streets and places of worship throughtout the day. Fearing violation of social distancing norms as well as further spread of contagion, the Aurangabad civic administration did not allow Eid prayers or delivery of sermons from any of the major Eidgahs (large prayer grpunds) or mosques. Mustaq Sayyed, a businessman from Nashik said, “While a handful of people carried out the tradition of qurbani at their home, most people limited their celebrations to offering namaaz and preparing traditional food. In many places, people offered namaaz and greeted each other from their terraces.” The ban on slaughter of animals at home or any other place, other than the designated slaughterhouses, apart from the conditions on the livestock market, had a direct impact on the sale of cattle this year. Officials maintained that the pandemic, coupled with the lockdown, kept the festival a low-key affair in terms of the number of animals sacrificed. As per rituals, every financially capable Muslim is duty bound to sacrifice an animal in commemoration of Prophet Ibrahim’s spirit of sacrifice. For those sacrificing animals, it is mandatory to divide the meat in three equals and share two portions with the poor, the needy and among relatives. “Total 57 animals, which included 35 goats, were slaughtered at the two civic body owned slaughterhouses in Padegaon and Shahbazar area of Aurangabad city,” stated a press release from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. Superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh said, “It was a repeat of the Ramzan Eid celebrations. People did not gather in public places and instead, celebrated the festival with their family members. The streets and grounds, where people generally congregate to celebrate the festivities, wore a deserted look. This will go a long way in the fight against Covid-19.” Commissioner of Aurangabad city police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “Our men across the hierarchy remained on the streets and ensured peaceful passage of the day.” Aurangabad rural police, led by superintendent of police Mokshada Patil, strictly checked all the entry and exit points of the district. They especially kept an eye on the illegal flow of cattle in the city as well as rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/low-key-celebrations-mark-eid-ul-zuha-in-cities/articleshow/77307686.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal calls for judicious water use||NASHIK: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday called for judicious use of water as the storage levels of water in dams across Nashik has gone down due to poor rainfall. The water levels across all 23 major and minor dams in the district have touched 41% — same as the water levels recorded on May 20. “The water levels in Nashik district have receded after showing slight increase. Since the water reservation in the dam is limited till July 31, the departments and local bodies concerned should therefore step up micro planning for judicious use of water,” Bhujbal said. The district administration reserves water in the dams for various purposes — drinking, agriculture and industries — on October 30 every year for the effective use till July 31 in the event that monsoon may be delayed. “We had good monsoon last year from the beginning. This year, Nashik has received 47% of the annual rainfall so far which was 72% during the same time last year. The water available in the dams has to be used wisely for the purpose of agriculture as well as drinking purposes,” Bhujbal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-calls-for-judicious-water-use/articleshow/77307674.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Construction of permanent campus for IIM-V set to begin||GAMBHEERAM: The national highway leading from Visakhapatnam city towards Bhogapuram passes through Gambheeram, where the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam was allocated land for construction of its permanent campus. Tucked somewhat away from this national highway amidst the nature’s lap, the plot is now transforming into a place to host an exciting community of future managers, STOI finds during its visit to the campus on Saturday. The premier B-School, ahead of launching the construction work of the permanent campus, has set up a project management office at this site with about Rs 2 crore. The unique feature of this office is, it has a replica of a student hostel room, executive (guest) room, conference hall, faculty cabin, work stations and others with the same material, furniture, quality and dimensions which will be replicated in the construction of the permanent campus. IIM-V has done this to get a real-time experience and incorporate the changes, if any, in the tenders, which will be floated soon. Even a few plants of each handpicked species, which will be grown on the campus, were planted at this office in Gambheeram to assess the habitat suitability, growth and other factors. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar explained the micro-level planning that has gone into the project management office and yet-to-be-constructed permanent campus. “The campus will get a total of 625 student hostel rooms with each student having a separate room. Similarly, 127 faculty cabins and a guesthouse block will be constructed on the campus. We have doubled up the project management office to get a peek into what the permanent campus will have in the future. For example, the faculty room is fitted with a blackboard and other infrastructure needed for the professor. This does away with the need of the particular faculty visiting the classroom again when the student approaches him/her with any doubts” said Prof M Chandrasekhar. Prof Chandrasekhar added that they handpicked 61 species of plants, including some fruit varieties, to be planted at the campus after consulting with the landscape architects and botanists. “Considering the recent experiences, IIM-V incorporated several components related to online learning and paired classroom learning in the designing of the permanent campus,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. R Sayikrishna Raju, head (projects), IIM-V, said that the campus will get a solar park to make it energy positive and self-sufficient on the electricity front. The campus will get the finest sports infrastructure such as a cricket ground, football ground and others apart from a 500-seater auditorium,” said Raju. Raju added that the IIM-V officials visited several IIMs in the country before drawing up the design for the permanent campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/construction-of-permanent-campus-for-iim-v-set-to-begin/articleshow/77307677.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Door delivery of meat, fish gaining ground in Trichy||TRICHY: The Covid-19 lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for a section of entrepreneurs in Trichy city, who have started door delivery of seafood and meat products. There is high demand for meat products on Saturdays due to complete lockdown on Sundays. However, with many hesitant to visit the markets, an avenue of opportunity opened up for some entrepreneurs to provide home delivery. Startups, which were selling in wholesale to hotels widened their coverage to the retail market. A working model similar to food delivery aggregators was emulated by them. They used social media platforms including WhatsApp to market their business by sharing the price list. “Delivery will be made within two hours as it takes time to clean, chop and pack. The number of orders we get is gradually increasing,” S Badrinath, proprietor, Ocean Pick said. Some deliver products on all days except Sundays. Seafood is sourced from coastal districts like Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin. A few startups are waiting to sell country chicken and mutton covering the suburbs. “Our mobile application is in the final phase of design. Instead of relying on WhatsApp, we wanted to be more professional since there is a huge demand in Trichy,” Vignesh Raj, director, Fresh C. Entrepreneurs anticipate that residents would continue to render their patronage even after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/door-delivery-of-meat-fish-gaining-ground-in-trichy/articleshow/77309440.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Siblings aged 6 and 4 fall into septic tank, die||TRICHY: Two siblings, aged 4 and 6, died after they accidentally fell into a septic tank behind their house in Pudukottai on Saturday. Bodies of the duo, identified as Hrithik Roshan, 6 and Aravind, 4, sons of Kumar, 40 and Rajeswari, 36, were recovered at around 9 pm and sent to Pudukottai government hospital for postmortem. According to the police, the septic tank is in a damaged condition and had a hole, which went unnoticed. The boys accidentally fell into the tank through the hole while they were playing behind their house. Police said that the duo might have fallen into the septic tank around 6 pm. However, Kumar and Rajeswari, who are workers at a conservancy in Karamabkudi town panchayat, did not realize it and kept searching for them around their house. Later, the neighbours suspected that they might have fallen into the tank and carried out a search and recovered the bodies by 9 pm. Karambakudi police has filed a case in this regard and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/siblings-aged-6-and-4-fall-into-septic-tank-die/articleshow/77309452.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||‘1,000-bed Bytco hospital to be operational by August 15’||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) New Bytco Hospital, which has started partial operations with 300 beds, will be made fully operational by August 15, said civic chief Radhakrishna Game. Game, who visited the new Bytco Hospital on Friday evening, has asked the officials to ramp up the final work of the hospital which has been under construction for the past eight years. “Currently, we have 300 beds in operation, with oxygen lines to 200 beds and about 180 Covid-19 patients are admitted to the facility. By August 15, we will have all 1,000 beds functional with a 25-bed ICU ready to take in patients,” Game said. The officer also met the patients at the hospital and tried to get their feedback on the treatment being administered to them by the staff and the facilities made available. The commissioner further pointed out that the 500-bed Covid Care Centre at Thakker’s Dome in Nashik city would also be operational by Tuesday. “The work is over and deployment of the staff for the centre is being carried out and the same is likely to be over in couple of days and by Tuesday or Wednesday we will have the facilities started to admit patients as when required,” Game said. “We are getting ready for bigger number of cases even as we see the situation improving slightly on the number of active patients in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1000-bed-bytco-hosp-to-be-operational-by-aug-15/articleshow/77307695.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 2, 2020||Amaravati||No end in sight to Amaravati slugfest||VIJAYAWADA: It has been an all-out slugfest between the ruling and opposition parties ever since the governor approved the two Bills, which paved the way for the state government’s plan to trifurcate the capital. While the TDP has demanded a referendum over the issue, the YSRC has dared TDP legislators to resign. Speaking to the media on Saturday, minister for civil supplies and consumer affairs Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) challenged TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu to resign and seek by-election. The government may rethink shifting of capital from Amaravati, if TDP manages to win at least one seat in the by-election, he said. Former minister Dharmana Prasad said the decentralisation of development Bill is a historic step and all advocates of democracy must welcome it. “With the move all regions will be developed equally. It will help reduce the imbalances between the people,” he said. On the other hand, the opposition TDP launched a scathing attack on the ruling party over the shifting of the capital. Former minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao blamed the chief minister and the governor for all the deaths that have taken place in the capital region. “They both are responsible for the death of the woman farmer Samrajyamma at Borupalem village who died after hearing the news of the governor clearing capital shifting bills on Friday,” he alleged. Rao further said that the YSRC government was deliberately killing the Amaravati project so that they could earn money through real estate business in Visakhapatnam. Those who have been saying that Amaravati is only graphics must jump from the buildings to prove their point,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-end-in-sight-to-amaravati-slugfest/articleshow/77313988.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nashik||Shortage of kits slows down swab testings in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The shortage of RNA extraction kits in the RT-PCR-equipped labs in the district has slowed down the swab testings for Covid-19. This decline in testing is the main cause for the dip in Covid-19 positive cases in the past couple of days. In each of the past two days, though nearly 800-900 swabs were collected for RT-PCR tests, fewer than 350 tests could be conducted. The Covid virus is an RNA virus, meaning it has ribonucleic acid as the genetic material. The RNA of the virus is extracted using special kits and then it is converted into its replicate DNA, which then confirms coronavirus infection. There is a shortage of RNA extraction kits at several labs in the district. The supply has been stopped mainly from the supplier’s side said the officials. A district health official, requesting anonymity, said, “The supply has been halted mainly due to less production of the kits. We are in constant touch with the manufacturer and supplier. By Sunday, we will get around 3,000 RNA extraction kits. Till then, we are carrying out the tests with the help of rapid antigen test kits which do not require RNA extraction. They directly detect the antigens formed against the infection.” The district authorities have sought 25,000 rapid test kits. These kits detect the positives and negatives within 30 minutes. However, these kits are not as effective as the RT-PCR testing kits which are considered as the gold standard for Covid testing. There is a shortage of rapid test kits as well. Dilip Patil, the chief health officer of KMC said, “We have sought around 3,000 rapid test kits. We were told that there is a shortage and once the district procurement cell gets them, the kits will be made available to us. However, we are totally relying on RT-PCR testing as it requires no further confirmation upon a negative or positive result.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shortage-of-kits-slows-down-swab-testings-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77307694.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||All districts will have siddha care centre: Health minister||Trichy: Every district will soon have a siddha care centre to treat Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms and asymptomatic patients, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar on Saturday. The minister was speaking after inaugurating a siddha care centre with 100 beds in government arts college for women in Pudukottai. At present, there are 18 siddha care centres across the state. More than 75,000 Covid-19 patients are treated in Indian system of medicine which is playing a significant role in treatment. Covid-19 patients are given food rich in herbs as part of treatment. The health minister said those getting allopathy treatment are given kabasura kudineer and nilavenbu syrup which are part of siddha treatment. The state government has an integrated approach towards Covid-19 treatment and all types of medicines are given equal importance. “Early diagnosis of the infection makes cure less challenging and that is our strategy,” he said. Baskar said that late referral should be avoided and asked people to visit hospital without delay if they have symptoms. “Once the lungs are infected, it becomes challenging for doctors,” he added. He further said that Tamil Nadu continues to lead in RT-PCR testing with 26,58,138 tests having been done so far and 1,83,956 people treated so far. Baskar said that licences of private hospitals will be cancelled if they are found fleecing patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-dists-will-have-siddha-care-centre-health-min/articleshow/77309444.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||No end in sight to Amaravati slugfest||VIJAYAWADA: It has been an all-out slugfest between the ruling and opposition parties ever since the governor approved the two Bills, which paved the way for the state government’s plan to trifurcate the capital. While the TDP has demanded a referendum over the issue, the YSRC has dared TDP legislators to resign. Speaking to the media on Saturday, minister for civil supplies and consumer affairs Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) challenged TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu to resign and seek by-election. The government may rethink shifting of capital from Amaravati, if TDP manages to win at least one seat in the by-election, he said. Former minister Dharmana Prasad said the decentralisation of development Bill is a historic step and all advocates of democracy must welcome it. “With the move all regions will be developed equally. It will help reduce the imbalances between the people,” he said. On the other hand, the opposition TDP launched a scathing attack on the ruling party over the shifting of the capital. Former minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao blamed the chief minister and the governor for all the deaths that have taken place in the capital region. “They both are responsible for the death of the woman farmer Samrajyamma at Borupalem village who died after hearing the news of the governor clearing capital shifting bills on Friday,” he alleged. Rao further said that the YSRC government was deliberately killing the Amaravati project so that they could earn money through real estate business in Visakhapatnam. Those who have been saying that Amaravati is only graphics must jump from the buildings to prove their point,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-end-in-sight-to-amaravati-slugfest/articleshow/77307690.cms||---
August 2, 2020||India||NEP’s focus to produce job creators, not job seekers: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) will mark a shift from the ‘burden of school bag’ to ‘experiential learning’ with focus on making ‘job creators’ instead of ‘job seekers’ in line with the aspirations of Indian youth in the 21st century. Addressing the finale of the Smart India Hackathon, the PM said NEP 2020 will facilitate inter-disciplinary study to ensure that the focus in on what the students want to learn. “It is not just a policy document but a reflection of the aspirations of over 130 crore people. A large section of students feel they are judged on the basis of subjects in which they have no interest... often there is pressure from friends and families and they start studying a particular subject without interest... This approach has made a section of the population literate but what they have studied is of no use to them,” Modi said. He said the present century is an era of knowledge — a time to increasingly focus on learning, research and innovation. “This policy wants to make your school, college and university experience fruitful and broad-based,” said the PM, adding, “Among the most exciting things of the policy is the emphasis on multi-disciplinary study. One size does not fit all. One subject does not define who you are…Now, we have done away with some traditional boundaries between arts, science, commerce. If someone is interested, they can learn maths and music together, or coding and chemistry together. The focus is on what students want to learn, rather than what the student is expected to, by the society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/neps-focus-to-produce-job-creators-not-job-seekers-pm-modi/articleshow/77310113.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s power equipment firms seek policy change||VADODARA: Just a few years ago, Vadodara boasted being a national hub of electrical equipment manufacturing. From some of the biggest firms to hundreds of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the city offered a perfect business environ to power equipment and ancillary firms. So much so, that in 2016, Gujarat’s first global expo for electrical manufacturers, Switch, was hosted by the city. But the city that commanded about 30% of the power equipment manufacturing business in the country even four years ago is now struggling to survive. The protective policies introduced by other state governments for their local power equipment manufacturing firms have knocked manufacturers from Gujarat off balance. Gujarat’s firms have now urged the state government to change its policy to ensure that the electrical industry can survive and thrive. “Vadodara is a home to hundreds of electrical equipment manufacturing SMEs which rely on the state-run DISCOMs that contribute to nearly 80% of their business. Till a couple of years ago, the SMEs used to get significant business from DISCOMs in Gujarat and other states,” said Amit Patel, secretary of Gujarat Electrical Equipment Manufacturing Association (GEEMA) that has 300 members from the state. “But over the last five years, DISCOMs from many states have stopped taking orders for electrical equipment from firms outside their states. They have reserved 100% business for their local firms. As a result, firms based in Gujarat are losing big orders, thereby affecting their business,” Patel told TOI. While Gujarat-based manufacturers can’t influence policies of other states, they have turned to the state government for help. “Gujarat DISCOMs currently reserve 50% of their orders for state-based firms but the local firms need more business to survive. So, GEEMA has written to the state government and requested them to increase the reservation to 75% for local firms. Like other state governments, ours too should favour the local manufacturers,” Patel told TOI. GEEMA members feel that a 25% increase in reservation will help them partially recover the business they are losing in other states. Naresh Chaudhary, managing director of Nik-San Engineering Company Ltd, echoed Patel’s sentiments. “Gujarat-based electrical equipment firms should get reservation of at least 75%. We can’t get orders from the other state-run DISCOMs that have 100% reservation for local firms. And the ones that are open to orders from outside firms have rules that make it expensive for us to do business with them,” Chaudhary, whose firm makes transformers, said. “The Covid-19 crisis has dealt another blow as the government has reduced electrical equipment orders by at least 50% this year. It is a huge revenue loss for our industry that earns the majority of its revenues from DISCOMs,” rued Chaudhary. “Orders from other state DISCOMs are drying up, so the GUVNL should protect the local firms,” said Rajesh Shah, president of city-based Prime Prodigy International that manufactures switchgears. GEEMA members have met government authorities a couple of times with the request to increase reservation for local firms, but no decision has been taken yet. The city is home to big power equipment manufacturing firms like ABB, Schneider Electric, Alstom, Polycab and Voltamp Transformers Ltd. Even critics of reservation think the move is necessary. “In the era of globalization, having reservations for any business isn't advisable. But if other states are giving 100% reservation to local manufacturers, then Gujarat government too should do it. At least for a couple of years, the government should give 100% reservation to local power equipment manufacturing firms,” said Nimish Phadke, Director, Comfort InstaPower Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-power-equipment-firms-seek-policy-change/articleshow/77308618.cms||Tushar Tere
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Suspecting Covid, elderly couple end life in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An elderly couple, down with fever and suspecting they might be afflicted with coronavirus, committed suicide by consuming poison at their residence at Panjagutta on Saturday. They feared they might pass on the virus to other members of their family. Around 11.30am on Saturday, one of their sons went to check on them at their residence. He found the door locked. When he peeped through the window, he found his parents —father, 63, and mother, 60 —lying on the floor, Panjagutta police said. Immediately, he prised open the door, but by then they were already dead. Police were informed about the incident. “We found a suicide note near the bodies, which was written by the woman. She said that from last few days they were suffering with fever and cold. Suspecting that they might be suffering with corona and the virus might be transmitted to their sons and grandchildren, they consumed pesticide,’’ Panjagutta police said. Police said they do not have any information about the couple undergoing Covid-19 test. Assistant commissioner of police (Panjagutta) Tirupathanna said: “Though the children of the couple stay separately, they visit them regularly. Perhaps, fearing that the virus might spread to their family members, they took the extreme step.” The investigators suspect the couple might have taken the extreme step on Saturday morning. Police have shifted the bodies for post-mortem examination to ascertain the facts. As of now, they registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspecting-covid-elderly-couple-end-life/articleshow/77309431.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||BDU asks colleges to start online classes tomorrow||TRICHY: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has asked affiliated colleges to start online classes for second and third year undergraduate students and second year postgraduate students from Monday. No decision has been taken on final year semester examination. While first year students are yet to join, the university has decided to conduct classes for remaining students. All the 128 non-autonomous affiliated colleges and departments of Bharathidasan University have been instructed to conduct classes through online platforms. A circular issued by registrar G Gopinath has asked teachers to create a directory of mobile numbers and email-id of students besides recording attendance of each online lecture session from the platform. He has asked colleges to provide the information technology infrastructure available in college to teachers for conducting online classes. Continuous assessments, session tests and seminars will also be conducted online and should be properly documented for award of marks, he said. “After this direction, we are going to engage students, but we may leave out a few who may not have access to internet. However, most students may have equipped themselves for online classes,” said S Parthasarathy, director of university informatics centre. “Now the institutions are left with no option but to go online for teaching. Students too cannot keep on spending time at home without academic activity,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-asks-colleges-to-start-online-classes-tomorrow/articleshow/77309456.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bareilly||Teenaged boy detained for ‘raping’ 11-year-old girl||BAREILLY: A 16-year-old boy was on Saturday detained for allegedly raping a minor girl in a village under Hayat Nagar police station of Sambhal district. The girl had gone to relieve herself in the open on Friday evening when the boy raped her and fled the scene, said police. On the complaint of the girl’s family, the accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Saturday night. Station house officer, Hayat Nagar police station, Vidyut Goyal said, “We have detained the accused and will produce him before the magistrate. Both the girl and the accused are minors.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/teenaged-boy-detained-for-raping-11-year-old-girl/articleshow/77306895.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Post-harvest losses, lack of transport push up tomato prices||VISAKHAPATNAM: The absence of storage and processing facilities, coupled with unplanned cropping practices, has led to prices of tomato skyrocketing in the state. Tomato prices have shown an increase between July and September for the past few years, selling even between Rs 45 to Rs 60 per kilogram, over twice the usual rates. From Rs 10 per kg in June, tomatoes are now selling at Rs 50 per kg in Vizag. “We don’t know the reasons for soaring prices and we can’t purchase in large quantity as it as a perishable item,” said N Sangeeta, a resident of Vizag city. Horticulture commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said the scope for profit from the cultivation of tomato is higher than in other crops, one of the reasons why acreage has risen 14% in the last four years. Unplanned cropping practices, however, have made its cultivation a risk, with the return from one acre under the crop ranging anywhere between a profit of Rs 6 lakhs to a loss amounting to the entire input cost. “Farmers should be educated to avoid a glut and the consequent fall in market prices,” Choudhary said. Officials said prices go up in the monsoon on account of post-harvest losses and problems in transportation. The crop is usually grown between February and April and harvested in summer. High temperatures in May affect flowering and fruit and decrease the yield. Further, there is no standardised protocol to store the harvest and sell it at a later date. Choudhary said the horticulture department has suggested staggered cultivation to make the harvest available at different periods, thus stabilising prices. Farmers have also been advised to cultivate different varieties to offset the impact of low prices, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-harvest-losses-lack-of-transport-push-up-tomato-prices/articleshow/77307703.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Traffic jams return in Kolhapur streets||KOLHAPUR: With more restrictions being eased on motorist and pedestrian movements, traffic congestions were observed in most of the major junctions in the city on Saturday. Both two-wheelers and four-wheelers have been allowed to commute with 1+1 and 1+3 seating capacity respectively. Even autorickshaws have been given permission to ply with two passengers. Since Eid-ul-Zuha was celebrated on Saturday and with just a day left for Raksha Bandhan, many stalls selling rakhis and dry fruits dotted the streets. In most places, citizens paid no heed to social distancing norms. Despite the district administration making it mandatory for two-wheeler riders to wear helmets, a large number of motorists were seen flouting the norms. Instead of catching the violators, the traffic cops were seen struggling to streamline traffic flow. Vasant Babar, inspector of the traffic department said, “Two of our staff are infected with Covid-19. We have stopped taking action against violators to avoid direct contact. We have more staff on the ground to regulate traffic. We only ensured that there were no traffic congestions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traffic-jams-return-in-kolhapur-streets/articleshow/77307710.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Woman fights off carjacker in Delhi, gets him arrested||NEW DELHI: When a woman hired a cab on Thursday night, she hadn't quite reckoned she would be fighting with a carjacker and even get him caught. The 34-year-old woman, who is not named in the information given by police, was rescued unhurt after a two-kilometre chase that ended with the taxi ramming into the road divider. TOI sent messages and tried to contact the woman on phone, but she did not respond. However, according to the details provided by the cops, the woman booked the taxi on an app-based service around 9pm near Gopalpur in northeast Delhi. She wanted to go to her cousin's house at the Singhu border. After driving for some time, the woman requested the driver to stop near a roadside stall to get something to quench her thirst. "The driver left the keys in the car and stepped out to buy a bottle of cold drink for his passenger. While he was thus preoccupied, a man, who was later identified as Prince Sharma, barged into the car and began driving away," a police officer elaborated. "The man hadn't realised that there was passenger sitting on the backseat. The woman rolled down the window and screamed for help. Hearing her cries for help, the cab driver realised that his car was being driven away by someone. He asked a passer-by for help and started chasing his taxi." Over two kilometres, the woman fought the carjacker. Pursuing them was the cabbie as well as two police officers who were on patrolling duty on the stretch and were informed about the theft. The woman struggled hard to get the accused to stop and her efforts resulted in a panicked Sharma losing control of the car, which rammed into a road divider. He tried to flee from the spot, but was swiftly overpowered by the cops. The woman was rescued safely. During interrogation, Sharma told police that he was a tempo driver, but his services were suspended by his employer during the lockdown. Sharma, desperate for some money, had decided to rob a cab. The cops have registered a case of robbery and abduction against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-fights-off-carjacker-in-delhi-gets-him-arrested/articleshow/77310117.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||8 Covid deaths, 790 new cases; 2k infections in just 60 hrs||Ranchi: The number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand crossed the 12-000 mar as the state recorded eight Covid casualties and 790 cases in 24 hours until 10pm on Saturday. This is the second biggest single-day death toll in the state. The figures include four casualties (all from East Singhbhum who died All four were admitted at Tata Main Hospital) and 52 fresh cases reported late on Friday night. With 738 out of total 12,494 samples testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the positive rate of samples on Saturday came around 5.9%. The number of tests conducted on Thursday was the highest since the outbreak started on March 31. The total number of tests also crossed the 3 lakh-mark milestone. The state has conducted 3,07,363 sample tests so far. The temple town of Deoghar (161 new cases) and the coal capital of Dhanbad (76) . saw their biggest single-day spike in fresh cases with 161 new infections Covid-19 cases. State capital Ranchi with 139 fresh cases. Among the four deaths reported on Saturday, two are from Hazaribag and one each from Ramgarh and Garhwa. “Patients from Ramgarh and Garhwa died at Rims and were above 65 years of age. Two patients admitted at Hazaribag Medical College also died during treatment and all had various co-morbidities,” said a health department official. With 114 recoveries reported on Saturday, the total number of Covid cases in Jharkhand rose to 12,104; of which 7,477 are active, 4,513 have recovered and 114 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-covid-deaths-790-new-cases-2k-infections-in-just-60-hrs/articleshow/77309467.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||First Covid patient to get plasma treatment in state dies||Ranchi: The first person in Jharkhand to receive the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient died at a private hospital on Saturday afternoon. The 65-year-old man from Daltonganj was admitted to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in a critical condition with high fever and respiratory distress on July 22 and was put on ventilator immediately. The patient tested positive for the new virus and was diagnosed with severe Covid-19 pneumonia. Dr Vijay Mishra, who led the team of doctors attending to him, said his condition had improved slightly after initial treatment, but they decided to administer plasma therapy on him on Tuesday as he was still critical. However, he succumbed to infection late on Friday night after 11 days of treatment. Mishra said: “We tried our best with all available medications and then used plasma therapy to save his life, but he died due to the severe Covid pneumonia.” On being asked about the results of plasma therapy, Mishra said: “This line of treatment is still under trial and the probability of success depends on the titer level of antibodies present in the plasma. We need to isolate and recognize potent plasma with good antibody titer from recovered patients to ensure that it helps the patient fight the virus.” The first plasma bank in the state was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on July 28 at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) blood bank. The Daltonganj patient was given this the therapy the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/first-covid-patient-to-get-plasma-treatment-in-state-dies/articleshow/77309386.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||People remain indoors on Bakrid amid sporadic incidents of violence in state||Ranchi: The festival of sacrifice Eid al-Adha remained largely low key in the state with reports of violence from Hazaribag and FIRs and arrests in Dhanbad. In the state capital, people mostly prayed at homes and there was no en-masse prayer at mosques. Only a few visited each other to exchange greetings and distribution of a part of the ‘sacrifice’, known as zakat, as apprehensions of contracting the virus ran high. In Hazaribag, the situation became tense after a clash between two communities over allegations of banned meat being distributed by youths under Katkamdag police station. Police had to resort to mild force to quell the clash and later fire two rounds in the air to disperse the crowd. In Ramgarh, FIR was regsitered against four office bearers of Nai Sarai Mosque and 80-85 unknown persons for violating lockdown norms and assembling at a common place to offer prayers. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar said appeals were made by the administration to offer prayers at home and avoid congregation at mosques. “Local police were informed about a gathering in the mosque in Ramgarh town area where nearly 100 people had gathered at 5.30am to offer prayers without observing social distancing norms. A case under relevant sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 has been regsitered,” he said. In yet another incident, Ibrar Alam was arrested and sent to jail in Dhanbad after he was intercepted by activists of Hindu Rashtra Sena for carrying banned meat on his scooter along with his companion Lucky Kuraishi who escaped from the spot. In other parts of the state the festival remained peaceful and confined to the households. Rate of goats plummeted in the wake of apprehensions of a dip in sale. “Goats that sell for Rs 15,000 were available for Rs 11-12,000 in the market,” said Bajrangi Ram who managed to sell four goats ahead of Bakrid. In Palamu and Garhwa, the usual festivity in the market was missing. People refrained from visiting each other and offered prayers at home with family members. “As Bakrid coincided with the holy month of Shravan, many people from the Hindu community avoided visiting their Muslim friends. The virus scare also restricted people from visiting each other,” said Haji Faizan of Palamu. Chief minister Hemant Soren extended wishes to the people on occasion of Bakrid but with a caution. “Everyone has to follow social distancing norms but there should not be distance betwreen hearts,” he said in his tweet message to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/people-remain-indoors-on-bakrid-amid-sporadic-incidents-of-violence-in-state/articleshow/77309348.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Deputy mayor to celebrate Ram Mandir’s bhoomi pujan by lighting diyas||Ranchi: City’s deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayavargiya, who wanted to do join the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on August 5, decided to celebrate the event by lighting diyas in Ranchi. Vijayavargiya has got 3,000 diyas and is getting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ written on each one of them which will be distributed in the slums. On Saturday, Vijayavargiya was seen co-ordinating the preparations and writing Jai Shri Ram at his residence in Kokar area. Talking to TOI, Vijayavargiya said, “I wanted to go to Ayodhya along with my family for the foundation laying ceremony to witness history being written, but due to Covid-19, we cancelled our plans. It is not because I wanted to be a part of a mega event, but I always wanted to do karsewa for the Ram temple. Soon after restrictions are lifted, I will visit Ayodhya to provide my services in the construction of the temple.” About lighting diyas, Vijayavargiya said, “Ayodhya had celebrated Diwali after Lord Rama returned with Sita and Lakshman after 14 years in exile and now the same land is getting a temple at his birthplace which was overdue for more than 200 years.” “My association with BJP has a Ram Mandir connection as I had joined the party in 1991 when former deputy prime minister L K Advani visited Ranchi during his Rath Yatra for the Ram temple. I was 20-year-old and had finished my graduation from Marwari College. After listening to Advani ji near Albert Ekka Chowk in a programme I decided to join BJP and took primary membership and the Ram temple issue has been very close to my heart so I have decided to celebrate it in Ranchi.” The diyas will be distributed in Lohra Kocha, Akhda Kocha, Gadigaon and Tiril which he represents in RMC as a councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deputy-mayor-to-celebrate-ram-mandirs-bhoomi-pujan-by-lighting-diyas/articleshow/77309427.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||HC staff now need to update their health status on WhatsApp daily||Ranchi: With coronavirus cases now being detected among the employees of Jharkhand high court, the court has issued a standard operating procedure to its staff. The 40-page SOP lays down the dos and don’ts for all the employees, which includes following the safety protocols in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. It also contains instructions, including in Hindi, and pictures depicting the correct use of gloves, masks and sanitisers. Among the many instructions contained in the SOP, one of them says that the employees need to create a group on WhatsApp where they will upload their health status on a daily basis. If an employee does not experience any symptoms of Covid-19 — like fever, cough and cold, among others — he/she will simply write ‘No Health Issues’ in the WhatsApp group. The staff employed in the residences of the judges will have to wear a three-layer mask with a face shield and gloves 24/7 — all of them to be provided by the high court — while working. Such workers need to change their clothes once they report to the judge’s house for duty. The guidelines states that such workers need to keep a separate set of clothes in the judge’s house so that they can change once they step in. They need to wash those clothes every day before going home. The high court staff will be available on their mobile phones round-the-clock and will have to keep the GPS on their phones on 24/7. The high court may monitor their location any time and require them to report as and when directed. No visitors will be allowed inside the residences of the judges, except with prior permission of the judge. In the event of an employee being infected, the registrar general of the high court needs to be informed. The infected employee will remain in home isolation and follow the standard Covid protocols under medical supervision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-staff-now-need-to-update-their-health-status-on-whatsapp-daily/articleshow/77309458.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||No takers for Chinese rakhis in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: Driven by anti-China sentiments, both residents and traders of Steel City are giving a miss to China-made rakhis for the Raksha Bandhan celebrations slated for Monday during the Covid-19 pandemic. The traders said since their businesses are also hit by the pandemic coupled with the reduced incomes of their customers, they are stocking up on locally made and budget rakhis this year. Krishna Agarwal, a rakhi seller at the Basant Cinema lane in Sakchi market, said, “Customers prefer desi rakhis which are not costly and we have bought stocks from Kolkata which are low to moderately priced.” He said rakhis with hand-crafted golden lace, bracelet models and capsule models with floral designs are in demand while golden-plated gota rakhis and those with vibrant colours are also selling like hotcakes. Another rakhi seller, Ajay Gupta, who owns a shop on the Sakchi-Kasidih lane of the market said, “Floral-shaped rakhis with a traditional twist are also being preferred by customers but bracelet-shaped rakhis and capsule model rakhis are more in demand this year.” In a unique marketing model, city-based women social groups, which used to organise rakhi melas before the pandemic, are selling their products over the phone and social media. Kavita Dhoot, a member of Maheswari Mandal, said, “We did not organise rakhi mela this year and used social media platforms to display our products to the customers. We take online bookings and deliver them.” A business manager from Kadma, Smriti Kumari, said, “Rakhis of different prices are available in the market but people prefer those in the range of Rs 20 to Rs 50.” The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which had given a call to the traders to sell desi rakhis only following confrontations with the Chinese soldiers at the border in June, said Chinese rakhis have virtually disappeared from the markets in Jamshedpur. “Our campaign on social media platforms has achieved considerable success as neither the customer is demanding the China items nor the local traders are selling them,” CAIT national secretary Suresh Sonthalia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/no-takers-for-chinese-rakhis-in-steel-city/articleshow/77309358.cms||B Sridhar
August 2, 2020||India||NEP’s language focus step towards realising Tilak’s dream: Shah||NEW DELHI: India’s new education policy and its emphasis on Sanskrit and other local languages is a step towards realising freedom fighter stalwart Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s dream to celebrate India’s own linguistic strength, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Speaking at an ICCR event to commemorate Tilak on his 100th death anniversary, Shah said the leader had asked for delegates at a Congress plenary to speak in Hindi and in other Indian languages, and India’s new education policy follows in Tilak’s footsteps to help students connect with the Indian culture and roots. Shah’s speech at a function by ICCR was significant seen in the context of BJP in recent years seeking to “appropriate” non-Nehru-Gandhi leaders in the Congress pantheon whose views on nationalism are perceived closer to saffron formulations. Addressing the webinar, Shah said PM Modi’s idea of self reliance was a leaf out of Tilak’s own ideas and teachings about Swaraj and Swadeshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/neps-language-focus-step-towards-realising-tilaks-dream-shah/articleshow/77310120.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi schools to remain shut till August 31||NEW DELHI: Schools in the city will remain closed till August 31, following the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs. Issuing a circular to the schools, the directorate of education said, "All schools will remain closed for students till August 31. The students will not be called for any activity during the said period. Online classes and teaching-learning activities will continue as usual." Schools have been shut since March due to the spread of Covid-19. The schools have also been asked to ensure that the staff do not leave the station without prior permission. "Heads of schools are authorised to call teachers and staff as per the requirement," it added. DoE has directed government schools to continue with online classes and assignments. Watch Delhi schools to remain shut till August 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-schools-to-remain-shut-till-august-31/articleshow/77310130.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Control room in Vizag to monitor hosp bed availability in real time||VISAKHAPATNAM: With over 10,000 Covid-19 cases being reported in Visakhapatnam over the last 15 days, the demand for hospital beds has shot up. Many people have been complaining of a lack of beds in hospitals. The district has 8,172 active cases as of August 1. Following complaints about shortage of beds as well as manpower, the district administration has decided to set up a centralised Covid-19 control room within the first week of August to connect with hospitals. Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 for north-coastal AP said, “There will be an app. Through this app, nodal officers of 26 Covid-19 hospitals will send hourly updates to the control room about the availability of regular beds, oxygen beds and beds with ventilators.” “On the basis of data and a patient’s health condition, five doctors will take a decision on the hospital to which the patient will be shifted,” Dr Sudhakar said. Further, in order to address the staff crunch, 470 staff nurses are being deployed in various hospitals in addition to the deployment of specialist doctors from IMA and nursing students, Dr Sudhakar said. “Incentives are being given to all of them ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh. While students will receive Rs 10,000, nurses will get Rs 24,000. General duty doctors will receive Rs 70,000 and specialist doctors Rs 1.5lakh,” he added. In accordance with the directives issued by the district collector, appointed nodal officers of the 26 hospitals will monitor the availability of beds and update the same on the designated web portal in a ‘real-time manner’ every six hours. Nodal officers are required to be in constant contact with the control room. Visakhapatnam district reported 1,155 new Covid-19 cases on August 1. This takes the district’s total tally to 12,323. 94 deaths have been reported in the district so far. The last three days of July saw Visakhapatnam report nearly 1,000 Covid-19 cases daily on average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/control-room-in-vizag-to-monitor-hosp-bed-availability-in-real-time/articleshow/77307900.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||1,893 cops recover from Covid-19||Vijayawada: DGP D Gautam Sawang said on Saturday that 52 per cent police personnel suffering from Covid-19 have recovered. The DGP said that 1,893 of the 3,600 police personnel who contracted the virus have recovered and many have joined duty. DGP Sawang was speaking at a webinar conducted by the AP police in association with Apollo Hospitals. “After the lockdown was lifted in June, increased public movement left police personnel exposed to the virus. Within the first week, we saw 39 people infected. By the end of June, the number shot up to 265,” the DGP said. He further said: “The police generally work in teams. This causes the virus to spread at a faster rate among them. We could somehow insulate police personnel above 55 years of age by not posting them on the field.” DGP Sawang also launched a hotline number for police personnel who have symptoms and wish to consult with doctors. Any cop who has symptoms and comorbidities can now call 18005323100 to get necessary consultation and support. The webinar focussed on creating awareness about the novel coronavirus among the police. Experts laid down the basics of how the pandemic started. Detailed precautionary measures including the need to maintain a strong immune system were discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1893-cops-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/77307915.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP relaxes curbs on interstate movement||VIJAYAWADA: Following the announcement of Unlock 3.0 guidelines by the Union government, the state government has eased restrictions on interstate travel. People can now travel to the state without prior approval. However, those coming from other states must register themselves on the Spandana App before entering the state. The pass generation system has been altered in a way that it will generate an automatic pass after applying on the system with requisite details including names, addresses and contact details. MT Krishna Babu, nodal officer of Covid-19 control centre, said that registration details are mandatory that in order to keep a track on people coming from other states. Police at border check-posts across the state have made arrangements to register details of passengers coming from other states. People are being allowed entry only after verification of registration details. Those coming in without registration are being asked to register right there at the check-posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-relaxes-curbs-on-interstate-movement/articleshow/77307923.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||770 booked for breaking home isolation in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Nearly 770 people have been booked in the city for violating home quarantine rules in the past 30 days. About 1.4 lakh people are currently in home isolation, according to civic body BBMP. Hangouts with friends and store trips to buy essential items are the main reasons cited by the offenders. Many also blatantly lie about their infractions. A senior BBMP official, who is in charge of home quarantine protocols, said such callous attitude was causing problems for the city and its fight against Covid-19. “BBMP can get thousands of volunteers to monitor a ward, but if people don’t take it seriously, we cannot do much,” he said. Over 30,000 volunteers, including BBMP marshals, health officials and members of apartment and resident welfare associations, are helping authorities keep an eye on people in quarantine. Yet, the number of people disregarding isolation rules is very high. “The excuses they give are baffling. ‘We stepped out to meet our friends, we were bored.’ Is this worth risking everyone’s health?” said another BBMP official. “Keeping the young population in line is challenging. They don’t listen to us and sneak out of their homes.” Visiting a store to buy groceries is also a prominent factor. “Those quarantined at home may not be technically in containment zones. So, many of them ignore safety advice and venture out to buy things. This is a big group. They don’t understand that they could be potential carriers of the virus and might infect others,” said a senior health official handling the Covid-19 surveillance efforts. According to special commissioner J Manjunath, Mahadevapura zone, Bengaluru South and Bengaluru East have the highest number of travellers who arrived in the city by road, train or flight. Over 60 per cent of the violators of home quarantine lie that they never stepped out. “Everyone who returned to the city would have downloaded Seva Sindhu application and registered themselves. They are also asked to download Quarantine Watch app, so they can be monitored for a 14-day period,” said Manjunath. Many people delete the application or leave their phones at home while stepping out. “Often, neighbours alert BBMP officials about such breaches. When officials confront the violators, they lie saying they never went out,” Manjunath said. A popular excuse is: “We never knew that we were not supposed to go out. Nobody told us.” “The excuses are embarrassing. All returnees are clearly told that they should stay inside for 14 days,” he added. So far, no serious action has been taken other than naming the violators in police FIRs. Police officers visit their homes and issue a warning. “Home quarantine plays a vital role in controlling the spread of coronavirus. People should understand that the protocols are designed for their and their family members’ safety,” Manjunath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/770-booked-for-breaking-home-quarantine-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77310056.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Many sanitiser deaths in Andhra unreported?||VIJAYAWADA: At least 36 people have died in Andhra Pradesh after consuming sanitizer and surgical spirit in place of alcohol. Cases have been reported in West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Prakasam, Vijayawada and Kadapa. Recently, 11 people at Kurichedu village in Prasakam district died after drinking sanitizer. Moreover, a 52-year-old woman and her 24-year-old son committed suicide by consuming sanitizer at Chennur town in Kadapa district. While the recent spate of such incidents may come as a shock, police believe that many cases have gone unreported. In fact, in the same Kurichedu village, two cases went unreported when family members had already cremated the bodies by the time the police found out. The deceased were identified as Kunda Agustin and Palepu Dasu. Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal announced on Saturday that a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to probe the sanitizer-related deaths in Kurichedu. Many people decided to use sanitizer to quench their alcohol addiction during the lockdown. This phenomenon is coming to the fore when the state government is considering a complete prohibition on alcohol. Speaking to TOI, Ramakrishna, the owner of a medical supplies store in Nidamanuru village said that he has seen some people purchase sanitizers daily. “If the sanitizers are being used to only keep hands clean then one bottle should be enough for a month,” said a speculative Ramakrishna while adding that he has observed some making bulk purchases which raises suspicion. Watch Andhra Pradesh: Many deaths unreported as dozens lose lives after drinking sanitiser instead of alcohol||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/36-lives-lost-sanitizer-drinking-emerges-as-cause-for-concern/articleshow/77307954.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||44-year-old Vizag harbour to get a facelift soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam fishing harbour, which was established in 1976, is all set to be modernised to boost business at the fish landing centre and its market. “Our focus is to develop fishing infrastructure in the state rather than to introduce welfare schemes for the fishermen. Two existing harbours in the state are lined up for modernisation and one of them is the Visakhapatnam fishing harbour,” said Seediri Appalaraju, the state fisheries minister. The project would essentially include building of roads, jetties, cubicles and drainage facilities, besides many other amenities. A cold storage facility and capacity augmentation of the fish market is also in the plans. “The focus is to improve the hygiene at the harbour and to equip it with state-of-the-art infrastructure,” a senior fisheries official told STOI. The district fisheries officials have prepared a detailed project report for the modernisation of the harbour and have forwarded it to the fisheries commissioner in Vijayawada. The DPR would now be forwarded to the Union ministry of fisheries who would sanction the funds for the project. “The Union fisheries ministry would fund the Rs 100-crore project under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojona. We hope that the ministry approves the DPR and sanctions the fund soon,” joint commissioner of fisheries, Visakhapatnam, K Phani Prakash told STOI. Although the deadline for the project has not been fixed, as per the DPR, the project would be completed within one to one and -a-half years. The renovation comes at the right time as the fishing harbour had suffered damages when Cyclone Hudhud hit the city in October 2014. Two years later, in March 2016, the fisheries department had submitted a DPR to the state government to develop the harbour by adding modern amenities. The Rs 40 crore DPR was then prepared by the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) under the Union ministry of commerce and industry. Officials recalled, the project failed to evoke interest of officials. “Till 2019 there was a tug-of-war between the state and the Centre with the DPR and nothing materialised. Finally, in September 2019, when fisheries minister Giriraj Singh came to Visakhapatnam he asked for a fresh DPR with an increased project cost to be submitted. Subsequently, the government prepared the Rs 100 crore DPR. Hopefully, this time the project would take off,” Arijili Dasu, the secretary of District Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Association told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/44-year-old-vizag-harbour-to-get-a-facelift-soon/articleshow/77307975.cms||Arpit Basu
August 2, 2020||World||Xi pushes for boost in ties with Nepal||BEIJING: Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday said he wants to push for a continued advancement of relations with Nepal amidst Beijing’s sustained forays to shore up pro-China Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s grip on power in the backdrop of intra-party feud in the ruling communist party. In an exchange of congratulatory messages with his Nepalese counterpart Bidhya Devi Bhandari on the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties, Xi asserted that he was ready to work to bring greater benefits to people of the two countries. He said that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Nepal relations and is willing to work with Bhandari to push for the continued advancement of the bilateral relationship. He said since the establishment of the diplomatic ties, the two countries have always respected each other, treated each other as equals, enhanced mutual trust and deepened mutually beneficial cooperation. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Oli also exchanged greetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/xi-pushes-for-boost-in-ties-with-nepal/articleshow/77310148.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Door-to-door checks in Bengaluru every 10 days||BENGALURU: With Bengaluru continuing to witness a spike in Covid cases, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to fastrack identification of vulnerable segments, including senior citizens and those with underlying medical conditions, by undertaking door-to-door surveys across the city every 10 days. The civic agency set the ball rolling in ward number 18 on Saturday with BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad exhorting members of booth-level committees to swing into action. Bengaluru has been reporting around 2,000 Covid cases every day — and a positivity rate of 17.5%. Not many are coming forward to get themselves tested, fearing social stigma attached to the infection. “A personal touch is a great way to motivate people to reach out to us in case of any change in their condition,” Prasad said. ‘Door-to-door survey will help fight stigma’The volunteers will ascertain the health status of those with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and comorbidities. “With the ease in lockdown, there would be a possible rise in the number of Covid cases and in order to control it, we need to conduct surveys to rule out ILI/ SARI patients and senior citizens with comorbidities,” Prasad told STOI. This is the second time that the civic agency has come up with the idea of conducting door-to door surveys. Prasad’s predecessor, BH Anil Kumar, had commissioned a survey in the beginning of May and nearly 85% of the work was completed. A total of 30 lakh households were covered during the survey and it was found that there were 7.5 lakh senior citizens, of whom 1.9 lakh had comorbid conditions. With the change of guard at BBMP, the survey results were put on the backburner and the surveyors dropped out following an increase in Covid cases. Asked if another survey was needed when the previous one has created a database, Prasad said: “In the current scenario, where a lot of stigma is attached, we need to gain the trust of each and every resident. With a door-to-door survey and follow-up action the people will feel comfortable and come forward to report their symptoms and get tests done. Many times, people hide the truth, fearing their homes will turn into containment zones. This needs to change. A personal touch is a great way to motivate people to reach out to us in case of any change in their condition. Local leaders/councillors play a major role in this. Phone calls do not let us achieve this.” BBMP has now partnered with non-profit organisation Janaagraha at the ward level and envisages monitoring of streets by volunteers. “If the city needs to be free from Covid, everybody needs to wear the cape of a superhero and contribute. We are thinking of fixing an honorarium for volunteers and discussions are on,” he said, assuring volunteers of full medical support in case of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/door-to-door-checks-in-bengaluru-every-10-days/articleshow/77310149.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Case against private hospital in Bengaluru for not sharing information of Covid patients||BENGALURU: The district administration on Saturday filed a criminal case against the head of a private hospital in Marathahalli and two executives for allegedly not sharing details of Covid-19 patients admitted there in the past one month. Officials reportedly wanted to review these details to confirm if the patients were charged as per the government-approved rates. The complaint, registered at Marathahalli police station, names Deepak Balani, chief of medical services, Sakra World Hospital; Deepak Agarkhed, associate vice-president; and Deepthi, assistant general manager. According to the complaint, IAS officer Uma Mahadevan and IPS officer Sunil Agarwal visited the hospital on Wednesday to gather information. The hospital allegedly didn’t furnish details of Covid-19 patients who were admitted between June 23 and July 29, copies of bills and payment slips. It reportedly also failed to provide other documents that the two-member team had requested. A police officer said the team wanted to check the bills to see if the hospital had stayed within the price cap fixed by the government. After the visit, the deputy commissioner was urged to take action against the hospital. The district health officer’s personal secretary registered the case on the behalf of Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner GN Shivamurthy. The case has been filed under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, Indian Penal Code, and Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. Hospital rejects allegationsDeepak Balani, chief of medical services, Sakra World Hospital, rejected the allegations and said he was not aware about any case being registered against the management. “We’ve been working hard from day one to treat Covid-19 patients and this has come as a great shock to us. Legal action will be a huge setback to the fight against Covid-19 as we need a coordinated effort,” he told STOI. “As I am not aware about an FIR being registered, I don’t want to comment more.” Saturday’s development comes days after the government faced public criticism for not doing enough to make private hospitals fall in line on the issues of treatment charges and sharing bed capacity. After several complaints of Covid-19 patients being overcharged for treatment and stay, the government has launched a crackdown. Recently, IPS officer D Roopa and IAS officer Harsha Gupta, who are part of a task force, made surprise inspections at various hospitals and found that Covid-19 were billed excessively. At least 22 patients were asked to pay more than the government-approved charges. Refunds were later issued to these patients. A private hospital in Seshadripuram was accused of billing a Covid-19 patient Rs 6 lakh. Medical education minister K Sudhakar demanded action in this instance. During their visits, Uma Mahadevan and Sunil Agarwal made a hospital repay about Rs 5 lakh to 14 patients. Private hospitals have also been accused of not reserving 50 per cent of their beds for Covid-19 patients. The licences of 19 private hospitals were temporarily cancelled after they failed to reserve beds. “Two things are going on simultaneously. One is denial of admission and another one is excessive billing. We are trying to prevent this,” said an official in the department of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-case-against-private-hospital-for-not-sharing-information-on-covid-patients/articleshow/77310081.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Conflicting results add to anxieties||MANGALURU: Inaccurate Covid-19 test reports are adding to the anxieties of patients and their family members in Dakshina Kannada district. Health and district officials are also concerned about the increasing number of complaints. In one case, a Mangaluru man with fever underwent an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 after visiting a private hospital. The test report came positive. But fresh tests, ordered by another hospital, showed that he didn’t have the coronavirus infection and was actually suffering from dengue. The patient is recovering. His family members, while relieved that he doesn’t have Covid-19, voiced displeasure about the conflicting test reports. A post on the case has been widely circulated on social media. The patient’s brother told STOI that the family took him to a private hospital in the city on July 24. There, he underwent multiple tests, including one for Covid-19. “After two days, the hospital informed us that he had tested positive for coronavirus and he was advised home isolation. Four days later, we took him to another private hospital and new tests were conducted,” the brother said. “This time, the result showed him to be positive for dengue and negative for Covid-19. He is recovering from the illness.” The issue has been brought to the notice of district deputy commissioner KV Rajendra. “There are two major types of tests — rapid antigen and RT-PCR. A positive report in the rapid antigen test is 100 per cent confirmation. If the result comes negative though the person has some symptoms, a RT-PCR test is ordered for further confirmation. In a few cases, there have been false positive or negative reports. It may be because of the viral load or testing method,” Rajendra said. “Ninety-nine per cent of the reports of RT-PCR tests are accurate. We cannot suspect the method just because of two or three cases. We have been trying to create awareness on the issue.” Reduction in the viral load can also influence the result of the second test. “RT-PCR is accepted across the world,” Rajendra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/conflicting-test-reports-add-to-patients-woes/articleshow/77310090.cms||Vinobha K T
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 88-year-old patient gets ambulance after 2 days||BENGALURU: Around 11am on Thursday, 88-year-old Narasaiah received a message that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The BBMP control room told him to be ready in two hours to be shifted to hospital. Narasaiah took BBMP at its word and waited. He got to hospital only on Saturday. A resident of Kirloskar boundary near Mahalakshmi Layout, Narasaiah has hip and leg injuries. He was to be operated upon but before that, Covid tests were conducted. “We received a call on Thursday morning that the ambulance will come within two hours to shift him. It was already a shock that he had tested positive,” said his daughter-inlaw Sharadha Manjunath. “It was made worse by the fact that the ambulance never turned up, despite calling the helpline several times.” On Friday night, the ambulance arrived and as Narasaiah was not in a state to get up, the ambulance staff returned, saying they would bring a stretcher. “We informed our corporator M Shivaraj who called up the district health officer. On Saturday afternoon, they came home and shifted him to hospital,” she said. “We live in a 12x12 feet house. After he tested positive, we had to sleep outside as we were primary contacts. Even if someone wants to help us, nobody can,” said Sharadha, who has no news of Narasaiah since he was shifted. Watch Bengaluru: 2 hours wait for an ambulance turns into 48 hours for 88-year-old Covid patient||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-88-year-old-patient-gets-ambulance-after-2-days/articleshow/77310162.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 2, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 battle: Private doctors offer to work for free in Karnataka's Haveri||HAVERI: Private doctors in Haveri are offering their services for free at the district Covid-19 hospital, setting an example amid a litany of complaints in parts of Karnataka about private practitioners and hospitals dilly-dallying or charging high rates. The entire fraternity of private doctors in Haveri district is ready to treat patients at dedicated government hospitals and Covid Care Centres without any expectations of remuneration or perks. Eight doctors are already serving in the district hospital. Over 570 doctors, including Ayush practitioners, are registered under the Private Medical Establishment Act (KPME) in Haveri and all of them want to support the district administration’s Covid-19 efforts. “It is our prime responsibility to help the government to overcome this health crisis. We met the district health officer and gave our consent to work. We don’t want any remuneration. In fact, the government should use that money for medical requirements,” said Dr Basavaraj G Veerapur. Dr Mruthyunjaya Turkani, president of the IMA Haveri unit, echoed the sentiment. “Better to use our service at government Covid hospitals or centres instead of reserving beds at private hospitals in the district,” he said. District health officer Dr Rajendra Doddamani confirmed that private doctors had volunteered to work without charge. “We have accepted their offer and are ready to provide all the facilities they need to work in isolation wards,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar also praised the doctors’ initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-battle-private-doctors-offer-to-work-for-free-in-haveri/articleshow/77310086.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
August 2, 2020||Mangaluru||No flight home, Spanish woman enjoys village life in Karnataka's Udupi||MANGALURU: A Spanish tourist, who arrived in India in March and couldn’t leave because of the coronavirus pandemic, has been enjoying the village life in Udupi district, learning the local language, culture and ways. Tresa Soriano, 34, an industrial designer from the Spanish city of Valencia, can now speak a few sentences in Kannada. She’s been staying at a friend’s house in Heranjal village, Kundapur. “I was lucky to be in a rural area during the lockdown. Compared to cities, people are safer in the villages. We have more freedom to enjoy and involve ourselves in the natural environment,” said Tresa, who is visiting India for the first time. “I like to learn and live new experiences. In Heranjal, I’ve had the opportunity to be involved in various activities: peanut cultivation, milking cows, transplanting paddy, fishing in the river, collecting leaves from the forest, creating rangoli patterns and preparing brooms from coconut fronds.” Tresa had planned the India trip for almost a year after hearing great things from her brother, Carlos, and his colleague and friend, Krishna Poojari, who hails from Heranjal. She landed in March with plans to tour India and Sri Lanka with her boyfriend before flying back in May. Things went by the board as the pandemic erupted. Her boyfriend, who flew in separately, could not leave Mumbai airport because of the nation-wide lockdown and returned to Spain. Tresa was stranded in Karnataka. Krishna and his family then offered to host her in Heranjal. A faltering trip turned into a memorable experience as she explored life in coastal Karnataka. She learned about farming and the Tulu culture with the help of Krishna’s mother, Chikkamma. “Learning Kannada is difficult, but it’s a beautiful language. I try to converse in it a little bit with the local people,” Tresa said. “My first experience in India has been amazing. People are friendly. I now have an Indian family, which welcomed me like a daughter. I’m very grateful to them.” She plans to visit Goa before returning to Spain once international flight operations resume. “I’m happy we could help her in this tough situation. We admire the way she has utilised the time here to understand the local cultures and customs,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-flight-home-spanish-woman-enjoys-village-life-in-udupi/articleshow/77310049.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Record 3,800 Covid-19 patients discharged in Karnataka in 24 hours||BENGALURU: Despite a steep rise in Covid-19 positive cases, Karnataka in the past 24 hours saw 3,860 patients walking out of the hospital cured of the infection. It’s the highest number of discharges in a day so far. According to the department of health and family welfare, Karnataka reported 5,172 positive cases in the past 24 hours, including 1,852 in Bengaluru. Of the 3,860 discharged, 1,683 were from Bengaluru. Karnataka recorded 98 deaths in 24 hours, including 27 in Bengaluru. Karnataka has reported 2,412 deaths in all. Bengaluru has 37,760 active casesCurrently, the state has 73,219 active cases of the 1,29,287 positive cases reported. Bengaluru has 37,760, Ballari 3,479, Dakshina Kannada 3,107 and Mysuru 2,840 active cases. In Karnataka, patients who were admitted just two or three days ago have been discharged on Saturday. For example, Patient No. 1,11,592 who was admitted two days ago in Dharwad was discharged on Saturday. A health official said the patient was asymptomatic and tested negative later. Kerala on Saturday reported 1,129 positive cases and nine fatalities taking the toll to 82. Tamil Nadu reported 5,879 fresh cases and 99 deaths in the past 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh reported 9,276 new cases taking the total to 1,50,209 and Delhi reported 1,118 positive cases and 26 deaths in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/record-3800-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-karnataka-in-24-hours/articleshow/77310185.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nurses protest to demand better pay, health cover||BENGALURU: Nursing employees from various institutions that come under the medical education department held a protest at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Saturday, demanding better pay and benefits. Clad in PPE suits, they sought a 50 per cent hike in basic salary, government insurance and cover under the Jyothi Sanjeevini Scheme. They also said that they should be brought under the New Pension Scheme. “We are frontline workers in a pandemic. The government should treat us like government employees by providing better pay and insurance cover,” said a nurse at the demonstration. The employees wore black armbands as a mark of protest. “We have been pleading for basic socio-economic demands for the past five years, but the government has been turning a blind eye to our problems. We will continue to wear black armbands till our demands are fulfilled,” said another nurse. She added: “The government must bring us under the New Pension Scheme and treat us with some dignity as we have been working tirelessly during the pandemic.” Nurses said though they and their family members were more vulnerable to Covid-19, the government had not offered any assurance on proper treatment. They claimed many staff members on Covid-19 duty contracted the virus but didn’t get access to good healthcare facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-nurses-protest-to-demand-better-pay-health-cover/articleshow/77310096.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||1st Covid-19 victim in Chanda, record 20 deaths in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Chandrapur registered first Covid-19 death on Saturday and lost its status as the only district in Maharashtra that had not reported any victim of novel coronavirus so far. Vidarbha reported record 20 Covid deaths on Saturday — 13 in Nagpur, four in Akola and two in Yavatmal — to take the toll past the 400-mark. With 637 cases reported in a day, the region’s caseload reached 15,612. The region has been reporting 500 cases a day on an average since July 24. On Saturday, Nagpur district registered highest 270 cases, followed by Buldhana (80), Amravati (71), Yavatmal (41), Akola (38), Gondia (33), Gadchiroli (29), Chandrapur (29), Washim (26), Wardha (15), and Bhandara (5). The day also saw total 330 patients recovering from the disease. Nagpur registered highest recoveries (79), Yavatmal (65), Amravati (63), Buldhana (43), Wardha (30), Akola (18), Chandrapur (16), Washim (8), Bhandara (7), and Gondia (1). With 10,520 out of total 15,612 patients having recovered, Vidarbha’s recovery rate has reached 67.4% which is better than Maharashtra’s 61% and national average of 64.5%. Chandrapur: The first Covid-19 victim of Chandrapur, a 38-year-old man, was a resident of Rahmat Nagar and was admitted late on Thursday night at Covid hospital here in a critical condition. Sources claimed the deceased had gone to Amravati to meet his wife who was at her maternal home for delivery. He returned on Thursday with severe symptoms of coronavirus infection. Official sources claimed that he succumbed to the infection on Saturday afternoon, while his swab test report was still awaited. His test report confirmed Covid-19 infection in the evening. Earlier, a 75-year-old woman Covid-19 patient belonging to Adilabad district in Telangana state had died at Chandrapur government medical college and hospital here on July 24. However, her death was not counted in Chandrapur as she was native of Telangana. The district also registered 13 new patients on Saturday taking the total to 536 cases. With 338 patients having recovered, 198 are under treatment. Meanwhile, only one out of 114 employees of district collectorate who were tested was found positive on Saturday. Earlier three employees had tested positive on Friday. Officials claimed collector Dr Kumar Khemnar he neither tested nor quarantined as none of the employees came in his contact. Akola: With four Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, Akola’s toll reached 117. A 58-year-old man from Jetwan Nagar, Khadan, in Akola city died during treatment. He was admitted on July 26. A 69-year-old man from Hiwarkhed in Telhara who was admitted on July 23 died during treatment. Two deaths were reported at Ozon Hospital, a private hospital acquired by the Akola Municipal Corporation for Covid-19 treatment. Here, a 77-year-old woman from Nanak Nagar, Nimwadi, and a 72-year-old man from Ambika Layout in Akola died during treatment. The district also registered 39 new cases to take the total to 2,661. Total 18 patients recovered on Saturday and 430 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded two more deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 32. One of the victims was a 60-year-old man from Yavatmal city’s Telipura area while another a 70-year old man from ward no. 1 in Digras. The district registered 41 new cases taking total to 1,117. In a relief, 65 patients were discharged from the isolation wards of GMC. Now, 425 patients are under treatment. Amravati: The district on Saturday recorded 71 new cases, including 14 from rural belt, to take its Covid count to 2,228. The day saw 63 patients getting discharge to take the number of recovered patients to 1,576 while 591 are under treatment, including 15 at Nagpur. With 14 new cases, the Covid count from rural areas increased to 459. Waruda village near Badnera registered four cases including two girls aged two and four. Village Kekatpur and Achalpur gave two cases each while Walgaon three cases. A case each came from Morshi and Belora in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil. A woman from Murtijapur town in Akola district also tested positive. The remaining 56 cases came from different localities in the city with Chhanganinagar and Badnera reporting the five each. Dasturnagar reported four while three came from Sainagar. Shobhanagar, Kholapuri Gate, Gayatrinagar, Devi Dhanashri Colony and Gangotri colony reported two cases each. A case each came from 27 different localities. The city observed a total janata curfew on Saturday. The curfew will remain in force till 7am of Monday. Wardha: The day saw 31 patients getting discharged while 15 new patients were admitted after testing positive. The patients are from Arvi (9), Wardha (4) and Ashti 2. Currently, 44 patients are under treatment in the district. Gondia: Highest single-day spike of 33 cases was reported in Gondia district on August 1. Of these, 24 are from Gondia tehsil alone which include six residents of Sindhi Colony, two from Shrinagar and eight from Kudwa localities in Gondia. The district has registered 60 new cases in past three days. Now, district has total 322 cases, including 232 recovered and three deaths. There are 87 patients under treatment. Buldhana: With 80 new patients in a day, Buldhana’s Covid count surged to 1,348. Total 43 patients recovered in a day taking number of discharged patients to 830. With this, Buldhana’s recovery rate crossed the 60% mark for the first time in last 25 days. With 30 Covid-19 deaths registered till date, Buldhana has 488 patients under treatment. Washim: With 26 new patients coming from various parts of district on Saturday, Washim’s cases reached 620. Total 12 patients are from Washim city while others are from Karanja Lad, Manora, and Risod tehsils. With 394 patients discharged till date, Washim’s recovery rate is 64%. The district has reported 16 deaths, including 1 suicide, so far. Now, 210 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: With five new patients and seven getting discharge on Saturday, Bhandara now has 255 cases, including 204 recoveries, two deaths and 49 under treatment. Out of these, four patients have been referred to Nagpur. Gadchiroli: With 10 from CRPF Aheri, and 13 members of Dhanora police station, total 29 new patients were detected in Gadchiroli on Saturday. Total cases surged to 606 with 424 recoveries till date. Gadchiroli has reported one death so far. Total 181 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-covid-19-victim-in-chanda-record-20-deaths-in-vidarbha/articleshow/77309289.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Covid-19 patient’s kin tweet to PM, CM on boycott||VIJAYAPURA: Their newspapers were stopped, the milkman and help were barred and nobody would so much as speak to them. Facing a social boycott, the wife of a Covid-19 patient here appealed to the PM, CM, state health minister and district DC on Twitter to intervene and ensure the family was not deprived of essential supplies. Responding to the woman’s plaint on Friday, officials visited the house in Chalukya Nagar on Saturday and made sure that basic items, including milk and medicines, were provided. Boycott plaintWill create awareness, punish violators: DCDeputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar said: “It’s not good to deny or prevent services to Covid affected families. We will create awareness among neighbours in the area. If we find someone has violated norms, we will prosecute them.” In her tweets, the woman alleged that neighbours stopped the milkman from visiting their home, citing risk of infection. “Even the domestic help refused to visit our house. The complete social boycott from neighbours is more painful than Covid,” she said. Other members of the family alleged that neighbours stopped newspaper hawkers as well. “We have isolated the Covid patient on the first floor and are giving him all the medication prescribed by the health department. We are residing in the ground floor of the house and following all Covid norms,” the wife said. After the DC intervened, Vijayapura City Corporation commissioner Harsha Shetty and other officials visited the family on Saturday and assured help. Shetty told the family t essentials, including milk and medicines, would be reached to them. “We cannot force the help to come to work. We spoke to her, but she is afraid of getting infected. The milkman and newspaper boy have agreed to deliver to the household,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-patients-kin-tweet-to-pm-cm-on-boycott/articleshow/77310197.cms||---
August 2, 2020||World||SpaceX craft departs from ISS for Earth||WASHINGTON: The SpaceX Crew Dragon spacecraft undocked from the International Space Station on Saturday with two US astronauts on board, beginning their journey back to Earth despite a storm threatening Florida. NASA footage showed the capsule drifting slowly away from the ISS in the darkness of space, closing out two months aboard for the first US astronauts to reach the orbiting lab on an American spacecraft in nearly a decade. "And they are off!" the US space agency tweeted, with Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken set to splash down Sunday. NASA later added the capsule was confirmed to be "on a safe trajectory." Their proposed splash-down sites are off the coast of western Florida's panhandle, while tropical storm Isaias is headed toward the state's east coast. NASA opted to go ahead with bringing the pair home despite the threat of Isaias, which was downgraded to a tropical storm from a hurricane on Saturday. "Now is the entry, descent and splashdown phase after we undock, hopefully a little bit later today," Hurley said in a farewell ceremony aboard the ISS that was broadcast on NASA TV. "The teams are working really hard, especially with the dynamics of the weather over the next few days around Florida," he said. Earlier, during the ISS ceremony, Behnken said that "the hardest part was getting us launched. But the most important part is bringing us home." Addressing his son and Hurley's son, he held up a toy dinosaur that the children chose to send on the mission and said: "Tremor The Apatosaurus is headed home soon and he'll be with your dads." Behnken later tweeted: "All my bags are packed, I'm ready to go." Mission chief Chris Cassidy called it an "exciting day" and hailed the importance of having a new means to transport astronauts. The mission, which blasted off May 30, marked the first time a crewed spaceship had launched into orbit from American soil since 2011 when the space shuttle program ended. It was also the first time a private company has flown to the ISS carrying astronauts. The US has paid SpaceX and aerospace giant Boeing a total of about $7 billion for their "space taxi" contracts. But Boeing's program has floundered badly after a failed test run late last year, which left SpaceX, a company founded only in 2002, as clear frontrunner. For the past nine years, US astronauts traveled exclusively on Russian Soyuz rockets, for a price of around $80 million per seat. Watch SpaceX crew bid goodbye to International Space Station before returning to Earth||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-crew-dragon-undocks-from-iss-for-return-to-earth-nasa/articleshow/77310187.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Suspend trials, BMCRI warns Ayurvedic doctor after claims||BENGALURU: The ethics committee of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute warned Ayurvedic practitioner Dr Giridhara Kaje to suspend trials for public statements that his medicine could cure Covid-19 patients even though clinical trials are still under way. The notice issued to Dr Kaje, principal investigator, Prashanthi Ayurvedic Centre, Rajajinagar said, that though clinical trials are in the preliminary stage and no results have been placed before the committee, he has claimed success in public. “This is unacceptable and amounts to overstepping of one’s responsibility. You are aware that any disclosure of such sensitive information will have to be with all clearances from various appropriate authorities. The above act is viewed seriously since the information is very sensitive in the present circumstance,” the notice read. The clinical trial ‘to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tablet Bhoumya and tablet Saathmya as an add-on therapy to standard of care in Covid-19 positive patient’ is still under way. The committe’s move comes after Kaje made several public statements that his medicine can be used to treat Covid-19 patients. Tourism minister CT Ravi, who tested positive, claimed he was cured after taking medicine prescribed by Kaje. Kaje told STOI: “I have not received any notice from the committee. I saw it on social media and it is dated July 17. I’ve never made such statements and until the medicine is authorised, I won’t prescribe it to patients. I came across social media posts where many claimed the medicine costs Rs 150 and can cure Covid-19. I’ve already said on my Facebook page that people shouldn’t get misguided by such fake news.” An official said, “The report he submitted is just a claim. It must go through scientific process and testing. He has shared data of his study in the public domain which is incorrect on his part. He cannot make claims without the clinical trials being completed.” Kaje got approval from Indian Council for Medical Research to conduct clinical trials. In his proposal, he claimed that he had conducted tests on 10 patients aged between 23 and 65 year between June 7 and 25. He claimed the patients had recovered quickly by taking Bhoumya and Saathmya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suspend-trials-bmcri-warns-ayurvedic-doctor/articleshow/77310105.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 2, 2020||Goa||Swab testing machine for Verna industrial workers facilitates reports in 24 hours||MARGAO: A Covid testing machine for testing swab samples exclusively of industrial workers from the Verna industrial estate has begun functioning from the South Goa district hospital. Reports of samples, which would otherwise take several days, are now made available within 24 hours. Goa Small Industries Association (GSAI) president Damodar Kochkar said the facility has been set up through the contribution made by the Verna Industries Association. “The testing machine has been sponsored by a firm having operations in the Verna industrial estate. Two microbiologists have also been provided by the association for conducting the tests,” he said. A swab collection kiosk is already functional in the industrial estate since the last three months. It is manned by a three-member medical team from the Sancoale ESI dispensary, headed by Dr Sunil Kavlekar. Now, with the machine installed, samples collected at this centre are sent to the South Goa district hospital testing centre and the reports are made available the next day. A vacant industrial unit in the industrial estate has also been placed at the disposal of the South Goa district administration to be used as a Covid care centre for infected industrial workers. “The South Goa collector inspected the premises yesterday and indicated his approval. The premises will be available to accommodate 100 beds,” Kochkar said. While all other facilities at the proposed Covid care centre, including meals, will be provided by the Verna Industries Association, housekeeping and medical services will be provided by the state health department, as per the arrangement agreed upon. “The Covid care centre will benefit all under-privileged industrial workers who are unable to arrange for their own accommodation for self-quarantining if detected positive but are asymptomatic. For other employees, we have identified hotels which they can use for quarantining themselves,” Kochkar said. Verna industrial estate houses over 400 units employing nearly 40,000 workers. As is protocol, every employee whose swab sample is drawn is asked to stay in home quarantine or at an isolation facility until their test report is obtained. While the situation at the Verna industrial estate is now seemingly under control, sources said that detection of several cases in a nearby slum-like area has put the administration on alert mode. Sources said that a demand by locals for sealing the area, or declaring it as a containment zone, is gaining ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swab-testing-machine-for-verna-ind-workers-facilitates-reports-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77309377.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Human rights panel files case against BS Yediyurappa govt||BENGALURU: The Karnataka State Human Rights Commission registered a case against the BS Yediyurappa government for human rights violations in handling Covid-19. Based on a complaint filed by Congress MLA HK Patil, chairman, public accounts committee, KSHRC posted the first hearing in August first week. The commission, which met on July 27, took cognisance of Patil’s letter. It had asked Patil to present his case before the commission on July 28 but he couldn’t attend as he was out of Bengaluru. He’s expected to depose before the commission on August 3 or 4. In the complaint on July 19, Patil alleged there was rampant mismanagement and corruption in handling of Covid and as a result, the patients are not getting proper treatment in Covid Care Centres and hospitals. “Ambulances were also not made available even after two to three days because of which people died,’’ he added. The former minister also alleged that doctors and frontline Covid warriors are not getting PPE kits and masks. He also referred to the insensitive and inhuman manner in which the dead were buried in Ballari, Raichur, Davanagere, Chitradurga and Bengaluru which he said were gross violation of human rights. “Tests results are not coming in time. Hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients is not happening due to shortage of beds and ambulances. As a result, several people have died while waiting for hospitalisation. The last rites of Covid-19 victims are being performed in an inhuman way. These actions of the state government attract action under human rights violation Act and the commission must take note of it,” Patil had urged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/human-rights-panel-files-case-against-bsy-govt/articleshow/77310108.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||‘Clafasio Dias likely to be discharged soon’||PANAJI: Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias, who has been undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College and hospital for pulmonary ailment, is likely to be discharged in the next four to five days. “He is doing fine and has started walking. We may send him home in four to five days. His oxygen saturation level is also satisfactory,” GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar told TOI on Saturday. After he was admitted at the Covid hospital in Margao for almost a month, Dias was shifted to GMC for rehabilitatory treatment of his pulmonary condition. While he had tested negative for Covid before his discharge from the ESI hospital, his repeat test returned positive. However, secretary health Nila Mohanan told the media on Friday that Dias tested positive in the repeat test due to remnants of thevirus in his body. She said that he was discharged from the ESI hospital only after he was declared cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dias-likely-to-be-discharged-soon/articleshow/77309406.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||GFP uses Stanford study to slam Goa govt||PANAJI: The GFP on Saturday said that the state government’s lack of transparency has led to an ineffective strategy to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, which has been proven by researchers from Stanford University. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that Goa’s poor Covid-19 Data Reporting Score (CDRS) vindicates GFP’s allegations of data manipulation and the ineffectiveness in the government’s fight against the pandemic. “The government, on the contrary, has shown extraordinary ability and effectiveness in fighting any of its critics or opposition, rather than the pandemic,” said Sardesai. For the last five months, GFP had criticised the state government’s response to the pandemic. “Many of the things we said three months back, however, are now coming to haunt the Goa government such as the lack of synergy between the political executive, bureaucracy and medical experts; lack of medical preparedness and critical infrastructure, the dismal status of the testing capacity and the unfolding quarantine scams,” Sardesai said. The study conducted in May-June on the quality of Covid-19 data scores Goa at 0.21, below the median value of 0.26, on a scale of 0 to 1. The authors of the study said that reporting relevant data in a timely, transparent, and accessible manner fosters trust between the government and the public, and enables the scientific community to study the data to gain insights and propose policies. GFP has demanded that a team of independent medical and scientific experts should lead the state’s Covid-19 response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-uses-stanford-study-to-slam-govt/articleshow/77309395.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||When coconut, jaggery served as nature’s immunity dose||PANAJI: A social media message that smacked sentimentally of old traditions pleaded with members of a Whatsapp group “to eat coconut and jaggery first thing in the morning.” “Hey fellow Goans (and even others). It’s the 1st of August today. In our home, it has been a tradition passed down to us from generations to eat jaggery and coconut…” the message read. The messenger cited heavy rains and change of weather during August, as a sound reason to beef up immunity. With the consciousness about healthy food heightened during Covid times, the viral post did trigger nostalgia among old timers. Younger members also evinced interest, and one of them even asked how palm jaggery is made. Goa, though, a port of call for sea-going vessels from the world over in the bygone era was hardly importing nuts or they were beyond the common man’s palate. What grew locally and in abundance and was nutritionally loaded came handy for consumption. “Jaggery has lots of iron and other minerals. It is offered as prasad at gatherings and was served on auspicious occasions, like laying of a foundation stone,” Bernadette Pereira, a dietician and nutritionist said. The coconut kernel with jaggery, either cane or palm jaggery, is considered a healthy food. Among Goan traditional foods, the same basic ingredients with rice can be used in diverse ways with different methods - steamed, deep fried, pounded or moulded. “This is an excellent source of nutrients such as calories, proteins, essential fatty acids and important minerals like iron and calcium. With no preservatives added, the nutritional value is enhanced significantly,” Pereira said. And it is considered a healthy snack for even patients with cardiac disabilities, pregnant mothers and growing children. Catholics prepare pudde, patoyos and Hindus modak with these basic ingredients. When food choices were limited some decades ago, people snacked delightfully on locally available, but wholesome items. “Nal’l and godd would make our mouths water. At other times, we had a choice of foods to make like patoyo, pinagre and other sweets and snacks,” Tereza Rodrigues, a senior citizen from Salcete said. Many of these foods are made to suit the climate and availability of materials. “Food is made according to the season and availability of ingredients. For instance, turmeric leaves which are used to make patoyo can be found aplenty during this season,” said Fatima da Silva Gracias, food historian. With Goan food like khajem being granted geographical indication (GI), expectations have risen about tagging other produce. ”Rice, coconut and jaggery are important ingredients in Goan food or sweet dishes. Authorities should try to obtain GI tag to these unique and healthy foods,” said Mabel Menezes, chairperson of Chinchinim biodiversity management committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/when-coconut-jaggery-served-as-natures-immunity-dose/articleshow/77309414.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Canacona school to be Covid centre||POINGUINIM: Work to convert a government higher secondary school into a Covid care centre is under way, said Ca nacona deputy collector Satish Prabhu. He said that one block of the school has been taken over to get the infrastructure ready in two classrooms, which will be converted into male and female wards. “About 40 beds have been installed. The health department has to set up their equipment,” Prabhu said He also said that the higher secondary office in the other wing will function as usual. Speaking to TOI, the health officer of Canacona community health centre, Dr Vandana Desai, said things are gradually being set up at the proposed Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-school-to-be-covid-centre/articleshow/77309419.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Jail officials deny food of poor quality, cite adequate stocks||PANAJI: A day after jail protested over meals the Colvale Central jail authorities said they have adequate supply of all grocery items and reasons for inmates protesting was trivial. Inmates staged a protest during lunch break on Friday claiming food served had less component of onions and threatened to go on hunger strike. “There was no reason for them to behave in that fashion. It’s being a rainy season we do not procure vegetables in large quantities as they get spoiled fast. However, all meals are served and on time,” a jail official said. He admitted that they had less onions and may have not been enough for food prepared for lunch. Onion stock was exhausted since breakfast was upma having onion as its important ingredient. “It’s no reason to make a mountain out of a molehill. Even during lockdown period, we had managed to have sufficient grocesary. So, why should be it an issue now?” the officer said. While break-fast normally comprise of pau bhaji and meals are rice, dal and vegetables and fish also served but not every day, during the last few days breakfast menu was changed. It was done after jail oven broke down and they could not bake bread. “During past few weeks breakfast is mostly upma and poha. They (jail mates) wanted us to procure bread from out but we didn’t agree. We suspect that one of the jail inmates have a hand in making oven malfunction,” he said. The officer, there are some disgruntled inmates who instigate others for no reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/01-bindiya-colvale-jail-protest/articleshow/77309425.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Delhi||Woman drives BMW into four in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Four people including an ice-cream vendor were injured when a woman driving a BMW car ran into them near Kailash Colony. The woman told police that she got startled and shifted the gear when her dog jumped tried to grab her ice-cream. Dog tries to grab her ice-cream, woman drives #BMW into four in Delhihttps://t.co/iEy85PV9NY https://t.co/9BMg97InSY— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1596344748000The incident took place around 10pm and was captured on CCTV . According to the ice-cream vendor, Mukesh Kumar, three people later identified as Sapana Kumari, Harshit Kaur and Guddu who were standing around his cart when the driver, Roshani Arora pulled up for an ice-cream. After paying for it, Arora switched on the ignition of her vehicle when suddenly the car raced forward, crushed hit ice-cream cart and hit the four people. They were dragged for a few metres before Arora could bring the vehicle to a halt. Police were informed and four victims were shifted to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Arora's car was impounded and an FIR for negligent driving and causing hurt due to negligence has been registered. Watch Caught on cam: Delhi woman rams BMW into ice-cream cart, four injured||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dog-scare-driver-hits-four-in-south-delhi/articleshow/77310225.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Goa||Congress offers food supplies to Central Jail, officials reject the move||PANAJI: The Congress party on Saturday attempted to donate food supplies to the Central Jail at Colvale only for the prison authorities to rebuff the offer. Congress office bearers Sankalp Amonkar, Amarnath Panjikar, Janardhan Bhandari along with other party workers offered groceries after the correctional facility ran out of supplies on Friday. The Congress delegation said that jail authorities refused to accept the food supplies because it would embarrass the government. Bhandari said that the inmates are suffering as the government failed to supply food for the jail. “We were getting vegetables and food items for the inmates but for this the authorities have to ask permission from the RSS, the BJP and others,” said Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar. On Friday prison inmates refused to go back to their cells as no food was allegedly served to them for the whole day. “The arrogant Goa government refuses to accept the essential commodities supplied to Colvale jail authorities by the Congress as the inmates were kept hungry due to non-availability of essential items because fund allocation priority of the Goa chief minister is for ‘casino bhavan’ and not food for inmates,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar said that the Congress workers had gone there only on humanitarian grounds and considering the “financial bankruptcy” of the state government. “We strongly condemn the arrogance of the Goa chief minister and the government,” said Chodankar. Panjikar said that while the government is embarrassed to accept groceries, it had no qualms poaching 10 Congress MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-offers-food-supplies-to-central-jail-officials-reject-the-move/articleshow/77309428.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Nagpur||On Eid eve, this group was laying Covid-19 victims to rest||Nagpur: At 6.15pm on Friday, a group of 14 volunteers was about to call it a day and head home where their families were anxiously waiting for them to welcome Eid-ul-Azha on Saturday. Their Eid preparation plans – from fetching the traditional kurta pyjama from the laundry to buying spices for biryani – came undone when a call from an NMC official informed them of four more Covid deaths. Performing the last rites of members from their community since May 26, the group, comprising of a doctor, a businessmen and professionals, faced the biggest challenge in terms of the number of deaths in a day and manpower issues. “By 6.15pm, the team had already performed burials at the Mominpura Qabarstan and at Qamar Colony off Kamptee Road. I was concerned about the availability of our volunteers as it was Eid eve,” said Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who received the call being the group’s coordinator with the civic body. The group has Zaid Ansari, Javed Neelo, Shahid Rangoonwala, Moidul Ansari, Sarfaraz, Ilyas, Waqar Ansari, Shoeb Memon, Javed Rangoonwala, Adil Ansari, Irfan, Niyaz Ansari and Javed Akhtar. What made the task difficult for the team of 14 was the different areas the victims belonged to. “The team immediately agreed, but the deceased were from Tajabad, Lalganj, Hasanbagh and Zingabai Takli,” said Dr Ahmed, who wanted all burials to take place at one qabarstan to save time and energy. But the misconception about soil contamination from Covid burials held up the process till 11pm. “Office bearers of Tajabad permitted only the local resident’s last rites. We opted for it as it was close for relatives of Lalganj and Hasanbagh victims too. Finally, the Tajabad administrator and office bearers gave their nod,” he said. Another volunteer complained that even though the stalemate continued, the officials refused to intervene. Just one bulldozer was provided which further delayed the process. As the permission came, eight volunteers donned PPE kits and took the custody of the four bodies, which were driven in NMC vans to the Tajabad burial ground around midnight. They offered namaz-e-janaza (prayers) while the rest of the volunteers ensured the pits were dug in time by the bulldozer and cloth and wooden logs used to shield the body from the soil were ready. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (Corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey helped the volunteers with the formalities. “The process went on till 2.30am. Volunteers went without food, water and even a tea break till all the burials were over. We have no team leader. The group has no name. All are from different social, religious and political backgrounds,” said Dr Ahmed. From May 26, the group has laid to rest 29 bodies in different qabarastans, including that of Bohras which is a distinct sect. It has incurred an expense of Rs700-Rs1000, excluding PPE kits, on each burial. “Well wishers are constantly supporting us,” he said. Inspired by the volunteers, Jamiat ulema Hind, Dawaat e Islamic and others have come forward. “On Saturday, the burial was done by Kamptee volunteers in that town,” Ahmed said, adding, “We should take precaution, go for immediate diagnosis and early hospitalization if we have symptoms. People need not hide the disease and consult specialist doctors, especially at Covid centres as they now have 5 months’ experience. Those spreading rumours about government hospitals must be punished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-eid-eve-this-group-was-laying-covid-19-victims-to-rest/articleshow/77309441.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Now, J’khand govt staff must inform dept heads before moving out of state||Ranchi: The state government has made it compulsory for all its employees to take written permission to venture out of their areas of posting, including inter and intra-state travels, and inform their respective departments if any of their outstation relatives visit them and keep them in home quarantine. The order, issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday night and notified by the state personnel, administrative reforms and rajbhasa departments, said, “The employee concerned must keep such relatives/visitors in home quarantine and ensure that no one comes in contact with them.” In addition, the government employees are now required to take permission from their respective department heads to venture out of their headquarters (the areas where they are currently posted). As per the new order, anyone moving out of his/her headquarters, be it for personal or professional reasons, the employee must inform his department head in writing. The order further said, “If any government employee is venturing out of Jharkhand, he/she must seek permission from his department before doing so. The said worker must specify in writing as to why he/she is stepping out of the state.” The order added, “Once he/she comes back to Jharkhand, the said employee needs to go for a 14-day home quarantine and the government will sanction leaves for them for the said period.” The latest order assumes importance in the backdrop of several government employees testing positive for Covid-19 after either coming in contact with outstation guests or owing to their travel history. An official in the state personnel department said that in the last few weeks, there have been several instances of people from Bihar and Bengal visiting their near and dear ones in Jharkhand for various reasons, which is leading to the spread of the virus. “Also, many of the government workers, who tested positive, have had travel history or came directly in contact with a Covid-positive outstation relative who visited them recently. Given the scenario, such precautionary measures were necessary,” he added. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, while talking to TOI a few days back, had expressed concern over the “casual attitude of some government officials who were going for inter-state tours, attending marriage ceremonies and so on, following the nationwide Unlock 1.0, which is leading to a surge in cases”. Given the spike in cases, the state government has not allowed any relaxation till August 31, even though the Union government’s Unlock 3.0 permits the opening of yoga centres and gymnasiums from next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-jkhand-govt-staff-must-inform-dept-heads-before-moving-out-of-state/articleshow/77308849.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchiites plan to give Rakhi a drop this year||Ranchi: Like other festivals, Rakshabandhan too this year is expected to witness a paradigm shift in the way it is celebrated, thanks to the outbreak of coronavirus. While many are brainstorming on ways to deliver the “personal touch” through innovative virtual platforms to celebrate the bond between brothers and sisters, others are drifting away from the traditional rituals associated with the day. Despite being busy on tours due to official purposes, 30-year-old medical representative Anil Kumar never missed visiting his elder sister’s house in Jamshedpur on Rakhi. But this year, he is forced to give it a miss because of a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in his sister’s locality in Kadma. “My sister has two little kids and my visit may increase the risk of them contracting the virus,” Kuman said. Kumar, however, revealed that he is preparing a few video capsules chronicling the journey of the two siblings as a Rakhi gift. “I shall be posting a series of videos to express my gratitude towards my sister on the day of Rakhi,” he said. Even many living in the same city are wary of the situation and are planning to cancel the rituals associated with the festive. For Kusum Vihar-based businessman Brajesh Mishra, Rakhi has always been an occasion of lavish celebrations at his sprawling bungalow on road number 4 where people of different generations of his extended family bond together every year. His area, however, has witnessed close to half a dozen Covid-19 cases in last one month, making it unsafe for him to hold the celebrations this year. “While the celebrations will certainly not take place for the first time in many decades at our ancestral house this time, I am not sure if my sisters will be able to come here this time to tie Rakhi,” said Mishra, adding that within his own family, his two sons will be bereft of their lone sister this year. “My daughter lives in Patna and even if she chooses to just come for a day, the 14-day mandatory quarantine rule will prove to be a deterrent,” he said, adding that they will be catching up over video calls to wish each other. Many are even apprehensive of buying sweets from the markets fearing infection, paving way for a high demand for dry fruits, cookies and chocolates as replacements, said sweet shop owners. Vishnu Verma of Verma Sweets at Tagore Hill Road said, “Unlike earlier, we hardly received any bulk order this time. People are more inclined towards packaged pedas, dry fruits, cookies and chocolates sweets, fearing infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchiites-plan-to-give-rakhi-a-drop-this-year/articleshow/77308854.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Street food sellers struggle to make their ends meet||Ranchi: Bhuwaneshwar Kumar, one of the many street food vendors in the city, had been doing brisk business selling golgappa and other snacks in the pre-lockdown period but is struggling to make his ends meet even though the unlock phase has begun. A middle-aged man, Kumar used to make nearly Rs 1,000 in profit daily at the Kokar market. Now, his daily sale has plummeted to Rs 600 while the profit fell to Rs 150 to Rs 200 per day. He said, “I have no other option than running my stall, else my family will have nothing for survival. At times, I have to wait for customers for almost six hours.” Like Kumar, several other street food vendors have re-built their stalls and pushcarts but they are unable to find customers. Ajay, who sells momos, said the turnout of customers is only about 40%. He said, “Many people fear that eating outside would lead to Covid infection.” According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there is currently no evidence that people can catch Covid-19 from food or food packaging. It said Covid-19 is a respiratory illness and the transmission route is through person-to-person contact and through direct contact with respiratory droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Coronaviruses cannot multiply in food – they need a live animal or human host to multiply and survive, the FAQ on the WHO website added. A local resident, however, said he is surprised to see people eating at street food stalls where the vendors are serving food and accepting money without sanitizing hands. Chandan Choudhary, another vendor selling non-vegetarian delicacies at the Albert Ekka Chowk, said the fear for the virus was turning away his customers and was barely able to meet the expenses of his employees. He said, “Several roadside vendors are also setting up their moveable shops here in the evening but the footfall of the customers is very low.” A shopkeeper Raju Jaiswal, who supplies wheat, spices and other items to the roadside food vendors, said generally 40 people used to come daily to buy the items but now their numbers have come down to below five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/street-food-sellers-struggle-to-make-their-ends-meet/articleshow/77308773.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Palamu DC sets up special committee to fight Covid stigma||Daltonganj: In a unique move, deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan on Saturday set up a special committee to prevent the societal discrimination or ostracization that a person cured of Covid-19 faces. The DC said, “There is a need to tell people that more love, more respect and more affection should be given to those who have defeated Covid-19, instead of looking down upon them.” The committee members, comprising civil society campaigners, will visit the villages to honour those cured of the infection and encourage the locals to love and respect them. The DC said, “Those cured of the infection share such horrid experiences with us. Recently, I heard of an incident in Satbarwa block where a young man, who was cured of the infection, was out for a walk near his house when his neighbours rebuked him and asked him to stay indoors. This misbehaviour towards a recovered person needs to stop.” In another development, the DC informed that by using the special central assistance, the district administration is buying 200 beds amid a spike in cases. Civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “Once the consignment of 200 beds reaches here, we will send 10 beds each to our 10 community health centres in the district.” As of Saturday morning, Palamu had 425 Covid-19 cases, of which 186 were active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palamu-dc-sets-up-special-committee-to-fight-covid-stigma/articleshow/77308836.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Ranchi||Water supply restored in Dhanbad after JMADA lifts protest||Dhanbad: The shortage of water in different parts of Dhanbad district since Thursday morning ended on Friday after 800 employees of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), who stopped work in protest against non-payment of salary, returned to work. Water was supplied from the city’s 35 water towers in the morning and by evening, areas in Jharia and Katras started getting water as the Jamadoba-based water treatment plant on the Damodar river started functioning. The tiff between JMADA employees and the administration ended after a meeting was convened under the authority’s chairman, Dilip Kumar on Friday. At the meeting, Kumar assured to pay one month’s salary by the evening. Speaking to the media after the meeting with employees, Kumar said, “The strike came to end after the talks during which we assured to immediately pay a month’s salary which is likely to be credited in their bank accounts by evening.” Notably, a 10-year-old fund crunch has also led to non-payment of salaries for a month or two every year. This in turn has led to a total due of 42 months in the last 10 years. However, the recent protest was against non-payment of salary since March this year. Kumar, during the talks, also assured to write to the state government to make more allotment to JMADA to ensure all employees get their pending salaries for at least five months. Notably, JMADA the oldest civic body of the district, is entrusted with the task of supplying water to 10 lakh residents of Dhanbad and Katras. It is facing fund crunch due to gradual withdrawal of its sources of income like stamp duty, tonnage cess, town planning charges and others since early 1990s. Currently, water charges are JMADA’s main source of income besides the bazaar fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/water-supply-restored-in-dhanbad-after-jmada-lifts-protest/articleshow/77308758.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||Malla family heir shoots self at Bishnupur Rajbari||Bankura: A descendant of Bishnupur’s Malla royal family and patron of the Mrinmayee temple reportedly shot himself on Saturday morning in his ancestral house — popularly known here as ‘Rajbari’ — with a gun belonging to the family. Salil Singha Thakur (62), a retired teacher of a primary school, had a gout problem and had of late sunk into depression, his wife Alpana and son Samrat said. Local residents, however, claim the royal descendants are caught in a legal property dispute. Bishnupur SDPO Priyabrata Baxi said the body had been sent for post-mortem. “Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide,” he added. The Malla descendants have a history of suicides. Salil, the youngest of four brothers, is the third to kill himself. Family friend Swapan Ghosh said one of Salil’s elder brothers had jumped to his death into a well on the Rajbari premises while another had poisoned himself. Ghosh couldn’t recall exactly when these suicides happened, but said they did “a very long time ago”. Currently, heirs of none of Salil’s siblings live in the ancestral house. The former teacher occupied the entire Rajbari with his wife and his son after his daughter got married. The Mrinmayee temple of Bishnupur is part of the Rajbari premises. “My husband organised Durga Puja at the temple every year. It drew people from Kolkata and other parts of the state. I don’t know what happened (today) and how. My son and I were in another part of the house while my husband was lounging in a chair on the ground floor living room, where he shot himself,” Alpana said. She refused to dwell on the suicides of her two brothers-in-law. Local folklore has it that Gopal Singha Thakur established the Malla rule in Bishnupur some 500 years ago. Under the British, the once royal dynasty was downgraded to the level of zamindars, the last of whom was Salil’s father Kalipada Singha Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malla-family-heir-shoots-self-at-bishnupur-rajbari/articleshow/77309764.cms||Falguni Banerjee
August 2, 2020||Kolkata||Inconclusive test reports baffle Covid suspects, delay treatment||KOLKATA: Along with the spike in Covid cases and the race to get more tests done, there has been a spurt in ‘inconclusive’ reports that are leaving patients baffled and postponing treatment. While experts blame this on less ‘sensitive’ methods of testing and poor collection of swab samples, the patients are being forced to take a re-test that is taking up valuable time even as hospitals insist on a conclusive report. Earlier this week, an 80-year-old Salt Lake woman with multiple illnesses – but not a Covid suspect – was asked to undergo a Covid test for admission at a private hospital. After a three-day wait, her family managed to get it done from a private lab, which came up with a report which said the test was inconclusive. Her hospitalisation was deferred by another three days as she had to go for a repeat test. A 34-year-old Hatibagan resident got tested after two family members contracted Covid. His report, too, turned out to be inconclusive, leaving him to wonder if he should quarantine himself immediately or go for a repeat test. A low viral load is often responsible for inconclusive reports, said Fortis Hospital pulomonologist Raja Dhar. “A Covid test tracks two genes to trace the virus – e and N2. If the viral load is low, then the N2 could be positive and e could be negative. In that case, the test will be inconclusive,” said Dhar. He added that this happens more often in RT-PCR tests which are less precise than GeneXpert. Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury said: “We trace three genes and a low viral load can produce an inconclusive report. GeneXpert is more sensitive and catches a far lower viral load than RT-PCR.” But patients with such low viral loads are incapable of infecting others so they can safely remain at home, said Dhar. “Occasionally, a low viral load could also lead to a false negative report which is dangerous. So, we advise a repeat test whenever we come across an inconclusive report,” said Dhar. While most doctors felt the problem can be solved if GeneXpert is used, they pointed out that dependence on RT-PCR will continue since the former was more expensive and kits were short in supply. “GeneXpert is the most precise and sensitive test followed by Truenat and RT-PCR. At least 5% of Truenat and RT-PCR tests with a negative result actually turn out to be positive on a repeat test. Unfortunately, GeneXpert kits are in short supply and most laboratories and hospitals are using these sparingly, reserving them for emergency cases and patients awaiting surgery,” said AMRI Hospitals consultant Debashish Saha. According to Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipto Mitra, swab samples are often wrongly collected and not properly preserved leading to error in test reports. “We often receive samples collected by external agencies that are tested in our labs and the results of a few have been inconclusive due to these reasons. Also, technical errors during testing sometimes throw up inconclusive reports,” he said. Others like general surgeon PK Nemani feels RT-PCR is the gold standard in Covid tests and will have to be the backbone of the diagnosis mechanism. “Positive results in tests like TrueNat are often found to be negative. Some tests are faster but too sensitive which doesn’t really help. RT-PCR is the most reliable,” said Nemani. He added that the ceiling on test charges imposed by the government has made it difficult to carry out GeneXpert tests which are expensive. “Only the RT-PCR can be done within the recommended cost of Rs 2250,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inconclusive-test-reports-baffle-covid-suspects-delay-treatment/articleshow/77309740.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||Unlock plan: BMC mulls Mumbai-wide antibody tests||MUMBAI: The BMC plans to carry out a city-wide random testing for antibodies to the coronavirus that causes Covid-19. While the plan is still in its infancy, senior BMC officials hoped such a test—by determining how many citizens have been exposed to the virus or have antibodies—would help them plan unlocking strategies for the city. “Knowing the levels of antibodies in the community will help us decide if people should be allowed to commute or attend workplaces,” said additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani. The results of a 3-ward serosurvey has showed 57% of people in slums had antibodies, as against 16% in non-slums areas. BMC wants ‘snapshot of immunity’ across cityHowever, a wider survey would help determine the levels across the city, said officials. “A city-wide survey is still an initial discussion,” said a senior doctor attached to the BMC. ‘The initial survey finding showed good signs about the presence of antibodies among people in three of the 24 administrative wards in the city, and it needs to be repeated in other areas too,” the doctor said. On Thursday, when a TOI correspondent visited the congested slum pockets of Dharavi, people were roaming freely, many not following social distancing norms. Once the worst Covid hotbed in the country, it now reports cases in single digits every day (four on Saturday). An official from the BMC HQ said fewer cases now come from wards that have big slum pockets such as M East (Govandi), H East (eastern stretch of Bandra-Khar-Santacruz), P North (Malad East and West), L (Kurla-Saki Naka) and congested areas of B (Dongri) ward. “We believe this may be due to herd immunity, but we don’t know the exact reason. A random sero-survey across the city will give us a picture of the entire city,” he said. A public hospital doctor said while such a survey would help BMC gather a ‘snapshot of immunity’, it should be done scientifically to get the right picture. Dr Rahul Pandit, an intensivist and member of the state task force on Covid, said BMC needs to conduct such a survey by testing a minimum of 1% of the population in each ward. “Care should be taken to ensure equal representation between slums and non-slum areas,” he added. Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of Indian College of Physicians and a member of the task force, said, “Antibody tests only say if a person has been exposed to the virus. They don’t show immunity and can’t be considered a guarantee against future infection.” While such tests would be “good public health exercise,” it may not be useful at a personal level. “The person may think he has immunity while he only has exposure. He doesn’t have an immunity passport,” Dr Joshi said. There also is concern about longevity of antibodies as initial studies have shown antibodies drastically reduce within a couple of months. “We have to do such studies scientifically, look for the neutralizing antibody and also at T-cell responses. All these will take 3-4 months to study,” he added. Meanwhile, a BMC health department official said there are set parameters to conduct such surveys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unlock-plan-bmc-mulls-mumbai-wide-antibody-tests/articleshow/77310189.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||Under 1% conservancy workers found positive after antigen tests in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Among the 18,000 conservancy workers put through antigen tests in the last few days, 144, or 0.8%, have been found with Covid-19. This is an indication that despite more probable exposure to the virus than other workers, they have remained largely unaffected. The highest number of conservancy workers found positive (18) in antigen tests are from G-North ward (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), followed by D ward (Malabar Hill Walkeshwar, Nana Chowk) with 17. Eleven each were in G-South (Worli, Prabhadevi, Lower Parel), S (Bhandup), and N (Ghatkopar) wards. Conservancy workers are the ones who keep the city clean, including containment zones. Since the time the pandemic reached the city, they have been at their work after adopting some basic precautionary measures. The BMC has been testing these workers — mostly sweepers and garbage collectors — under the normal compulsory testing processes to access viral spread among frontline workers. BMC officials said a good sign is that despite an increase in testing, the positivity rate among those tested has been reducing. Since the last four days, the BMC and private entities have conducted over 10,000 tests a day in Mumbai. Half of these are antigen tests and the remaining real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, the gold standard for Covid-19 detection. While a positive result in the antigen test is definitive for Covid-19, a negative result cannot be relied upon -- as has been reported by TOI earlier. A person testing negative in the test further must undergo an RT-PCR test to know for certain if he or she has the virus. But civic officials said that since conservancy workers are being tested “for an idea about the spread of the virus despite them not being symptomatic”, those who cone negative on the antigen test will not underdo the RT-PCR test for confirmation. They said the daily number of RT-PCR tests is over 5,000 for the last few days, but the positivity rate is 23%. In comparison, during the first half of July, the BMC’s daily RT-PCR testing number was below 5,000, and the positivity rate was over 25%. The positivity rate of the antigen test is 3% of the total conducted tests. Although there has been a minor reduction in the RTPCR positivity percent, if combined with antigen tests, the rate reduces to 13%. On July 31, a total of 10,554 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city, of which 5,127 were antigen and 5,427 were RT-PCR. The BMC is testing all frontline workers, including over 28,000 conservancy staff, around 10,000 health workers and cops through the antigen method even if they are not symptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/under-1-conservancy-workers-found-positive-after-antigen-tests-in-mumbai/articleshow/77310201.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||IMD issues ‘orange’ alert for Mumbai, Thane on Monday||MUMBAI: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an ‘orange’ alert, which means heavy to very heavy rain at a few places, for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad on Monday. For Sunday, the IMD issued a ‘yellow’ alert for Mumbai Raigad, which means there could be heavy rain at isolated places. “Due to the strengthening of monsoon currents and likelihood formation of a low-pressure area over North Bay of Bengal around August 4, the rainfall intensity is very likely to increase over Konkan including Mumbai and adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during next 4 to 5 days. Enhanced rainfall is also expected over districts of interior Maharashtra,” said a forecast by IMD. Saturday ended with IMD’s Santacruz observatory recording a total 1898.2mm of rain this season, a departure of 541.7mm from normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-mumbai-thane-on-monday/articleshow/77310221.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||KDMC is first civic body in Mumbai’s neighbourhood to cross 20,000 Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday became the first civic body in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (barring Mumbai) to cross the 20,000 mark in Covid-19 cases. With 303 new cases reported on Saturday, the caseload there is now 20,270. Eleven fresh deaths took the toll there to 368. Thane, with 19,253 cases, has the second highest number of cases in region, having tested over 96,000 swabs till Saturday. However, though cases have risen in the region all through July, civic administrators and doctors feel they are now better equipped to handle the situation than they were at the start of the outbreak and expect that cases will reach a plateau within a month. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) registered 13,392 cases in July as compared to 5,541 cases in June. But KDMC health officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil said, “In mid-July we had over 600 cases daily. It has now dropped to below 400.” Dr Panpatil’s team has adopted the ‘Dharavi model’ to survey 1.75 lakh households in 42 hotspots. Mira-Bhayander registered 4,876 new patients in July, almost double that of June’s count (2,549). “We have passed the danger zone. Now all we need is early detection,” said Dr Ajay Sankhe, who is director of Bhaktivedanta hospital, Mira Road and in charge of the state’s Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Covid hospital in Bhayander. The case doubling rate in Mira-Bhayander has gone up from 15 days to 35 days in two weeks, officials said, and Covid beds are available in the region. In Thane too, doctors said beds are available and complaints of poor treatment have dropped. “Thane and other civic bodies in MMR are now in a zone where we are confident about treating Covid cases. Patients should stop hiding their symptoms and get tested,” said a doctor. Thane had 10,200 positive cases in July, double of what it recorded in June (5,500). In Bhiwandi, municipal commissioner Dr Pankaj Ashiya said the ‘Malegaon model’ had helped to stabilize matters. Bhiwandi saw 1,815 cases in June and 1,659 in July. Roping in community leaders and creating awareness about the pandemic has taken the case doubling rate to 78 days, doctors said. The recovery rate has also touched 82 %. “Today we have 85% vacant bed capacity. If patients test early and serious patients take treatment here rather than rushing to Thane and Mumbai, we can flatten the curve soon,” Dr Ashiya said. Cases in Navi Mumbai doubled from 4,321 in June to 8,562 in July. In mid-July, health officers focused on lowrisk contacts to break the transmission chain. “Testing has become quick and early diagnosis will help bring down mortality rate,” a doctor said. In Ulhasnagar, the coronavirus cases went up three times in July (4,881), compared to June (1,506). Civic officials said taht it is too early to let the guard down but they are hopeful that cases will stabilize soon. “The situation is improving in the township. The detections will continue to increase but with early treatment, we will be able to control the virus. Social distancing and masks will remain key,” a civic official said. Palghar district in July shifted its focus to villages to prevent the spread of the virus in rural areas. The cases in the district doubled in July with 9,839 patients as against 4,100 in June. Experts here said MMR is bearing the brunt of delayed testing and fears about the virus. “Most patients coming to us are at a late stage. But that is slowly changing,” said a doctor in Nalasopara. The Uran taluka in Raigad district saw 869 cases last month as against 272 in June. Panvel city more than doubled its cases in July, and rural Panvel, where cases were 692 in July, had 2,088 cases by the end of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kdmc-is-first-civic-body-in-mumbais-neighbourhood-to-cross-20000-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77310215.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Mumbai||MMRDA officer dies after fall from fourth-floor flat in BKC, police look for leads||MUMBAI: An MMRDA employee died after falling from his fourth-floor flat at the officer’s quarters in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) on Friday night. The BKC police did not find a suicide note, and are probing whether he jumped or it was an accidental fall. Kulwendra Singh Kapur (55), director (systems), was appointed to his MMRDA post on July 2, 2019. Before that, he worked for Western Railway. Singh is survived by his wife and 25-year-old son. They were both at the flat when the incident occurred, said a police officer. A case of accidental death has been filed. A security guard hear a loud thud and found Singh lying in a pool of blood in the building compound. Other MMRDA officers, along with Singh’s wife and son, rushed him to Hinduja Hospital in Mahim, where he was declared brought dead. A post-mortem is being done at Sion Hospital. MMRDA metropolitan commissioner R A Rajeev expressed his condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-officer-dies-after-fall-from-fourth-floor-flat-in-bkc-police-look-for-leads/articleshow/77310267.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ten patients, including 6 +ve, missing from Adilabad hospital||HYDERABAD: Ten people, who were admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad after they showed Covid-19 symptoms, went missing from the hospital late on Saturday night. Officials said the patients left without informing anyone before the result of their tests could be conveyed to them. Out of the 10, six have tested positive, two negative and the results of two more are expected on Sunday. Sources said the hospital authorities have their Aadhar card numbers and also their phone numbers with which the police will try and trace them. The 10 had come for a Covid testing two days ago. As their reports were awaited, they were admitted in isolation wards. The hospital has two isolation wards - one for Covid positive patients and one for those whose test results are awaited. 50 samples collected at RIMS dailyAccording to protocol, after the reports come, if they are found positive, they are shifted to the isolation ward for positive patients while the others can go home. RIMS director Dr Balaram Naik could not be reached for more details. The authorities have been collecting more than 50 samples daily. Those who show some symptoms of the virus are made to stay back until the reports come. The fear of Covid and the stigma attached with it may have been the reasons for the men to leaving without informing the authorities. In the reports for July 31 which came out on Saturday, 17 people tested positive for Covid in Adilabad district. The issue poor health services at government hospitals during the pandemic has been raised by exxpeerts previously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-ten-patients-including-6-ve-missing-from-adilabad-hospital/articleshow/77310271.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood goes farming to beat blues||BENGALURU: Not just Salman Khan, Sandalwood stars too have turned to farming to find some peace amid the pandemic-induced chaos. And for most, it was only a matter of finding time to reconnect. While Darshan surprised his fans by posing with a new tractor procured for his farm near Mysuru, multilingual actor Upendra has been photographed with organic vegetables grown at his farm. Ninasam Sathish (R) at his farm in KM Doddi near MandyaWith film production coming to a standstill, film actors like Ninasam Sathish, Kishore and producer Pushkar Mallikarjun too are getting hands-on in fields.. Darshan’s love for farming is well known among his fans. Upendra, who has a farm near Ramanagara, said natural farming has been a game-changer as he has been against the use of pesticides. “The government needs to get involved and teach farmers about soil value, the kind of crops to grow and market demand, among others things,” he said. Ninasam Sathish, born into an agricultural family, owns land in KM Doddi near Mandya. He told STOI: “Earlier, I didn’t have much time to spend in my farm. Now, I’m enjoying my time in nature.” He has been growing paddy, sugarcane and mulberry. He added: “Everything starts from the motherland, she give us unconditional love.” Multilingual actor Kishore, known for his negative shades onscreen, said, “I always wanted a home surrounded by a river, forests and mountains. Luckily, I found this piece of land on the periphery of Bannerghatta. I learned many things when I started farming. It’s just not about being humble, but also about being real.” Stars in the fieldKishore said the pandemic has taught us many things, and the most important is the value of food. “Farming is not all about money, but about the time and effort that goes into giving back to Nature. A farmer’s life is hard. Many people who think farming is exciting need to understand that. It’s a kind of penance that pays back years later to another generation,” he said. Pushkar Mallikarjun, the producer behind Godhi Banna Sadharana Mykattu and Kirik Party, has been actively participating in farming at his friend’s farmhouse in Sakleshpur. During the lockdown, he wanted to learn more about the challenges faced by farmers. “During the pandemic, when vegetable and fruits vendors weren’t around, citizens depended on farmers. Many apartments and resident welfare groups coordinated with local farmers and purchased their vegetables and fruits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sandalwood-goes-farming-to-beat-blues/articleshow/77310285.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 2, 2020||World||Congressional Democrats, White House still at impasse over coronavirus bill||WASHINGTON: The top Democrats in Congress are not close to a deal with the White House to pump more money into the US economy to ease the coronavirus' heavy toll, both sides said on Saturday, after an essential lifeline for millions of unemployed Americans expired. "This was the longest meeting we had and it was more productive than the other meetings," Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said. "There are many issues that are still very much outstanding." Schumer made the remarks after he and US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi concluded a three-hour meeting with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows at the Capitol on Saturday. Mnuchin told reporters the talks were constructive but had reached an "impasse" over whether to come to a short-term agreement or a more comprehensive deal. The officials will meet again on Monday, after their staff meet on Sunday, Schumer said. Congress for the past several months has been unable to reach an accord for a next round of economic relief from a pandemic that has killed more than 150,000 Americans and triggered the sharpest economic collapse since the Great Depression. In a meeting late Thursday between top White House officials and congressional Democratic leaders, negotiations focused on an extension of the $600 per week in federal unemployment benefits that Americans who lost jobs due to the pandemic have been receiving in addition to state jobless payments. Pelosi said on Friday that she rejected an offer by Republican President Donald Trump's administration to continue the $600 payments for one more week. Congressional Democrats want to see the weekly payments extended into next year as part of a broader package. Senate Republicans have said the $600 payments are an incentive to stay home rather than return to work. Their proposal would provide a much-reduced weekly payment of $200 until states create a system to provide a 70% wage replacement for laid-off workers. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Saturday slammed Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell for letting the Senate go home for the weekend without a deal to extend the unemployment benefits or protect renters facing eviction. "Because Donald Trump is abdicating his responsibility to lead us out of the pandemic crisis and the economic crisis, we now face a potential housing crisis across the country," Biden said in a statement. Pelosi told House Democrats in a letter late on Saturday that "all parties must understand the gravity of the situation in order to reach an agreement that protects Americans' lives, livelihoods and the life of our democracy."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/congressional-democrats-white-house-still-at-impasse-over-coronavirus-bill/articleshow/77310278.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man gives 5 silver bricks for Ram temple in Ayodhya||HYDERABAD: A resident of Manikonda in Hyderabad has donated five silver bricks for the bhoomi puja of Ram temple in Ayodhya, which will be organised on August 5. Srinivas Sharma, who spent ?6 lakh on the silver bricks, said he was fortunate that he got an opportunity to serve Lord Rama. Srinivas handed over the bricks to Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) state president Rama Raju, working president Surender Reddy and Bajrang Dal state convenor Subash Chander at a function here on Saturday. “We did not seek any donations in the form of cash or kind for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. The donor has volunteered to present the silver bricks to serve the god. One silver brick has already been sent to Ayodhya by Srinivas and the rest four will be sent on Sunday,” VHP state general secretary Bandari Ramesh told STOI. VHP leaders said the event on August 5 would be a historic moment for the nation and a great honour for people of Telangana as foundation for the temple will be laid with silver bricks from Telangana. They said efforts were made to ensure the bricks reach the venue by August 5. Meanwhile, sources said none of the local VHP leaders would be attending the event. “Two seers from the state are attending the bhoomi pooja which will be attended by PM Modi,” a VHP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-man-gives-5-silver-bricks-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77310310.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 2, 2020||Surat||Surat suffers as diamond city records over 6,000 cases in July||SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Two months back, a study by researchers from Columbia University argued that if lockdown was imposed in urban areas of the US such as New York city even 1-2 weeks earlier, it could have reduced the cases and deaths by 61.6% and 55%, respectively. By the same logic, if Surat had learnt from Ahmedabad’s mistakes and implemented the best practices followed later in city when Covid-19 peaked in May and June, the diamond city would not have been reeling under a major Coronavirus cases spike. In a matter of 31 days of July, Surat has become the state’s hotspot of the epidemic with one in every five cases being reported from here. Compared to 5,135 cases recorded by Ahmedabad city – the erstwhile national hotspot – Surat recorded 6,263, for the first time overtaking the state’s most populous city. This even as Surat has reported an exodus of estimated 18-lakh migrants from other states and within Gujarat ‘Surat had been forewarned’Even as CM Vijay Rupani is set to review the situation in Surat for the second time on Sunday, there is resentment that the health department led by principal secretary Jayanti Ravi could have ensured that Surat, which was forewarned by Ahmedabad’s suffering, could have been better-armed. Local experts hold the delayed responses from the state and city administration responsible. “Unlike Ahmedabad which was caught off-guard by Covid-19 pandemic, the health department knew Surat would erupt in a matter of time. Testing was not ramped up. Even basic awareness to remove fearpsychosis about the disease is lacking as is apparent from the fact that a number of Surtis are scared and resist from getting hospitalized,” says sociologist Satyakam Joshi. Experts also say that Surat had to only replicate the readily available and lauded ‘Ahmedabad Model’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-suffers-as-diamond-city-records-over-6000-cases-in-july/articleshow/77310303.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Won’t hesitate to cancel licences of unethical hospitals: Telangana health minister||HYDERABAD: After a slew of complaints of unethical practices received against private hospitals, state health minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday decided to form a committee to conduct inquiries into each of the complaints. Slamming such hospitals, he said the government will initiate strict action — including cancellation of licenses — against those found resorting to unscrupulous means by the committee. “We will not refrain from taking serious action including cancellation of licenses and booking of cases under relevant sections of the Medical Act,” health minister Eatala Rajender told STOI following a review meeting. Apart from being accused of creating an artificial shortage of beds, private hospitals have also been called out for charging exorbitant sums of money, throwing out patients when they turn critical, among other things. In fact, recent enquiries by district medical and health officers (DMHOs) found out at least ten hospitals of unethical practices. Other complaints reviewed during Saturday’s meeting were exorbitant charges levied in the name of PPE kits, ICU fee and higher staff salaries. “Sometimes as much as 10 times the fee is being collected and patients are being forced to pay ?3 lakh to ?4 lakh advance money. Also, denial of handing over of the body unless the pending dues are cleared is noticed. Hospitals are admitting people without any symptoms and charging lots of money and when the patient becomes serious, they are dumping them in an ambulance and sending to the government hospital,” read an official statement regarding the complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wont-hesitate-to-cancel-licences-of-unethical-hospitals-telangana-health-minister/articleshow/77310323.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Once Covid hub, Italy new calling for Indian students, lures with stipends||HYDERABAD: Till recently, Italy was the epicentre of coronavirus pandemic in Europe. Now, it is seeing a surge of a different kind, students from India. Students mulling studying abroad have set their eyes on this unlikely destination because of a variety of reasons ranging from curbs in the US to no tuition fee to enticing stipends. Tuition fees in Italy are practically non-existent. Even universities that charge — usually a fee of under €2,500 (Rs 2.2lakh) annually — offer scholarships for meritorious students and those from countries like India. With tuition fees taken care of, universities are now trying to woo international students back to the country with even higher stipends following Covid-19 outbreak. Explaining the trend among students heading for oversees destinations for pursuing higher education and their dreams, HOPE Overseas Education founder Jeevan Reddy says, “Universities have started giving students a stipend of €220 (Rs 19,500) per month. This is in addition to government stipend given to low-income families of up to €5,400 (Rs 4.7lakh approx) annually.” Generally, €400-650 a month (Rs 35,000-57,600) would be more than enough for living in the European country. “Italy is not a sought-after destination because of the language barrier students face interacting outside campus. This year, however, students are being given the chance to study from home for the first semester due to Covid-19,” he adds. Experts: No requirement for language tests a plusAmong students waiting to head abroad this fall is Pranay Kumar. The Uppal resident has secured a seat at the University of Padua to pursue his MS in sustainable agriculture. “It was my dream to get an international experience. Since I got a full scholarship and a stipend to live there, Italy was the best option,” he says. Many students, who are unable to travel to the US because of recent restrictions on entry, are choosing Italy which has some of the top universities in the world. Dhatrsri Bheemireddy from Nellore, Andhra Pradesh, is set to head to University of Milan for MS in risk mitigation. The civil engineer says, scholarships aside, Italian universities are among the top in the world, some even better than the ones in the US. “The number of cases of corona has also reduced. In fact, India seems to be worse affected than Italy by the pandemic,” she says, when asked about her decision to travel at this time. Though there is no clarity on resumption of international flights, the prospective students have an option to pursue the first semester online from the confines of their homes. Experts say an added advantage of heading to a country like Italy is no requirement of language-based proficiency test such as IELTS, mandatory in other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/once-covid-hub-italy-new-calling-for-indian-students-lures-with-stipends/articleshow/77310309.cms||Uttara Varma
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hooch tragedy: 25 held, CM Amarinder Singh orders suspension of 13||AMRITSAR/CHANDIGARH: Even as the number of deaths in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 on Saturday, the Punjab Police on Saturday arrested 17 more persons in a massive crackdown in the three affected districts of Amritsar Rural, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambhu border. The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 25. "A mafia mastermind, a woman kingpin, a transport owner, a wanted criminal and owners/managers of various dhabas from where the illicit liquor was being supplied are among the arrested accused," said Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. The raiding parties have also seized large quantities of Lahan from various villages and dhabas around Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, the DGP said, adding that the raids had exposed a massive racket in illicit liquor, extending across several districts. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the suspension as well as inquiry against seven excise and taxation officers and inspectors, along with two DSPs and four SHOs of Punjab Police, in connection with the hooch tragedy, which has so far claimed 86 lives in the three districts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar Rural and Gurdaspur. Rs 2L ex gratia for victims’ kin: CMThe CM has also announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for families of each deceased, most of whom were from Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by Amritsar Rural 12 and Gurdaspur (Batala) 11 . “Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case," said Amarinder, describing the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful. Nobody will be allowed to get away with feeding poison to our people, he added. Urging the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal not to politicise the tragedy, in which so many families had been destroyed, the CM said such cases had happened earlier too, including under the SAD-BJP regime. Giving more details of the crackdown, the DGP said during the raid at Jhilmil dhaba, whose manager Narinder Singh has been arrested, 200 litres of Lahan was seized. The dhaba owner, Harjit Singh, has been named in the FIR. Kingpin Darshan Rani was arrested by Batala cops, while another key accused Beeri, of Deo village, PS Sadar Tarn Taran, has also been arrested for supplying the spurious alcohol. Prem Singh, the owner of Azad Transport, and Bhinda (wanted by Tarn Taran Police) were arrested by Rajpura cops on Saturday. At Green Dhaba on Rajpura-Chandigarh Road in Zirakpur, approximately 200 litres of a diesel-like liquid was recovered in 4/5 small containers, which truck drivers were selling to the dhaba owner. The dhaba has also been sealed and its owner Gurjant Singh has been arrested. According to the Excise Commissioner, though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in Friday’s raids were awaited, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint/hardware industry. Hardial Singh Maan, deputy inspector general, Ferozepur division, said that relatives of many victims had performed the last rites without informing police, but they got some autopsies done. He said nine people had been arrested and booked under various IPC sections and the Excise Act. Sources said police had identified two more persons who were still absconding and had recovered illicit liquor. Gurdaspur deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq said five people were arrested, including two women Faujan and Trivani -- the latter runs a You-Tube news channel. Referring to some families’ claims regarding the cause of their kin’s death, he said, "It is unbelievable that five to six people living within 1-2 km die of heart attack or some other disease within a few hours".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-hooch-tragedy-25-held-cm-amarinder-singh-orders-suspension-of-13/articleshow/77310339.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab hooch tragedy: 25 held, CM Amarinder Singh orders suspension of 13||AMRITSAR/CHANDIGARH: Even as the number of deaths in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 on Saturday, the Punjab Police on Saturday arrested 17 more persons in a massive crackdown in the three affected districts of Amritsar Rural, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambhu border. The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 25. "A mafia mastermind, a woman kingpin, a transport owner, a wanted criminal and owners/managers of various dhabas from where the illicit liquor was being supplied are among the arrested accused," said Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. The raiding parties have also seized large quantities of Lahan from various villages and dhabas around Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, the DGP said, adding that the raids had exposed a massive racket in illicit liquor, extending across several districts. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the suspension as well as inquiry against seven excise and taxation officers and inspectors, along with two DSPs and four SHOs of Punjab Police, in connection with the hooch tragedy, which has so far claimed 86 lives in the three districts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar Rural and Gurdaspur. Rs 2L ex gratia for victims’ kin: CMThe CM has also announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for families of each deceased, most of whom were from Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by Amritsar Rural 12 and Gurdaspur (Batala) 11 . “Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case," said Amarinder, describing the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful. Nobody will be allowed to get away with feeding poison to our people, he added. Urging the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal not to politicise the tragedy, in which so many families had been destroyed, the CM said such cases had happened earlier too, including under the SAD-BJP regime. Giving more details of the crackdown, the DGP said during the raid at Jhilmil dhaba, whose manager Narinder Singh has been arrested, 200 litres of Lahan was seized. The dhaba owner, Harjit Singh, has been named in the FIR. Kingpin Darshan Rani was arrested by Batala cops, while another key accused Beeri, of Deo village, PS Sadar Tarn Taran, has also been arrested for supplying the spurious alcohol. Prem Singh, the owner of Azad Transport, and Bhinda (wanted by Tarn Taran Police) were arrested by Rajpura cops on Saturday. At Green Dhaba on Rajpura-Chandigarh Road in Zirakpur, approximately 200 litres of a diesel-like liquid was recovered in 4/5 small containers, which truck drivers were selling to the dhaba owner. The dhaba has also been sealed and its owner Gurjant Singh has been arrested. According to the Excise Commissioner, though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in Friday’s raids were awaited, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint/hardware industry. Hardial Singh Maan, deputy inspector general, Ferozepur division, said that relatives of many victims had performed the last rites without informing police, but they got some autopsies done. He said nine people had been arrested and booked under various IPC sections and the Excise Act. Sources said police had identified two more persons who were still absconding and had recovered illicit liquor. Gurdaspur deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq said five people were arrested, including two women Faujan and Trivani -- the latter runs a You-Tube news channel. Referring to some families’ claims regarding the cause of their kin’s death, he said, "It is unbelievable that five to six people living within 1-2 km die of heart attack or some other disease within a few hours".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-hooch-tragedy-25-held-cm-amarinder-singh-orders-suspension-of-13/articleshow/77310340.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Guidelines on safe transport of Covid patients prepared||KOCHI: The district administration and health officials have drawn up guidelines with regards to safe transportation of Covid patients to first-line treatment centers (FLTCs) when more positive cases are reported and more centers start functioning at local levels. If a person develops Covid symptoms, he or she should call the telemedicine helpline set up at PHC level. The telemedicine team will report to the respective FLTC about the patient and the patient will be transported to nearby local FLTC where he/ she will be tested for Covid. The local body concerned will arrange double-chambered vehicles for the patient if he/she does not have own their own vehicles to reach the centre. If the patients test positive, they will be admitted to the FLTC. If the patients need hospital care, they will be transported to a Covid hospital in an ambulance. District health authorities will coordinate the transportation depending on bed availability at the hospital. It will be done through a software, Corona Safe. “Currently, the patients are transported using a centralized system at the district level. We have a network of 50 vehicles, including ambulances and double-chambered taxies. When the number of cases rises and more FLTCs start functioning, it will be difficult to coordinate the transportation of patients at the centralized level,” said a district health official. The onus is on the local body to arrange two double chambered vehicles financed by them at the FLTC. An ambulance should also be arranged at the FLTC. Meanwhile, 141 FLTC with 8,964 beds have been arranged on the district. Currently, nine FLTCs have been admitting patients and half of the beds in these centers have been occupied. Ernakulam records one death, 59 fresh casesErnakulam reported one death due to Covid-19 on Saturday. Fifty-nine new cases, including 37 contact cases, were reported and among them 20 people had come from Tamil Nadu. As many as 13 contact cases were reported from Fort Kochi area alone. Four naval personnel were also among the positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-guidelines-on-safe-transport-of-covid-patients-prepared/articleshow/77310342.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 3 lakh Murrah buffalo thief in Panchkula police net||PANCHKULA: The crime investigation agency (CIA) of the Panchkula police got the custody of a resident of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly stealing four Murrah buffaloes and a calfworth Rs 3 lakh from the house of a former ex-sarpanch in Chandimandir in January. This is the first such incident solved by the Panchkula police.  All other similar cases are still untraced. CIA-II in-charge inspector Karambir Singh said Ambala police caught the accused in a similar buffalo theft case and the information was shared with Panchkuka police. The accused was brought to Panchkuka on production warrant from Ambala. A court granted the police his four-day remand. The accused has been identified as Junaid, 30, a resident of Chau Sandsur village in Saharanpur.  Two of his accomplices with whom he used to work have already been arrested by the Haryana police. “During the police remand, we will try and seek information on where used to sell the stolen buffaloes,” said the CIA-II in charge. Pawan Kumar, former sarpanch of Kami village, Chandimandir, on January 23 reported his four Murrah buffaloes and a calf were stolen on January 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-3-lakh-murrah-buffalo-thief-in-panchkula-police-net/articleshow/77310349.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Eight Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, 1,129 new cases in Kerala||KOCHI: Eight Covid deaths were recorded in the state on Saturday taking the death toll so far to 82 (this includes the Mahe resident who died in Kannur in April). Saturday also saw the first casualty from the police force -- sub-inspector Varambanal P Ajithan (55) --though his death is yet to be officially recorded. As many as 1,129 new Covid cases and 752 recoveries were reported on August 1. The deceased were Koyamu ( 82) from Malappuram, Ashraf (52) from Aluva, Ernakulam, Angel (81) Ernakulam, Abdul Rahman (72) Kasargod, Babu (62) Thiruvananthapuram, Naushad ( 49) Kozhikode, Asuma Beevi (73) Kollam and Chandran (59) Thrissur. Thiruvananthapuram (259 cases and 241 contact cases) led the tally on Saturday also, followed by Kasargod (153, 151), Malappuram (141, 83), Kozhikode (95, 80), Pathanamthitta (85, 61), Thrissur (76, 36), Alappuzha (67, 52), Ernakulam (59, 33), Kottayam (47, 38), Palakkad (47, 25), Wayanad (46, 44), Kollam (35, 27), Idukki(14, 7) and Kannur (5, 2). Among the new cases, 924 were infected through contact, 89 had come from overseas and 114 from other states. The source of contact is yet to be traced in 83 cases. The contact cases include 24 healthcare workers —14 in Thiruvananthapuram, 2 from Kozhikode, one each from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur, 11 KSE employees, 5 KLF employees and 4 INHS personnel. Currently, there are 10,862 active cases and 1,43,996 people are under surveillance — 1,33,616 under observation at homes/institutional quarantine centres and 10,380 in hospitals. 17 new hotspots addedA total of 1,257 people were admitted in hospitals on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 20,518 samples were tested. A total of 7,95,919 samples have been sent for testing and the results of 5,971 are awaited. As part of sentinel surveillance, 1,24,653 samples were collected from high-risk groups and the results of 1,842 results are not out yet. As many as 17 new hotspots have been added and 23 areas were allowed to shed the status. There are a total of 492 hotspots at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/eight-covid-19-deaths-on-saturday-1129-new-cases-in-kerala/articleshow/77310357.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Eight Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, 1,129 new cases in Kerala||KOCHI: Eight Covid deaths were recorded in the state on Saturday taking the death toll so far to 82 (this includes the Mahe resident who died in Kannur in April). Saturday also saw the first casualty from the police force -- sub-inspector Varambanal P Ajithan (55) --though his death is yet to be officially recorded. As many as 1,129 new Covid cases and 752 recoveries were reported on August 1. The deceased were Koyamu ( 82) from Malappuram, Ashraf (52) from Aluva, Ernakulam, Angel (81) Ernakulam, Abdul Rahman (72) Kasargod, Babu (62) Thiruvananthapuram, Naushad ( 49) Kozhikode, Asuma Beevi (73) Kollam and Chandran (59) Thrissur. Thiruvananthapuram (259 cases and 241 contact cases) led the tally on Saturday also, followed by Kasargod (153, 151), Malappuram (141, 83), Kozhikode (95, 80), Pathanamthitta (85, 61), Thrissur (76, 36), Alappuzha (67, 52), Ernakulam (59, 33), Kottayam (47, 38), Palakkad (47, 25), Wayanad (46, 44), Kollam (35, 27), Idukki(14, 7) and Kannur (5, 2). Among the new cases, 924 were infected through contact, 89 had come from overseas and 114 from other states. The source of contact is yet to be traced in 83 cases. The contact cases include 24 healthcare workers —14 in Thiruvananthapuram, 2 from Kozhikode, one each from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur, 11 KSE employees, 5 KLF employees and 4 INHS personnel. Currently, there are 10,862 active cases and 1,43,996 people are under surveillance — 1,33,616 under observation at homes/institutional quarantine centres and 10,380 in hospitals. 17 new hotspots addedA total of 1,257 people were admitted in hospitals on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 20,518 samples were tested. A total of 7,95,919 samples have been sent for testing and the results of 5,971 are awaited. As part of sentinel surveillance, 1,24,653 samples were collected from high-risk groups and the results of 1,842 results are not out yet. As many as 17 new hotspots have been added and 23 areas were allowed to shed the status. There are a total of 492 hotspots at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/eight-covid-19-deaths-on-saturday-1129-new-cases-in-kerala/articleshow/77310358.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Eight Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, 1,129 new cases in Kerala||KOCHI: Eight Covid deaths were recorded in the state on Saturday taking the death toll so far to 82 (this includes the Mahe resident who died in Kannur in April). Saturday also saw the first casualty from the police force -- sub-inspector Varambanal P Ajithan (55) --though his death is yet to be officially recorded. As many as 1,129 new Covid cases and 752 recoveries were reported on August 1. The deceased were Koyamu ( 82) from Malappuram, Ashraf (52) from Aluva, Ernakulam, Angel (81) Ernakulam, Abdul Rahman (72) Kasargod, Babu (62) Thiruvananthapuram, Naushad ( 49) Kozhikode, Asuma Beevi (73) Kollam and Chandran (59) Thrissur. Thiruvananthapuram (259 cases and 241 contact cases) led the tally on Saturday also, followed by Kasargod (153, 151), Malappuram (141, 83), Kozhikode (95, 80), Pathanamthitta (85, 61), Thrissur (76, 36), Alappuzha (67, 52), Ernakulam (59, 33), Kottayam (47, 38), Palakkad (47, 25), Wayanad (46, 44), Kollam (35, 27), Idukki(14, 7) and Kannur (5, 2). Among the new cases, 924 were infected through contact, 89 had come from overseas and 114 from other states. The source of contact is yet to be traced in 83 cases. The contact cases include 24 healthcare workers —14 in Thiruvananthapuram, 2 from Kozhikode, one each from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur, 11 KSE employees, 5 KLF employees and 4 INHS personnel. Currently, there are 10,862 active cases and 1,43,996 people are under surveillance — 1,33,616 under observation at homes/institutional quarantine centres and 10,380 in hospitals. 17 new hotspots addedA total of 1,257 people were admitted in hospitals on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 20,518 samples were tested. A total of 7,95,919 samples have been sent for testing and the results of 5,971 are awaited. As part of sentinel surveillance, 1,24,653 samples were collected from high-risk groups and the results of 1,842 results are not out yet. As many as 17 new hotspots have been added and 23 areas were allowed to shed the status. There are a total of 492 hotspots at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/eight-covid-19-deaths-on-saturday-1129-new-cases-in-kerala/articleshow/77310359.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid-19 pandemic helps rape accused secure bail||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to an accused in a rape case of a minor, reasoning the courts are working with restrictions owing to the pandemic and no purpose will be served by keeping him behind the bars. The HC order stated, “No useful purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars anymore, especially when the trial is held up. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, courts are working with restrictions, taking up only urgent matters. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the petition is allowed. The petitioner shall be released on bail on his furnishing bail bonds and surety bonds to the satisfaction of the chief judicial magistrate or duty magistrate, Chandigarh, as the case may be.” The FIR was registered under different Sections of the IPC and Section of Pocso Act on November 28, 2019, after the father of the 15-year-old girl had alleged she had gone missing on November 27, 2019, apprehending she was kidnapped after being enticed by someone. Harsh Manocha, the counsel for the accused, said the girl had disclosed her age to be 19 years in an affidavit before the two got married. A M Punchhi, public prosecutor, opposed the bail plea, submitting the victim is a minor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-19-pandemic-helps-rape-accused-secure-bail/articleshow/77310361.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 58 ATM kiosks face action for not keeping hand sanitizers in Ernakulam district||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police on Saturday initiated action against 58 ATM kiosks in the district for not following Covid protocol. Police said that the bank branches, which run the ATMs would be issued a notice regarding the violation. Rural police said that a special drive was held on Saturday morning to identify kiosks which were not following the Covid protocol. Many ATMs were not providing sanitizers and there was no social distancing at some others, police said. It was found that even kiosks within clusters were running without any safety precautions. District police chief K Karthick said that the parties concerned should ensure strict adherence to Covid protocol at ATMs and other similar facilities. He added that similar drives can be expected in the coming days as well. As part of the drive, rural police booked 575 persons for going out in public without wearing a face mask. As many as 11 persons were booked for not following social distancing. Rural police also booked 59 persons for other general violations of the Covid protocol. Three persons were arrested in this connection and three vehicles were seized, police said. Meanwhile, rural police registered cases against three persons for violating quarantine. Cases were registered against Bengaluru natives Zakir Hussain and Akash Ahamed and Airapuram native Yusuf Kizhakkinal. The duo had come from Bengluru on July 19 and they were brought to Airapuram by Yusuf. However, they were roaming around without following the mandatory quarantine of 14 days. Kunnathunadu police registered a case based on a complaint from the primary health centre at Muzuvannoor. Police said that Yusuf was booked for failure in ensuring the quarantine of the persons he brought for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-58-atm-kiosks-face-action-for-not-keeping-hand-sanitizers/articleshow/77310382.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Night curfew starts at 11pm||MOHALI: The administration has decided against lifting the night curfew from 10pm to 5am but instead relaxed it by an hour, 11pm to 5am, from Saturday. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on July 30 sought the views of deputy commissioners on lifting night curfew, opening of gyms and coaching centres, saying the final decision will be taken after receiving their inputs after The ministry of home affairs suggested ending the curfew in Unlock 3.0 Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have issued a public notice declaring the relaxation of one hour while imposing the night curfew in the district. Restaurants can open till 10pm but with conditions.” They have to obey the previous orders of operating with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Liquor can be served provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. However, bars will remain closed. The DC said all kinds of examinations, admissions and entrance tests conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions are allowed with usual precautions and social-distancing. The notice has relaxed norms for operations of barber shops, salons, beauty parlors and spas to be operational from 7am to 8pm, subject to compliance of the standard operating procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-night-curfew-starts-at-11pm/articleshow/77310373.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop found dead with bullet wound in car at Punjab MLAs’ hostel parking||CHANDIGARH: A 23-year-old constable was found dead under mysterious circumstances with a bullet wound at the parking of Punjab MLAs’ hostel in Sector 3 in the early hours of Saturday. Simaranjit Singh, a resident of Jalandhar, was deployed in the 82nd battalion of Punjab Police. He was on duty in the security at the Punjab and Haryana high court. The shot was fired from his 9mm service pistol and went through his head, according to the police. No suicide note was found. Police are investigating the case from the angles of both murder and suicide. Simranjit was living in the barracks at the hostel with his colleague Hardeep Singh. In his statement, Hardeep said when he did not find Simranjit, he began looking for him and noticed his car. He said he peered through the window to find Simaranjit lying in a pool of blood on the driver’s seat in his Maruti Baleno car. Hardeep with the help of others broke the windscreen and took Simranjit to PGI, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A Central Forensic Science Laboratory team collected fingerprints and other evidence. Police said preliminary probe suggests he committed suicide. Police said Simranjit was talking to someone over phone till Friday midnight. Simranjit got the job in the police on compassionate grounds after the death of his father. He is survived by his mother and two sisters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-found-dead-with-bullet-wound-in-car-at-punjab-mlas-hostel-parking/articleshow/77310406.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Noida||Jewar-Delhi link to be taken up in Centre’s meet||GREATER NOIDA: A crucial meeting to weigh and possibly finalise multi-modal connectivity options between Jewar and Delhi is slated for August 7, TOI has learnt. Separated by a distance of some 70km, it currently takes nearly two hours to reach the airport site in Jewar from Connaught Place during rush hour. Officials said the Union ministry of road transport and highways has called for the meeting via video-conferencing to discuss the various mobility options between the upcoming Jewar airport and Delhi’s IGI airport as well as the cost estimates and cost-sharing formula between the Centre and the state. Besides the secretary of the Union road transport ministry, UP’s PWD secretary, the Yamuna Expressway Authority CEO, the chairman of the National Highways Authority of India and the principal secretary of PWD of Delhi will also participate in the meeting. “Decision on what is going to be taken up on priority is expected to be taken during the meeting,” said an officer of state PWD. Aware that without improving accessibility of the airport site with the neighbouring states, desired results to make the Jewar project successful would be difficult to achieve, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) is finalising its presentation ahead of the meeting. The study on improving connectivity was first conducted by RITES, which has proposed links through an additional road corridor, rapid rail as well as metro line given the growing future needs of the population staying in NCR. YEIDA also wants to reduce the travel time between Delhi and Jewar to less than an hour, with the help of a high-speed metro line or a rail service. CEO of YEIDA Arun Vir Singh said that the authority will highlight the need to improve the connectivity of Jewar with Delhi through transport mediums other than road. “The priority is to improve the accessibility of the airport site with Delhi at the earliest. A wide road is available at present. But another option to bring down the travel time is required,” he said. The Uttar Pradesh government had approved Rs 238 crore last year for the development roads, drainage system, streetlights, water connection, post offices, schools and community health centres among other facilities near the airport. The Jewar airport is likely to start operations in its first with two runways — expandable to six by the end of the fourth phase — and is currently chasing a deadline of late 2023 or early 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/jewar-delhi-link-to-be-taken-up-in-centres-meet/articleshow/77309213.cms||Shalabh
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Watch out! Losing pay for skipping work in municipal corporation staffer hands||CHANDIGARH: Technical and administrative steps to dock salaries of 4,000 field employees of the municipal corporation (MC) if they do not clock eight hours of duty daily according to data gleaned from GPS-enabled watches on their wrists were completed on Saturday, starting the micro-surveillance project to improve efficiency and ensure punctuality. The accounts department of the civic body will release the pay after studying the record from the watches that allow senior officials to track the realtime movement of employees, some of whom which had earlier claimed the watches made them giddy and gave them the feeling of being “bonded labourers”. Some members of the sanitation department had even held protests, but municipal commissioner K K Yadav refused to scrap the project that was halted owing to the pandemic. TimesViewChandigarh MC's plan to monitor the quantum of work of its field staff through GPS-enabled watches and now linking it with their salaries is aimed at better man management and greater efficiency. It is a practical means to rein in the field workers who were often found missing from their work zone. The new process will ensure that they get their work done as how much they get paid is in their hands now.To MC’s defence, most of the senior officers, including municipal commissioner, additional municipal commissioners and senior officers of engineering and sanitation departments have been wearing these watches for six months. But it is not clear if their salaries too will be cut for not showing up for work. Yadav has been working on the project to improve functioning and eradicate ghost employees — people employed in different departments but working in houses of politicians, bureaucrats and others and drawing salaries from the civic body. The civic body had given space to a company to set up its command and control centre to monitor the staffers and help and advice senior officers. After negotiating the monthly rental rates, the company agreed to provide 4,000 watches to the MC for Rs 437.78 per piece instead of the earlier Rs 466 per month. According to the contract, the watches will initially be provided for three years extendable to five years for a year at a time as per performance. The civic body will pay Rs 18 lakh rent per month. Out of the 4,000 field employees, 2,168 are from the sanitation department falling under the medical officer of health. The horticulture department comes next with 983 employees and then public health wing with 338 staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-watch-out-losing-pay-for-skipping-work-in-municipal-corporation-staffer-hands/articleshow/77310415.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP government green flag for Bhopal kill Corona drive||BHOPAL: "Kill Corona-2" campaign took off in all the districts under Bhopal division on Saturday. The campaign will continue till August 15. It will be a public awareness campaign to make people understand the importance of wearing masks at public places, maintain social distancing and avoid going to crowded places to prevent coronavirus infection. Divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyavat, in a circular issued on Saturday asked collectors of all the four districts under his jurisdiction to ensure success of the campaign. He instructed that during this period no peoples' representatives will hold any public function. No stone laying ceremony, bhoomi pujan, inauguration programmes will take place although they can be allowed online. They can meet people at their office or residence but not more than five people at a time. All the political rallies will remain banned and only virtual rallies will be allowed.Everyone must observe the coronavirus protocol wearing masks and maintaining social distancing- and who-so-eThe ongoing "Roko Toko" campaign of the health directorate "One mask, many lives" of urban development department will continue alongside "Corona-II" campaign. Whoever is found flouting the norms would be fined, said Kiyavat. Home department will the nodal department for the campaign. Department of urban administration, department of panchayat & rural development, department of health and medical education department will also chip in to make the campaign a success.The ongoing "Roko Toko" campaign of the health directorate "One mask, many lives" of urban development department will continue alongside "Corona-II" campign. The divisional commissioner further clarified that district collectors would need permission of the home department to clamp lockdown in their districts from August 3, therefore relying on public awareness to curb the spread of coronavirus is a necessity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-government-green-flag-for-bhopal-kill-corona-drive/articleshow/77310413.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Urine test for de-addiction drugs: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government will soon introduce urine tests every six months for dispensing de-addiction drugs to check their abuse, said chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The chief minister disclosed this in response to a question during his weekly #AskCaptain Facebook Live session. A Ludhiana youth had requested him to direct OOAT (out-patient opioidassisted treatment) clinics to give 10 days of medicine at a time, as per the past practice, since a lot of time is wasted every day in long queues to get the daily dose of medication. Due to the daily waiting time, he is getting late for his work every day, the youth said. In response, Captain Amarinder said the government would soon introduce urine tests every six months to ensure that there is no diversion of the medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/urine-test-for-de-addiction-drugs-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh/articleshow/77310427.cms||---
August 2, 2020||World||US counts 61,262 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours: Johns Hopkins||WASHINGTON: The United States counted 61,262 new coronavirus cases in the 24 hours leading up to 8:30 pm Saturday (0030 GMT Sunday), according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. It was the fifth consecutive day with more than 60,000 infections recorded, according to the Baltimore-based university. There were also 1,051 deaths in the 24-hour period. The US has now tallied more than 4.6 million cases and 154,319 deaths, making it the hardest-hit country in the world. The new numbers came as Florida braced for the arrival of Tropical Storm Isaias, which is expected to strengthen back into a hurricane as it approached the southeastern part of the virus-ravaged state. Among US states, only California, with almost double Florida's population of about 21 million people, has registered more coronavirus cases. On Saturday, Florida reported another 179 deaths, setting a new state record and pushing its virus death toll to 6,843. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said it's better to "just hunker down rather than sending people to the road" -- with shelters usually crowded and so||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-counts-61262-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-johns-hopkins/articleshow/77310431.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310453.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Puducherry||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310454.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310455.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Erode||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310456.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310457.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310458.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 toll in Tamil Nadu crosses 4,000-mark; 5,879 new cases||CHENNAI: With one death short of hundred, the cumulative toll in Tamil Nadu breached the 4,000 mark to 4,034 on Saturday. The state added 5,879 cases that pushed the case tally to 2,51,738. The number of active cases however came down to 56,738 from 57,968 on Friday. The case fatality rate stood at 1.6% in the state and the recovery rate was 75.8% on Monday. “The doubling time for both deaths and cases have gone up. The doubling time for deaths in above 25 days compared to about 14- 16 days a month ago. The bed occupancy levels have also come down across the state,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The most common comorbidity reported by hospitals was a combination of diabetes and hypertension. While nine of the 99 people who succumbed to infection due to no comorbidities, at least three people whose deaths were reported on Saturday were brought dead to hospitals indicating late detection of the virus. Public health experts also point out that some deaths continued to be reported late. For instance, a 62-year-old woman who was declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 16 was reported to the Covid registry on Monday. Hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases and deaths. The city's total tally crossed 1 lakh with 1,00,877 cases. On Saturday, 1074 fresh cases and 27 more deaths were reported, while three adjoining districts together reported 987 cases and 13 deaths. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases compared to 485 on Friday, while Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 314 and 305 cases respectively. Tiruvallur reported seven deaths. With this, the total cases reported in the region came down to 2,061 compared to 2,205 on Friday, but the deaths went up to 40 from 34. The active cases in Chennai region was 22,351. The other northern districts to record a high number of cases were Thiruvannamalai (242), Vellore (197), Cuddalore (182), Villupuram (158) and Ranipet (116), taking the total number of cases reported in the region to 3038 and deaths to 48. There were 31379 active cases in the eleven northern districts. Among the 10th southern districts, there were 1758 fresh cases and 15,605 active cases. The districts reported 38 deaths. While Theni(327), Virudhunagar(286), Thoothukudi(243), Tirunelveli(181), Tenkasi(178), Madurai (166) and Kanyakumari (198) recorded cases in three digits, Dindigul (81), Sivaganga(61) and Ramnad(37) recorded cases in two digits. Madurai recorded ten deaths, while Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari recorded six deaths each. The eight central districts, which together recorded 564 cases had 4,901 active cases. Barring Thanjavur(167), Trichy (136) and Pudukottai(91) all other districts recorded cases below 50. There were no deaths recorded in the region. In the west, Coimbatore continued to record the highest number of cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district had 238 cases and 10 deaths. Erode (8) and Dharmapuri(9) recorded a single digit rise, the other districts in the region reported cases in two digits. Krishnagiri had 74 cases, Salem(51), Nilgiris and Tiruppur had 36 cases each, while Namakkal reported 32 cases. While Salem had two deaths, Tiruppur reported one death. At the end of the day 7,010 were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 1,90,966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-19-toll-in-tamil-nadu-crosses-4000-mark-5879-new-cases/articleshow/77310459.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Eid spirit reigns despite lockdown in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Eid-ul-Adha that was celebrated by Bhopalis during the lockdown remained lowkey, but the spirit of brotherhood was bigger than ever. Bhopal Khidmatgar Group, a group of volunteers from various NGOs, helped people who offered sacrifice to distribute two portions of the kurbani to the poor by creating a group on messaging apps. “We had circulated our phone numbers and asked the district administration for passes to help distribute the kurbani to the poor. Around 40 volunteers were involved throughout the city and each of us catered to our own areas. If someone had offered the kurbani, and wanted to donate to the poor, we collected it from their homes and distributed it to the needy in the same area. It was the least we could do to help keep up the spirit if Eid even during lockdown,” said Shawez Sikander, a volunteer and theatre artiste. Many people finished their Eid shopping before the enforcement of the lockdown to avoid last minute hassles. “This time, we were prepared for the lockdown, and we have also grown accustomed to it, so it didn’t feel as bad as earlier. We offered the namaz at home and gave a part of the kurbani to our house help so that her family could also celebrate Eid. said Nasir Qureshi, a private employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eid-spirit-reigns-despite-lockdown-in-bhopal/articleshow/77310485.cms||Shuchita Jha
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||New session: 70% classes online, staff to attend colleges from August 4||GURUGRAM: In a set of new guidelines for the new academic session 2020-21, the department of higher education has asked all government colleges in the state to conduct 70% of yearly lectures online, and the remaining 30% via physical classes when the situation normalises. A detailed discussion with the colleges in this regard has also been scheduled on Sunday afternoon. Starting from August 4, all teaching and non-teaching staff have been asked to report to their respective colleges and the onus of ensuring that physical distancing norms are being observed has been put on the college principals. According to the recent order, colleges have been tasked to devise a timetable for the online classes and ensure that 70% lectures in this session are conducted online. Further, teachers have been asked to develop PPTs and audio/video lectures for online classes. The guidelines, which provide the basic structure of the new academic session, was issued after receiving feedback from the colleges and teachers on various indicators such as number of students with access to smartphones/laptops among others. However, there are still several issues that need to be clarified before the colleges resume. Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya College, said, “We have received the new order and have communicated the same to the teachers. We are in the process of devising a timetable and preparing content for online lectures. However, there are some points where we still need clarity. For instance, the orientation of first year students has to be discussed. Also, how do we reach students who don’t have access to internet or smartphone?” Educators have further cautioned that going ahead with the online classes without addressing challenges could be counterproductive. “In our college, 30% students in PG courses and 40% students in UG courses do not have smartphones, laptops or internet connectivity and they are mostly girls,” Khullar added. Moreover, in the existing infrastructure, several colleges lack computer labs, smart classes, broadband connection, among others. Sunder Singh, a commerce faculty in a government college, said, “Government Girls College in Sector 52 still doesn’t have its own building. Power supply is so bad that we would wait for hours and even suspend classes at times. Internet connectivity is pathetic and there is no computer lab or even a proper room that can be called a classroom. And, this is just one college. The government should upgraded the infrastructure before starting online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/new-session-70-classes-online-staff-to-attend-colleges-from-aug-4/articleshow/77309001.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 2, 2020||Bhopal||Longing for smartphone for online study, girl kills self in MP||BHOPAL: A Class XII girl has killed herself in MP’s Chhindwara apparently because she couldn’t get a smartphone to continue her studies online. The teenager took poison on July 28 and died in hospital the next day. She didn’t leave behind any suicide note, leaving her family and police puzzled about why she killed herself. After talking to her family members, police said on Saturday that schoolgirl Renuka wanted a smartphone to study online but was told by her mother that she would have to wait. Renuka’s father died around three years ago and her mother takes cares of farming on the 4-acre land the family owns in Pohana village on the outskirts of Chhindwara town. She studied in a government school. Farming is their lone source of income. She was eldest of three siblings. According to the girl’s mother, she had asked for a smartphone and was told that she would have to wait a while as they couldn’t buy it right away. The girl took pesticide after that, says her family,” ASI Ghanshyam Mahore, who did the primary investigation, told TOI.“She had told her mother that since regular classes were not on, she had to study online and needed a smartphone. Her mother didn’t refuse, but asked her to wait. Our investigations are on,” Mahore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/longing-for-smartphone-for-online-study-girl-kills-self-in-mp/articleshow/77310472.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Deputy jailer’s son says he will blow up Bhondsi jail, charged with sedition||GURUGRAM: The son of deputy jailer Dharambir Chautala, who was arrested for allegedly smuggling in drugs and cellphones inside Bhondsi jail, was nabbed on Saturday for threatening to blow up the state’s largest prison and charged with sedition. In an audio message circulated on social media platforms, Chautala’s son Ravi purportedly says he has links with several gangsters and can take their help to harm police officers who arrested his father and blow up the entire jail. A case was registered against him based on the two-minute long audio recording. Sanjay Kumar, who has replaced Chautala as the deputy jailer, said he received information about the audio message around 8pm on Friday. The voice in the audio says officers in the jail should take a transfer as soon as possible because he will “teach a lesson” to the jail superintendent and deputy jailer after “my father” (Chautala) is released on bail. The person in the clip claims to know dreaded gangsters in not only Haryana, but Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and UP as well. “I could identify the voice as Ravi lived here in the officers’ quarters inside the jail compound. He threatened to cause extensive damage to Bhondsi jail and harm the officers posted there,” Kumar said. He added that the case against Ravi was registered under Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC. During questioning, Ravi told the cops that he had spoken the words in jest a day after his father was arrested and his friends had recorded it for fun. He claimed his friends had shared the audio clip with several others, following which it became viral. “The accused was arrested from his home in Sirsa and remanded in judicial custody,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dy-jailers-son-says-he-will-blow-up-bhondsi-jail-charged-with-sedition/articleshow/77309059.cms||Bagish Jha
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||What’s cooking? Eateries are reaching you in food trucks||Contactless delivery, sanitised and socially distant seating, live feed from kitchens to staff temperatures marked on orders — food brands tried everything possible to win the confidence of consumers. Now, they are reaching out to their patrons in food trucks. Jubilant FoodWorks, the company behind Domino’s Pizza, has been sending five trucks across societies in Gurugram and Noida. Wanchai, a brand by Kylin restaurants, has already had food trucks in Gurugram and claims to have experienced higher sales than even pre-Covid days. Speciality Restaurants, which owns Mainland China, is also about to roll out soon. If you thought it was only about serving meals at your society’s gate, brands such as Levi’s have also started a shop on wheels campaign in Delhi and Gurugram. Stage3, an apparel rental brand, and Max Fashion have also started their mobile stores to reach out to consumers directly. Sanjeev Mohanty of Levi’s said the response had “exceeded expectations” and prompted the brand to “scale this to multiple cities”. Shriram Monga of SRED, a food and beverage advisory firm, said, “This mobile model allows an additional channel of sales to the brands.” In case of a Levi’s store, the customer can try a garment at home and then buy it. For alterations, he or she can give measurements to the team that will send them to a store, have the garment altered and deliver it to the customer. Saurabh Khanijo, director of Kylin Experience, said the food truck was an extension of Wanchai, a quick-service restaurant present in most malls. Khanijo, who has been operating the truck for a while, said he had registered higher sales during the lockdown — doing a daily business of Rs 25,000-30,000. With most outlets closed or people wary of stepping out, a food truck with a live kitchen allowed customers to see the cooking and packaging and be sure of hygiene. For Domino’s, too, the food truck model has been a welcome ride. Some of their trucks are said to have done better business than some of their outlets. A representative said Jubilant was planning to double the number of trucks for Domino’s and introduce them for its Asian restaurant brand Hong’s Kitchen. He added that Speciality Restaurants, too, had also applied for permission for food trucks in Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. While most brands are looking at this as the “new normal”, many are not enthused because of the lack of clear rules and guidelines. “I have been planning to start my own food truck in Gurugram but there are no clear rules about where we can serve. The government needs to come up with clear guidelines as food trucks will be the only way to reach out to consumers in the days to come,” said a restaurateur who has been working on this model for almost two years. He said more people wanted to get into this business but feared harassment by authorities due to the lack of rules. Khanijo said that when he started, his marketing team would go to every door seeking permission to bring their food truck. Some societies asked for a nominal fee then, but the demand for good and hygienically cooked food during the lockdown led to endless calls. Khanijo’s truck is now a regular feature at societies such as Palm Springs, The Verandas, The Summit and Uniworld. The dates when the truck would be stationed next is usually circulated on WhatsApp groups. A resident of Parsvnath said even though the Domino’s truck had only five pizza options, almost the entire society turned up to buy them. A fashion brand, requesting not to be named, has written to leading developers to allow it to set mobile stores on their premises. If allowed, it plans to have at least five such outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/whats-cooking-eateries-are-reaching-you-in-food-trucks/articleshow/77309128.cms||Amin Ali
August 2, 2020||Noida||What’s cooking? Eateries are reaching you in food trucks||Contactless delivery, sanitised and socially distant seating, live feed from kitchens to staff temperatures marked on orders — food brands tried everything possible to win the confidence of consumers. Now, they are reaching out to their patrons in food trucks. Jubilant FoodWorks, the company behind Domino’s Pizza, has been sending five trucks across societies in Gurugram and Noida. Wanchai, a brand by Kylin restaurants, has already had food trucks in Gurugram and claims to have experienced higher sales than even pre-Covid days. Speciality Restaurants, which owns Mainland China, is also about to roll out soon. If you thought it was only about serving meals at your society’s gate, brands such as Levi’s have also started a shop on wheels campaign in Delhi and Gurugram. Stage3, an apparel rental brand, and Max Fashion have also started their mobile stores to reach out to consumers directly. Sanjeev Mohanty of Levi’s said the response had “exceeded expectations” and prompted the brand to “scale this to multiple cities”. Shriram Monga of SRED, a food and beverage advisory firm, said, “This mobile model allows an additional channel of sales to the brands.” In case of a Levi’s store, the customer can try a garment at home and then buy it. For alterations, he or she can give measurements to the team that will send them to a store, have the garment altered and deliver it to the customer. Saurabh Khanijo, director of Kylin Experience, said the food truck was an extension of Wanchai, a quick-service restaurant present in most malls. Khanijo, who has been operating the truck for a while, said he had registered higher sales during the lockdown — doing a daily business of Rs 25,000-30,000. With most outlets closed or people wary of stepping out, a food truck with a live kitchen allowed customers to see the cooking and packaging and be sure of hygiene. For Domino’s, too, the food truck model has been a welcome ride. Some of their trucks are said to have done better business than some of their outlets. A representative said Jubilant was planning to double the number of trucks for Domino’s and introduce them for its Asian restaurant brand Hong’s Kitchen. He added that Speciality Restaurants, too, had also applied for permission for food trucks in Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. While most brands are looking at this as the “new normal”, many are not enthused because of the lack of clear rules and guidelines. “I have been planning to start my own food truck in Gurugram but there are no clear rules about where we can serve. The government needs to come up with clear guidelines as food trucks will be the only way to reach out to consumers in the days to come,” said a restaurateur who has been working on this model for almost two years. He said more people wanted to get into this business but feared harassment by authorities due to the lack of rules. Khanijo said that when he started, his marketing team would go to every door seeking permission to bring their food truck. Some societies asked for a nominal fee then, but the demand for good and hygienically cooked food during the lockdown led to endless calls. Khanijo’s truck is now a regular feature at societies such as Palm Springs, The Verandas, The Summit and Uniworld. The dates when the truck would be stationed next is usually circulated on WhatsApp groups. A resident of Parsvnath said even though the Domino’s truck had only five pizza options, almost the entire society turned up to buy them. A fashion brand, requesting not to be named, has written to leading developers to allow it to set mobile stores on their premises. If allowed, it plans to have at least five such outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/whats-cooking-eateries-are-reaching-you-in-food-trucks/articleshow/77311596.cms||Amin Ali
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Govt planning to scrap 45-year-old law to end illegal registries: Dushyant Chautala||GURUGRAM: The Haryana government is planning to scrap a 45-year-old law to put an end to illegal registry of properties in the urban areas, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has said. “Other sweeping changes, including digitisation of land records and unique IDs for properties, are also underway in the state.” According to Chautala, the government may soon bring in an ordinance to do away with Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, which has often been misused to execute illegal registries of agricultural land in urban areas. As per the provisions of the section, an NOC from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) is not required for registration of agricultural land measuring over 2 kanals (1,011 square yard) in “controlled areas”. Taking undue advantage of the loophole in the law, people would often pool in money to buy agricultural land over 2 kanals and get them registered in connivance with “corrupt” officials in local tehsil offices to develop illegal colonies. “I have spoken to the CM on this. If the law is scrapped, it would help end this corrupt practice in the land registration process,” Chautala said. The deputy CM also said that as per rules, multiple NOCs are required for registration of properties in urban areas, and the respective town and country planning department or the urban local body is required to carry out inspection of every registry executed in their jurisdiction within seven days. But this is hardly done.” Moreover, for execution of registry, one also needs NOCs from the power department and the urban local body to ensure that electricity and property tax dues, respectively, are not pending. “But these norms are hardly adhered to. To fix these loopholes, we have stopped the registration process for a few weeks,” Chautala said. The government has also started the process of digitising land records and giving a unique identity to each property. “The digitalisation has been completed in 132 blocks of the state. We are expediting it in the remaining 11 blocks. The details will be linked with the online registry software,” Chautala said. “The state has 32 urban local bodies, wherein every property will be given unique IDs, and work is near completion in Gurugram. We will synchronise the digital revenue records and unique ID of properties with the registry software, so that property tax payment, NOCs, etc can be digitally monitored,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/govt-planning-to-scrap-45-yr-old-law-to-end-illegal-registries-chautala/articleshow/77309144.cms||Bagish Jha
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Ramprastha Sare to pay Rs 1.7 crore for violating green laws||GURUGRAM: For discharging untreated sewage water into a vacant plot and drains, Ramprastha Sare Township has been directed by the National Green Tribunal to pay Rs 1.7 crore as compensation. The green court has asked the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to ensure that the township complies with the order. The NGT also directed HSPCB to take action to mitigate the environmental damages that the project has already caused. The HSPCB recommended the court to impose the penalty for violation of environmental laws by the group township located in Waripur. It was found that the parameters of the effluent sample were found to be exceeding the permissible limit for 564 days between May 25, 2018 and December 10, 2019. The project violated norms such as not discharging sewage in stormwater drains, the NGT pointed out. The order states, “….Ramprastha Sare Township (group housing complex), Wazipur village, Meoka, Gurgaon is hereby directed Rs 1,69,20,000 towards environmental compensation penalty for the damage caused to the environment, with the HSPCB with a period of 15 days, failing which, the unit shall liable for action under the applicable provisions for non-compliance of the direction of the board.” The court also directed the HSPCB to suggest the mechanism for enforcement of rule of law and also to prevent such illegalities in the state. An HSPCB official said that a case was registered against them in green court regarding the matter. “The environment compensation was imposed as per methodology defined by the central pollution control board,” said Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB. Ramprastha Sare couldn’t be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sare-to-pay-rs-1-7-cr-for-violating-green-laws/articleshow/77309172.cms||---
August 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Five-member SIT to probe drug racket||GURUGRAM: Police constituted a five-member special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the international smuggling racket of medicines, including drugs for treating Covid-19 patients, operating from Gurugram. The medicines were smuggled to Iraq from India. A second pharmacist was arrested from Delhi on Saturday. The SIT will be headed by ACP Karan Goyal and it will have one inspector, two sub-inspectors and cops from cyber police station. The SIT will investigate the involvement of people associated with the gang and how this gang was operating to smuggle medicine out of India. The Delhi pharmacist is also accused of supplying medicine, including Ramdesivir, to the gang. “The pharmacist has been detained and we are trying to find those associated with the gang,” said ACP Karan Goyal. Police did not reveal the name of the pharmacist arrested from Delhi. Earlier, a pharmacist, Pradeep Kumar, who runs a medical store in Jharsa, was arrested for supplying Remdesivir to the smugglers. The manufacturer can only supply this drug to hospitals designated as Covid-19 treatment centres and it cannot be supplied in the open market. Four Iraqi nationals and one woman from Uzbekistan have already been from sectors 57 and 46 in Gurugram. Around 63 kinds of medicine were recovered from the possession of the Iraqi nationals. Most of the drugs were procured from Delhi-NCR and some of the injections, which are also used as narcotics, were procured from Kolkata. The foreign nationals were staying in Gurugram without proper documents and working as translators for the patients travelling from Iraq for treatment in Delhi-NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/five-member-sit-to-probe-drug-racket/articleshow/77309203.cms||---
