August 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar speaker praises Nitish Kumar’s human quality in crisis||PATNA: State legislative assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary has praised the human values of CM Nitish Kumar in a book, ‘Siyasat Mein Sadasyata’, released on Sunday. “If a person wants to look for human quality in a political leader, one can feel that quality in Nitish Kumar in the time of any disaster. When a ruler remains alert to maintain peace in the society, only then people sleep at night with all ease and comfort,” Choudhary has said in the book while writing about the CM’s merits and good works. The book, which is a compilation of articles, views and life journey of Choudhary, was released by the CM at his residence on Sunday. The book, published by the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, contains around three dozen articles on different important issues written in different newspapers by Choudhary and his views on Nitish. “The articles written by Choudhary will prove very useful for political leaders and students of law,” a press communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office said. “The book also gives a realistic picture of Choudhary’s life journey. It also mentions various developmental works in different sectors and welfare measures taken by the Nitish government in Bihar. The book also gives information about the special bonding between Nitish and Choudhary,” the communiqué said.It has separate chapters on other important activities of the state assembly, successful meeting of the 6th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA), India Region, in the state capital, information regarding prohibition law, special debate on climate change, reforms in the procedure and business advisory rules of the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-praises-nitishs-human-quality-in-crisis/articleshow/77320798.cms||Madan Kumar
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in Haryana: 2 deaths, 21 fresh cases in Kurukshetra||KURUKSHETRA: The district recorded two more Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to six on Sunday. The district also reported 21 fresh coronavirus cases. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said, “A 68-year-old woman from Pehowa was diabetic and she died at PGI Chandigarh, while a 75-year-old woman, a resident of Shahabad, was diabetic and heart patient. She breathed her last at MM Hospital Mullana."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-in-haryana-2-deaths-21-fresh-cases-in-kurukshetra/articleshow/77321897.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 9,509 Covid-19 cases, 260 die; 9,926 recover||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra spiked by 9,509 cases to 4,41,228 on Sunday, the state Health department said. With 260 deaths, the total toll went up to 15,576, it said. A total of of 9,926 patients were discharged in the day, taking the count of the recovered cases in the state to 2,76,809, the department said. Maharashtra now has 1,48,537 active cases. Mumbai added 1,105 fresh cases, taking its tally to 1,16,436 while the number of cases in metropolitan areas rose by 2,376 to 2,46,154. Mumbai's total death toll now stands at 6,447 while the same mounted to 9,887 in the Mumbai Metropolitan region (MMR), it said. A total of 22,55,701 samples have been tested so far for Covid-19 in the state, the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-adds-9509-covid-19-cases-260-die-9926-recover/articleshow/77321916.cms||---
August 3, 2020||World||SpaceX capsule and Nasa crew make 1st splashdown in 45 years||CAPE CANAVERAL: Two Nasa astronauts returned to Earth on Sunday in a dramatic, retro-style splashdown, their capsule parachuting into the Gulf of Mexico to close out an unprecedented test flight by Elon Musk's SpaceX company. It was the first splashdown by US astronauts in 45 years, with the first commercially built and operated spacecraft to carry people to and from orbit. The return clears the way for another SpaceX crew launch as early as next month and possible tourist flights next year. Test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken rode the SpaceX Dragon capsule back to Earth less than a day after departing the International Space Station and two months after blasting off from Florida. The capsule parachuted into the calm gulf waters off the coast of Pensacola, hundreds of miles from Tropical Storm Isaias pounding Florida's Atlantic coast. ``Welcome back to planet Earth and thanks for flying SpaceX,'' the company's Mission Control said. The astronauts' ride home in the capsule dubbed Endeavour was fast, bumpy and hot, at least on the outside. The spacecraft went from a screaming orbital speed of 17,500 mph (28,000 kph) to 350 mph (560 kph) during atmospheric reentry, and finally to 15 mph (24 kph) at splashdown. Peak heating during descent was 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit (1,900 degrees Celsius). The anticipated top G forces felt by the crew: four to five times the force of Earth's gravity. A SpaceX recovery ship with more than 40 staff, including doctors and nurses, moved in following splashdown, with two smaller, faster boats leading the way. To keep the returning astronauts safe in the pandemic, the recovery crew quarantined for two weeks and were tested for the coronavirus. SpaceX expected it to take a half-hour for the ship to arrive at the capsule and additional time to lift it out of the water onto the deck. The astronauts had plenty of seasick bags if needed while waiting in the bobbing capsule. A flight surgeon was going to be the first to look into the capsule, once the hatch swung open. After medical exams, the astronauts were expected to fly home to Houston for a reunion with their wives and sons. The last time Nasa astronauts returned from space to water was on July 24, 1975, in the Pacific, the scene of most splashdowns, to end a joint US-Soviet mission known as Apollo-Soyuz. The Mercury and Gemini crews in the early to mid-1960s parachuted into the Atlantic, while most of the later Apollo capsules hit the Pacific. The lone Russian ``splashdown'' was in 1976 on a partially frozen lake amid a blizzard following an aborted mission; the harrowing recovery took hours. SpaceX made history with this mission, which launched May 30 from Nasa's Kennedy Space Center. It was the first time a private company launched people into orbit and also the first launch of Nasa astronauts from home turf in nearly a decade. Hurley came full circle, serving as pilot of Nasa's last space shuttle flight in 2011 and the commander of this SpaceX flight. Musk monitored the descent and splashdown from SpaceX Mission Control in Hawthorne, California. Nasa turned to SpaceX and also Boeing to build capsules and ferry astronauts to and from the space station, following the retirement of the shuttles. Until Hurley and Behnken rocketed into orbit, Nasa astronauts relied on Russian rockets. SpaceX already had experience hauling cargo to the space station, bringing those capsules back to a Pacific splashdown. "This is the next era in human spaceflight where Nasa gets to be the customer,'' Nasa Administrator Jim Bridenstine said from Johnson Space Center in Houston shortly before the astronauts' return. SpaceX needs six weeks to inspect the capsule before launching the next crew around the end of September. This next mission of four astronauts will spend a full six months aboard the space station. Hurley and Behnken's capsule will be refurbished for another flight next spring. A Houston company run by a former Nasa official, meanwhile, has partnered with SpaceX to send three customers to the space station in fall 2021. Boeing doesn't expect to launch its first crew until next year. The company encountered significant software problems in the debut of its Starliner capsule, with no one aboard, last year. Its capsules will touch down in the U.S. Southwest desert. By beating Boeing, SpaceX laid claim to a small US flag left at the space station by Hurley and the rest of the last shuttle crew. The flag - which also flew on the first shuttle flight - was carefully packed aboard the Dragon for the homecoming. Also on board: a toy dinosaur named Tremor, sent into space by the astronauts' young sons. The boys recorded a wake-up call for their fathers Sunday morning, urging them to "rise and shine'' and "we can't wait to see you.'' "Don't worry, you can sleep in tomorrow,'' said Behnken's 6-year-old son Theo, who was promised a puppy after the flight. "Hurry home so we can go get my dog.'' Watch NASA crew in SpaceX capsule 'Dragon' return to earth||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-capsule-and-nasa-crew-make-1st-splashdown-in-45-years/articleshow/77322167.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Guwahati||Assam to conduct 50,0000 Covid tests on August 4||GUWAHATI: The Assam government will conduct 50,000 Covid tests on August 4, as the state looks to ramp up testing to arrest the surge in cases. State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma while inaugurating the state’s second plasma bank in Tezpur Medical College and Hospital (TMCH) on Sunday, said, “If we can continue doing 50,000 tests for each of the next 15 days, the positivity rate will reduce to 2-1%. We are on the right path and there is nothing to worry. Since we can identify the infected patients on the day of the rapid antigen tests, those people won’t be able to spread the infection further. Slowly the chain (of infection) will break". We work for a larger goal of humanity and not for a Model. Our commitment to fighting the pandemic is robust. 📌Mo… https://t.co/AJVU2jcBLR— Himanta Biswa Sarma (@himantabiswa) 1596359863000He added that the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state was because of an unprecedented number of testing. "The numbers (positive cases) have increased to some extent in the last few days. This is mainly because of more number of tests carried out in an unprecedented way. A state like Assam has done 43,000 tests in a day. We will conduct 50,000 tests on August 4. When the rate of testing increases, the number of positive cases also goes up proportionately," the health minister said. He, however, said considering the trend on the rate of positivity since July 25, the government was hopeful that the infection was slowing down comparatively. “Once, 18 out of 100 people tested positive in the state. But now, this has come down to five,” the minister said. Dibrugarh and Sonitpur still have positivity rates of 10 per cent and 14 per cent, respectively, the minister said, adding that they remained a concern. The positivity rate in Kamrup (Metro) is 4.5 per cent. “Dibrugarh and Sonitpur have recorded the highest positivity rate in the last three days,” Himanta pointed out. He said the Sonitur deputy commissioner had been advised to conduct 2,000 tests a day so that the target of 50,000 tests in the district can be achieved in August. Himanta also said the state government received a proposal from the Dibrugarh deputy commissioner to lock down Dibrugarh town, which is under consideration. “Lockdown without testing is a waste of time. When the district authority will get the testing infrastructure right, only then will lockdown yield benefits,” he added. The minister said the state government will take a decision on reopening schools by August 22. “Quarantine and isolation centres will be withdrawn from schools and colleges. But their reopening will depend on the situation in the respective districts,” Himanta said. Later, in a tweet, he stated that the mortality rate due to Covid-19 stands at 0.24% in Assam, the lowest in India, while the state’s recovery rate at 75% has been the 4th best in the country. Test per million in Assam is 27,544, which, Himanta said, was the 5th best in the country. “We work for a larger goal of humanity and not for a Model. Our commitment to fighting the pandemic is robust,” Himanta tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-to-conduct-500000-covid-tests-on-august-4/articleshow/77322001.cms||Kangkan Kalita
August 3, 2020||Patna||CPI's Bihar state secretary Satya Narain Singh dies of Covid-19||PATNA: CPI’s Bihar state secretary and former MLA Satya Narain Singh (77) died of covid-19 infection at the AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. He is the fourth important politician in Bihar who died of Covid-19 in the past two weeks. “He breathed his last around 9.30pm. He was admitted to the AIIMS on July 30. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at a reputed private hospital in Patliputra Colony in the state capital,” CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar told TOI while confirming his death. Singh was a two-term MLA from erstwhile Chautham Vidhan Sabha constituency in Bihar’s Khagaria district. His death has caused an irreparable loss to Left movement in the state. Several top leaders of the CPI, CPM and CPI-ML mourned his death. “We have lost an experienced and hardworking leader of the Left movement,” CPI-ML state secretary Kunal said while mourning the demise of Singh. Earlier on July 21, BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh (69) died of Covid-19 at the same hospital. He was the first legislator from Bihar to die of Covid-19. The BJP MLC from Darbhanga district was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on July 13 after his sample test report was found positive. Just a day after the BJP MLC’s death, senior RJD leader and former chairman of the Danapur Nagar Parishad Raj Kishore Yadav succumbed to Covid-19 at the AIIMS-Patna. Again a day after Yadav’s death, one more politician died of the deadly infection on July 23. Former chief of Gaya district Board Bindeshwari Prasad Yadav alias Bindi Yadav, who was husband of JD(U) MLC Manorma Devi, died at a private hospital in the state capital due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpis-bihar-state-secretary-satya-narain-singh-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77322202.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||After 3-month freeze, Ahmedabad’s 600-year-old heart is beating again||Loud, colourful and cheerful – that’s Ahmedabad for you on a normal day. But when Covid struck, the city’s 600-year-old heart went into a three-month-long freeze. In April, all eyes were on the city’s west. The administration expected the virus to touch down there as people returned from abroad. While the first case was found there, the outbreak really started in the old Walled City. Jamalpur saw a surge. An 85-year-old woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia died of Covid at Panch Pipli in the Khamasa neighbourhood. Jamalpur and the other old parts, such as Kalupur, Dariapur, Shahpur, Khadia and Karanj, comprise only 5% of Ahmedabad’s area and population but make up its cultural and commercial centre. They also have centuries-old wholesale markets. For these reasons, Unesco declared the area a World Heritage City in July 2017. Read more from this seriesBy mid-April, three out of every four Covid cases were being reported from the Walled City and Danilimda. Imran Khedawala, MLA from Jamalpur-Khadia, was among the sick. Alarmed, the government ordered a freeze. Only women were allowed out for two hours in the afternoon to shop for essentials.The crowded Bhadra Square — framed by the landmark Teen Darwaza — was emptied. Cops and medics took over. Four months later, the old heart is beating again, albeit at a slower rate. Business is picking up around Teen Darwaza. The haggling is as fierce as ever but softened by masks. Shopkeepers have to bargain for physical distancing as well. Ahmedabad’s old city covers only 5% of its area but is a cultural and commercial centre.Trade body representatives say the textile business and the wholesale markets of the Walled City are reviving. The wait is now on for the foodie haunts in Manek Chowk and Bhathiyar Gully to reopen. “Business is nowhere near the pre-Covid levels, but we’re getting back,” says Moin Lakdawala, owner of an electronics shop on the nearby Relief Road. He recalls evenings in April and May that were spent poring over lists of patients. “We wanted to know if there were cases around our homes. Thankfully, the case numbers are low now.” The city’s central zone, which includes the Walled City, now accounts for only 17% of cases, down from the peak of 76%. Former hotspots like Danilimda, Khadia, Jamalpur, and Dariapur have been reporting fewer than 10 cases a week. Vipul Mehta, deputy municipal commissioner of the zone, confirms the decline in cases, adding that door-to-door surveys and intense testing led to the turnaround. Gyasuddin Shaikh, MLA from Dariapur, says gaining the community’s trust has made a difference. “Now, people know the importance of preventing another Covid wave.” “We are cautious now. We use sanitisers and wear masks,” says Dipali Soni, a resident of Jethabhai Ni Pol whose apartment complex was a micro-containment zone for a while. “We pray that we can celebrate Diwali with the usual fanfare this year.” (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch After 3-month freeze, Ahmedabad’s 600-year-old heart is beating again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-3-month-freeze-ahmedabads-600-year-old-heart-is-beating-again/articleshow/77319188.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||US-based Bengali prof uses AI to restore earliest surviving film of India||Kolkata: An assistant research professor at the University of Maryland, has used Artificial Intelligence (AI) to restore what is largely recognized as the earliest surviving film to be shot in India. In May this year, Aniket Bera had used AI to colour clips of “Pather Panchali”. Although the silent film’s title states that this is Calcutta, the footage was shot in Banaras. The good news is that this step has promise to bring about a change in automatic video restoration of old films that are on the verge of being lost forever. Aniket Bera According to the British Film Institute website, this film dated 1899 appears under ‘Panorama of Calcutta, India, From the River Ganges’ title in the Warwick Trading Company’s catalogues. “The same catalogue shows other films - now lost - from around Calcutta, which were presumably shot by the same cameraman on the same trip, and may explain the confusion”, the website states. British film historian Denis Gifford has credited this film to John (‘Mad Jack’) Benett-Stanford, who had recorded the only film of the Battle of Omdurman in 1898. India's Oldest Video from 19th Century Restored (8K, 50 fps and Color) using Artificial Intelligence Bera’s technique used for this restoration of this two-minute-long film is similar to what he had used in “Pather Panchali”. “But this was extremely hard since the video quality was very old and the frames per second were extremely low. The quality has been improved manifold with the resolution of 8K and 50 fps (10 times higher than original),” said Bera, who was born and brought up in Delhi with roots in Vidyanagar village of South 24 Parganas district.  For this automatic video restoration, Bera first used “upscaling”. This automatically improved the resolution and removed the noise based from the video. “The original FPS (frames per second) is just 10 and makes the video look very choppy and abrupt. The AI interpolates learns, analyzes and predicts how the frames would have existed in reality when they were filmed. The AI upgraded 50 FPS makes the video look super smooth. As for the colourisation process, AI imagines these colors based on what it thinks the original color would look like after the AI has been trained on 1000s of old videos,” Bera added. The colorization, he admitted, has room for improvement.  For this video, it took approximately six-seven hours for the upscaling and four-five hours for the FPS improvement. “Approximately, it takes only 10 hours. Colourization will take three-four hours. Restoration is a very labour-intensive work and can take months, years and cost many man-hours. Using an AI system like mine, anyone can do this sitting at home and spending a few hours with virtually no cost. Videos of all old movies, films and documentaries can be restored this way!” he said.  Film scholars and directors see hope in this use of AI. Film scholar Sanjoy Mukhopadhyay said, “Colourisation can be problematic but this is a fundamental contribution to film and social history and will go a long way towards restoring jewels on the verge of extinction.” According to director Atanu Ghosh, “Though old videos have various kinds of issues, this AI experiment can open new doors if it is proved to be a cheaper, viable and technically convenient alternative.”  On being asked if AI can help restore the audio, Bera said, “There is some recent work in AI that can automatically clean audio and even restore it. I personally don’t know much about this area but this is a hot research topic as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/us-based-bengali-prof-uses-ai-to-restore-earliest-surviving-film-of-india/articleshow/77322212.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 3, 2020||World||Pompeo says Trump to take broad action on Chinese software||NEW YORK: President Donald Trump plans to take action on a what he sees as a broad array of national security risks presented by software connected to the Chinese Communist Party, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday. Pompeo's remarks followed reports that Microsoft is in advanced talks to buy the US operations of TikTok, which has been a source of national security and censorship concerns for the Trump administration. “These Chinese software companies doing business in the United States, whether it's TikTok or WeChat — there are countless more ... are feeding data directly to the Chinese Communist Party, their national security apparatus,” Pompeo said on FOX News Channel's Sunday Morning Futures. “Could be their facial recognition patterns. It could be information about their residence, their phone numbers, their friends, who they're connected to. Those — those are the issues that President Trump has made clear we're going to take care of.” Trump had said on Friday that he would soon ban TikTok in the United States. A federal committee is reviewing whether that's possible, and its members agree that TikTok cannot remain in the US in its current form, because it "risks sending back information on 100 million Americans,” said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. “We all agree there has to be a change...everybody agrees it can't exist as it does," Mnuchin said Sunday on ABC News This Week with George Stephanopoulos. As speculation grew over a ban or sale of the social media's US business, TikTok posted a video on Saturday saying: “We're not planning on going anywhere.” TikTok's catchy videos and ease of use has made it popular, and it says it has tens of millions of users in the US and hundreds of millions globally. Its parent company, Bytedance Ltd, launched TikTok in 2017. It bought Musical.ly, a video service popular with teens in the US and Europe, and combined the two. It has a similar service, Douyin, for users in China. But TikTok's Chinese ownership has raised concern about the potential for sharing user data with Chinese officials as well as censorship of videos critical of the Chinese government. TikTok says it does not censor videos and it would not give the Chinese government access to US user data. “The President, when he makes his decision, will make sure that everything we have done drives us as close to zero risk for the American people,” Pompeo said. “That's the mission set that he laid out for all of us when we get -- we began to evaluate this now several months back. We're closing in on a solution. And I think you will see the president's announcement shortly.” The debate over TikTok parallels a broader US security crackdown on Chinese companies, including telecom providers Huawei and ZTE. The Trump administration has ordered that the US stop buying equipment from those providers to be used in US networks. Trump has also tried to steer allies away from Huawei over concerns that the Chinese government has access to its data, which Huawei denies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-says-trump-to-take-broad-action-on-chinese-software/articleshow/77322711.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||App companies quizzed on data sharing, political ties||NEW DELHI: Companies running recently banned Chinese apps have been served a questionnaire with around 80 queries seeking information such as whether owners are associated with any political party and if the firm is required to share data under China's law. The government's actions are based on concerns that data was being shared with Chinese agencies, including the People's Liberation Army. It comes in the wake of China delaying vacating territory intruded upon by the PLA in Ladakh. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThe questions have been divided into sections such as "company", "ownership", "services & security", "privacy policy" and "data-related information". The section on ownership asks if the company's owners, directors or "any other members" associated with the firm or its parent entity, subsidiaries or holding company has links with a political party. The government has asked for the citizenship details of owners and management of the parent and subsidiary companies in case the Indian operations of the app are controlled by a company established in India. In a question linked to the decision to ban Chinese apps like the popular TikTok, the government has asked if in the event of the majority or controlling shareholder being based out of China, is the company expected to share its data under Chinese law or any other rule or regulation. The questionnaire seeks details on the financial and technological relation between the parent company and its Indian arm and differences in permissions sought from users in India as compared to those in other locations. The government has asked about incident response, version update and disclosure with regard to providing information to India's cybersecurity response cell Cert-In. Given the Chinese practice of providing direct financial support to firms, the queries seek a response on "subsidies" provided for services offered through the app. Other questions include whether the app's policies are consistent with India's Information Technology Act, 2000, and whether users have raised any concerns, if data like IP addresses, browsing history, location and time zones, network type and service IDs and screen resolutions are being collected. Watch Govt seeks info on data sharing, political ties from Chinese app companies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/app-companies-quizzed-on-data-sharing-political-ties/articleshow/77322890.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain admits his role in Delhi violence, says police||NEW DELHI: Suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain has confessed to his role in the North East Delhi violence that broke out in February this year and admitted that he incited people to unleash violence, according to an Interrogation Report (IR) by Delhi Police. Hussain said that he met former JNU student Umar Khalid at Popular Front of India (PFI) office in Shaheen Bagh on January 8. According to Delhi Police, Hussain's task was to collect as much glass bottle, petrol, acid, stones, as possible on the roof of my house. One of Hussain's acquaintance, Khalid Saifi was given the task to gather people on the streets for protest. "Khalid Saifi, along with his friend Ishrat Jahan, first started a dharna demonstration in Khureji on the lines of Shaheen Bagh. On February 4, in Abu Fazal Enclave, I met Khalid Saifi for planning the riots," Hussain told the police during interrogation. "On February 4, in Abu Fazal Enclave, I met Khalid Saifi for planning the riots. It was decided to provoke people sitting on the anti-CAA strike. Khalif Saifi said that something big has to be done at the time of Donald Trump's visit so that the government kneel," he said. Delhi Police interrogation reveals that Hussain has admitted that he collected a lot of acid, petrol, diesel and stones on his roof. He had also took his pistol from the police station for use in the violence. "On February 24, according to our plan, I have called several people and told them how to throw stones, petrol bombs, and acid bottles from my roof. I had shifted my family to another place. On 24 February 2020, at about 1:30 pm we started throwing stones," Hussain told police. According to a chargesheet by Delhi Police, Hussain is one of the prime accused in the killing of IB staffer Ankit Sharma, whose body was recovered from a drain in Chand Bagh on February 26, during the violence in North East Delhi. Watch 'Wanted to teach Hindus a lesson' using political power, ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain confesses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-admits-his-role-in-delhi-violence-says-police/articleshow/77322934.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Govt plans personal health IDs, e-records for citizens||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to announce the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) on August 15, which has been envisaged as a complete digital health ecosystem with personal health IDs for every Indian, digitisation of health records as well as a registry of doctors and health facilities across the country. The proposal has received in-principle cabinet approval and the final nod is expected by the end of this week, top official sources said. “The PM is expected to announce launch of the mission as part of his Independence Day speech on August 15,” a source said. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe digital platform will be launched with four key features – health ID, personal health records, Digi Doctor and health facility registry. At a later stage, it will also include e-pharmacy and telemedicine services, regulatory guidelines for which are being framed. The platform is voluntary as it will be up to an individual to get enrolled on the app. Health records will be shared only after authorisation by the individual. Similarly, it will be up to hospitals and doctors to provide details for the app. The government, however, feels the utility of the app will ensure widespread participation. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“The implementation of NDHM is expected to significantly improve efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of health service delivery overall and accelerate India’s progress towards achievement of UN Sustainable Development Goal 3.8 of universal health coverage, including financial risk protection,” National Health Authority (NHA) chief executive Indu Bhushan said. The NHA, the implementing agency for Ayushman Bharat, has created the platform, which will be available in the form of an app and website. The initiative is seen as another flagship measure in the healthcare sector after health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat (Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana) and will be initially launched in select states and expanded in a phased manner. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  The finance ministry has approved a budget of Rs 470 crore for the proposal, but the final NHA proposal may not seek more than Rs 400 crore. Privacy is taken care of in the design where the ownership of data remains with individuals and consent is required to access it. The individual will have a choice to allow a medical practitioner or facility to access the data even for a limited period of time. People will also have a choice to link their unique health ID with Aadhaar if they wish to. This ID will be applicable across states, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and pharmacies. “NDHM is not a mandating system. It will be an empowering system. It is 100% voluntary in nature but is designed in a manner that it is going to have so many benefits that we feel there is no reason to say no. No one can access someone’s data without consent and there are no exceptions to it, including the government. It is also completely seamless and portable,” an official said. The Digi Doctor option will allow doctors from across the country to enrol and their details, including their contact numbers if they want to provide them, will be available. These doctors will also be assigned digital signature for free which can be used for writing prescriptions. Similarly, health facilities will be assigned a unique electronic identifier. This will have a two-fold function — it will ensure that all health facilities are mapped and will also be the identifier that the facility can use for all its clearances and audits. The theme of NDHM is ‘Making India a Digital Health Nation’ through a national digital health ecosystem. The technology platforms are ready, including the cloud infrastructure, and NDHM will be rolled out immediately after the launch, the official said. Read this story in BengaliWatch National Digital Health Mission: Government plans personal health IDs, e-records for citizens||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-plans-personal-health-ids-e-records-for-citizens/articleshow/77323092.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 3, 2020||India||Amit Shah tests +ve, admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon on Sunday after testing positive for Covid-19. “My health is fine, but I am being admitted to hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah tweeted at 4.43 pm. Sources said the minister, 55, got himself tested after showing symptoms of Covid-19 and added that he was “stable”. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesAll those who came in contact with him in the last few days have been advised to isolate and get tested if they had symptoms of the disease. Shah appealed to them to take precautions. “I request all of you who came in contact with me in the last few days to isolate yourselves and get tested,” he tweeted. कोरोना के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने टेस्ट करवाया और रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मेरी तबीयत ठीक है परन्तु डॉक्टर्स की… https://t.co/D1Jhi6tG1t— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1596366832000Home secretary A K Bhalla, it is learnt, has decided to get himself tested, while minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo, who had recently met Shah, said he has isolated himself. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage Read AlsoWishes, prayers pour in as Amit Shah tests Covid positiveNEW DELHI: After Amit Shah tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, several politicians and social media users posted "get well soon" wishes on Twitter for the Union home minister and prayed for his speedy recovery. Within minutes of the home minister taking to Twitter announcing he had testedShah had attended the last meeting of the Union Cabinet at the PM’s residence, but sources in the government emphasised “social distancing” norms were strictly followed on such occasions, with the attendees having to mandatorily wear masks. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  I pray for the speedy recovery of Hon'ble Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji https://t.co/i26dkb6Q1q— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1596369911000“A strict protocol has been been in force at the PM’s residence during the last few months. Temperature checks and Aarogya Setu checks are mandatory and internal cars are not allowed, contrary to the practice in pre-Covid times, for ferrying visitors. Physical meetings are mostly avoided and virtual interactions are preferred,” a source said. Wishing Mr Amit Shah a speedy recovery.— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1596372866000As home minister and a key figure of the saffron establishment, Shah keeps a punishing schedule, holding multiple interactions during the day. He has diabetes, one of the co-morbidities known to raise the risk of complications in Covid-19 patients. Heard about the Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah Ji being tested positive for #COVID-19. Wishing him a speedy rec… https://t.co/27IibnMKLJ— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) 1596369231000This was the reason, doctors said, it was decided to get him admitted to hospital even though he was stable. “The head of internal medicine at Medanta, Dr Sushila Kataria, will be leading the team of doctors treating him. She was also involved in the treatment of 14 Italian tourists who were diagnosed with Covid-19 and rushed to Medanta on March 4,” a source said. They added that a team of doctors from AIIMS, led by institute director Dr Randeep Guleria, will assist in deciding the course of treatment. Incidentally, rumours about Shah having contacted the virus had raged for several days mid-April onwards soon after the imposition of lockdown. They did not go away despite photographs showing Shah’s participation in crucial meetings, leading him to mock his “well-wishers” who had declared him infected months ago. Being in-charge of the home ministry, the nodal ministry for managing Covid-19 response, Shah actively intervened when infections surged in the capital. His visit to LNJP Hospital — a government facility which became the symbol of the seriousness of the threat of the disease after the Supreme Court raised concerns over its state of affairs — was seen as a turning point and led to the Centre’s deeper engagement in the battle against the public health emergency. Shah got the health ministry, Delhi government and the LG to work together to hammer out a unified response to the challenge. In September last year, Shah underwent a minor surgery for removal of ‘lipoma on the back of his neck’ at a private hospital in Ahmedabad. Watch Union home minister Amit Shah tests Covid-19 positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-tests-ve-admitted-to-medanta-hospital-in-gurgaon/articleshow/77323205.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 3, 2020||Business||Govt eases quarantine rules for international flyers||NEW DELHI: From August 8 onwards, people flying into India can seek exemption from institutional quarantine if they come with a corona-negative report. According to the fresh guidelines issued on Sunday by the Union health ministry, the test should have been conducted within 96 hours of undertaking the journey. Passengers submitting false or forged medical reports will be prosecuted. Also, those coming to India for “compelling reasons/cases of human distress such as pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) with children of the age of 10 years or below” from August 8 onwards can seek home quarantine for 14 days, instead of seven-day paid institutional quarantine and seven-day home quarantine. “If they wish to seek such exemption, they shall [have to] apply on www.newdelhiairport.in at least 72 hours before boarding. The decision taken by the government as communicated on the online portal will be final,” say the guidelines that will come into effect from 12.01am on August 8. For travellers coming with a corona-negative test report, the guidelines say: “The [RT-PCR] test report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration… The test report could also be produced upon arrival at the point of entry airport in India.” Before boarding the aircraft to India, “All passengers are advised to download the Arogya Setu app on their mobile devices. At the time of boarding the flight/ship, only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board after thermal screening. Passengers arriving through land borders will also have to undergo the same protocol as above...” On arrival, a symptomatic passenger shall be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility. “Post thermal screening, the passengers who have been exempted from institutional quarantine will show the same to the respective state counters on their cell phones/other mode before being allowed home quarantine for 14 days,” the guidelines say. Other passengers shall be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities, to be arranged by the respective state/UT governments, for being kept there at least for seven days. States can develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment post arrival of passengers in the state concerned, the guidelines said. Watch Government relaxes norms for international flyers, no quarantine if Covid-19 report negative||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-eases-quarantine-rules-for-international-flyers/articleshow/77323252.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Prashant Bhushan, aides launch multi-pronged response in SC contempt cases||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Supreme Court’s hearing on contempt proceedings against Prashant Bhushan for his alleged ‘contemptuous’ remarks against present and former CJIs, he and his sympathisers have launched a multi-pronged response to dissuade the court from going ahead with contempt cases. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari on July 22 had initiated suo motu contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his tweets — one accusing the Chief Justice of India of riding a stationary heavy bike without mask or helmet while keeping courts under lockdown; and the other attributing role to four former CJIs in the alleged destruction of democracy in last six years of undeclared emergency. On July 24, the same bench had asked Bhushan to be prepared on August 4 to defend the 2009 contempt proceedings drawn against him for insinuating that half of 16 former CJIs were corrupt. It had refused to adjourn hearing on this old case till September or when the physical hearing in court resumed. Justice Mishra retires on September 2. On July 27, a statement was released by 131 persons, many of whom were in the past represented by Bhushan in court, expressing solidarity with the activist lawyer and criticising the SC for taking recourse to contempt proceedings for his tweets. Days later, another release was issued by Bhushan’s office saying 11 former judges of the SC and HCs have endorsed the statement by the 131 persons. Next, a joint petition in Supreme Court was filed by eminent editor N Ram, former minister Arun Shourie and Prashant Bhushan challenging the constitutional validity of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Court Act, which made “publication (whether by words, spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise) of any matter or the doing of any other act whatsoever which scandalises or tend to scandalise or lower or tends to lower the authority of any court” an offence. The trio, who had come together along with Yashwant Sinha to question the Rafale fighter jet purchase deal in 2018, in their petition through advocate Kamini Jaiswal said the provision violated a person’s right to free speech guaranteed under Article 19 and right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. On Saturday, Bhushan himself filed another writ petition through Jaiswal seeking stay of the suo motu contempt proceedings initiated on July 22. He faulted the SC Registry for listing before the bench a contempt petition which had no approval from either the attorney general or the solicitor general, as needed under the Contempt of Court Act. He said since the petition itself was defective and could not have been listed before the court, the initiation of suo motu proceedings too was afflicted by the defect. He sought a stay on these proceedings. He also sought dropping of the 2009 contempt proceedings against him saying these proceedings had a chilling effect on his right to free speech and violated his right to free speech. On Saturday, Bhushan’s office said that the statement of 131 persons expressing solidarity with the activist lawyer has now been endorsed by former judges of the Supreme Court — Justices Ruma Pal, GS Singhvi, Ashok K Ganguly, Gopala Gowda, Aftab Alam, J Chelameswar, Vikramjit Sen and Madan Lokur. It also said former HC judges AP Shah and Anjana Prakash too have endorsed the Bhushan-solidarity statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prashant-bhushan-aides-launch-multi-pronged-response-in-sc-contempt-cases/articleshow/77323282.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 3, 2020||Business||Job factors force 2/3rd of migrants to seek future in cities again: Survey||NEW DELHI: A survey of 4,835 households from rural India across 11 states to assess the impact of the lockdown and how the hinterland is unlocking points towards reverse migration, prompted by absence of skilled employment in villages, and is reflected in nearly 2/3rd of migrants having either returned to cities or expressing the wish to do so. The data shows that of the 1,196 households with migrants who were working in other cities, 74% returned to their villages due to the circumstances arising out of the pandemic and that 29% have already returned to metros. Also 45% of those still in the village think they will move back to the city. Read AlsoIndia's hiring sentiment picks up for April-SeptemberHiring intent, which is the percentage of employers that is likely to recruit employees during this period, has now jumped to 18% for the period up to September 2020, compared to 11% during the lockdown (March 25-June 7). India is faring much better on the intent to hire compared to majorWhile one-fourth of those back in cities are looking for work, there is better news with a drop in number of people making do with fewer meals and there is evidence that welfare nets are working as 85% accessed the public distribution system, 71% households had LPG (85% through Ujjwala yojana) with many recieving refills. The survey, however, shows only 38% recieved transfers under the PM Kisan scheme. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe survey is a collaborative study by the Aga Khan Rural Support Programme (India), Action for Social Advancement, Grameen Sahara, i-Saksham, PRADAN, SAATHI-UP, SeSTA, Seva Mandir and Transform Rural India Foundation with research support from Vikas Anvesh Foundation and Sambodhi. Noting that welfare measures seem to have reached a considerable section of beneficiaries and unlocking of economy has brought some cheer to the hinterland, the report cautions “distress incidence is still high” and risk of Covid-19 in rural India is rising. It is pointed out that 1 in 4 household thinks that it might need to take their child out of school but perceptions are better than what they were during lockdown. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAn earlier round of survey was carried out in April and around 4,200 households are the same. As far as food consumption patterns go, in the first round of survey 50% households said that they were having fewer number meals a day, this time 43% households said so. Also those eating fewer items in meals was 68% in the first survey and it is down to 55% in this round. Read AlsoApple vendor eyes production shift to IndiaIn a major relocation from China as part of global business’ effort for derisking of manufacturing bases by diversifying supply chains, a contract manufacturer for Apple is shifting six production lines looking forward to exporting around $5 billion worth of iPhones from India apart from catering toEven though a large percentage of the surveyed households have claimed to be eating fewer meals and fewer items, the survey takes note that over two survey rounds the decline reflects “considerable improvement” and points out that lower incidence of buying in the market, 56% compared to 78% in round 1 of the survey, can be attributed to sufficient grains from PDS. The data also shows that more than 80% of returned migrants were engaged mainly in labour work and more than 1/4th of those who returned were still searching for work. The survey was carried out between June 24 and July 8 across 48 districts in Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajashtan and Tripura. It is also pointed out that women are experiencing much higher workload with many more rounds required to fetch water and fuelwood due to higher demand in households where migrants have returned. Watch 2/3rd of migrant labours returning to cities for employment: Survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/29-of-migrants-back-in-cities-45-plan-to-do-so/articleshow/77323293.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 3, 2020||India||Ayodhya rail station to get temple look||The Ayodhya junction rail station will undergo a complete change with the entry gate getting the look of a replica of the Ram temple. The railway ministry has increased the allocation for this revamp work to Rs 105 crore from the earlier allocation of Rs 80 crore. According to the Lucknow division of Northern Railway, the revamp work will be carried out in two phases. In the first phase the existing platforms are being upgraded and the circular area is also being improved. In the second phase, the renovation of the station building will be completed and focus will be on renovation inside and outside area of the station. Officials said more ticket counters will be opened to meet the demand, which will increase once the temple gets completed in three and a half years. This will include expansion of waiting hall, setting up of three AC waiting halls, dormitories for men and for women. Moreover, other facilities such as food zone and a new foot over bridge will be built for passenger movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-rail-station-to-get-temple-look/articleshow/77323302.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Ahead of bhoomi pujan, Ayodhya DM hands over five-acre plot for mosque||AYODHYA: Ahead of ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony for Ram Temple, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha handed over the five-acre land mandated by the Supreme Court in lieu of Babri Masjid to Sunni Waqf Board on Saturday. A delegation of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) – the trust formed recently by the Sunni Waqf Board for construction of the mosque at Dhannipur village in Faizabad – met the Ayodhya district magistrate at his residence on Saturday. The delegation was led by Sunni Waqf Board’s president Zufar Faruqi and chief executive officer Sayyad Mohammad Shoib. “The district magistrate formally handed over the possession of land for the mosque to the Trust members by giving the certified copy of revenue record (‘khatauni’),” Shoib told TOI. Shoib also said the members of the trust would meet soon to decide on the future course of action. In its verdict on November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had mandated handing over of five-acre land to the Sunni Waqf Board at a prominent place in Ayodhya in lieu of the demolished structure in Ayodhya. In February 2020, the UP government announced allotment of land at Dhannipur village in Sadar tehsil of Faizabad in Ayodhya district, about 25 kilometres away from Ram Janambhoomi premises. On July 29, the Sunni Waqf Board announced the names of nine members of the trust to take up the construction of the mosque. Watch Ayodhya: 5-acre plot for mosque handed over to Muslim body||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-bhoomi-pujan-ayodhya-dm-hands-over-five-acre-plot-for-mosque/articleshow/77323306.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 3, 2020||India||‘PM Modi to go ahead with Ayodhya visit as planned’||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Modi’s visit to Ayodhya to launch construction of the Ram temple on August 5 will remain unchanged, sources said. There was speculation that there could be changes in the schedule after home minister Amit Shah tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. However, government sources confirmed that the event would go ahead as planned, adding that social distancing norms were strictly followed during the recent cabinet meeting chaired by the PM which was attended by Shah and other ministers. Asked specifically about the possibility of changes in the Ayodhya event, a senior Ram Tirth Trust member said there would not be any change as per PMO feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-go-ahead-with-ayodhya-visit-as-planned/articleshow/77323317.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
August 3, 2020||India||June deadline over, MHA seeks 3 months to frame CAA rules||NEW DELHI: The home ministry has told a parliamentary standing committee that it will need three more months to frame Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) rules. Though CAA was passed by both Houses of Parliament on December 11 and a notification issued fixing January 10, 2020, as the date from which the Act would come into effect, the absence of rules has held up implementation of the law that seeks to confer citizenship to minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan who were forced to migrate to India for fear of religious persecution in their home country. According to the manual on parliamentary work, rules for legislation should be framed within six months of the date of the President’s assent or the standing committee on subordinate legislation should be approached for extension of time. The six-month period for framing CAA rules ended in mid-June. If the three-month extension sought is from then, it gives the home ministry time until mid-September to frame the rules. With the Supreme Court now resuming hearings on a full scale, the Centre is hoping the pending challenge against CAA will also be taken up. This may also provide some clarity for framing the rules and procedures. Sources said additional time to frame CAA rules was sought from the parliamentary panel last week, as the ministry was preoccupied with other matters, including managing the Covid-19 crisis, for the past few months. The enactment of CAA had sparked widespread protests and sit-ins across the nation and also sparked off communal riots in Delhi in February||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/june-deadline-over-mha-seeks-3-months-to-frame-caa-rules/articleshow/77323331.cms||Bharti Jain
August 3, 2020||Patna||13 security personnel at Rabri Devi’s house found +ve||PATNA: A day after JD(U)’s national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh and his wife were found infected by the Covid-19, the virus reached the doorsteps of the sprawling bungalow of former CM and senior RJD leader Rabri Devi as 13 of the security personnel deputed outside her house were found positive on Sunday. Rabri’s son and leader of opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, also resides in the same bungalow at 10, Circular Road here. Confirming the development, Patna’s DM in charge Richie Pandey told TOI that the antigen tests of these security personnel were conducted on July 31 and August 1. Their reports came positive on Sunday. DM Kumar Ravi has quarantined himself after found Covid-19 positive on Saturday. “Employees, personal aides and peons working inside the Rabri’s bungalow are totally safe. None of them have so far been infected by the Covid-19,” a close aide of Tejashwi told TOI, preferring anonymity. He said of the 13 security personnel, four each belonged to BMP-1 and BMP-2 while the rest five were from the Patna district police. These security personnel were staying outside the Rabri’s house, he said. Tejashwi’s aide also said altogether seven people were working inside the offices of Rabri and Tejashwi at the bungalow. “Additional precautionary measures are being taken after the security personnel were found positive. We are doing regular sanitisation of rooms inside the bungalow,” he said. Earlier on Saturday, JD(U) Rajya Sabha member RCP Singh, his wife and JD(U) MLA from Chenari Lalan Paswan were found Covid-19 positive. While Singh was admitted to AIIMS-Patna, Paswan has preferred home quarantine under the supervision of doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-security-personnel-at-rabris-house-found-ve/articleshow/77321221.cms||Madan Kumar
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Fatality rate 5th worst in country, Punjab on toes||CHANDIGARH: Given the high number of Covid-19 deaths in the state, Punjab does not seem to be doing enough for early detection and care of critical patients. Although Punjab is placed at the 18th spot among states with highest number of positive cases, it has the fifth highest fatality rate in the country as on July 31, indicating that a high number of the infected people are succumbing to the virus. Maharashtra and Gujarat, with a fatality rate of 4%, and Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, with 3% mortality rate, are the only states ahead of Punjab, where 2.4% of people infected with the virus have died. Punjab’s fatality rate is even higher than the national average of 2%. Coronavirus has killed 405 people in Punjab, of which 256 deaths were reported from July 1 to August 1. On an average, eight people died daily during the period. With 2.4%, the fatality rate in urban areas is higher than in rural areas, where 1.9% of infected patients died. The male mortality has been recorded higher than the Covid-19 female mortality rate across all ages in the state. The virus proved fatal for 2.5 patients, while fatality rate among female patients stands at 1.8%. What has intrigued many is that less number of people have died in many states with significantly higher number of positive cases than in Punjab. With just 82 people losing their lives out of 24,743 infected with the virus, Kerala has the lowest fatality rate in the country. In Bihar, 312 people of 54,508 found positive died while 101 people out of 41,727 infected lost their lives in Assam. Similarly, out of 33,479 cases in Odisha, 225 died. Amritsar and Kapurthala districts have the highest fatality rate of 4% in the state, followed by Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot, where 3% of patients tested positive have died. Health experts have related the high death rate to poor access to healthcare fatalities, especially in rural areas, lack of timely detection of patients and proper management of patients. The state health officials have attributed delay on the part of patients in approaching health facilities and high prevalence of non-communicable disease as reasons for higher fatality rate. Due to limited access to health facilities, especially in rural areas, people go to unregistered medical practitioners. It has come to light that in some of the cases, people who died due to Covid-19, had first gone to unregistered medical practitioners and approached the health facilities at the last moment. Taking a corrective measure, the state government has now imposed a ban on unregistered medical practitioners treating Covid-19 patients. An analysis of 204 deaths done by the health department reveals that 65 people infected with the virus have died in the age group of 60-69 while 45 deaths are in the age group of 50-59. In the age group of 70-79, 30 people have died while the death toll in 40-49 group stands at 27. Three deaths each have been reported in the age groups of 0-9 and 10-19. Barring in 25 cases, all the deceased had underlying health conditions such as end-stage kidney disease, cancer, HIV besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar maintained that co-morbidity and people coming late for treatment are the major cause of high death rate in Punjab. He said steps have been taken for providing timely and proper treatment to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fatality-rate-5th-worst-in-country-punjab-on-toes/articleshow/77322650.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Fatality rate 5th worst in country, Punjab on toes||CHANDIGARH: Given the high number of Covid-19 deaths in the state, Punjab does not seem to be doing enough for early detection and care of critical patients. Although Punjab is placed at the 18th spot among states with highest number of positive cases, it has the fifth highest fatality rate in the country as on July 31, indicating that a high number of the infected people are succumbing to the virus. Maharashtra and Gujarat, with a fatality rate of 4%, and Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, with 3% mortality rate, are the only states ahead of Punjab, where 2.4% of people infected with the virus have died. Punjab’s fatality rate is even higher than the national average of 2%. Coronavirus has killed 405 people in Punjab, of which 256 deaths were reported from July 1 to August 1. On an average, eight people died daily during the period. With 2.4%, the fatality rate in urban areas is higher than in rural areas, where 1.9% of infected patients died. The male mortality has been recorded higher than the Covid-19 female mortality rate across all ages in the state. The virus proved fatal for 2.5 patients, while fatality rate among female patients stands at 1.8%. What has intrigued many is that less number of people have died in many states with significantly higher number of positive cases than in Punjab. With just 82 people losing their lives out of 24,743 infected with the virus, Kerala has the lowest fatality rate in the country. In Bihar, 312 people of 54,508 found positive died while 101 people out of 41,727 infected lost their lives in Assam. Similarly, out of 33,479 cases in Odisha, 225 died. Amritsar and Kapurthala districts have the highest fatality rate of 4% in the state, followed by Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot, where 3% of patients tested positive have died. Health experts have related the high death rate to poor access to healthcare fatalities, especially in rural areas, lack of timely detection of patients and proper management of patients. The state health officials have attributed delay on the part of patients in approaching health facilities and high prevalence of non-communicable disease as reasons for higher fatality rate. Due to limited access to health facilities, especially in rural areas, people go to unregistered medical practitioners. It has come to light that in some of the cases, people who died due to Covid-19, had first gone to unregistered medical practitioners and approached the health facilities at the last moment. Taking a corrective measure, the state government has now imposed a ban on unregistered medical practitioners treating Covid-19 patients. An analysis of 204 deaths done by the health department reveals that 65 people infected with the virus have died in the age group of 60-69 while 45 deaths are in the age group of 50-59. In the age group of 70-79, 30 people have died while the death toll in 40-49 group stands at 27. Three deaths each have been reported in the age groups of 0-9 and 10-19. Barring in 25 cases, all the deceased had underlying health conditions such as end-stage kidney disease, cancer, HIV besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar maintained that co-morbidity and people coming late for treatment are the major cause of high death rate in Punjab. He said steps have been taken for providing timely and proper treatment to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fatality-rate-5th-worst-in-country-punjab-on-toes/articleshow/77328586.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Fishing opens, but many fishermen return empty-handed||Karwar: Fishing activity in coastal Uttara Kannada began on Saturday after a gap of one-and-a-half months. However only a limited catch was available and majority of fishermen returned empty-handed without catching any fish. On Saturday and Sunday about 60 mechanized fishing boats, besides many purse siene boats, went for fishing in the Arabain Sea from Karwar port. But almost all the boats retuned empty without fish. Many fishermen said they were hoping for a good catch this time as the climate was good. “Contrary to our expectation, we did not get any fish. Already we have incurred heavy losses due to lockdown,” said Vinayak Harikatra, a fisherman. He said maintaining boats and paying salary to workers has become very difficult for many fishermen. The fishermen said they are baffled by one problem after the other. Repeated cyclones affected their business last year. Thereafter fisheries port was shut for more than a month in January in protest against the Sagaramala project at Karwar. During March fishing was banned by the government owing to the Covid. There after though the government extended fishing activity by 15 days in June there was fish famine. Preparation for fishing activity by fishermen two days ago as they painted the boats and worshipped them. But non-availability of fish has left them in deep distress. (PIC: Fishing boats returned with very limited catch 2. Worshiping the boats)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fishing-opens-but-many-fishermen-return-empty-handed/articleshow/77319995.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Car suffers tyre burst on NH-48, knocks down two men to death||Vadodara: Two friends from Ghaghretiya village near the city died after being knocked down by a car near Kapurai bridge on national highway-48 on Sunday. Chandrakant Tadvi (32) and his Mahesh (30) had left from their homes for some borewell-related labour work in Vadadla village on Dabhoi Road. When they were returning after work, a car registered in Valsad rammed them from behind. Eye-witnesses told police that the duo was flung several metres away and their bike veered off the road. Both died on the spot due to head injures that resulted in heavy blood loss. Police said that the driver of the car lost control over his vehicle as one of the tyres burst. The car’s front body was also damaged, but the passenger escaped unhurt. An offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered against the car driver at Makarpura police station by Tadvi’s mother Amba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/car-suffers-tyre-burst-on-nh-48-knocks-down-two-men-to-death/articleshow/77320329.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Union minister seeks CBI probe, Congress defends Maharashtra govt||PATNA: Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged suicide has become a major political issue in poll-bound Bihar with netas cutting across party lines demanding a CBI probe into the matter. On Sunday, Union minister R K Singh said investigation into the late actor’s suicide should he handed over to the CBI to end the ongoing spat between the political bosses and the police officers of Bihar and Maharashtra. Singh, who had earlier served as Union home secretary, said, “The dispute between the Bihar police and the Maharashtra police over jurisdiction of investigation and allegations about non-cooperation will come to an end once the case is handed over to the CBI. I think it’s proper to recommend a CBI probe as the actor’s family has expressed dissatisfaction over the investigation carried out so far by the Mumbai police.” Singh, the BJP MP from Ara in Bhojpur district, added, “The grievances Sushant’s family are genuine. The Mumbai police did precious little after the incident. They didn’t lodge any formal FIR even after interrogation of a number of suspects. Instead, they started raising a hue and cry after a Bihar police team visited Mumbai for investigation on the basis of an FIR lodged at a police station in Patna.” Singh’s reactions came hours after Congress incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil defended the Maharashtra government, saying, “The Bihar police should focus on the investigation rather than indulging in mudslinging and accusations. I must thank the CM of Maharashtra, state Congress president Thoratji, home minister Anil Deshmukhji and others for taking a serious view of the Sushant suicide case.” He, however, added police officers from both the states should exchange information with each other to unravel the truth.Gohil’s utterances, however, evoked sharp reaction from JD(U). “The Congress should first withdraw its support to the government in Maharashtra. The allegation against Nitish Kumar government that it was turning the issue into a political one is not only surprising but also shameful,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-min-seeks-cbi-probe-cong-defends-maha-govt/articleshow/77321597.cms||Ramashankar
August 3, 2020||Patna||‘Webinars serve limited purpose’||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic may have disturbed the day-to-day activities of individuals for more than six months, but it has proved to be a blessing in disguise for many writers and poets, claim academics. According to littérateur and Sahitya Akademi Award winner, Arun Kamal, the lockdown has given the writers an opportunity to revisit old compositions that were left incomplete due to paucity of time. “All the catastrophes and pandemics, including Covid-19, have nourished the poets and thinkers,” Arun says. Another littérateur, Ram Bachan Ray, feels that writing continues even in the shadow of grief. He says, “Mental agony may affect creativity to some extent, but it cannot stop it completely. More and more writers are participating in webinars these days and sharing literary creations with each other.” Former head of English department in Patna University (PU), Shankar Ashish Dutt, points out that the lockdown has let academics and scholars indulge in creative activities. “Webinars conducted by institutions and literary organizations have enabled them to connect with the rest of the world quite economically,” he adds. PU Hindi department head, Tarun Kumar, however, observes that the impact of webinars is quite limited as most scholars are yet to get accustomed to the digital world. Bihar Public Service Commission former member, Shiv Jatan Thakur, also says the benefits of webinars being organized all over the world cannot be availed properly because of poor internet connectivity. He adds that the Covid-19 pandemic has restricted literary activities and prevented dissemination of ideas and publication of journals. PU Urdu department teacher, Shahab Zafar Azmi, maintains that the pandemic has robbed the scholars of the opportunity to have face-to-face interactions and share ideas. “Webinars and videoconferences only serve a limited purpose,” he says. Patna College psychology teacher, Sheo Sagar Prasad, has a different take on creativity amid the pandemic. He says, “People can hardly be creative if they are under mental trauma and stress. The spike in number of Covid cases and lack of medical facilities have only aggravated their mental agony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/webinars-serve-limited-purpose/articleshow/77321352.cms||B K Mishra
August 3, 2020||Patna||Nine more private hospitals get nod to treat Covid patients in Patna||PATNA: Nine more private hospitals have started admitting Covid-19 patients after getting permission from the Patna district administration. These hospitals have created separate isolation wards and reserved 20-25% of their beds for Covid patients. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said altogether 32 private hospitals have so far been given permission to admit Covid patients. “All these hospitals have started treating Covid patients. At least 200 Covid patients are currently undergoing treatment at various private hospitals. We are monitoring the functioning of private hospitals. All these private hospitals have been asked not to deny treatment to any patient. Teams of dedicated doctors have been formed at the private hospitals for the treatment of Covid patients,” Agarwal said, adding the private hospitals would also be given permission to run Covid isolation ward, if required. Anup Institute of Orthopaedic, Atlantis Hospital, Buddha Cancer Hospital, Shamford Hospital, Rainbow Hospital, Curis Hospital and Shri Vinayak Trauma Centre Hospital are among the nine hospitals which have received permission for treatment of Covid patients in the city. Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said the 30-bed Covid ward at the hospital is full to its capacity. “Two patients are on ventilators. They are, however, recovering well. Three patients have been kept on continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and the remaining on oxygen support,” he added. “We are taking extra precautions in the Covid ward. At least three Covid patients have so far been discharged from the hospital. The hospital has so far not recoded any Covid death,” Dr Talat added. An official of Nestiva Hospital, Gardanibagh, said eight Covid patients, all in the age group of 60-70 years with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, have died at the hospital. Fifteen patients are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital and two of them are on ventilator support,” he added. An administrative officer of Sahyog Hospital at Patliputra Colony said altogether 12 Covid patients have so far been admitted to the hospital. “Of them, two were discharged after testing negative for the virus. A 70-year-old man died at the hospital three days back due to Covid,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nine-more-pvt-hospitals-get-nod-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/77321281.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 3, 2020||Patna||Now, Gaya’s Covid positivity rate shows declining trend||GAYA: The Covid-19 positivity rate in Gaya keeps fluctuating thereby necessitating recalibration of the response to meet the challenge. As against an average of nearly 10%, the positivity rate for several days in the last week of July exceeded 20%. Once again it has shown a declining trend and is hovering around 10%.  Explaining the sudden spurt in positivity rate in the last week of July, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that there is nothing worrisome and the high positivity rate for several days in the last week of July was on account of focussed testing and effective contact tracing. “The strategy has paid dividends,” claimed Singh.  According to the DM, as on Saturday evening, altogether 25,120 tests were conducted in the district and out of these 2,132 tested positive. The DM put the number of active cases at 804 and also said that, as on date, 36 Covid patients needed hospitalisation and oxygen support. Another 86 are under institutional isolation. Singh put the number of active cases under home quarantine at 699.  However, according to stories doing the rounds, several persons officially under home isolation need oxygen support and they do it privately in order to escape hospitalisation on account of perceived lack of care in the hospital and the lack of hygiene therein. Those availing oxygen support during home isolation include family members of some medical professionals. The first doctor victim of Covid-19 in the state, Dr Ashwini Nandkuliar, was from Gaya town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-gayas-covid-positivity-rate-shows-declining-trend/articleshow/77321629.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Jaunpur brothers bring holy water from 151 rivers, soil from 16 sites||LUCKNOW/AYODHYA: A septuagenarian brother duo from Jaunpur have brought their most prized possession to Ayodhya for the 'bhoomi pujan' -- holy water of 151 rivers and pious soil from 16 shrines in India, Nepal and Sri Lanka -- which they had been collecting for 51 years for the Ram Janmabhoomi Temple. Their over five-decade-old toil concluded on Sunday, when they handed over their worldly possession to Champat Rai, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary. “I feel complete… The purpose of our life has been achieved,” said Radhey Shyam Pandey, the elder one who retired as a government school teacher. Recalling how the journey began, younger sibling Pandit Triphala said: “To us, Ram is a family member who was not getting his due. Scriptures say truth wins – a fact which was established in 2019, when the court cleared the roadblocks in the way of temple construction. I am here to give all the positivity and goodness I gathered over the years.” What makes their contribution truly remarkable is that initially they walked long distances on foot for their cause. Then they took to cycling. In old age, they used their hard earned money to travel by air to get the religious material. Also, Pandit Triphala, an author and poet, suffers from congenital blindness. Ayodhya local and health sector social worker Prashant Shukla, who facilitated the brothers’ meeting with trust officials, revealed that they brought water from 151 rivers, three seas, and pious soil from 16 places. “They went to Sri Lanka to bring sea water and Nepal to fetch soil from PashupatiNath Temple,” said Shukla. The list of places include different Jyotirlings, Shaktipeeths, Somnath, Tripur Sundari Temple, Mahakaleshwar, Parshuram Mahadev, Eklingnath’s temple among other places. The list also includes Sheeshganj Gurudwara, Digambar Jain Temple. Asked to comment on the significance of their contribution, mahant Girishpati Tripathi of the Tewari Mandir said: “A verse in the Ramcharitmanas (jay din Ram janam shruti gavahi, teerth sakal tahan chali aavahi) tells us that the day any celebration related to Ramlalla (baby Ram) is organized in Ayodhya, religious places get attracted to the city. They have been instrumental in bringing the different revered places of India to Ayodhya during 'Kalyuga'.” Watch These two brothers collected water from 151 rivers for Ram temple Bhoomi Pujan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jaunpur-bros-bring-holy-water-from-151-rivers-soil-from-16-sites/articleshow/77323049.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||DC appeals to traders to get tested voluntarily||Hubballi: The district administration, after discussing with trader organisations, has decided to carry out rapid antigen tests on traders after taking them into confidence. Three days ago, the district administration initiated rapid antigen test drive in commercial areas in Hubballi. However, fearing seal-down and other measures, many traders downed the shutters and went home. Members of traders’ associations and industry and commerce bodies met deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil on Saturday and conveyed their feelings and fear. This resulted in a positive response from the district administration, and the DC assured them that if a positive case is detected, shops will be sealed down only for two days instead of seven days and no forcible test will be conducted on traders. Shankaranna Munavalli, former president, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Antigen tests are required to break the chain of Covid-19, but tests should not be carried out forcibly and traders should not be harassed.” Mahendra Laddhad, president, KCC&I, said, “We have urged the DC to see to it that traders are educated before conducting the tests. The DC said stern action will be initiated if any cases of harassment are brought to his notice.” DC Nitesh Patil said, “If we conduct tests, identify positive cases early on, and isolate them, we can minimize the spread of Covid-19. The number of positive cases are coming down. We have decided to carry the antigen test drive at least for a week. The seal-down will be for 48 hours and not seven days. No officials will force traders for a test. But I appeal to to traders to come forward and take the test and cooperate with the medical team.” Traders, who have incurred huge losses during lockdowns, said, “After a long gap, we have opened our shops and gradually started business. Now, if our shops and other establishments are closed again, how do we run our business and homes?” they asked. District minister Jagadish Shettar said there is no question of harassing traders. He appealed to traders to get the test done voluntarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dc-appeals-to-traders-to-get-tested-voluntarily/articleshow/77320582.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 3, 2020||Business||At Rs 6 lakh crore, banks’ fresh FDs in Q1 double from last year||MUMBAI: Banks have seen money in fixed deposits (FDs) increase by Rs 6.1 lakh crore during the period April to July 3. This is more than twice the Rs 3 lakh crore of FDs added by banks during the same period in the previous financial year. An increase in FDs is an indication that investors expect interest rates to come down further. It is also reflective of risk-aversion. From the deposit numbers of the large banks that have declared their results so far, it is seen that the share of FDs is either rising or is steady. In the case of HDFC Bank, which has seen deposits grow 24% year on year in the first quarter, the current account-savings account (CASA) ratio slipped to 40.1% from 42.2% in March. For Axis Bank, the CASA ratio, which was 41.2% in March, is now 40.9% at the end of the first quarter. Kotak Mahindra Bank has shown a marginal improvement with the CASA ratio rising to 56.7% from 56.2%. ICICI Bank’s CASA for the first quarter was 41%, down from 42.7% for FY20. State Bank of India (SBI) has also shown growth from 45.1 to 45.3%. For FY20, bank deposits accounted for 52.6% of household savings, followed by life insurance (23.2%), currency (13.4%) and mutual fund holdings (7%). Given the slowdown in insurance and mutual fund savings, there is a strong likelihood that the share of bank deposits in household savings could rise. However, gross numbers for the banking system show that there is an overall decline in the share of FDs in total deposits. According to a report by CARE Ratings, time deposits account for 89.4% of aggregate deposits (89.5% share in July 2019), growing at a slower pace compared to demand deposits, which account for the balance 10.6% (10.5% share in July 2019). Since the Covid-19 pandemic broke, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been systematically easing liquidity in the system. This has resulted in banks ending up with surplus liquidity. This, in turn, has forced banks to bring down deposit rates. SBI’s best deposit rate for non-senior citizens is 5.4%. Despite bringing down interest rates, SBI has added Rs 1.8 lakh crore to its deposit base between April and June 2020. To deal with the surplus liquidity, the RBI has undertaken term (fixed-rate) reverse repo auctions in order to allow banks to park any excess funds with the central bank. There are indications that deposits’ growth is tapering off in the second quarter. Deposits’ growth dipped marginally by 20 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 10.8% (as of July 17, 2020) compared to previous fortnight ended July 3. However, the growth rate continues to be robust, indicating that there is scope for further reduction. The banking system daily average liquidity stood at Rs.6.5 lakh crore during the last two fortnights ended July 17, 2020 and July 3, 2020, said CARE. Watch Money in bank FDs increase by Rs 6.1 lakh crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-rs-6l-cr-banks-fresh-fds-in-q1-double-from-last-year/articleshow/77321588.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Raped minor ends life||DHARWAD: A minor girl who was allegedly raped has ended her life. The incident which occurred at Bogur village in Dharwad taluk on July 30 has come to light late. The girl was a class eight student. When she was going to a place of worship, a man allegedly dragged her into a nearby field and raped her. Struck by fear she informed her mother and then ended her life by consuming pesticide, police said. The accused is Baseer Mabusab Gadadanavar of Singanahalli village. Soon after she drank pesticide, she was taken to a hospital in Kittur and then to the district civil hospital in Dharwad. She did not to treatment and succumbed, police said, who have launched a manhunt for the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/raped-minor-ends-life/articleshow/77320201.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Union Bank cuts home loan interest rate to 6.7%||MUMBAI: Union Bank of India has slashed interest rate on home loans for salaried to 6.7%, which is lower than the general category mortgages of State Bank of India (SBI), which has traditionally offered the lowest interest rate. Union Bank charges 6.7% for loans up to Rs 30 lakh for salaried borrowers with a credit score of at least 700, which must include a woman applicant. For loans above Rs 30 lakh and up to Rs 75 lakh, the best rate is 6.95%. For larger sized loans, interest rates begin at 7%. For salaried borrowers, where a man is the sole borrower, the rate is 6.75%, which is also the rate for non-salaried borrowers. SBI’s home loan rates for women borrowers for loans up to Rs 30 lakh start from 6.95%. Last month, LIC Housing Finance had reduced interest rates to 6.9%— its lowest ever. Another public sector lender, Bank of Baroda, has home loans starting from 6.85%. Market leader HDFC currently charges 6.95% for loans up to Rs 30 lakh where the borrower is a woman. For loans up to Rs 30 lakh to Rs 75 lakh, the interest rate rises to 7.2%. Home loan rates are expected to dip further in coming weeks with the Reserve Bank of India widely expected to cut its benchmark repo rate by 25 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) in its next bi-monthly policy review to be announced on August 6. Since banks have to mandatorily link the reference rate for the home loans that they offer to the repo, any change by the RBI will bring down the cost of funds for borrowers. While there has been a drop in property sales during the lockdown, lenders are also trying to grow their market share by attracting existing borrowers from other lenders through refinance. Union Bank of India, which has acquired Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank, has increased its branch network following the merger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-cuts-home-loan-interest-rate-to-6-7/articleshow/77321564.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||In a first, govt retires benchmark gilt within 3 months||MUMBAI: Initiating a shift in approach to borrowing from the market, the government on Friday auctioned a new 10-year bond, in less than three months from the last one it did on May 11. This was the first time that a new benchmark has been was introduced in less than three months of the previous one, compared to an average validity of a benchmark gilt of 8-10 months. On Friday, the new benchmark was auctioned at an annual interest rate of 5.77%. It will be issued on August 3 with the name ‘5.77% GS 2020’. The drastic reduction in the duration of the benchmark 10-year bond, which plays a major role in fixing the rate of interest by banks, was necessitated by the government’s massive borrowing programme this year, mainly due to its enhanced spending requirement due to the ensuing pandemic, bond market players said. In India, the yield on the benchmark paper, also called the ‘10-year yield’ in market parlance, is the benchmark relative to which most rates of interest and also the yields for government as well as corporate bonds are fixed or traded. The government plans to borrow Rs 12 lakh crore in this fiscal, which is 54% more than the Budget estimate of Rs 7.8 lakh crore. The introduction of a new 10-year government security (G-sec) was necessitated by the RBI’s informal limit for each gilt at Rs 1.2 lakh crore, bond dealers said. Given the huge supply of government papers this year, the 10-year benchmark yield is now down to around 5.8%, from as high as 7.25% in January 2019. “While announcing the issuance of a particular security under the market-borrowing programme of the central government, two aspects are looked into. First, the amount of gross issuance of the government for each of the fiscal year, current and future. Second, what is the outstanding amount of a particular security in a fiscal year?” a chief of debt investment at a domestic institution said. “These two are done with an objective of not only to keep that borrowing under a particular fiscal year within an acceptable limit but also to evenly spread out the repayments within a particular year,” the investment professional said. RBI data showed that before the 10-year paper was issued in May 2020, the shortest period for which a paper was the benchmark G-sec was six months, which was for the 10-year gilt issued in May 2013. And the longest duration for which a paper was a benchmark was the one issued in January 2018. Bond market players said that with the increase in the size of the economy and also that of the borrowing programme of the government over the years, the RBI has gradually stepped up the limit of a particular fiscal year gross issuance and also issuance under each security. This move has ensured average life of any new 10-year to about 8-10 months in the recent past. RBI data showed that till about FY2014, the upper limit for issuance under 10-year G-secs was around Rs 80,000 crore. Since FY15, it has been pegged at Rs 1.2 lakh crore. For the May 11, 2020 paper, bonds worth Rs 1.04 crore have already been issued. This year, a quantum jump in the government’s borrowing programme owing to the Covid-19 pandemic has compelled the RBI to announce issuance of a new 10-year benchmark within three months, a bond market player said. “This move is to ensure orderly redemption schedule within a particular fiscal year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-govt-retires-benchmark-gilt-within-3-months/articleshow/77321482.cms||Partha Sinha
August 3, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Fatality rate 5th worst in country, Punjab on toes||CHANDIGARH: Given the high number of Covid-19 deaths in the state, Punjab does not seem to be doing enough for early detection and care of critical patients. Although Punjab is placed at the 18th spot among states with highest number of positive cases, it has the fifth highest fatality rate in the country as on July 31, indicating that a high number of the infected people are succumbing to the virus. Maharashtra and Gujarat, with a fatality rate of 4%, and Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, with 3% mortality rate, are the only states ahead of Punjab, where 2.4% of people infected with the virus have died. Punjab’s fatality rate is even higher than the national average of 2%. Coronavirus has killed 405 people in Punjab, of which 256 deaths were reported from July 1 to August 1. On an average, eight people died daily during the period. With 2.4%, the fatality rate in urban areas is higher than in rural areas, where 1.9% of infected patients died. The male mortality has been recorded higher than the Covid-19 female mortality rate across all ages in the state. The virus proved fatal for 2.5 patients, while fatality rate among female patients stands at 1.8%. What has intrigued many is that less number of people have died in many states with significantly higher number of positive cases than in Punjab. With just 82 people losing their lives out of 24,743 infected with the virus, Kerala has the lowest fatality rate in the country. In Bihar, 312 people of 54,508 found positive died while 101 people out of 41,727 infected lost their lives in Assam. Similarly, out of 33,479 cases in Odisha, 225 died. Amritsar and Kapurthala districts have the highest fatality rate of 4% in the state, followed by Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot, where 3% of patients tested positive have died. Health experts have related the high death rate to poor access to healthcare fatalities, especially in rural areas, lack of timely detection of patients and proper management of patients. The state health officials have attributed delay on the part of patients in approaching health facilities and high prevalence of non-communicable disease as reasons for higher fatality rate. Due to limited access to health facilities, especially in rural areas, people go to unregistered medical practitioners. It has come to light that in some of the cases, people who died due to Covid-19, had first gone to unregistered medical practitioners and approached the health facilities at the last moment. Taking a corrective measure, the state government has now imposed a ban on unregistered medical practitioners treating Covid-19 patients. An analysis of 204 deaths done by the health department reveals that 65 people infected with the virus have died in the age group of 60-69 while 45 deaths are in the age group of 50-59. In the age group of 70-79, 30 people have died while the death toll in 40-49 group stands at 27. Three deaths each have been reported in the age groups of 0-9 and 10-19. Barring in 25 cases, all the deceased had underlying health conditions such as end-stage kidney disease, cancer, HIV besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar maintained that co-morbidity and people coming late for treatment are the major cause of high death rate in Punjab. He said steps have been taken for providing timely and proper treatment to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/fatality-rate-5th-worst-in-country-punjab-on-toes/articleshow/77328587.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 3, 2020||Patna||Universities & colleges hardly prepared for online education in Bihar||PATNA: Even as the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) on Sunday launched an online survey on the preparedness of higher education institutions to undertake online education, universities and colleges in Bihar have hardly anything substantial to offer their claim. However, in response to the AIU’s initiative, they have started working out the details of their requirements for proper implementation of online education for their students. The last date for submission of a response regarding the survey is August 15. In a letter addressed to the vice-chancellors, the AIU has observed that many institutions are facing issues relating to infrastructures in terms of continuous supply of electricity, availability of devices to the students, networking and bandwidth, capacity building of teachers to teach online and for students to learn online. The survey would also include the assessment of problems relating to online assessment and evaluation of the students, online internships and placements, collaborations and counselling of students. Welcoming the AIU’s initiative in the context of NPE 2020, Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma said for proper dissemination of online education, every college must plan for at least four smart classrooms with such features as interactive white boards, LED/LCD panels and digital podiums besides the usual projectors, speakers and wireless microphones. Besides, every college must have trained and permanent IT personnel along with good internet connectivity, if optimal utilization has to be ensured, he said. Verma further observed that each university must have its own educational multimedia research centre (EMMRC) and a foolproof system to provide necessary resources to colleges. Digital collaboration is now a necessity, he added. Patna University computer centre chief K P Singh said the university must have a ‘learning management system’ software along with high-speed internet connectivity for introducing online education to its students. And, more importantly, all the teachers of the university must be well-trained in utilization of technological devices and also in the conduct of online classes, he said. Singh further pointed out that all the PG departments and colleges must have e-library and e-books and uninterrupted supply of electricity and Wi-Fi connectivity. Patna Science College physics teacher and PU central library’s assistant director Ashok Kumar Jha felt the dire need of making university teachers and students computer literate before introducing online education. He said all the postgraduate departments of PU were provided with smart classes during PU’s centenary celebrations a couple of years ago, but they are yet to be utilized by the faculty members. Strangely enough, some departments have not even installed smart classes as yet, he said. The NPE also envisages rigorous training to the teachers to use online teaching platforms and tools and become high-quality online content creators, Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/universities-colleges-hardly-prepared-for-online-education/articleshow/77321334.cms||B K Mishra
August 3, 2020||Patna||Vikassheel Insan Party demands Bihar govt help to fishermen||PATNA: The Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), led by Mukesh Sahani, has expressed concern over the lack of government assistance to the boatmen, who were facing great hardships due to the coronavirus pandemic and floods in the state. National vice-president of VIP, Raj Bhushan Nishad, said on Sunday there was no provision of loan from any government agency for nearly 30,000-odd boatmen for making their country boats, which are the only source of survival for the community members. “The government should pay attention to the plight of the boatmen, who come to the rescue of marooned people in several districts in north and eastern Bihar during floods every year. They ply their boats in rivers, tributaries and water reservoirs on their own,” Nishad said. Nishad, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Muzaffarpur, said over a dozen districts such as Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Begusarai, Khagaria, Madhubani and Samastipur have a sizeable population of fishermen. “They have virtually been pushed to the brink of poverty. They didn’t get any financial help from the government. Several families were managing to survive by doing other jobs. But majority of them were still engaged in their traditional occupation,” he added. He, however, admitted that the cooperative society for fishermen has provided some financial assistance to some boatmen but that is like a drop in the ocean. “Since fisheries have come under the agriculture department, the losses to fishermen should be compensated by the government as farmers,” the VIP leader said. The ponds and chaurs (water reservoir) were auctioned by the government. However, a number of families had to face huge financial losses due to floods as fish were washed away, he added. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar couldn’t be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vip-demands-govt-help-to-fishermen/articleshow/77320825.cms||Ramashankar
August 3, 2020||Patna||Friendship Day: Many miss face-to-face fun||PATNA: In the time of pandemic, many residents have developed friendship with their next-door neighbours while providing essentials to the sick, having a long chit-chat and playing games from their balconies to beat the lockdown blues. For kids and youngsters, virtual chats, gifts and cards helped them express fondness for their buddies on the Friendship Day on Sunday. Many kids tied the handmade friendship bands to trees and plants at their homes on the occasion. Akshay Gaurav (23) of Digha celebrated the day by catching up with his friends on virtual platform. “Last year, we had lots of fun. But this time due to the pandemic, we held a small virtual party, played games and reminisced about the good old days. It was simple and quite memorable,” he said. “In the last few months, we understood the true meaning of friendship. The pandemic has shown who are your true friends. Most of the time we spent in confinement, but immediate neighbours turned out to be my true companions. Almost every evening we spent time talking about the current news, sharing recipes and playing games,” said Shweta Mishra of Kadamkuan. Rupesh also spent most of his time talking to neighbours through the balcony. “When our area was sealed after a few Covid-19 positive cases, our neighbours helped us in providing with essential things,” he said. Nikita Tiwari, a Class VII student and resident of SK Puri, said she saw her school friends only during online classes. “I make friendship bands for my friends, but tied to plants at home this time. I talked to my friends over the phone,” she said. Many residents compiled the old pictures with their friends and posted on social platforms. “Even though I send virtual cards and posted old pictures with my friends, nothing can substitute the fun we used to have during the Friendship Day, especially tying friendship bands, watching movies and having food together,” said Soma (29) of Ashok Rajpath. Shubham Kant also connected to his friends through live chat through mobile applications. “I had a group chat first with my school friends and later with my college friends. Many are living in different parts of the country and a few of them even abroad,” he said. Meanwhile, the shops selling gift items and friendship bands had a disappointing day. Guddu Singh, owner of a card and gift shop at Patna Market, said, “Not a single card was sold this time. We even informed the customers that we would deliver the gifts or cards to their friends, but in vain,” he said. The other gift shops also faced the similar situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/friendship-day-many-miss-face-to-face-fun/articleshow/77321426.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Telemedicine centre set up at Bhagalpur hospital||BHAGALPUR: In a bid to provide 24x7 medicare facilities to corona patients on phone and through WhatsApp, a telemedicine centre has started functioning on the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH), a Covid-dedicated hospital. The hospital has released the cell phone number 9430995093 and base phone number 0641-2401078 for availing the telemedicine facility. The objective is to provide health services on phone to corona patients, who are either in home quarantine or are living in isolation centres and need advice of experts about their health condition, treatment procedures and medicines to be taken besides day-to-day mapping of their condition, said JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha. “Doctors posted at JLNMCH, Mayaganj, besides those at JLNMC at Naulakha Kothi in Khanjarpur, will advice treatment procedures to the callers,” added Dr Sinha. Explaining the telemedicine procedure, the JLNMC principal said that ‘telehealth’ or ‘telemedicine’ involves the use of electronic communication and software to provide clinical services to patients through telephonic conversation. “It is a technology based medicare services provided by expert doctors to patients for improving the healthcare system especially in situation of medical emergencies and pandemics,” said Dr Hem Shanker Sharma, associate professor in the department of medicine and nodal officer for Covid-19 care centre at JLNMCH. A control room number 0641-2421073 at sadar hospital has also been released by the district health officials for assisting Covid patients and those having Covid symptoms. It may be worth mentioning, according to statistics, the number of corona patients in Bhagalpur district increased to 2,638 (2,030 recovered and 32 deaths) whereas in Banka it increased to 681 (428 recovered and two deaths).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/telemedicine-centre-set-up-at-bpur-hosp/articleshow/77321585.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 3, 2020||Business||Bandhan promoters to sell 21% for $1.4bn in block deals||MUMBAI: Bandhan Financial Services, the main promoter of Bandhan Bank, has mandated four brokers to jointly sell nearly 21% in the bank, or about 34 crore shares, through block deals on Monday. The deal size could be as much as $1.4 billion (about Rs 10,400 crore), making it the biggest block deal in the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) space. According to the term sheet of the deal, the stake is being offered at a floor price of Rs 311 per share, which is at nearly 10% discount to the stock’s closing price of Rs 345 on Friday on the NSE. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, JM Financial and J P Morgan have been mandated to manage the deal. The book for the deal opened on Sunday evening and was fully subscribed by late evening, broking sources said. After the deal, promoters’ stake in the bank will be down to about 40%, according to shareholding pattern on the BSE. Under the RBI’s rules, the main promoting company of a bank should reduce its stake in the lender to a maximum of 40% within three years of starting operations, a condition that the bank had failed to meet despite some serious efforts made by its promoters. From being a microfinance lender, Bandhan transformed itself into a full-fledged bank exactly four years ago. In March 2018, the lender was listed on the bourses and in September that year, the RBI had imposed several restrictions on Bandhan Bank, including a ban on opening new branches since its promoters had failed to comply with the shareholding norms. In January 2019, Bandhan Bank acquired Gruh Finance from HDFC and, post-merger, promoters’ stake was down to 61%. At Rs 10,400 crore, the Bandhan Bank block deal will be ahead of the Rs 10,200-crore deal in HDFC in 2012 in which Citibank was the seller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bandhan-promoters-to-sell-21-for-1-4bn-in-block-deals/articleshow/77321335.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Companies focus on consumer-connect amid Covid||MUMBAI: The lockdown due to Covid-19 presented a big challenge to several brands and their messaging. People were forced to stay at home. ‘Walkaroo’ from VKC footwear was all about moving feet. But during the lockdown, the brand had two choices: Either fade into oblivion, or think out-of-the-box and hyper-engage with consumers. It picked the latter and created a digital campaign urging youngsters to remain active by helping around the house and exercising. The brand realised that while the young generation was immobile in one sense, their levels of restless energy would not diminish. Similarly, Byju’s ‘live classes’ replicated the ‘classroom’ environment, which was different from the pre-recorded videos. Nike, on the other hand, gave free access to premium training programmes through its training app. Consumer behaviour, attitudes and belief systems have undergone dramatic changes. Brands have been forced to evolve. Several aspects of marketing are being reversed. Staying relevant is all that matters. Subramanyeswar S, group chief strategy officer at MullenLowe Lintas Group, said consumers would dissect brands more than ever before. This means brands will need to create a meaningful difference in their day-to-day lives. “It’s no longer about brand loyalty, but consumer loyalty,” he said. The tenets on which brands are built are no longer valid, he added, adding, “It’s time for authentic action, not words. People want brands to be understanding, trusted partners, like a family member.” From extensive qualitative research, MullenLowe Lintas Group found that the consumer decision-making cycle during such times gets protracted and this opens up hyper possibilities for brands to engage with them. “From just comparing, buying and enjoying, as they used to earlier, they’ll now go through multiple stages of researching, comparing, postponing, and even justifying, after the purchase. Hence, brands need to pay equal attention to post-purchase engagement, in addition to the usual pre-purchase and during-purchase engagement,” said Subramanyeswar. Longitudinal studies done by ITC along with Purple Audacity reveal that consumers are grappling with multiple paradoxes — safety versus financial security, or thoughtful spending versus feel-good purchases, for instance. The manifestations of these paradoxes have impacted their choices. Consumers are picking brands providing tangibly superior safety reassurance. At an individual level, a consumer is said to be undergoing polarising emotions at the same time, and is using different coping mechanisms alternatively. A consumer whose salary was cut was now spending thoughtfully, but that has not stopped her from satiating certain food cravings and indulgences. The impact of using a mixed set of coping mechanisms is expected to continue to drive mercurial consumer behaviour. Hemant Malik, divisional chief executive of ITC’s foods division, said the company’s recent communication campaigns on Aashirvaad and Yippee, among others, are powered by some of these new consumer trends and insights that have emerged from such longitudinal studies. Another critical change is how value-for-money is not good enough. “During the good times, consumers stood by their brands and paid a premium for every new variant or additional feature. They’ll now sacrifice variety or customisation in favour of simplicity. Brands need to go beyond the hype and engage consumers with solutions that fit their needs, as no product is ideal in the current situation. Consumers will not just seek value-for-money but value-for-experience, as that is emotionally reassuring and elevating,” said Subramanyeswar. Consumer confidence too has hit a roadblock. “As needs beat wants, sacrifice becomes a part of people’s vocabulary. Consumers whose bold optimism earlier made them purchase an iPhone even when their salary was one-fourth the cost of the phone, will drastically cut down on spends or postpone purchases. We are seeing them reduce all types of spending by eliminating, postponing, decreasing or substituting purchases,” said Subramanyeswar. Perfetti Van Melle India, the maker of confectionery brands Centre Fresh and Alpenliebe, lost business as a category as footfalls disappeared from the streets. Gradually, business is limping back to normal. Rajesh Ramakrishnan, MD of Perfetti Van Melle India, said, “Consumers are still gravitating towards brands they trust, but they are paying a lot more emphasis on value. In the past, it was okay for a consumer to pick up larger packs. Now they think twice before buying them. Since we are largely present at Re 1 and Rs 5 price points, our products are being picked up as an affordable treat in these difficult times. The kids at home need to be kept engaged, and our portfolio provides the families those moments of happiness.” Ramakrishnan said the company is now getting towards 80-85% of pre-Covid level in sales, and is also gearing up for new product launches in the coming months. “Life has to go on. We all need to adapt and recalibrate to the current reality,” said Ramakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-focus-on-consumer-connect-amid-covid/articleshow/77321654.cms||Namrata Singh
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana cases cross 36,000 as 761 test +ve||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 36,519 cases with 433 deaths as 761 new patients and five deaths were reported from the state on Sunday. The recovery rate remained stable at 81.3%, as 610 new recoveries pushed the total to 29,690. At the moment, Haryana has 6,396 active patients, of whom 124 are critical, including 24 on ventilator and 104 are on oxygen support. Faridabad continued to top the daily chart with 172 persons contracting virus. This took the district total to 9,002 and 134 deaths. It now has 1,174 active patients and 7,694 recovered patients. Gurugram continued to maintain the top slot in terms of overall cases as 79 new patients took the district total to 9,259 cases with 124 deaths. The district now has 882 active patients and 8,253 recovered ones. Ambala recorded the third highest number of cases in the day as it reported 75 new patients and one death. This took the district total to 1,701 and 17 deaths. Rohtak reported 65 new patients. It was followed by 60 new patients and one death in Sonipat, where total rose to 2,959 cases with 33 deaths. Panchkula recorded 51 new cases and its total reached 671. Kurukshetra recorded 50 new patients, taking its total to 510. Rewari reported 40 new patients and its total rose to 1,834. Sirsa got 38 new cases and two deaths, while Palwal reported 31 new patients. A death was also reported in Karnal. Jind had 21 new patients, followed by 17 cases each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, 15 in Karnal, 11 in Hisar, six each in Fathehabad and Nuh, five in Bhiwani, and two in Mahindergarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cases-cross-36k-as-761-test-ve/articleshow/77322655.cms||Manvir Saini
August 3, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Haryana cases cross 36,000 as 761 test +ve||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 36,519 cases with 433 deaths as 761 new patients and five deaths were reported from the state on Sunday. The recovery rate remained stable at 81.3%, as 610 new recoveries pushed the total to 29,690. At the moment, Haryana has 6,396 active patients, of whom 124 are critical, including 24 on ventilator and 104 are on oxygen support. Faridabad continued to top the daily chart with 172 persons contracting virus. This took the district total to 9,002 and 134 deaths. It now has 1,174 active patients and 7,694 recovered patients. Gurugram continued to maintain the top slot in terms of overall cases as 79 new patients took the district total to 9,259 cases with 124 deaths. The district now has 882 active patients and 8,253 recovered ones. Ambala recorded the third highest number of cases in the day as it reported 75 new patients and one death. This took the district total to 1,701 and 17 deaths. Rohtak reported 65 new patients. It was followed by 60 new patients and one death in Sonipat, where total rose to 2,959 cases with 33 deaths. Panchkula recorded 51 new cases and its total reached 671. Kurukshetra recorded 50 new patients, taking its total to 510. Rewari reported 40 new patients and its total rose to 1,834. Sirsa got 38 new cases and two deaths, while Palwal reported 31 new patients. A death was also reported in Karnal. Jind had 21 new patients, followed by 17 cases each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, 15 in Karnal, 11 in Hisar, six each in Fathehabad and Nuh, five in Bhiwani, and two in Mahindergarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-cases-cross-36k-as-761-test-ve/articleshow/77328648.cms||Manvir Saini
August 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Haryana cases cross 36,000 as 761 test +ve||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count reached 36,519 cases with 433 deaths as 761 new patients and five deaths were reported from the state on Sunday. The recovery rate remained stable at 81.3%, as 610 new recoveries pushed the total to 29,690. At the moment, Haryana has 6,396 active patients, of whom 124 are critical, including 24 on ventilator and 104 are on oxygen support. Faridabad continued to top the daily chart with 172 persons contracting virus. This took the district total to 9,002 and 134 deaths. It now has 1,174 active patients and 7,694 recovered patients. Gurugram continued to maintain the top slot in terms of overall cases as 79 new patients took the district total to 9,259 cases with 124 deaths. The district now has 882 active patients and 8,253 recovered ones. Ambala recorded the third highest number of cases in the day as it reported 75 new patients and one death. This took the district total to 1,701 and 17 deaths. Rohtak reported 65 new patients. It was followed by 60 new patients and one death in Sonipat, where total rose to 2,959 cases with 33 deaths. Panchkula recorded 51 new cases and its total reached 671. Kurukshetra recorded 50 new patients, taking its total to 510. Rewari reported 40 new patients and its total rose to 1,834. Sirsa got 38 new cases and two deaths, while Palwal reported 31 new patients. A death was also reported in Karnal. Jind had 21 new patients, followed by 17 cases each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, 15 in Karnal, 11 in Hisar, six each in Fathehabad and Nuh, five in Bhiwani, and two in Mahindergarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-cases-cross-36k-as-761-test-ve/articleshow/77328647.cms||Manvir Saini
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt schools on a new high, as teachers opt for them over pvt ones||Ludhiana: With government schools getting ‘smarter’ teachers have started enrolling their wards in the them. Three teachers of the Government Senior Secondary School Shahpur have got their wards admitted into government schools. Shahpur school is the first in the state that has maximum number of teachers enrolling their wards in the government schools this year. Mathematics teacher Parveen Akhtar has enrolled her nearly five-year-old daughter Fatima Mariam in pre-primary class at Government Primary School Maksudra. English mistress Rajwinder Kaur has enrolled her three-year-old daughter Japkeerat Kaur at Government Primary School Shahpur and computer faculty teacher Sukhmanjot Kaur has also enrolled her three-year-old daughter Sifat Kaur Bajwa at Government Primary School Shahpur. Rajwinder said, “Education is the third eye of a man. It aids man to move from darkness to light. My husband and I are government employees and we think that government schools are much better than private schools. Policies like ‘free and compulsory education’ and education to the girl children are made possible only because of government schools. I am glad my daughter is pursuing her education in a government school. We need to appreciate more the work done by our government schools.” Sukhmanjot also believes that the quality of education in government schools is better nowadays than CBSE schools. “Pre-primary follow the same syllabi, which leading private schools are following. Moreover, I wanted my daughter to get rooted with her own culture. I had studied in a CBSE school and I felt that least attention was paid towards mother tongue. And in government schools I observed students are grounded and rooted. Also, I want her to learn about the co-existence with the children from different financial backgrounds. By this she can learn the ground reality of our society. It is near my work place, so it is also convenient for me. Also, it is free of cost, which means no extra burden of hefty fees and the mid-day meal provided by school is fresh and tasty and her head teacher Baljeet Kaur, a hard working woman, always making sure that everything is neat and clean. Even during lockdown She called us regularly and kept us updated about homework and take oral tests. Actually, it is my principal Davinder Singh Chhina who suggested that I get my daughter admitted in a government school, I am really thankful to him, because I can see visible changes in my daughter. From next academic year, I will definitely get my son admitted in a government school as well.” Principal Chhina said he is proud that three teachers from his school decided to enrol their wards in government schools. “My teachers have reposed faith in government schools. This time our schools have witnessed an 11% increase in enrolment than the previous session. Now, we have 187 students and last year there were 168 students. Great results of the school, development of school and online studies of the students are the reasons that students are attracted to government schools from other villages as well. Out of 19 new students, 10 are from private schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-schools-on-a-new-high-as-teachers-opt-for-them-over-pvt-ones/articleshow/77322654.cms||Mehak Jain
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai cops ignore safety norms, take suspect to station on scooter||CHENNAI: Throwing caution to the wind, police personnel in Saidapet transported a suspect in a public nuisance incident by riding triples on a motorbike, violating distancing norms and safety advisory. Police sources said the control room was informed about a drunk man creating nuisance in Saidapet area by flashing a pen knife at motorists and pedestrians. The nearest patrol team rushed to the scene, detained the man and immediately flagged down a two-wheeler to transport him to the police station for inquiry. A case was registered against him. Inquiry revealed that the 40-year-old man was Mani of Trichy and that he works at a bicycle repair shop on Jones Road. “He was creating nuisance in an inebriated state and since he was in possession of a sharp object, the immediate response was to remove him from a public place,” said a police official, when asked about not following physical distancing norms while securing the suspect. In another incident, a constable attached to the DVAC (Directorate of Vigilance and anti corruption) chased and secured a snatcher at Poes Garden on Saturday. The victim, Manikandan, was on a walk when two men followed him on a bike and snatched his phone. When Manikandan raised an alarm, an alert passerby pushed the bike, which led to the duo falling on the road. While one of them fled the scene, DVAC head constable Yuvaraj chased and secured the other snatcher and handed him over to the Teynampet police. Investigation revealed that the accused has cases pending against him in Semmanchery. While he was remanded in judicial custody, a hunt has been launched for the other suspect. Yuvaraj was appreciated for his efforts by T Nagar deputy commissioner Hari Kiran Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-ignore-safety-norms-take-suspect-to-stn-on-scooter/articleshow/77321658.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Three more test positive in Goa's Reis Magos||SALIGAO: Reis Magos registered three new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday. The three persons had come in contact with positive patients staying at a residential complex in the village. Speaking to TOI, health officer of Candolim health centre (PHC) Dr Roshan Nazareth said that one of the three positive patients is working in a factory in Verna, the second one is a security guard working in the same housing complex and and third one is a housewife. After a police sub inspector residing at the housing complex had tested positive, Candolim PHC conducted a swab test of all the residents of the housing complex and all had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-more-test-positive-in-reis-magos/articleshow/77323051.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||18 more succumb, toll rises to 423||Chandigarh: Punjab on Sunday recorded 792 more Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 17,853 cases, of which 5,964 are active cases at present. The state also recorded 18 Covid deaths on Sunday, and the total toll so far reached 423. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of eight deaths, followed by four deaths in Patiala, three in Amritsar and one death each in Tarn Taran, Mohali, and Pathankot districts. As many as 391 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals across Punjab, after their recovery on Sunday. The highest number of 147 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday were again registered in Ludhiana district, followed by 100 in Patiala, 98 in Jalandhar, 84 in Moga, 52 in Mohali, 44 in Amritsar, 42 in Ferozepur, 35 in Barnala, 31 in Kapurthala, 30 in Gurdaspur, 28 in Bathinda, 25 in Sangrur, 21 in Faridkot, 18 in Mansa and 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Out of the total 792 positive case on Sunday, 11 had source of infection from out of Punjab, 11 were healthcare workers, five were police personnel, three BSF personnel in Amritsar, three CRPF personnel in Kapurthala, and four were jail inmates. Of the total of 5,964 active cases in Punjab, Ludhiana district has the highest number of 1,292 active cases, followed by 718 in Jalandhar, 702 in Patiala, 529 in Amritsar and 359 in Mohali. Till date, Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of 107 Covid-19 deaths. There had been 83 deaths in Amritsar, 54 in Jalandhar, 32 in Patiala, and 28 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-more-succumb-toll-rises-to-423/articleshow/77322651.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||IITE holds pen-and-paper entrance exam in pandemic||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE) has conducted its entrance test in the pen-and-paper format for admissions to 59 BEd colleges that are affiliated to the varsity. This is perhaps the first instance of a varsity in Gujarat conducting an offline entrance exam for students amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said sources. The exam, held on Sunday, comes at a time when a large number of students at other varsities in the state are preferring online tests over offline mode. IITE has also conducted annual exam using pen and paper for final year undergraduate students. Of the 11,003 students who had applied for the entrance test for 3,384 seats, 9,331 participated in the entrance test. The results will be announced next week. Many grant-in-aid BEd colleges affiliated to various universities in Gujarat are now part of IITE. Established in 2010 by Gujarat government, IITE was set up with an aim to produce world-class teachers. The state education department is currently implementing its plans to bring all BEd colleges under the single umbrella of IITE. This has been done to bring uniformity in such colleges in a timebound manner. A total of 135 centres were set up for conducting the exam with all health safety measures and social distancing norms in place. Safety kits were also presented to all students who took the test. The exam test paper was MCQ-based in which 120 questions were to be answered in a time-frame of 90 minutes. In each classroom only 12 students were allowed to sit for the exam. A total of 8,587 students were in fray for 2,950 BEd programme seats. The remaining students were for other integrated courses including BEd-MEd integrated course. Students who clear this test must secure 50% marks in their final year of graduation for college admission. Many students who are yet to take the third-year college exam have been instructed to submit their marksheets by September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iite-holds-pen-and-paper-entrance-exam-in-pandemic/articleshow/77322653.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambulance staff to go on strike on Monday, officials say will not affect patients||Ludhiana: Patients can face problems, as the drivers and emergency medical technician (EMT) of 108 ambulance service are going on strike on Monday. The members of 108 Ambulance Employees’ Union said they will protest in front of chief minister’s house in Patiala if their demands are not met. President of the union Gurpreet Singh Guri said drivers and EMT deputed with the 108 ambulance service are getting salaries between Rs 8,500 and Rs 9,000. He added that instead of getting benefits for being on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19, they didn’t get increment after 2014 and not even additional working hours benefits. Guri also said four of the drivers and EMTs have been tested positive for Covid-19 and even they didn’t receive proper care at the hands of authorities. He added that there are 242 ambulances (108) in the state of which 31 ambulances are in Ludhiana. According to him, they will start protest at 8am and will wait till afternoon and if their demands are not solved, they will go to chief minister’s residence in Patiala and protest there. The officer bearer of the union also alleged that the employees who raise voice against the authorities are transferred without reason. He added that they are not alone, many groups, including Theka Morcha Sangharsh Morcha, transport and teachers groups, among others, are with them. Asked how patients will manage things in the absence of the ambulance service, a union member said, “If our drivers and employees die, how can we transport them (patients)?” Meanwhile, agency managing the 108 ambulance service said they have made adequate arrangements. “We will not let patients suffer. We have made proper arrangements and things will not get affected due to their strike. Also, we have got full support of the respective district administrations,” said Saikat Mukherjee, state project head of the healthcare company that manages the service. Company officials said they will seek help of police if the striking employees try to stop the ambulances. They added that those going on strike in such emergency situation can be terminated from service as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambulance-staff-to-go-on-strike-on-monday-officials-say-will-not-affect-patients/articleshow/77322652.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Aadi Perukku festival a muted affair||Coimbatore: Aadi Perukku celebrations on Sunday in western Tamil Nadu turned out to be a muted affair.The day usually witnesses a heavy crowd, especially newly-weds, thronging banks of rivers and offering prayers. Mass congregations were prohibited this year due to the full lockdown on Sunday. Apart from this, the usually brimming Noyyal river is dry this year, an unusual sight during Aadi Perukku. The term ‘Perukku’ itself means brimming and overflowing water bodies due to the monsoon. Officials said the river is dry due to restoration work. A few people still visited Perur ghat of the river and made offerings and prayed. In Salem, banks of the Cauvery were deserted. “Even during drought in the past, we would visit the river bank and make offerings. This is the first time we could not step out,’’ said K B Rajapathy from Mettur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aadi-perukku-festival-a-muted-affair/articleshow/77322665.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn zonal assistant commissioners empowered to give building permit||Coimbatore: The city corporation has delegated the power of providing building and planning permission for buildings up to 2,000 square feet within its limit to the zonal assistant commissioners (ACs). In a letter dated July 31, corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar has said that he has empowered the zonal assistant commissioners with the power to grant the permission for the buildings constructed in 2,000 square feet of land. He, further, bestowed the duty of monitoring the submission of building planning applications, payment of fees among others to the zonal assistant town planning officers (ATPOs). The zonal office was, also, given powers to initiate necessary action against the unauthorized buildings and the buildings that were built with deviation of rules. Until recently, all the powers lay in the hands of the corporation commissioner and the order means that public need not visit the corporation main office at Town Hall for any building related works if the building does not exceed 2,000 square feet. While those seeking permission to construct residential buildings between 2,000 and 7,000 square feet still have to approach the main office, those seeking permission to construct commercial buildings above 2,000 sq ft and residential buildings above 7,000 sq ft have to approach the Local Planning Authority (LPA).Earlier, the public will have to submit the hardcopy of the related documents including land patta, survey document and building plan at the zonal office even though they had uploaded it online. Post which, ATPOs would do field inspection to make sure that the building could be constructed at the available land without any violation. Post which, they would make recommendations to the Town Planning Officer (TPO), who in turn would scrutinize the documents before recommending it to the commissioner for approval. “Now, the ATPOs will be recommending it to the ACs and he, in turn, would grant permissions. It would save a lot of time both to the officials and public,” said a source privy to the development. Even though the norm says that the approval should be given within 30 days, at times, it would take to 2 to 3 months considering the overload of pending files. Welcoming the move, a city-based activist K Kathirmathiyon said that the move would not just reduce the work burden of the officials but also would help the public in getting the approval on time. Citing the Tamil Nadu combined development and building rules 2019, he said, “The official who is granting plan approval is the competent authority to issue building completion certificates. So, in this case, the zonal ACs themselves could issue the complete certificates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-zonal-assistant-commissioners-empowered-to-give-building-permit/articleshow/77322663.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Diyas bring ray of hope, brighten up many lives||LUCKNOW: When over one lakh earthen lamps are lit in Ayodhya on August 5 to mark 'bhoomi pujan' of much awaited construction of Ram Temple, the occasion would also brighten up lives of 10 members of a self-help group (SHG) at Devai gram in the temple town. Reason: the state government has ordered procurement of nearly 80,000 earthen lamps from the SHG. Known as ‘Prajapati Swayam Sahayata Samuh’, the SHG was constituted nearly five months after BJP came to power in UP in 2017. Prajapati is a caste which forms a large chunk of people from the Kumhar (potter) community. According to officials in the rural development department, the financial status of the SHG was dismal and needed a fillip from the state government, especially after novelcoronavirus induced lockdown. “After constituting the group, its members started manufacturing diyas,” said mission director, state rural livelihood mission (SRLM), Sujit Kumar, confirming that the group has been given the order to manufacture 80,000 earthen lamps for August 5 function, which is scheduled to be attended by PM Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. As the time progressed the SHG was in a position to supply earthen lamps in large quantities. As a matter of fact, things started changing for this SHG in 2019 itself when the group received an order to make 90,000 earthen lamps which had to be lit up in ‘Dev Deepawali’ in Ayodhya. The group purchased an electric potter wheel to meet the target. The order, sources in the rural development department said, fetched over Rs 1.25 lakh to the group. “This not only raised the morale of its members, but also improved the financial condition of the group,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diyas-bring-ray-of-hope-brighten-up-many-lives/articleshow/77323075.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Dengue awareness: Chennai corporation tells those with fever to visit camps||CHENNAI: Though only around five dengue cases have been recorded in the city in July, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has instructed its field workers to give special instructions to houses with kids to take all possible precautions to prevent mosquito breeding. In case symptoms such as high fever are seen, the child should be rushed to the nearest fever clinic without delay. The instructions were issued after a child in Adambakkam in Alandur zone died of dengue around 10 days ago. GCC sources said the report submitted to them said the girl was intially self-medicated for fever and there was a delay in taking her to a hospital. The family had not taken her to a fever clinic conducted by GCC either, a senior GCC official said. GCC has already deployed malaria workers to conduct inspections at vulnerable spots in the city. In addition, door-to-door survey workers have also been asked to instruct residents to avoid storing water in drums or other containers which could lead to breeding of mosquitoes, GCC sources said. The real impact of dengue will not be felt as hospitals are focussed on Covid-19 duty and those that aren’t, are unwilling to take in many regular patients, a GCC official said. “Schools continue to remain shut and children will be home. So if there is dengue breeding in the neighbourhood or the house, they are at a higher risk. That is why parents should take note of fever, other symptoms,” a senior official said. Awareness campaigns have also begun, especially through the newly revamped social media profiles of the civic body. The posts tell residents to avoid storing water in open wells and drums and to cover them if needed, dump water that collects, stagnates on waste sites, coconut shells and also properly dispose of the waste in dustbins. Fogging larvicides in vulnerable areas will also start in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dengue-awareness-corpn-tells-those-with-fever-to-visit-camps/articleshow/77321672.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four accused of usurping company through forgery||AHMEDABAD: Sanjeev Premhans Agrawal, 52, of Samdev Tower Camp Road in Shahibaugh lodged a complaint of cheating with Narol police on Saturday alleging four persons had taken over his company worth Rs 10 crore by forging his signature and NOC. Narol police registered a case against four accused, Vishnudutt Gupta, his son Ushant, and Kailash Gupta and his son Jaimin. According to the FIR lodged by Agrawal, he owns a dyeing and printing company near Ranipur Patiya in Narol. He had given his company on rent on the instance of Vishnudutt Gupta and his brother Kailash Gupta of Bapunagar, in October 2015 for nine years after signing an MOU, the FIR states. Since then Vishnudutt, his brother Kailash and Vishnudutt’s son Ushant and Kailash’s son Jaimin used to do business in the rented premises. They paid the rent of Rs 5.50 lakh every month since June 2018, with hike of 10% every year. The FIR mentions that in June 2020 he came to know that, public issues for shares have been floated in his company’s name. “According to the complaint, when the complainant checked it at the government website, he came to know that in February 2018, the accused had made a fake no-objection certificate (NOC) by forging his signature and cheated him of his company,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-accused-of-usurping-company-through-forgery/articleshow/77322662.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to have its own bravery awards||NEW DELHI: Delhiites displaying extreme courage in the face of danger are likely to be conferred a special award by Delhi government, a source said. Delhi government has constituted Delhi Bravery Awards — a special state-level award on the lines of the coveted Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW) National Bravery Awards under which around 25 children are selected every year and awarded on Republic Day. ICCW has also instituted five special awards — ICCW Markandeya Award, ICCW Dhruva Award, ICCW Abhimanyu Award, ICCW Prahalada Award & and ICCW Shravan Award. “The proposal to constitute a state-level bravery award was finalised some time ago. Unlike other awards given by Delhi government, this will be for common citizens of the city. There are plans to have around 10 awards along with cash prizes,” the source said. The awards will be given on Republic Day every year, the nominations for which will come from the people of Delhi, the source added. Despite repeated attempts, senior Delhi government officials and spokespersons did not respond to TOI’s calls and text messages. For Delhi Bravery Awards, recommendations will have to be sent with a biodata, a detailed citation in bringing out the sequence-wise details of the incident and the specific role of the person, apart from a character and antecedent verification certificate. All submissions will have to be filed within two years of an incident. These submissions will then be considered by a screening committee. Apart from the National Bravery Awards for children, every year Jeevan Raksha Padak awards are also given to people from all walks of life for saving a person, apart from other categories, including Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak, Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak and Jeevan Raksha Padak. The awardees get a medal, certificate and a cash award, which are presented by the respective state governments. In Delhi, these awards are given during the Independence Day celebrations at Chhatarsal Stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-have-its-own-bravery-awards/articleshow/77321673.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Hookah behind 24 Covid-19 cases in Haryana's Jind village||JIND: The district administration has sealed Shadipur village of Julana town after 24 residents have tested positive for Covid-19. Apparently, a villager who returned from a wedding in Gurugram on July 8 and smoked hookah with his friends back home spread the infection. All the other 23 are his direct contacts. The panchayat has now banned hukkah smoking in the village. The district health department officials sprung into action when the Gurugram returnee tested positive and got the tests done on his ‘hookah pals’. The villagers have now set up a committee to check hookah smoking and also started a sanitisation drive. “When the Covid-19 cases suddenly increased in the village, we found hookah to be a major source of transmission of the virus. Hookah smoking is a common practice in villages and has to be avoided to check the Covid-19 outbreak,” Jind civil hospital senior medical officer Gopal Goyal told TOI on Sunday. Station house officer of Julana police station, Surender Singh said, "We have sealed the containment zone as 24 people have been reported coronavirus positive within a week.” Deputy civil surgeon Pale Ram Kataria said, “Some people who came for sampling from this village, told us that they used to smoke hookah with others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hookah-behind-24-cases-in-jind-village/articleshow/77322664.cms||Vijender Kumar
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Rain fails to cool the city on Sunday||Ludhiana: Even as it rained in the city on Sunday morning, day temperature witnessed a rise in Ludhiana. Light rainfall is expected on Rakhi and there are chances of rainfall even after that. It was cloudy in the city on Sunday morning and just before noon, it started raining. However, the brief rain hardly bought any respite from dry heat. According to met department, rainfall in city from 8.30am on Saturday to 8.30am on Sunday was recorded at 41.4 millimeters (mm). Between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm on Sunday, rain in Ludhiana was recorded at 0.4mm. The maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 33.7 degrees Celsius, which is a degree more than normal. On Saturday, Ludhiana had witnessed day temperature at 31.4 degrees, which was two degrees less than normal. Minimum (night) temperature on Sunday was recorded at 25.3 degrees Celsius, which is considered normal for this time of the year, but 2.8 degrees less than a day before. The residents might not have to grapple hot weather, met department predicts rainfall activity in the next few days. A met department official at Chandigarh said whereas light rainfall is expected on Monday, light to moderate rain is likely on Tuesday and light rain can occur on Wednesday. He added that day and night temperatures are expected to rise in the next three days. Met department website suggests that day temperature is expected to rise to 37 degrees Celsius till Wednesday whereas the night temperature might rise to 29 degrees Celsius till Thursday. “Weather had been good for the last few days and even today morning it was pleasant, but it turned dry after that we started feeling the heat. I did sweat a lot when I went out for some work late afternoon. However, we didn’t feel the need for using air conditioner during the day, as it was not very hot and fan served the purpose,” said Harinder Singh, a businessman from Chandigarh road area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rain-fails-to-cool-the-city-on-sunday/articleshow/77322660.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||A Good Samaritan grieves child’s death||Kochi: To Babu Varghese, an autodriver in Aluva, 3-year-old Prithviraj, who swallowed a coin and later died, was a stranger till Saturday morning. However, on Sunday he was crying his heart out on hearing of the child’s death. If not for Varghese, the mother would have been sent back without her child being admitted to Alappuzha medical college, and left stranded with no help on Saturday night. On Saturday morning, Varghese came across the family near Aluva government hospital. The family hired him to return home in Kadungalloor as doctors told them to wait for the coin to pass on its own. “The mother told me that the doctor sent them home after an x-ray saying that it would naturally pass. However, she also told me that the doctor said that they should take the child to some other doctor. Hearing this, I got worried and insisted on a second opinion at general hospital, Ernakulam, and I took them there,” Varghese said. When the family was waiting for diagnosis at Ernakulam general hospital, Varghese realised that the family was penniless and took the child and bought him snacks. “He was on my shoulders, playing with me. Such an active boy he was. When doctors referred them to Alappuzha medical college, I told them that the family was poor. So they graciously arranged a free ambulance,” said Varghese. He gave the family Rs 500 before sending them off in the ambulance. Around 7pm, Varghese got a call, saying that the child was sent away from the medical college too. “I offered to pick them up. It was raining heavily, and I dropped them at their house at around 12:45pm,” said Varghese. Udayan, the child’s relative, said, “The child had some discomfort in the night. By morning, his condition worsened. He was taken to hospital at around 6am and 10 minutes later he died. The autodriver and other patients there know that the child was not given the care he deserved.” Varghese, meanwhile, said that he was not ready to accept the technical explanations of doctors. “I can’t accept that it was not possible to keep the child overnight at the medical college. Even if the death was not due the coin, what was the hurry to send them home. Had they kept him in observation for 12 hours, he would have been alive now. Had it been a wealthy family they would have taken the child to a private hospital and waited for the coin to pass. The economically weak like us rely on government hospitals and this is the treatment we get. I was shattered when I heard the news,” said Varghese. Varghese has a daughter who sustained an accident last year, thus making it impossible to walk on her own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-good-samaritan-grieves-childs-death/articleshow/77320518.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa sees five deaths, 337 new Covid-19 cases in a single day||PANAJI: The state on Sunday witnessed one of its worst Covid-19 days since the pandemic began after five persons died and 337 new infections were detected. Even as the death toll rose to 53, this past weekend itself accounted for over 500 new cases. The state also reported 230 recoveries on Sunday. All five patients who died — four of whom were from Vasco, the worst-hit town in the state — were under treatment at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Four of them — a 72-year-old man from Sada, a 54-year-old man from Zuarinagar, a 54-year-old man from Ponda, and a 72-year-old woman from New Vaddem — had comorbidities. The fifth death was that of a 45-year-old woman from Baina, Vasco. Of the 60 positives reported by the lab at the South Goa district hospital, 31 positives were from rapid antigen testing, mostly from those entering the state. Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the state government started convalescent plasma therapy for critically-ill patients at the Covid hospital on Sunday. “Two patients were successfully administered plasma,” he said. “Our team is moving forward to fight the virus and (will) emerge victorious in our fight against Covid-19.” Over 40 ex-patients have donated plasma so far. Areas that saw a spike in cases include Porvorim, Chimbel, Margao, Vasco, Sakhali, Ponda and Colvale. In Porvorim, cases were detected in the government and police quarters, as well as Vijaynagar, for the second day in a row. A health official said that cases were also found in the Porvorim market areas. Margao too saw a spike, with 11 cases detected on Sunday, taking its total to 121. “We are seeing cases in all parts of the town,” a health officer said. Meanwhile, Sakhali, which had seen a dip in infections last week, has reported ten cases. In Panaji, three new cases were detected. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the cases were found in the Panaji market area, Ribandar, and one residential building. The death of the 54-year-old in Durbhat was the first death in Ponda taluka. He was recently shifted to the Covid hospital from GMC, where he had gone for treatment of a kidney ailment. A van driver, he used to ferry kids to school. Sources said that at least 26 persons from the Desaibhat area, including the sarpanch of Durbhat, are infected with the novel coronavirus, and seven of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital. The sarpanch tested positive on Sunday and has opted to be home-quarantined. Her husband is also positive. As the area has shown a sudden spike in cases, the Adpai-Agapur area was sealed on Saturday. This area has over 35 active cases, including 8 from Agapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-5-deaths-337-new-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/77322669.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pocso accused gets bail to marry survivor in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus granted regular bail to a 26-year-old Pocso accused so that he could wed the victim with much fanfare. This was the request not only from the accused, but from the survivor and her family too. In this case, the accused and the girl, both residents of Shantipura village in the outskirts of Ahmedabad, eloped in 2017. The girl was a minor then. Her father lodged an FIR. The man was booked for abduction, molestation, rape under Indian Penal Code as well as under provisions of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The couple returned few months ago during the lockdown and the accused was arrested on the basis of the FIR registered by the girl’s father. However, the situation changed in three years. The families of the accused and the survivor settled the dispute and decided to arrange a wedding for them with traditional celebration. The accused filed a bail plea and the girl and her father too filed an affidavit. They submitted before the court that it was not a case of abduction and rape, but they were in love and they lived together as husband and wife. They even got married by performing religious rituals, but since the rituals took place during the lockdown period, it was a simple wedding. But, now since the differences between the families have been resolved, the accused may be released on bail so that the families could arrange the wedding again according to the social tradition with much fanfare. The state government opposed the bail plea citing gravity of charges. But the court said that the victim was missing for a long time. She is adult now. The affidavit suggested that a compromise has taken place, and the victim and her father have no issue if the accused is released on bail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pocso-accused-gets-bail-to-marry-survivor/articleshow/77321701.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Give free laptops to Class X students, teachers tell govt||COIMBATORE: The state government should distribute laptops free of cost to Class X students of government and aided schools as most of them are facing hurdles in following a set pattern of study, teachers said. While they are trying to bring in students in WhatsApp groups to conduct classes and share learning materials, they couldn’t bring all students into the groups, as several of them are using their parents’ mobile phone and many do not have phones at all, a schoolteacher said. “Several students in Tamil medium classes do not have phones. While Kalvi TV is telecasting lessons, many students are not able to follow them regularly due to their family condition. We have been sharing the YouTube links for Kalvi TV programmes in the WhatsApp groups, but only some students are able to access it,” said the teacher. Another teacher echoed this view. “Many students watch the programme on YouTube only when their parents make them sit and watch.” Free laptops were given to Class XI students last year and this year, those students are accessing Class XII lessons on their laptops, a teacher said. This should be done for Class X students this year, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/give-free-laptops-to-class-x-students-teachers-tell-govt/articleshow/77322666.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops arrest three over death of Lankan gangster||COIMBATORE: Sri Lankan underworld kingpin Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka was living in Coimbatore in disguise till he died under questionable circumstances on July 3, police have found. A Sri Lankan who was living with Lokka in Coimbatore, a woman from Madurai and a man from Tirupur who helped him obtain Aadhaar card were arrested on Sunday. Almost a month after his death, the probe by the Coimbatore police has put to rest speculations over Lokka’s whereabouts. There were rumours that Lokka was feigning his death so that he could move around in disguise. According to police, Angoda Lokka was wanted in Sri Lanka for multiple offences. In the wake of a spate of killings in the island nation between Lokka and his rival gangs, he went underground since 2017. Police are yet to find when Lokka came to India or Coimbatore, but he has been living in Cheran Managar for the past few months along with Amani Dhanji, 27 of Colombo. “Lokka had obtained an Aadhaar card with a fake identity as R Pradeep Singh, age 35,’’ a police officer said. Lokka had obtained Aadhaar card with the help of T Sivakami Sundari, 36, from Madurai and S Dhiyanesawaran, 32, from Tirupur. Amani, Sivakami Sundari and Dhiyanesawaran have been arrested. They were booked under 10 counts including criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, impersonation, giving false information and harbouring an offender. On July 3, Amani Dhanji brought Angoda Lokka to a private hospital in an unconscious state where doctors declared him to dead and informed police. The dead body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. When police sought details of the deceased at CMCH, Sivakami Sundari told the Peelamedu police it was Pradeep, her relative. The body was handed over to her. Sundari and Amani took the body to Madurai and cremated there. Since July 3, the day ‘Pradeep’ died, gangsters in Colombo lost contact with Lokka. The information was leaked to the Sri Lankan police, who approached Coimbatore police. Simultaneously, Sri Lankan media started reporting that Lokka was cremated in Coimbatore on July and that one of his sisters was made to see his body through a video call by his associates here. Though a postmortem was done, police said the cause of death could be ascertained for sure only after a thorough lab test. “The samples were sent to the regional forensic science laboratory. Only after toxicology report comes, cause of the dead could be ascertained,” said a senior police officer. Questions over the cause of death remain unanswered, and police do not rule out murder. During the probe, Amani Dhanji denied poisoning Lokka, police said. According to a statement, Amani said that Lokka developed chest pain and collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lankan-gangster-was-hiding-in-coimbatore-till-his-death-cops/articleshow/77322667.cms||A Subburaj
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Trucks bound for Ooty to pick up vegetables denied entry||COIMBATORE: Trucks from across the state on the way to the Nilgiris district to pick up vegetables were turned away in Mettupalayam on Sunday. Some vegetable dealers said they had come from as far as Viluppuram to pick up vegetables to take to the Monday markets in their districts, but had to go back empty. While trucks were stopped in Mettupalayam last week also, 230 of them were allowed to go to the Nilgiris after negotiations. M Karthik, a merchant, said he was stopped in Mettupalayam. “I was planning to load carrot, chayote and cabbage from the Nilgiris. More than 10 empty vehicles are stranded in Mettupalayam,” he told TOI. Karthikeyan had spent Rs 10,000 for diesel, driver charge and miscellaneous maintenance for his truck. “We had to load carrot, beetroot and other produce from the hill station. But as we were not allowed to drive up, we had to turn back,” he said. As they are returning without vegetables, they will have to pacify the merchants who depend on them, they said. Coimbatore district administration officials meanwhile said vegetable trucks are allowed to move freely as they carry essential commodities. Sources in the Nilgiris said that while vehicles from the district carrying vegetables were allowed to cross the border, those to the district were stopped. Nilgiris district administration officials were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trucks-bound-for-ooty-to-pick-up-vegetables-denied-entry/articleshow/77322668.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||6 goons hold man at knifepoint, rape his wife, daughter||INDORE: A woman and her 12-year-old daughter were gangraped by six masked men as the woman’s husband was held with a knife to his throat in MP’s Burhanpur late on Friday night. No suspect has been identified yet. Police are banking on forensic evidence for a breakthrough. Over 50 people have been interrogated till now and several suspects have been detained, he said. The family lives near a mine where the man works as a guard. The family was fast asleep when the men barged into their house and started beating the guard. They dragged the woman and child off to nearby field where they took turns to rape them. Watch Shocking! 6 goons hold man at knifepoint, rape his wife, daughter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6-goons-hold-man-at-knifepoint-rape-his-wife-daughter/articleshow/77323338.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant tramples man to death in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: An unidentified person was trampled to death by a wild elephant on Mettupalayam-Kotagiri hill road on Sunday, officials said. Frontline staff from Sirumugai forest range said they found the body of the 45-year-old man on a hairpin band of the hill road. The body was then sent to the government hospital in Mettupalayam for postmortem. A preliminary inquiry revealed that the deceased was mentally-challenged and was roaming on a section of the hill road. It was during this that he was attacked by the elephant, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-tramples-man-to-death/articleshow/77322673.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||NIA arrests man acquitted in palm-chopping case in Kerala||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case on Saturday picked up two more accused, one among them had an alleged link with the Popular Front of India. NIA on Sunday said in a press release that they have made six fresh arrests and conducted searches at six places over the past week. According to the agency’s release, on Saturday they arrested two accused persons Muhammad Ali Ebrahim, son of E M Ebrahim, and Muhammad Ali, son of Abdul Kader, both residents of Muvattupuzha. The arrests were made after investigations revealed that they were also a part of the conspiracy, besides aiding and assisting accused Jalal A M in collecting the smuggled gold from the mastermind Ramees K T at Thiruvananthapuram. The agency has also found that they were part of distributing the contraband amongst other conspirators. The duo is learnt to have been picked up from Trichy in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. According to the press release, Muhammad Ali, son of Kader, was a member of the Popular Front of India and was earlier chargesheeted by Kerala police in professor’s palm chopping case, but got acquitted after trial in 2015. The case pertains to the chopping off the right palm of T J Joseph, a former Malayalam professor in Newman College, Thodupuzha, Idukki, in July, 2010 for allegedly insulting Islam. On Sunday, NIA also conducted searches at six places, including at the residences of accused Jalal A M and Rabins Hameed in Ernakulam district, and at the residences of Ramees K T, Mohammed Shafi, Said Alavi and Abdu P T in Malappuram district. During searches, two hard disks, one tablet PC, eight mobile phones, six SIM cards, one digital video recorder and five DVDs were seized, besides various documents, including bank passbooks, credit/debit cards, travel documents and identity documents of the accused. According to the statement, on Thursday, they recorded the arrest of the accused Jalal A M of Muvattupuzha and Said Alavi E of Vengara, Malappuram, for conspiring with already-arrested Ramees for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram. On Friday, two more accused Mohammed Shafi P, son of Aboobakkar of Ayikkarapadi, and Abdu P T, son of Moosa P T of Kottakkal, both in Malappuram, were arrested for playing similar roles in the crime. NIA has so far recorded the arrest of 10 accused persons in the case, among which Ramees, Jalal, Said Alavi, Abdu PT, Sarith PS, Mohammed Shafi were originally arrested by the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) who are conducting the original investigation into the Customs Act violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-arrests-man-acquitted-in-palm-chopping-case/articleshow/77320504.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||55-year-old man killed as car rams bike||COIMBATORE: A 55-year-old man died after being hit by a speeding car near Sowripalayam on Trichy Road on Sunday, police said. The deceased, Paramasivam, was riding pillion on a two-wheeler being driven by his 19-year-old daughter, Deepika, who suffered serious head injuries and is battling for life in a city hospital. The father-daughter duo was returning from Singanallur tank after performing funeral rites for a family member. Police said the speeding car hit the two-wheeler when Deepika was taking a right turn to Sowripalayam Road from Trichy Road. The impact of the collision was such that both the occupants of the two-wheeler were thrown off. A team from the traffic investigation wing (east) of Coimbatore police rushed to the spot and sent the body to CMCH for postmortem. A case was registered against car driver Niranjan, 26, of Singanallur. His father is a retired regional transport officer, police said. In his statement, Niranjan said he drove the car in a negligent manner as roads were empty due to the lockdown. Police said he had a doctor’s prescription with him, too. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/55-yr-old-man-killed-as-car-rams-bike/articleshow/77322672.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa cops propose externment of 102 ‘criminals’, write to collectors||PANAJI: Goa police have identified over 100 alleged criminals it wants externed from the state, and have approached collectors of both districts to issue the appropriate orders against them. Of the 102 identified, 90 are from North Goa and 12 from South. Speaking to TOI, North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said that each police station in the district has identified 10 criminals each for externment, except for four stations — Bicholim, Pernem, Anjuna and Valpoi — which identified five each. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that the 12 alleged criminals identified in the district are from Margao, Fatorda, Vasco and Verna police stations. There are 12 police stations in North Goa and 16 in South Goa. Most of these 100-odd persons are involved in cases of hurt. Prasoon said that now the collector has been approached, the accused will be heard on the issue, and the collector, if satisfied with the police proposal, will issue the externment order. If the collector issues the order, the persons concerned would have to leave the state for a certain period of time. He also said that externment proceedings have already been started against Zenito Cardozo of Santa Cruz, who is allegedly involved in the recent shootout in the village. “We have given the collector additional information about him,” Prasoon said. In Goa, externment orders are issued under the Goa Maintenance of Public Order and Safety Act, 1988. The district police have also identified 60 “budding criminals”. “We have identified budding criminals in the age group 18-21, and a case has been registered against them,” said Prasoon. “We suspect that they will be involved in criminal activities in the future.” He also said that police will call each budding criminal’s parents or guardians for counselling. “We will tell their parents to take care of their children and ask them not to get involved in criminal activities, and that it’s their responsibility,” he said. Prasoon also said that North Goa police have sent two proposals under the National Security Act (NSA) against Marcelino Dias and Ronny D’Souza, both of whom are also involved in the Santa Cruz shootout. “We’ve recovered guns from Marcelino and Ronny in the case,” he said. In South Goa, one proposal has been sent to the collector under the NSA, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-propose-externment-of-102-criminals-write-to-collectors/articleshow/77322674.cms||Murari Shetye
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Rajiv Gandhi International Airport gets Unicef-funded mass fever screening system||HYDERABAD: To fight the Covid-19 battle, the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport received a mass fever screening system from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, funded by Unicef. According to a press release, the new thermal scanner is a ceiling mounted mass fever screening system. It is capable of scanning, detecting and tracking febrile persons with elevated skin temperature. The system automatically adjusts and adapts to the surrounding ambient temperature without any human intervention. With its intuitive user interface and dual-displays (day camera + infra-red) it provides easy identification of passengers with elevated temperature, while simplifying operations and minimizing handling. “The new top-end mass fever scanner at Hyderabad international airport enhances our efficiency multi-fold. With the help of the intuitive technology we are able to screen passengers effectively. The system alerts us if any passenger is found with high temperature, without disturbing passenger movement and throughput,” said Dr Anuradha Medoju, senior regional director, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, health and family welfare, government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rgia-gets-unicef-funded-mass-fever-screening-system/articleshow/77322687.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Women in Amreli bond with trees, promise to protect green cover||Rajkot: On Rakshabandhan every year, women tie ‘rakhi’ on their brothers’ wrists to renew the promise of brothers protecting them.  On the eve of Rakshabandhan, several women in Amreli, tied ‘rakhi’ not with a promise to get protection but to protect. Women affiliated with Bal Bhavan tied ‘rakhi’ to several trees considering them as their brothers. However, the women promised to protect the trees. The unique celebration of Rakshabandhan was organized by Bal Bhavan and Community Science Centre where forest officials were also present. The celebration was inspired by state government’s Gujarat Council on Science and Technology and the several ‘rakhi’ which were tied also bore their logo. Students who participated by maintaining social distance took pledge for protection and conservation of environment. “Trees are very necessary as they are the only source of oxygen on our planet. Currently, in the times of pandemic, people have realized how important oxygen is so trees should be given importance,” said Nilesh Pathak, director of Bal Bhavan. He added that this was the first such event where trees were made brother and the women tied ‘rakhi’ around their stem for their protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-in-amreli-bond-with-trees-promise-to-protect-green-cover/articleshow/77320363.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna University develops early Covid-19 alert device||CHENNAI: Researchers from Anna University have developed a Covid-19 early warning system to help those at risk by monitoring their vital parameters such as temperature, oxygen saturation rate, heart rate and respiratory rate. This low-cost wearable health device sends the data to a server for analysis. The server uses a machine learning algorithm to calculate scores for each user and classify them according to their health conditions. If there are any abnormal variations in these biomarkers, the system generates an alarm so that the user can immediately consult doctors. “By this approach, we can reduce the number of deaths due to Covid-19,” says K Rathnakannan, an associate professor of the department of electrical and electronics engineering in Anna University. He and his students of embedded systems technology have developed the low-cost smart wearable health device (SWHD). Based on machine learning algorithms, each of the four measurements will be converted on a scale of 0 to 3 developed by Royal College of Physicians in the UK. “If the cumulative score is above 7, the smart device will recommend a RT-PCR test,” he added. “In a hospital environment, without compromising social distance, doctors and nurses can monitor the health conditions of the admitted patient from a relatively safe distance,” he said. The team also developed an app for doctors to enable them to monitor up to 20 patients on their phone. “It will reduce the stress level and burden of the doctors and nurses,” he said. The team is now preparing to test the device at city hospitals. Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa said the device would be useful to the general public as people will be alerted early about any symptoms. “We want to conduct further tests at hospitals to validate the results. It could spur the development of many such devices in future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-develops-early-covid-19-alert-device/articleshow/77321705.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 3, 2020||Delhi||18 vehicle scrapping units closed in Southwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: As many as 18 vehicle scrapping units have been closed in Nangli and Dhichaon Kalan areas in Southwest Delhi. “Delhi Pollution Control Committee had earlier issued directions to ensure the closure of unauthorised units, which were causing air pollution in the areas,” said a municipal official. Meanwhile, local enforcement teams of municipal corporations have been directed to keep an eye on illegal vehicle scrapping units cropping up because of the closure of the Mayapuri market. “A joint survey of the Nangli Sakrawati area was conducted to find out the scale of the problem. Raids were carried out in two phases by teams comprising officials from BSES, DJB, DPCC and the south corporation. The power and water connections of all the 18 units have been snapped,” the official added. The pollution control committee has also issued showcause notice to owners of all the 18 units for levying environment compensation, while prosecution has been launched under Air and Water (prevention of pollution) Act. Experts, however, say that in absence of a proper scrappage policy on ‘end-of-life’ vehicles, such illegal units will continue to mushroom. Last year, DPCC had written to the authorities stating that polluting units that were shuttered by the committee in Mayapuri might have shifted to other non-conforming localities. The areas of concern were west, northwest and northeast districts. “Information has been gathered that several illegal vehicle dismantling units, which have stopped their activities in Mayapuri Industrial Area, Phase-II, are trying to resume their illegal activities in Matiala, Najafgarh, Karawal Nagar and Kanjhawala,” the letter had stated. DPCC had fined 122 polluting industrial units and issued closure notices to 41 others at Mayapuri then. Of the 122 units, 108 had paid a total fine of Rs 3.4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/18-vehicle-scrapping-units-closed-in-sw-delhi/articleshow/77338310.cms||Paras Singh
August 3, 2020||Meerut||Cops missing, 3 men climb on police van’s bonnet for photos, arrested||Muzaffarnagar: Three men landed in a soup after pictures clicked by them while sitting on a police van’s bonnet went viral on the Internet. According to deputy superintendent of police (city) Harish Bhadauria, “A case into the matter has been registered at Civil Lines police station. Action will be taken accordingly. All the three accused have been arrested.”The three men were identified as Sarfaraz, Mustakeem and Musaid. They are residents of Hajipura village in Muzaffarnagar’s Civil-Lines area.According to sources, a PCR vehicle had come to the village after getting a complaint about a domestic dispute. When the policemen went to the spot leaving the vehicle behind, the three men sat on it bonnet and got a few photos clicked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-missing-3-men-climb-on-police-vans-bonnet-for-photos-arrested/articleshow/77320539.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan gets open invite to join RSS||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan has invited CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan to RSS. The open invite comes as part of the tit-for-tat statements made by leaders to establish who stands closer to RSS and who keeps a clear distance from the Sangh. “Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was most welcome to join RSS. It would help him do penance for all the anti-national activities, allegedly done by him so far,” Gopalakrishnan said. It would also help him clear doubts whether to turn to India or China, he added. Accusing one another for being closer or in the good books of RSS is one of the common political slurs used against one another by leaders of communist, Marxist party and Congress in the state. In the latest such live episode, Balakrishnan termed opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala as the new darling of RSS, only to invite the trite counter allegation from the Congress camp that it was chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had struck a quid pro quo deal with RSS when he fought an election in the 1970s. As usual, second line leaders in both the parties have picked a fight, probing the political lineage of leaders in both parties. Referring to reports that CPM politburo member S R Ramachandran Pillai was an RSS worker during his school days, Gopalakrishnan said an opportunity was awaiting Kodiyeri to live a value-based life like that of Pillai by joining RSS. “Since SRP has proudly said that he had been an RSS man in the past, it would inspire other members in AKG Centre. RSS point of view is, it’s an ensemble of those who are presently with it and others who are to be with it in future,” Gopalakrishnan said. On Saturday, BJP state president K Surendran had said that RSS was not looking for someone from Congress to assume charge of RSS sarsangh chalak. Gopalakrishnan had hit the headlines in the past for his comment that had Gandhiji been alive in the present world, he would have joined RSS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kodiyeri-gets-an-open-invite-to-rss/articleshow/77320548.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||‘Pharma co expenses towards freebies for docs can be claimed as biz deductions’||Mumbai: Tax issues surrounding the ‘nexus’, between pharma companies and doctors, where the latter are sponsored for conferences, at times replete with sightseeing and gala dinners, or expensive gifts, refuse to die down. Judicial precedents, in several cases, have been in favour of pharma companies with the costs relating to such freebies being allowed as business deductions. The Mumbai bench of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) recently passed an order in favour of Medley Pharmaceuticals, an Andheri based company. The crux of the tax issue dealt with re-opening of the assessment for the financial year 2011-12, owing to a change of opinion by the succeeding I-T officer. Based on legal technicalities such as no fresh ground material available on record, the re-opening was quashed by the ITAT. However, the ITAT also went on to analyse the allowability of sales promotion expenses aggregating to Rs 6.2 crore for the pharma company. A break-up showed that Rs 2.4 crore was towards product reminders; conference expenses and travel costs ran into Rs 2.7 crore and additional doctors’ expenses were of Rs 1.1 crore. The ITAT made some pertinent observations regarding the code of conduct issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) and a circular issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). It said that the MCI code of conduct, which debars freebies, is meant to be followed by the medical fraternity alone and does not apply to pharma companies. Amended on December 10, 2009, the code prohibits medical practitioners and their professional associations from taking any gift, travel facility, hospitality, cash or monetary grant from the pharmaceutical and allied health sector industries. The CBDT circular dated August 1, 2012 says that any expense in providing freebies in violation of the Medical Council’s code shall not be allowed as a business deduction. “We are further of the considered view, that even otherwise, the enlargement of the scope of MCI regulation to the pharmaceutical companies by the CBDT is de hors any enabling provision either under the I-T Act or under the Indian Medical Council Regulations,” stated the ITAT. As the code of conduct itself does not cover pharma companies, they cannot be debarred from claiming expenses incurred in this regard (towards freebies), it observed. Some other earlier judicial decisions, including that of Mumbai ITAT’s, have adopted a similar stand. The ITAT also examined an alternative contention, and held that a circular which imposes a burden on the taxpayer can only apply prospectively. Thus, this circular would not apply to the financial year covered by the litigation heard by it. BOX: What the ITAT observed: 1. The code of conduct laid down by the Medical Council of India does not cover pharma companies 2. CBDT’s circular denies deductibility of expenditure, which violates the code of conduct, and pharma companies are not covered by it 3. CBDT’s circular cannot have a retrospective effect 4. Expenditure incurred by a pharma company towards ‘freebies’ can be claimed as a business expense||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pharma-co-expenses-towards-freebies-for-docs-can-be-claimed-as-biz-deductions/articleshow/77322723.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Surat||Surat Covid bed capacity to be ramped up to 7,000: Gujarat CM||SURAT: Even as Surat has seen a massive spike in Covid cases, especially in July, the chief minister claimed that the situation is under control due to micro-planning and detailed strategy. The bed capacity for Covid-19 treatment in Surat will be increased from 4,800 to 7,000 as also the rapid antigen tests, chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday. Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel visited the state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) to review the situation and the construction work of the dedicated Covid-19 facility at the kidney hospital. This was Rupani’s second visit to the city, the first one being on July 4. “Not only the positive cases, but the death rate also has decreased in Surat,” he claimed. According to Rupani, Surat is the first city in Gujarat where the state government has allotted a total of 128 ventilators to the private hospitals out of the total 600 ventilators. One month ago, Surat was doing about 130 tests per million which has been increased to 1,200 per million per day. In the state, about 26,000 tests are being performed in a day. “The recovery rate in Surat has improved from 60% to 70%, while in Gujarat it is 73%,” he said, adding around 40,000 patients are being checked every day in the 121 dhanvantri raths in Surat. Referring to the medicines requirement, “All patients who were required to be administered tocilizumab injection and remdesivir have been given. We have enough stock of injections in Surat.” Rupani also felicitated the plasma donors and the corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-covid-bed-capacity-to-be-ramped-up-to-7000-cm/articleshow/77320562.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Land fraud case against Sahil Sayyed||NAGPUR: A fresh offence has been registered against Sahil Sayyed, the alleged mastermind in honeytrap audio clip leak case, and two others at Mankapur police station on Saturday for their alleged role in usurping a plot at Baghdadiya Nagar belonging to Satranjipura masjid committee. It’s learnt Sayyed had purchased the plot from one Ismail Khan, who has also been made an accused in the case, despite knowing that the property was a disputed one with the waqf board having denied permission to sell it. Ismail is learnt to have purchased the plot from one Shaikh Israel, who had taken the plot from the committee. Police said Sayyed had procured tax receipt from the NMC and forged property documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/land-fraud-case-against-sahil-sayyed/articleshow/77188002.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Customs plans to invoke Cofeposa||Kochi: Customs sleuths are mulling over invoking Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities act), and Safema (The Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (forfeiture of property) acts against the accused in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. According to top officials privy to the information, the customs department has found enough evidence against the accused to invoke the acts so that actions, including attachment of property and awarding of detention, can be initiated against the accused. However, the acts would only be invoked at later stages of investigation, sources said. Cofeposa would enable customs to impose preventive detention against the accused for purposes of conservation and augmentation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities while Safema enables them to conduct the forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators. Top sources said customs is in the process of making a foolproof case so that maximum punishment can be awarded to the smuggling syndicate. “We would be making a report that will be foolproof and can pass the test of any regulatory body, including the Cofeposa board. For this, details of their assets and the depth of their involvement in the smuggling would be assessed,” said an official. Customs are pushing for a quick extradition of Faisal Fareed and Rabins Hammed based in Dubai. “We are trying to get a red-corner notice issued as early as possible so that they can be brought back to the country. Since members of the consulate are involved, we are treading cautiously to extradite the accused. Concerned ministries have been apprised about crucial findings that cannot be discussed in the public domain,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-plans-to-invoke-cofeposa/articleshow/77320541.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||52-year police constable succumbs to covid-19||Aurangabad: A 52-year old police constable succumbed to Covid-19 infection sometime in the wee hours of Sunday while being treated at a private hospital in the city. He has turned out to be the second policeman from the city to succumb to the contagion. So far, 88 policemen have tested positive for coronavirus in the city, of which, 10 are currently undergoing treatment while others have been discharged after recovery. Police said that the head constable developed symptoms last week following which he underwent a swab test and later tested positive for Covid-19. He was immediately admitted to a private hospital which is currently designated for treating policemen. Following the latest death from the police department, Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has asked the senior police officers to review the precautionary measures being taken at the police station as well as different branch levels in the city. Meanwhile, Aurangabad district on Sunday witnessed a surge of 266 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients 14,553. A total of 484 patients have so far succumbed to the contagion while 10,901 patients have been discharged after successfully recovering from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/52-year-police-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77322679.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Positive private doctors, nurses opt for paid quarantine||PANAJI: Six ayush doctors and nurses from a private hospital in Margao who tested positive have opted for paid quarantine facilities at Colva which are managed by IMA Goa. A total of 32 persons who tested positive for Covid have opted for paid quarantine facilities at two hotels in Colva and Sangolda managed by IMA Goa. In Sangolda those who opted for paid quarantine largely comprise workers from pharmaceutical companies. “Priority is given to doctors, their families and healthcare workers. If the rooms are empty then others can be accommodated. The paid quarantine facilities are meant for mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic positives. There are no doctors on site. They connect with patients telephonically. If they find a problem, they inform the health officer of the area who will shift the patient,” past IMA president Dr Shekar Salkar said. “The team of doctors is led by Dr Rajesh Naik, a noted consultant in medicine from Margao,” IMA Goa president Dr S Samuel said. Around 70 IMA doctors have volunteered to consult and guide patients telephonically. “They will be allotted to patients as per their expertise and place of residence. The doctors will call the patients twice a day. This is the same thing happening where home isolation is concerned. This will reduce the load on the health system,” he added. At the two centres patients are charged Rs 1900 with all meals in a twin sharing room and Rs 2500 for a single room. They have to pay a one time payment of Rs 3000 for a kit comprising an pulse oximeter, thermometer, medication, Zinc tablets, gloves, masks and other items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positive-pvt-docs-nurses-opt-for-paid-quarantine/articleshow/77323094.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow us to kill crop-raiding wild boars: Nilgiris farmers||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Farmers in the district are disappointed over the state government not extending the permission to shoot and kill wild boars that cause crop damage to the Nilgiris forest division. Pointing out that wild boar menace was more in hilly areas, they urged the state to include the Nilgiris in the government order that allows forest officials in the nine forest divisions in the state to shoot and kill wild boars that raid farmlands. The government order on culling wild boars came following a public interest litigation seeking court’s direction to the state to take immediate steps to control wild boar population, which was on the rise, and protect farmlands from the animal raid. The government order dated June 4 allows forest officials in forest divisions of Thiruvannamalai, Thirupathur, Vellore, Hosur, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Hasanur and Sathyamangalam to kill wild boars that raid farmlands. According to the NGO Nellikolu Trust, which focuses on farming in the hill district, the Nilgiris has been experiencing wild boar menace for the past several decades. “We wonder how the hill district, which sees a lot of farming activities, was left out in the government order. Wild boar menace is yet to be curtailed in the district. We request the government to bring the Nilgiris in the ambit of the order that allows culling of wild boars,” a representative of the trust said. Guru Swamy Baddal, district forest officer, said they used to receive many complaints from farmers regarding wild boar menace, which seems to be comparatively less this year. According to him, the district has been facing more problems with monkeys, gaurs and leopards. “The permission to cull wild boars is granted on a trial basis. However, we will write to the government to include the Nilgiris forest division in the order and grant permission to cull wild boars causing menace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-us-to-kill-crop-raiding-wild-boars-nilgiris-farmers/articleshow/77322688.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
August 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Orange alert for Idukki, Kozhikode and Kannur today||KOCHI: Weather department has said there will be plenty of rain in the state in the coming week with almost all districts on alert. An orange alert has been sounded for Idukki, Kozhikode and Kannur from Monday to Thursday. The orange alert has also been sounded for Kottayam, Thrissur and Palakkad on Tuesday, and for Malappuram and Wayanad from Tuesday to Thursday. While the warning is for rainfall of 11-20cm, it could exceed and convert into a red alert as a low-pressure area is likely to form over north of Bay of Bengal around Tuesday, according to India meteorological department (IMD). The formation of low-pressure area is expected to result in heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state, the IMD said. Also, a squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph along with the rain is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. The sea will be very rough with high waves in the range of 3-3.4 meters forecast along the Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds would vary between 57-72cm/sec. On Sunday, Thalassery received the highest rainfall of 9cm in the state while Kudulu and Vaikom recorded 7cm each. Hosdurg got 6cm while Kannur, Kumarakom, Ernakulam South and Ponnani got 5cm rainfall each. Ernakulam recorded high rainfall of 4 cm in Cial, Aluva and Perumbavur. Kottayam, Kozha, Cherthala, Alathur, and Taliparamba also got 4cm rainfall each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/orange-alert-for-idukki-koz-and-kannur-today/articleshow/77324425.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Orange alert for Idukki, Kozhikode and Kannur today||KOCHI: Weather department has said there will be plenty of rain in the state in the coming week with almost all districts on alert. An orange alert has been sounded for Idukki, Kozhikode and Kannur from Monday to Thursday. The orange alert has also been sounded for Kottayam, Thrissur and Palakkad on Tuesday, and for Malappuram and Wayanad from Tuesday to Thursday. While the warning is for rainfall of 11-20cm, it could exceed and convert into a red alert as a low-pressure area is likely to form over north of Bay of Bengal around Tuesday, according to India meteorological department (IMD). The formation of low-pressure area is expected to result in heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state, the IMD said. Also, a squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph along with the rain is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. The sea will be very rough with high waves in the range of 3-3.4 meters forecast along the Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds would vary between 57-72cm/sec. On Sunday, Thalassery received the highest rainfall of 9cm in the state while Kudulu and Vaikom recorded 7cm each. Hosdurg got 6cm while Kannur, Kumarakom, Ernakulam South and Ponnani got 5cm rainfall each. Ernakulam recorded high rainfall of 4 cm in Cial, Aluva and Perumbavur. Kottayam, Kozha, Cherthala, Alathur, and Taliparamba also got 4cm rainfall each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orange-alert-for-idukki-koz-and-kannur-today/articleshow/77320578.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Approach us directly: HC to people with Covid-related grievances||Aurangabad: In an unprecedented move, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has said that the public can approach it directly to raise grievances against government authorities, private hospitals or others in issues related to Covid-19 care/treatment or management. Referring to reports of lapses in pandemic management in some districts that come under its jurisdiction, the court said the affected individuals may give their grievances in writing either by post or email or through an advocate. The two-member bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar, during the latest hearing on criminal suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), has listed out six broad categories under which people can lodge their complaints. It includes grievances related to no supply of necessary items within containment zones, no supply of ration at fair price shops, absence of a centre created where the infected persons or their relatives can go to get hospital admissions, officers or authority not helping in getting admissions, hospital refusing admissions and doubts that necessary treatment was not given and the medicines and injections which are supplied by them or government were not actually utilized by the doctors. “Care is to be taken by these persons (complainants) to see that every complaint or grievance is supported by an affidavit which can be sworn in before the superintendent of the district court or assistant superintendent of tehsil court or even before the notary public. This Court will consider those complaints for taking action against the concerned,” judges said. The court once again asserted that it has taken suo motu cognizance to see that all authorities from all the districts which are under its jurisdiction “become active and they remain active till the virus is active.” “This Court expects that every order made by this Court is communicated to the authorities from all the districts which are under the jurisdiction of this Court. These orders need to be communicated to private institutions like private hospitals as action can be taken against them under the provisions of Special Enactments,” the court said. Reflecting upon its earlier order, the court said it wants affidavit of all the authorities to show that there is installation of CCTV systems in isolation centres and private hospitals where treatment is offered for Covid-19. The judges also appreciated the initiative taken by Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey to carry out large-scale antigen testing for Covid-19 during the nine-day curfew imposed in July. The court has scheduled the next hearing on the suo motu PIL on August 4, where government agencies are expected to submit necessary affidavits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/approach-us-directly-hc-to-people-with-covid-related-grievances/articleshow/77322721.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VACB seeks nod to probe Sivasankar||Thiruvananthapuram: The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has stepped in to conduct a probe against IAS officer M Sivasankar, on the basis of complaints, including by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. ADGP (vigilance) Anilkant has sought government’s permission to conduct a probe against Sivasankar for the out-of-the way appointments in IT department and multiple consultancy agreements. The probe will require government’s permission as per the amended Prevention of Corruption Act. Once vigilance probe is initiated, inquiries by five different agencies and establishments —National Investigation Agency, customs, vigilance and anti-corruption bureau, departmental inquiry and financial inspection wing— will be probing the officer’s role in different matters. Several appointments were allegedly made on contract basis when Sivasankar was secretary of IT department as well as chief minister’s office. Days before Sivasankar was removed as IT secretary, government had created 34 posts in Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL) alone, including 16 permanent posts and 18 temporary posts, on the officer’s recommendations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vacb-seeks-nod-to-probe-sivasankar/articleshow/77320565.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Notice to probe officer in Nileshwaram Pocso case for not registering case against the doctors||Kozhikode: Kasaragod district judge has issued a show-cause notice to the investigating officer in Nileshwaram sexual-abuse case for not registering a case against the doctors who did medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) on the survivor. The judge, who is also the chairman of juvenile justice committee, said there is a dereliction of duty on the part of the police officer. The 16-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused by her father along with five other men over two years. In the notice issued to the circle inspector of Nileshwaram police station on August 1, the judge said: “Two medical practitioners had examined the victim and confirmed that she was pregnant. Therefore, the two doctors were aware that she became pregnant while she was a juvenile.” The judge said as per Section 20 (1) of Pocso Act, any person who is aware of the commission of an offence should report it to the authorities, failing which the person is liable for imprisonment up to six months or imposed a fine. “The two medical practitioners were duty-bound to inform police regarding the crime then and there,” the notice said. The judge asked the officer to explain his action within three days as to why disciplinary action should not be initiated against him. The accused in the case, including the father of the girl, was arrested on July 19 after the girl told the police that she was continuously abused for two years. The girl had also stated that MTP was carried out on her. Two days ago, police had unearthed the foetus from the premises of the house where it was buried. “There is a serious lapse on the part of police not to register a case against the doctors. The girl was first subjected to scanning by a doctor who administered some medicine on her,” said C Shukkur, former government pleader, Kasaragod. “She was later admitted to a hospital after she started bleeding and MTP was done on her by another doctor. The doctors should have informed police about the pregnancy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/notice-to-probe-officer-in-nileshwaram-pocso-case-for-not-registering-case-against-the-doctors/articleshow/77320592.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Rare snake rescued from dense locality in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: An uncommon non-venomous Indian smooth snake was rescued from the densely-populated TV Center area of the city on Friday. Snake rescuer Sharad Dabhade said that he received a call informing about the presence of a snake in Ashok Borude’s kitchen. “The snake was hiding behind a rack in the kitchen. The reptile was rescued smoothly and kept under observation currently before possible release into natural habitat in a day or two,” Dabhade said. As the name suggests, Indian Smooth snake has a smooth and shiny body. It is usually greyish to brown in colour. The rare species of snake is endemic to western-central India and known for constricting into a spring on provocation. Dabhade said that it was kind of a rare thing to spot an Indian Smooth snake in densely populated areas in urban limits. “The rare snake lives in rocky plains and scrubs forest or under stone piles. The reptile might have strayed into densely populated areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rare-snake-rescued-from-dense-locality/articleshow/77322727.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Govt: 1 crore migrants back home, just 2.4 lakh outside||NEW DELHI: Close to one crore migrant workers have reached their home states since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed across the country, and only 2.4 lakh migrants remain outside, new Union labour ministry data suggests. The data, released by the chief labour commissioner on July 16, bases its calculations on information provided by only 25 out of 36 state governments and Union Territories administrations, who updated information about migrant workers and shared the details. This is only the second time the Union labour ministry has released migrants’ information since May, when the government launched a ‘National Migrant Information System’ under which it directed all states to register migrants’ details on the online portal. States like Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, which are understood to account for sizeable populations of migrant workers, have not shared any updated data. Even though the chief labour commissioner had sought exhaustive information about the migrants inlcuding their names, age, mobile numbers, occupation, details of migrants’ current and native address, bank, Ujjwala and Aadhaar details of workers, the data available in public domain remains sketchy and limited to those who have returned home and those who have stayed back in destination states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-1-crore-migrants-back-home-just-2-4-lakh-outside/articleshow/77323366.cms||Swati Mathur
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI moves Gujarat HC for bail in graft case||AHMEDABAD: Suspended police sub-inspector Shweta Jadeja has approached the Gujarat high court for bail after a sessions court last month denied her regular bail in connection with a graft case. Jadeja has sought bail claiming her innocence; saying that her incarceration would damage her reputation at her native village; she would abide by all bail condition; and she has highlighted infirmities in accusations mentioned in the FIR related to payments. Jadeja has also claimed that the complainant against her, Kenil Shah, who is an accused in a rape case, had in the past tried to coerce the victim to extract suitable statement. However, the Supreme Court’s intervention thwarted his efforts to get the FIR quashed. Her bail plea is likely to be heard by the HC next week. While opposing her bail plea, the city crime branch had submitted before the sessions court that the preliminary investigations revealed that there were three transactions that had taken place and the accused PSI had also purchased a mobile phone, for which complainant Kenil Shah’s security in-charge had paid from his credit card. Jadeja was arrested last month after the police received complaint against her that she had already extorted Rs 20 lakh in February and Rs 15 lakh recently from the complainant for sparing him from PASA charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-moves-hc-for-bail-in-graft-case/articleshow/77321796.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Constable booked for raping woman||AURANGABAD: The cyber police station of Aurangabad city has booked a police constable on the charges of raping a woman and filming her in a compromising position. A complaint in this regard was lodged by the woman who is currently pursuing her graduation. The complaint states that the suspect threatened to leak the video while asking the woman to call off her engagement with another man. Citing the contents of the complaint, police said that after the woman did not call off the engagement, the suspect forwarded the video to her would be husband, resulting in embarrassment for her family and the cancellation of wedding. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/constable-booked-for-raping-woman/articleshow/77322733.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Breast milk best gift from mother to child: Guv||Hyderabad: State Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan launched the breastfeeding week celebrations at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. The Governor emphasised on the benefits of breastfeeding and said that it is the best gift from a mother to her child. “Breastfeeding is the best gift a mother can ever give her newborn infant. Breast milk boosts the immunity power of the infant and helps in the prevention of many deadly diseases,” the governor said. She further added that mothers need to be educated about the benefits of the breastfeeding from the pregnancy period about the. The governor also distributed kits containing Prop L powder, threptin biscuit boxes, A to Z tablets and Zincovit drops which are useful to both mother and child to the inmates of Raj Bhavan quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/breast-milk-best-gift-from-mother-to-child-guv/articleshow/77322737.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||North zone remains worst hit by Covid-19||Vadodara: Over 1,000 patients are currently under treatment for Covid-19 in Vadodara city and district even as the official death toll has touched 92. The medical bulletin issued by Vadodara Municipal Corporation on Sunday evening states that the city and district currently has 1,010 active Covid-19 cases, up from 974 reported on Saturday. This is for the second time in a month that the number of Covid-19 patients under treatment has crossed the 1,000 mark. It was on July 30 last that the city and the district had recorded 1,029 active cases. In the 24 hours ending Sunday evening, Vadodara city and district had registered 91 fresh cases taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 4,852. The positive cases were diagnosed after 849 samples were tested since Saturday evening. North zone which is the worst-hit zone within the VMC limits has seen an addition of 13 cases taking the total number of cases to 1,391. The fresh cases in the zone are surfacing from Sama, Nizampura, Chhani, Navayard and Nagarwada. The fresh cases have also been reported from Mandvi, Nizampura, Subhanpura, Tarsali, Old Padra Road, Gorwa, Harni, Nagarwada, Ajwa Road, Panigate, Yakutpura, Tandalja, Navayard, Akota, Waghodiya Road and Kapurai within VMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/north-zone-remains-worst-hit-by-covid-19/articleshow/77320426.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||No talks, just start work: Haryana oppn||Chandigarh: As the Supreme Court (SC) has asked the political heads of Punjab and Haryana to put their heads together to resolve the unending dispute of Satluj Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, the apex court’s observations have once again added some warmth in this nearly five-decade-old dispute. As per the observations made by the SC on July 28, both the states should hold talks at the highest political level for an amicable settlement of the issue. However, the senior political leaders of all the opposition parties in the state of Haryana are against any kind of talks with Punjab. According to them there is no need to talk, when the apex court has already given its verdict in Haryana’s favour and directed for completion of construction work under supervision of central agencies. While talking to TOI on the issue, leader of opposition in Haryana assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the state should not enter into any kind of negotiations on the issue, as SC had already decided in Haryana’s favour. “There is no point of discussion at this stage. Haryana should not agree on anything less than implementation of SC verdict,” the former CM said. Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala said had the state government been serious on the issue, the work of SYL would have been completed much earlier. “I firmly believe that the Haryana CM should show a tough stand and should not accept anything less than starting of construction activities of SYL canal. Unfortunately, the Haryana CM could not even meet the Prime Minister in the past five years on the issue. Rather he had de-notified the Dadupur-Nalvi canal, which was a major source to recharge groundwater,” Abhay added. The Haryana CM should ask the Centre for military or paramilitary for completion of the SYL canal, he added. President of Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), ruling alliance partner, Nishan Singh said their party’s stand on SYL from Day 1 was that there should be no compromise on Haryana’s share of SYL water. The dispute between Punjab and Haryana on water sharing has been pending before the apex court since 1996. The SC has passed several directions to construct the 212-km canal that was to link Satluj in Punjab to Yamuna in Haryana. While Haryana has completed its portion, the dispute started after Punjab stopped construction on its side. BJP state president O P Dhankhar said he welcomed the Supreme Court offer to negotiate on SYL issue between the governments of both states. Dhankhar said Haryana Government was eagerly waiting for Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh to show big heart and give the rightful share of the water as per the agreement. There was no delay on the part of the Haryana government for holding dialogues, he said, adding that resolving the issue through dialogue would increase the stature of Capt Amrinder Singh as well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-talks-just-start-work-haryana-oppn/articleshow/77322738.cms||Ajay Sura
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Man held for stealing motorbikes||AURANGABAD: The detection branch of Cidco police has arrested a 29-year-old man and recovered 12 stolen motorbikes from his possession. According to police, the motorbiked were stolen from different parts of the city. “The suspect — Anis Yusuf Shaikh, a resident of Baijipura area — has confessed to stealing the bikes during lockdown to make ends meet. He was produced before the court following which he has been remanded to two-day police custody,” a police officer said. Inspector Ashok Giri said that the accused is a vehicle thief on police record and has been arrested on four occasions. In one of the cases, the suspect stole a bus and was nabbed while trying to sell it in Malegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-held-for-stealing-motorbikes/articleshow/77322736.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||New Ahmedabad CP to take charge on Monday||AHMEDABAD: Sanjay Srivastava, a 1987-batch IPS officer, will assume office as the Ahmedabad police commissioner on Monday. Late on Saturday night, as many as 58 IPS officers were transferred by the Gujarat government. Sixteen State Police Service (SPS) officers were also transferred. Additional director general of police and special commissioner of crime branch, Ajay Tomar, was posted as the Surat police commissioner. Tomar has had a long stint in the BSF, serving in Delhi, Punjab, and the Gujarat Frontier. Tomar’s predecessor in Surat, R B Brahmbhatt — a 1998-batch IPS officer — was appointed as the Vadodara police commissioner, a position that had been occupied by Anupam Singh Gahlaut.  Now, Gahlaut — a 1997-batch IPS officer —has been appointed as the additional director general of police, intelligence bureau, in Gandhinagar. He will also be the executive director of Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam. Abhay Chudasama, a 1999-batch IPS officer and Vadodara Range inspector general of police, has been posted to the Gandhinagar Range. Amit Kumar Vishwakarma, a 1998-batch IPS officer, has been posted as the joint commissioner of police, Ahmedabad crime branch. He was the joint commissioner of police Sector-1 in Ahmedabad. He will also be the additional director general of police (ATS and coastal security). Ahmedabad’s Sector- 2 additional commissioner Nipuna Torawane has been appointed secretary of the home department. Deputy inspector general of police, CID crime and railways, Gautam Parmar will take over Torawane’s previous post. An IPS officer of the 2006 batch, Rajendra Asari, who was superintendent of police, Ahmedabad Rural, has been promoted as additional commissioner of police, Sector -1, in Ahmedabad. Virendra Yadav, a 2009-batch IPS officer has taken over Asari’s previous position. A 2006-batch IPS, officer Bipin Ahire has been promoted as the deputy inspector general of police and will be the joint director of the Anti-corruption Bureau. A 2006-batch IPS officer, M K Nayak, has been elevated from the rank of superintendent of police to the level of deputy inspector general of police, railways. Nayak’s earlier position, the superintendent of the Ahmedabad central prison, has been given to an IPS officer of the 2013 batch, Rohan Anand. Another 2006-batch IPS officer, P L Mal, has been promoted to the rank of deputy inspector general police and has been posted in Sector -1 of Surat, He was deputy commissioner of police, Zone -1, in Ahmedabad. A 2016-batch IPS officer Ravindra Patel has taken over Mal’s Zone-1 position. SPS officer and deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime cell of Ahmedabad, Rajdeepsinh Zala has been transferred as superintendent of police Valsad. Zala takes over from a 2010-batch IPS officer Sunil Joshi who has been appointed as the superintendent of police of Dev Bhoomi Dwarka. Amit Vasava, a 2006-batch IPS officer, has taken over Zala’s position in handling cybercrime. A 2008-batch IPS officer, Neeraj Badgujar, who was DCP Zone-4 in Ahmedabad has been transferred as SP of Police Technical Service in Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-abad-cp-to-take-charge-today/articleshow/77321816.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Gold demand slips, yet why prices rising?||During the first half of this year, global demand for gold was down 6% on an annual basis at 2,076 tonnes due to the pandemic. However, during the same period, price of the yellow metal was up by 17% in US dollar terms. So, how did the price shoot up even with weak demand? Perhaps the best explanation was offered in a recent report of the World Gold Council (WGC), the global marketing arm of gold producers: “The global response to the pandemic by central banks and governments, in the form of rate cuts and massive liquidity injections, fuelled record flows of 734t into gold-backed ETFs (gold ETFs). These flows helped lift the gold price, which gained 17% in US dollar terms over the first half, hitting record highs in many other currencies.” How far will prices rise? The London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) price of a troy ounce (31.1gm) of 24-carat gold was US$1,974.70 on Friday morning. “Looking at the current trend, LBMA prices might range from $2,300 –$2,400 in the next three to six months. In the long term as well, gold prices are looking up,” said T B Ramakrishnan, managing director and chief executive officer of Sharewealth Securities Ltd. “Prices are fuelled by the ‘safe-haven’ demand for gold, as investors – individuals, institutions or central banks – have been increasingly investing in gold. During the last two to three years, the central banks of India and China have increased their gold holdings. Russia doubled it. Apart from the demand from investors and central banks, dwindling supply also helped the prices go up,” he said. Extrapolating the estimates of LBMA price, if gold prices continue with the same momentum in the short term, prices in Kerala might go up to Rs 46,000-Rs 48,000 per 8gm sovereign (22 carats) the next three to six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-demand-slips-yet-why-prices-rising/articleshow/77320616.cms||Shenoy Karun
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 claims eight lives in dist, 78 infected||TNNLudhiana: Eight Ludhiana residents died of Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state on Sunday, when 78 residents of the district and 21 outsiders tested positive here. Health department officials said that a Covid positive man from Urban Estate, who had pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at a city hospital. A woman aged 59 years of New Sundar Nagar also died at a city hospital, while two persons who died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, included a 57-year-old man from Harkiratpura who was suffering from diabetes, blood pressure and heart disease and a 69-year-old resident of Ghuman tehsil, Raikot, who was also suffering from kidney disease, high blood pressure and anaemia. A Salem Tabri man of 70 years, who was suffering from high blood pressure, also succumbed to the virus. Other casualties included a 60-year-old man from Azad Nagar, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, a 67-year-old patient from Campa Gali, who was also suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and coronary artery disease and a 71-year-old patient who was suffering from high blood pressure and coronary artery disease, too. The health department said now the total number of Covid-19 deaths from the district stood at 105, while 41 outsiders have lost their lives here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said till now 65,001 samples have been taken in the district and on Sunday 99 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 78 were from Ludhiana, three each from Kapurthala and Patiala, two each from Ferozepur and Chandigarh and one each from Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Hoshiarpur, Mohali, Jalandhar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.The department said of the positive cases in the district, one case each was from Jagraon, Raikot, 24 from Ludhiana East Tehsil and 51 from Ludhiana West Tehsil. Of them, 24 were influenza like illness (ILI) cases, 36 positive patients’ contacts, nine healthcare workers, one domestic traveller and eight from the tracing process. The civil surgeon said with this, the total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 3,517 and of outsiders to 471. Health department said that on Sunday, 1,162 samples were sent for testing and 502 persons were screened of which 355 persons were isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-claims-eight-lives-in-dist-78-infected/articleshow/77320614.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||With 23 on Sunday, Vidarbha saw 43 Covid-19 deaths in 2 days of August||Nagpur: Record 23 Covid deaths were reported on Sunday in Vidarbha region taking the fatality count to 430. In the first two days of August, the region has witnessed 43 Covid deaths. On Sunday, highest 15 deaths were reported from Nagpur, followed by six in Amravati, and one each from Akola and Washim. With 618 new Covid cases on Sunday, Vidarbha’s total patient count reached 16,230 — surpassing the 16,000-mark from yesterday’s 15.612 in a single day. In Amravati, father-in-law of member of Parliament Navneet Rana tested Covid positive. Highest 235 new cases were reported on Sunday from Nagpur followed by 131 in Amravati. Gondia witnessed its highest single-day surge at 60. Buldhana (51), Washim (41), Yavatmal (30), Chandrapur (28), Akola (18), Bhandara (16), Wardha (7), and Gadchiroli (1) also added to the regions patient count. On recovery front, 318 patients were discharged on Sunday. These include — Amravati (93), Yavatmal (61), Nagpur (59), Akola (32), Washim (26), Buldhana (21), Gadchiroli (12), Chandrapur (11), and Bhandara (3). Thus total recoveries reached 10,838, i.e. 66.78% recovery rate, which is better than state’s 64% and national average of around 65%. AMRAVATI: The civil surgeon’s office reported six deaths in Covid Hospital which took the district’s toll to 67. A 54-year-old man from Paratwada and a 58-year-old man from Kandali in Paratwada, both in Achalpur tehsil, died today at Covid Hospital. A 58-year-old woman from Roshannagar and a 30-year-old woman from Chilam Chhavani too breathed their last. A 26-year-old woman from Kapustalani village in Daryapur tehsil and a 60-year-old man from Talegaon Shyamji Pant village in Amravati tehsil too died today. Six doctors and father of Badnera MLA Ravi Rana are among 131 who tested positive on Sunday. Sunday’s spike took the district’s count to 2,359. With 93 getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients reached 1,669. This left 629 under treatment, including 15 in Nagpur. Rana’s 70-year-old father, who happens to be father-in-law of Navneet Rana, today tested positive following which swabs of all family members, workers at Ranas Ganga Savitri residence in Shankarnagar and his office were taken and the house and adjoining areas were sanitized. Dharni today gave 33 cases that included four private doctors and one doctor each from Kusumkot and Kalamkhar PHCs. This took Dharni’s count to 43. Kekatpur in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil gave five cases today to take the tehsil’s count to 35, while three cases each came from Anjangaon Bari and Nimbhora villages that took their count to four each. Morshi and Paratwada today gave two cases each to take their count to 41 and 28, respectively. A case each was reported from Rahatgaon, Anjangaon Surji, Palashkhed, Achalpur and Karajgaon that took the day’s rural count to 52 and district’s 511. AKOLA: A Covid-19 patient died during treatment in Akola on Sunday. The deceased 81-year-old man from Balapur Road area was admitted to the GMCH on July 22. This was 118th death in Akola. Total 18 of the 500 samples tested were found Covid positive on Sunday. With this, the number of positive patients has reached 2,679 in Akola. Total 32 patients got discharged taking the total number of recovered patients to 2,146. Once again, Akola continued to report recovery rate of 80%. Total 415 patients are under treatment in Akola at present. WASHIM: A 65-year-old woman from Karanja Lad, who died at Washim Covid Hospital on August 1, tested positive post-death on August 2. This took the Covid-19 toll of Washim to 17. The district also reported 41 new cases and 26 patients were given discharge on August 2. With this, total number of cases reached 661, including 420 patients recovered and 17 deaths. As on August 2, 224 patients are under treatment in Washim. GONDIA: Record-breaking surge in Covid-19 cases was witnessed on August 2 in Gondia district with 60 testing infected. Of these, 38 are from Tirora, including 19 power plant employees. Ten are from Gondia of which four are from Sindhi Colony. Remaining patients are from other tehsils. Gondia has tested total 12,117 samples till date. The district has total 382 cases, including 232 recoveries and 2 deaths reported in July. Now, 147 patients are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The district registered a spike of 29 positive cases during the day taking the total caseload of Covid-19 to 580 on Sunday. However, 349 of these patients have been treated and cured, while remaining 230 are active and under treatment. The new patients include five from Chandrapur and surrounding villages, 12 from Nagbhid tehsil, while rest are from villages across the district. A total of 133 containment zones were declared in the district. Out of these, 74 have been revoked after completion of 14 days, while remaining 59 are effective currently. YAVATMAL: Against 30 new Covid-19 positives, 61 patients recovered in a day in Yavatmal on Sunday. Total 16 new patients came from Ner, 13 from Umarkhed while 1 from Wani tehsil on August 2. Now, the district has total 1,147 cases, 722 recovered, 31 deaths and 394 patients under treatment. On Sunday, total 224 samples were sent for tests. Till date, reports of 3,860 samples from the district are awaited. The administration is, however, silent as to why such a large number of test reports are delayed. Meanwhile, on the instructions of guardian minister Sanjay Rathod, the district administration has decided to lift the weeklong lockdown imposed in Yavatmal, Ner and Darwha till further orders from Monday. Fate of other containment areas across the district is still undecided. Shops will remain open between 6am to 5pm daily. The Covid-19 rules should remain in force and if anyone found guilty of violating the rules would be penalized and even FIR would be registered against the violators, informed sources. BULDHANA: Reports of 358 tests were received in Buldhana district on August 2 out of which 51 tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 223 tests were rapid antigen tests done in rural areas. Only 8 of them tested positive. Buldhana now has 1,399 total cases, out of which 851 have recovered and 30 deaths. Now, Buldhana has 518 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Recording a double-digit increase in number of cases for the first time in the last two weeks, Bhandara reported 16 new cases on Sunday. On the other hand, three patients were discharged. Now, Bhandara’s total Covid-19 cases have reached 271, including 207 recoveries and 2 deaths reported in July. Total 62 patients are under treatment. Five of them have been referred to Nagpur while remaining 57 are being treated in Bhandara. GADCHIROLI: Twelve patients recovered on Sunday while a nurse tested Covid-19 positive in Gadchiroli. Total cases reached 607, including 436 recoveries and a death reported in May. Total 170 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: As seven more patients were admitted after testing positive for coronavirus on Sunday, the total number of active patients has reached to 51. Of the Sunday’s seven, five are from Wardha and two from Deoli. Out of total 212 samples, 7 tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-23-on-sunday-vidarbha-saw-43-covid-19-deaths-in-2-days-of-august/articleshow/77322745.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar opens 10 women’s colleges today, Baroda gets 2||CHANDIGARH: Ahead of the by-election in Baroda assembly constituency, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will on Monday inaugurate two women’s colleges here — one in Bhainswal Kalan village and the other in proper Baroda. The move is also being seen as yet another attempt to make a dent in former CM Bhupinder Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda’s bastion. These two colleges are among the 10 new government women’s colleges that Khattar will inaugurate online as gift to the girls of the state on Raksha Bandhan. Incidentally, there has been a long-pending demand for girls’ colleges in this area, as those keen on studies have travel to Gohana or Sonipat for the purpose. Although the government as well BJP leaders termed the move a routine affair and denied it has to do anything with the impending Baroda by-election, the Congress leaders alleged the ruling party is indulging in “politics of education”. “These gimmicks would not work for them. People have already made up their mind. So far as the colleges are concerned, everyone knows the contributions of Congress as well Krishan Moorti Hooda ji, Bhupinder Hooda and Deepender Hooda,’’ said Geeta Bhukkal, former minister and MLA from Jhajjar constituency. “They have not given colleges to many other constituencies and two to this constituency, which will run in borrowed buildings. So, you can well imagine the intention of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance,” she added. Meanwhile, higher education department officials confirmed the development and informed that all the arrangements have been made and the colleges would become operational from the current academic session itself. The other places where colleges will be inaugurated are Chhatar village in Uchana Kalan, Agroha in Hisar, Goriwala in Sirsa, Isserwal in Bhiwani, Morni Hills of Panchkula, Partap Nagar in Yamuanangar, Ladana Chaku village in Kaithal and Firozpur Jhirka of Nuh. A day prior to the inauguration, Khattar also held online interactions with around 500 women and girls across the state. A group of orphan girls also called on Khattar at his Chandigarh residence to tie the sacred thread on the eve of Raksha Bandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-opens-10-womens-colleges-today-baroda-gets-2/articleshow/77322759.cms||Manvir Saini
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 3,024 crore for dept under ‘rebel’ Sachin Pilot not cleared by state finance wing||JAIPUR: The finance department has not yet released a grant of Rs 3,024 crore to the rural development and panchayati raj department, which came under the ministry held by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, by the finance department for the 2019-20 period. This was revealed in a presentation given by the rural development and panchayati raj department on issues it had with various departments to the state-level development and coordination committee, headed by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, on July 30. Under the head, 'inter-departmental issues', the presentation stated that the fund was part of the state finance commission (SFC-V) grant. The finance department is under the ministry held by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. It also pointed out that Rs 1,883.25 crore from the central share was pending as the state share of Rs 1,262.53 crore for implementing MGNREGA, Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMAY-G), National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), National Rural Economic Transformation Project (NRETP) and Border Area Development Programme (BADP) schemes has not been released. Among other issues that the panchayati raj department had with the finance department include payment of interest against delay in transfer of money of the Central Finance Commission to gram panchayat; Rs 11 crore required for completing undergoing works for 16 PS buildings of panchayat samiti created in 2014; formation of State Finance Commission (VI); non-payment of honorarium to panchayat sahayaks since April 2020. Under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY-WC), bills amounting to over Rs 45 crore are pending at treasury and bills amounting to Rs 90 crore pending for sending to treasury, the presentation pointed out. Watch Over Rs 3,024 crore for dept under Sachin Pilot not cleared by state finance wing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-3024cr-for-dept-under-rebel-pilot-not-cleared-by-state-finance-wing/articleshow/77322762.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Poor quality work: LIT issues notices to contractors||tnnLudhiana: Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramanium has started issuing showcause notices to the contractors who are not performing their duties properly.A showcause notice was issued to the contractor handling the construction of Leisure Valley on Tibba Road in East constituency after MLA Sanjay Talwar complained about sub-standard material. A notice was also served on the contractor who recently constructed roads in D Block of SBS Nagar after those got damaged. The Leisure Valley project is spread over 22 acres. Recently, the MLA had visited the site for checking the ongoing work and questioned the quality of material being used. The project aims at giving a recreational space to about eight wards, which lack public parks.The MLA said, “There should not be any compromise with material being used by the contractor. I had raised objections on the poor quality work. LIT officials will look into it.”With Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Block D residents complaining that recently-constructed roads had started getting damaged and caving in at some places, the matter was brought to the knowledge of LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium. The chairman said, “We have stopped the contractor’s payment. There will be no payment until the contractor fixes the problems.” “I have asked the officials to issue show-cause notices to both the contractors and give them three days to fix the issues. We will not allow contractors to spoil the image of LIT by using sub-standard material.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/poor-quality-work-lit-issues-notices-to-contractors/articleshow/77320626.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||4.7k MT animal waste generated||Hyderabad: On Bakrid this year, 4,725 metric tons of animal waste was generated in the city, according to GHMC. On Saturday, 2,770 metric tons of waste was collected while 1,955 metric tons of waste was collected on Sunday. To collect and transport the waste, 403 vehicles were pressed into service. The vehicles included tippers, earth movers and bobcats. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumat instructed civic body’s veterinary wing to ensure beef abattoirs and animal slaughterhouses remain shut on Sunday. “The waste was transported to six rendering plants located in the outskirts of the city,” said Abdul Wakil, the chief veterinary officer at GHMC. He added that the waste was disposed according to norms. Meanwhile, AIMIM coporator Fahad Bin Samad Abdat alleged that GHMC delayed the disposal of waste in his ward despite several request. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-7k-mt-animal-waste-generated/articleshow/77322764.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Will protect state’s claims, say all parties in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Supreme Court asked the chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana last week to attempt a negotiated settlement of the Satluj-Yamuna link (SYL) canal issue that has defied any solution for decades, despite several rounds of litigation. However, most political parties in Punjab support the view that the state has no surplus water to share. Congress MP from Patiala Preneet Kaur said, “Congress has always stood for protecting the rights of the state and it was Captain Amarinder Singh as chief minister during his previous term who passed the Punjab Termination of Agreement Act 2004 to prevent any state waters being shared with neighbouring states. Our party has been firm in protecting the state’s rights over its waters and will fight tooth and nail if any attempt is made by the states or the Union to deprive us of what is rightfully ours.” Reacting to Haryana BJP unit president OP Dhankhar’s statement on the apex court’s directions on the SYL case, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said Haryana can’t claim right over river water as per riparian principle. “Punjab’s first responsibility is towards its own people, particularly its farmers, and it is unfortunately not in a position to share its limited water resource with other states,” he said. With his own party at the helm in Haryana, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said the interests of Punjab farmers and Punjabis should be put at the forefront while engaging into talks with neighbouring states over the project. “There should not be any second thoughts when it comes to protecting the rights of the Punjab farmers and the Punjabis as a whole. We need to protect the rights of Punjab farmers over the use of canal water but both states must speak in constructive manner as per the directions of the Supreme Court. As the matter is subjudice and the Supreme Court has asked the states to engage in dialogue I will not speak more on it,” said Sharma. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema added: “Our stand on the issue is very clear that the state cannot share even a single drop of water with any other state. But one must look into the reasons for the SYL issue to have come thus far. We must examine who gave the approvals for the SYL project to be initiated in the first place and who has been playing politics over the issue. It is the wrong policies adopted by the Congress and the SAD which has brought the SYL issue to its present situation.” SAD (D) functionary Parminder Singh Dhindsa said Punjab had only one major natural resource, which was primary for the survival and the existence of the state. “All other states with natural resources, be it coal of any metal, sell these resources. but in case of Punjab water is being given free to the other states. The clause in the agreement under which water was shared with Rajasthan, it is clearly mentioned that appropriate compensation for punjab will be decided at a later stage. But to date the state has not received even a single penny” The former finance minister added, “The subsoil water is going down and Punjab is totally dependent on the surface water to sustain its existence. Under these circumstances the state cannot share even a single drop of water with any neighbouring state. It will be a complete injustice to the state if this happens. Even under the riparian laws that are accepted across the globe Punjab has full rights over the waters flowing from its territory.” (With inputs from Patiala and Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-protect-states-claims-say-all-parties-in-punjab/articleshow/77322740.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Active cases in Kolhapur stand at 3,639||Kolhapur: A total of 462 cases along with 12 deaths were reported across Kolhapur district on Sunday. With addition of these new cases the total number of Covid-19 cases has increased to 6,905 of which 3,639 are active. The death toll, however, stands at 119. Of the 12 deaths reported on Sunday, seven were from Kolhapur city where the total number of cases has gone up to 1,869. Increased testing After technical glitches in the RT-PCR machines and shortage of RNA extraction kits, the testing of throat swab samples went down. However, on Sunday, 1,687 tests were carried out most of which are the swabs pending for the last three days. On Sunday, rapid antigen test kits were distributed to the local bodies wherein the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) received 1,000 kits against a demand of 3,000. MP home quarantined After his father-in-law tested positive for Covid-19, Member of Parliament from Hatkanangle Dhairyashil Mane has home quarantined himself along with his family members. He has also appealed to people who have come in contact with him to get quarantined and get tested if they are showing any symptoms. 65 cases in Solapur Solapur city reported 65 Covid positive cases and five deaths on Sunday. The total number of people who have succumbed due to the contagion is at 364 while the case tally has reached to 5,050. Around 1,625 patients are currently undergoing treatment across the city. Sangli reports 294 cases As many as 294 cases and 6 deaths were reported across Sangli district on Sunday. The total number of cases has increased to 3,093 while the death toll stands at 96. The active cases stand at 1,641. Of the 294 cases, 188 were reported from Sangli city and 80 from Miraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-cases-in-kolhapur-stand-at-3639/articleshow/77322743.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Beaten in front of family by cop, TN painter sets self ablaze, dies||CHENNAI: A 42-year-old house painter, Srinivasan, who set himself ablaze after he was allegedly beaten up by police at Puzhal in Chennai, died of burn injuries on Sunday. Inspector Bensam has been placed under suspension, police said. In a video recorded by his brother at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital where he was admitted for treatment on Saturday, Srinivasan said Rajendran, his landlord, an AIADMK functionary, had brought the inspector to put pressure on him to vacate the house. Sources said Srinivasan was unable to pay house rent for the past three months. He rented the house a year ago and lived there with his wife and two daughters. Police allege that Srinivasan habitually created a rukus after getting drunk. They said neighbours complained about him to the landlord on Saturday, and that a police team went to the spot after the landlord informed them about the matter. Inspector Bensam allegedly beat up Srinivasan over the complaint. Police alleged that Srinivasan was drunk at that time. Relatives alleged that Srinivasan set himself on fire as he was unable to bear the humiliation of being beaten up by police in front of his family and neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/beaten-in-front-of-family-by-cop-tn-painter-sets-self-ablaze-dies/articleshow/77323468.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lapses in safety procedure caused explosion killing 5 workers’||Nagpur: The preliminary investigation by the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health has revealed the explosion which killed five labourers on the spot was caused by serious lapses in safety procedures at Manas Agro Industries and Infrastructure Limited, erstwhile Purti Power and Sugar Limited. Bela police have registered offences against Nashik-based SP Engineering, and Wadgaon-based contractor Sanjay Ingale. No action has been initiated on Manas Agro.An explosion in the bio-digester in the sugar and ethanol manufacturing plant of Manas Agro at Bela in Umred tehsil had killed five labourers on the spot at 2.15pm on Saturday. The funeral of the five labourers, residents of Wadgaon and Salai villages, was held on Sunday.Bela police station PI Shivaji Bhandwalkar told TOI, “An offence under section 304(a) of IPC was registered against SP Engineering, which was doing the maintenance work. Also, Sanjay Ingale has been booked, as he had engaged the labourers.”Asked about any action on Manas Agro, Bhandwalkar said, “It was the responsibility of contractors to ensure safety in work and also of labourers. Further investigation is on.”SP Rakesh Ola said, “Documentary evidence, including agreement between the company (Manas Agro) and contractor, will be collected. We will also seek reports from experts in industrial safety and health; and factory inspectors before arriving at any conclusions regarding fixing of responsibility behind the incident. Subsequently, as per the need, we would try to make arrests and put the accused through the necessary interrogation processes.”Umred MLA Raju Parwe said offence should have been also registered against Manas Agro for not following standard operating procedures. “Manas Agro has sought 15 days time for giving compensation to families of deceased,” he said.Union minister for road transport and highways and city MP Nitin Gadkari had founded Purti Power and Sugar Limited and developed the plant at Bela in 2000. He is not in the company for last few years. One of his family members is wholetime director in the company.Immediately after the explosion, the team of Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health rushed to the spot on Saturday. An official told TOI, “The top of bio-gas generator exploded as there were combustible gases in it. Executing welding work on top of it with combustible gases inside is serious lapse in safety procedures. The company should have thoroughly checked and ensured there were no gases in it before starting welding works. Detailed investigation requires time and we will take appropriate action within 90 days against all responsible under The Factories Act 1948 and The Maharashtra Factories Rules 1963.”As per the department, methane is produced in the bio-digester and used as fuel in boilers at ethanol and sugar manufacturing plants. The bio-digester is 25m in diameter, 20m in height and has capacity of 10,000 meter cube. Cow dung, lime and spent wash are stored in it for producing methane, which is a highly combustible gas.The bio-digester was not in operation since lockdown in March. Manas Agro had engaged SP Enterprises for maintenance of the unit. There is a two-inch water pipeline on top of the bio-digester. The work to split outlet into two pipelines of one inch each was going on since Friday.“The company might have drained the bio-digester. But there were some traces of mixture of cow dung, lime and spent wash, which produced methane. Welding spark came in contact with methane causing the explosion. Company should have thoroughly drained all traces through pump house,” the official said.A spokesperson of Manas Agro denied any lapses from on the part of the company. “Agencies are doing their investigation. We are cooperating in the investigations,” he said.The company had expressed regret on the incident on Saturday and assured all help to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lapses-in-safety-procedure-caused-explosion-killing-5-workers/articleshow/77322765.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 3, 2020||Kanpur||Shells of outdated cartridges found at Bikru ambush site||Kanpur: In a surprise finding, slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides are said to have used American Winchester .30-06 cartridges, which the United States Army had used in World Wars I & II, the Korean War, and the war in Vietnam, in the Bikru ambush killing eight policemen, including deputy SP Denendra Kumar Mishra. The startling fact came to light following recovery of empty shells of 11 American Winchester .30-06 cartridges from the scene of crime on July 3. The recovery has foxed police which have launched a probe as to from where did Vikas and his henchmen procure the cartridges — which are no more in use in the country. Police officers suspect that the gangster and his aides probably used the cartridges in Springfield rifles. The cartridge was introduced in United States Army in 1906 and later standardized; it remained in use until the late-1970s, said forensic experts. “The ‘.30’ refers to the caliber of the bullet in inches. The ‘06’ refers to the year the cartridge was adopted, 1906,” said a senior forensic expert. He added that the .30-06 remained the primary cartridge used in U.S. Army’s rifles and machine guns for nearly 50 years before being replaced by the 7.62×51 mm NATO and 5.56×45mm NATO, both of which are in current use. “The .30-06 cartridge could be fired from the bolt-action M1917 Enfield rifle, the semi-automatic M1 Garand rifle, the semi-automatic M1941 Johnson rifle, the Famage Mauser, the Browning Automatic Rifle (BAR), and numerous machine guns, including the M1917 and M1919 series. It served the United States in both World Wars and in the Korean War, its last major use being in Vietnam,” the expert added. In the morning after the Bikru ambush, police investigators had found 72 live and empty cartridges, including 11 empty American Winchester shells. Police had also recovered several cartridges of AK 47 and 9 mm pistol, revolvers and country-made guns. “Going by the inputs provided by forensic experts, we are now investigating as to how and from where gangster and his aides had procured American Winchester .30-06 cartridges,” said IG Zone Mohit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/shells-of-outdated-cartridges-found-at-bikru-ambush-site/articleshow/77322766.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||No shower, sauna at gyms as owners lay down new SOP||KOLKATA: Trainers not to touch members, locker use restricted, no sauna or shower chambers and members divided into tiny groups over multiple slots throughout the day. In the new normal era, these are some of the fresh set of standard operating procedures that gym owners and trainers are likely to follow when gyms and yoga centres reopen next week. On Sunday, representatives of gym owners and trainers in Kolkata met at a south Kolkata facility to discuss the challenges ahead and the possible ways to overcome them. They came up with a set of SOP in the absence of fresh guidelines on SOPs from the centre. “The major challenge on hand is to ensure social distancing and boost the confidence of members and offer a safe workout environment maintaining all caution. Hence, we have decided to open our facilities in phases. There will only be 20 members per slot who need to come in their workout gears and leave in the same. Small enclosed areas like locker rooms, sauna chambers and showers will be shut for now,” said Neeraj Surana, operational head of Rush Fitness. Gyms have also been flooded with requests from members for refund of four months’ unused time, but the gym owners unanimously decided not entertain such pleas. Members who return to their fitness regimen and decide on renewals will be given an additional 25% usage days/months. A monthly fee of Rs 300 or a daily Rs 10 per member will now be charged for sanitization since every gym has to be sanitized for 10 minutes every hour. “We have taken a huge hit because rentals have not been waived by landlords. Our clients will have to agree to share the load with us in these times, else we will not survive,” read a statement by the Gym Owners’ Forum, which is a body representing 100 top gyms in the city. It was also decided that not more than 10 people for a 1,000 square feet space and 15-18 for a 2,000 square feet space will be allowed at a time. Each member will be allowed just an hour by appointment. “Though the prime timings are, 6am-9am, we will encourage members to use the afternoon slots as well as many are working from home these days and can negotiate time,” said Gagan Sachdev, owner of the Karma Fitness Studio chain. Ronodeep Maitra, who owns the Endorphins chain of gyms, said they had also cancelled all group classes and massage sessions for the time being. Some players like Core Gym said they would allow the use of lockers but in a restricted manner. “We have three locker blocks, of which only one will be operational during a slot,” said Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-shower-sauna-at-gyms-as-owners-lay-down-new-sop/articleshow/77321882.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Uncertainty over exam irks students||Kurukshetra: Delay in terminal semester examinations and appointment of a regular vice-chancellor (VC) has irked students, scholars and officials of Kurukshetra University. The tenure of former vice-chancellor Prof Kailash Chandra Sharma came to an end four months ago on March 31. In the absence of a regular VC, the varsity is struggling to take decisions on important issues, a few officials said. One of the key issues faced by students and scholars is uncertainty over examinations. “It appears higher education is not a priority for the state government as thousands of students in terminal semesters are facing uncertainty about final examinations. In a meeting headed by the ad-hoc KU VC, the Haryana government decision of not holding terminal exams was endorsed in a hasty manner on June 24. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked officials to hold exams. This is a sign of mismanagement at KU,” a student said. Former vice-president of KU campus students executive council (KUCSEC) Namita Nandal said, “It is already too late for this session and the varsity or state government should take a final decision at the earliest. At this stage, it is not feasible to hold exams due to the Covid-19 crisis and students should be promoted. It is important for the university to have a regular VC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uncertainty-over-exam-irks-students/articleshow/77322761.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa works on action plan to house homeless, decision later this week||PANAJI: The North Goa and South Goa collectorates have begun work on an action plan to take care of homeless individuals, including a proposal to house them in shelter homes. The report, which has yet to be finalised, will be placed before the government and the state executive committee (SEC) later this week. Meanwhile, the government has also asked urban local bodies to conduct a survey in collaboration with local NGOs to identify the homeless and destitute in Goa’s 14 towns. “We are working on a report but we have not reached a stage where we can say that we have finalised anything,” said South Goa district collector Ajit Roy. The death of two homeless individuals in Margao due to Covid-19 sparked panic in the commercial capital and prompted authorities to look at ways to prevent the spread of the virus among street dwellers. Many homeless live around the Margao railway station, near the bus stands and in gardens in the towns. “Urban local bodies have been sensitised about the issue and have been asked to conduct a survey within their jurisdiction. Organisations like CRY will be helping out,” said an official. In March, the government attempted to shelter the homeless at the Margao railway station but the initiative was shut down as the move affected freight movement. This time around deputy collectors have been asked to identify temporary shelter homes for street dwellers and beggars where they can be safely housed and fed. Moves are also on to test the individuals for Covid-19 to ensure that the virus does not spread in shelter homes, said a government official. “The report (action plan for homeless) will be ready and submitted to the chief secretary when the meeting is convened,” said a senior official with the north Goa collectorate. Several rounds of meetings have been held over the last two weeks to discuss the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-works-on-action-plan-to-house-homeless-decision-later-this-week/articleshow/77323158.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten in road rage||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old man from Sarkhej filed a complaint with police on Sunday alleging that four men had beat him up when he asked one of them to give him money, as the man damaged the complainant’s motor cycle in rash driving. Moinkhan Pathan states in his FIR with Sarkhej police that he was going towards a shrine on his motorcycle when a scooter rider hit him and caused damage to his vehicle. Pathan sought money from the man who took him to another place promising that he would give him money there. When Pathan reached there, he along with three other beat him up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-in-road-rage/articleshow/77321880.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid centres to have RT-PCR labs||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district administration has decided to set up Covid testing laboratory and tele-medicine facilities in each of its Covid Care Centres. At present, there are 35 Covid Care Centres in the district. They are considered to be at the grassroot level of the three-tier Covid management infrastructure. The screening and treatment of those testing positive for the contagion is carried out at these centres. Every Covid Care Centre has six doctors and six nurses along with supporting staff for disinfection and serving meals. In next few days, RT-PCR testing machines will be installed in 16 labs set up across the district and, subsequently, in all centres. The administration is planning to increase daily testing count to 5,000 by installing RT-PCR testing facility in these centres. At present, around 800 swabs are tested on a daily basis in the existing government and private laboratories. Since the labs are mostly in Kolhapur city, it takes time for transportation of swabs and generation of results. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “We are planning to increase the facilities at the Covid Care Centres. Currently, these centres have 5,268 beds, of which, 245 have oxygen cylinders fitted to it. We are going to set up the RT-PCR machines for which lab technicians and experts have been hired for the same. The aim is to speed up the testing and thereby to break the chain locally.” In addition, the administration is also planning to hire 44 general physicians. They will serve as consultants in tele-medicine cell to be set up at the Covid Care Centres. These doctors will be in touch with Covid-19 positive patients who are kept under home isolation. So far, around 268 asymptomatic patients have been allowed to stay in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-centres-to-have-rt-pcr-labs/articleshow/77322767.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Shopkeepers will now need an NMC licence||Nagpur: On the one hand the state government talks about reducing the number of permissions required for doing business and on the other, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is increasing them. The civic body has now made it compulsory for shopkeepers, architects, surveyors and butchers to obtain a licence from it else action will be taken against them. The notification has been issued by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. It states that as per Section 376 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949, activities and businesses mentioned in the Act could not be undertaken without permission of the municipal commissioner. NMC has asked the shopkeepers to obtain Form A from its zone offices and submit the filled up form with required documents for obtaining the licence. The notification states that if shopkeepers and other notified professionals fail to obtain a licence then they will be fined as per provisions of the Act and civil and criminal cases will be filed against them. Traders have vowed to oppose the move tooth and nail. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that shopkeepers were already having an extremely difficult time due to the lockdown and now NMC wants them to spend time in seeking permissions instead of attending to their business. “NMC is doing its best to harass us. It is issuing backdated local body tax (LBT) notices to us. Government should let us do business and collect tax from us. Don’t kill the golden goose. We will oppose this anti-business step of NMC and not take it lying down,” he added. Vijay Zalke, NMC standing committee chairman, slammed the civic administration for harassing traders. “Shopkeepers already have goods and services tax (GST) registration, gumasta licence and udyog aadhar. How many permits are they supposed to obtain? This is nothing but harassment of traders. This notification has been issued without permission of the standing committee and general body. Mundhe should use his emergency powers to reduce Covid-19 cases and not harass citizens,” he told TOI. Vijay Waghmare, a shopkeeper, said that making licences compulsory would only enrich the touts and lower NMC officials. “Experience shows that we will not get these licences easily. We will have to catch hold of a tout and pay him a hefty sum. The NMC junior officials and clerks will get their share from him. Already we are impoverished due to the lockdown and now the commissioner has come up with this hare-brained idea,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shopkeepers-will-now-need-an-nmc-licence/articleshow/77322769.cms||Ashish Roy
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Dropbox at KMC’s birth & death cert office||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has resumed services at the special birth and death registration office using contactless dropboxes for applications.The office located opposite the civic headquarters resumed services last week but only a few applications are being entertained for issuance of birth or death certificates under special registration rules. The office was shut down in the third week of July after one of the staffers of the office died of Covid-19.According to new rules, the photocopies of documents attached with the applications are scanned and the applicants with requisite documents are called after a week to receive the certificates.The civic brass has deputed 12 KMC health department employees to look after the special registration certificates’ wing. However, the number of applicants getting the certificates is being reduced to follow strict Covid-19 rules, which do not allow crowding in a public space. “We became extra careful after one of our colleagues died of Covid-19. We are carefully scanning all documents and limiting the number of visitors to adhere to the Covid-19 norms,” said a KMC employee attached to the special registration counter. Same rules are being followed at the KMC birth and death registration wing at the headquarters to avoid crowding. At this wing, the KMC staffers have kept several dropboxes for submission of photocopies of birth and death related documents. “After scanning the documents, we are calling in the applicants. We are not allowing more than 20 applicants during the office hours to avoid crowding,” said a KMC health department official.Before the pandemic hit Kolkata, the health department would allow over 100 applicants daily to stand in a queue with valid documents who would be issued birth or death certificates. “Now under the changed circumstances we can’t allow long queues as that may breach the social distancing protocol,” said a KMC official.An official said the civic body is yet to roll out online birth and death registration application facility as the work to integrate a software for such (online) application was hit due to the pandemic. “We have developed an online system and will launch it after the Covid-19 situation eases,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dropbox-at-kmcs-birth-death-cert-office/articleshow/77321885.cms||Saikat Ray
August 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar mills seek extension of buffer stock scheme||Kolhapur: The Maharashtra State Co-operative Sugar Factories Federation, an association of the co-operative sugar mills in the state, has demanded extension of the sugar buffer stock scheme that expired on August 1. The one-year scheme helped increase the cash-flow, thereby helping the mills clear the dues of farmers against the backdrop of increased production. The central government had set aside Rs 1,674 crore for creating a buffer stock of 40 lakh tonne. It also helped keep the price of sugar in the open market under check. This time, however, the sugar mills’ body has demanded the buffer stock be increased by an additional 10 lakh tonne and the scheme deadline be extended by one more year. Managing director of the federation Sanjay Khatal, in a letter written to the Union ministry of food and public distribution, said, “Banks have started recovery of money they lent to the mills against the sugar inventory. The pressure from banks will force the mills to sell the sugar from the stock at lower prices, thereby, once again creating liquidity issues. We are working out plans for guarantee from the state government against the money lent by the co-operative banks. We are going to witness a bumper production of sugar, around 10 million tonne in Maharashtra. We, therefore, request the government to extend the buffer stock scheme for one more year so that the mills can be in a sound position to pay the farmers.” If the ministry heeds to the request of the sugar body, then the proposal will be tabled in the Union cabinet which will then allocate funds to implement the scheme. Meanwhile, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader Raju Shetti have also demanded the extension of the buffer scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-mills-seek-extension-of-buffer-stock-scheme/articleshow/77322773.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Declare locust attacks a national disaster, Ashok Gehlot writes to PM Modi||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to declare the locust attacks going on in Rajasthan and elsewhere a national disaster. “The locust outbreak this time is fierce in the state. Barring two or three districts, all 33 districts have been attacked. Crops are getting damaged,” Gehlot told reporters after returning to Jaisalmer from Jaipur on Sunday evening. He said, “Locusts were seen in Jaisalmer-Barmer on a large scale in 1991-92. Last year also the farmers faced large attacks.” The CM said, “The Kharif and Rabi crops were damaged last year. Now the Kharif crop could be damaged again. How long can farmers tolerate crop damage due to locusts? They should get full compensation. I hope the Prime Minister will pay attention to this.” Gehlot said he mentioned in the letter that locusts come to India via Africa and other countries, including Pakistan, and breed here on a large scale. Locusts have reached in most parts of the country. When this happened last time, nobody remembers. Gehlot said he raised the issue of the crop loss due to locust attacks in a video conference of chief ministers with Modi. “Modi took interest in the matter and sought information about the affected districts,” the CM said. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi, sports minister Ashok Chandna and Congressmen Neeraj Merwani and Devendra Yadav reached Jaisalmer with the CM on Sunday evening. A cabinet meeting was called in Suryagarh hotel later in the night. The CM said his government was launching a scheme named after ex-PM late Indira Gandhi from August 20—the birth anniversary of another ex-PM late Rajiv Gandhi. “Everyone would get cheap food at Rs 8 under the scheme,” Gehlot said, referring to the Indira Rasaoi Yojana. Gehlot said the government officials managed well by supplying dry ration and food packets at people’s doorsteps during the lockdown. Reiterating that governance would not be allowed to suffer, the CM said in today’s technical era, work can be done from any place and his ministers were functioning while staying in Jaisalmer. After the press conference, Gehlot went to Gorbandh hotel where cabinet ministers BD Kalla, Sukhram Bishnoi and Pramod Jain Bhaya were staying. After having snacks with the ministers and MLAs, he left for Suryagarh hotel other MLAs and Congress leaders are staying. AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala left for New Delhi by a chartered flight on Sunday morning. Sisters of the MLAs from nearby districts of Jaisalmer have been called to celebrate Rakhi festival on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/declare-locust-attacks-a-national-disaster-gehlot-writes-to-pm/articleshow/77322775.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case: Bihar IPS officer in Mumbai, told to quarantine by BMC||MUMBAI/DELHI/PATNA: Days after a Bihar police team reached Mumbai to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case, a turf battle has broken out between law enforcement officers from the two regions, with even ministers weighing in to control the investigation. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the Bihar team had exceeded their brief: the law requires an offence to be probed by police and courts within whose jurisdiction it has been committed. With the Bihar cops’ attempt to access documents linked to the alleged suicide of Sushant’s ex-manager Disha Salian (28) stonewalled, the Bihar government sent Patna city SP Vinay Tiwary to Mumbai to “remove obstacles”. However, the IPS officer was reportedly forced into quarantine. Patna IG Sanjay Singh confirmed to TOI that Tiwary had been stamped with a mandatory quarantine by BMC. He said they will look into the matter on Monday. Amid turf battle, Bihar DGP says Rhea is ‘absconding’Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, police commissioner Parambir Singh and DGP Subodh Jaiswal on Sunday evening in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case. “He just wanted to take a review of the investigation and technicalities as one more state (Bihar) is also involved in the probe of the case,” said a senior official. The view that the Sushant case deserved a deeper, more independent probe continued to find takers, especially among politicians and the bureaucracy in Bihar. Union minister R K Singh who served as Union home secretary and is BJP MP from Ara, said, “Grievances of Sushant’s family are genuine. Mumbai police did precious little after the incident. They didn’t lodge a formal FIR even after interrogation of a number of suspects.” Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. An FIR has been registered in Patna on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father K K Singh against actor Rhea Chakraborty under sections including abetment of suicide. Bihar police may up the ante in coming days and get a lookout notice issued against Chakraborty. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said on Sunday, “She is absconding. She has her own sources in Mumbai for helping her out there.” That those questioning the probe were divided on political lines was evident. Singh’s reactions came hours after Congress incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil defended Maharashtra government, saying, “The Bihar police should focus on the investigation rather than indulging in mudslinging…” Maharashtra state home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the Mumbai police were moving in the right direction. Watch Sushant Rajput death: Bihar cop probing the case 'forcibly quarantined' in Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rajput-case-bihar-ips-officer-in-city-told-to-quarantine-by-bmc/articleshow/77323160.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Cong begins to fulfil our long-pending demands: BTP||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s announcement of August 9 as a public holiday in the state to mark the World Tribal Day is one of the several demands negotiated by the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) before it extended support to the ruling party in the present crisis. The BTP has extended blind support to the Congress in the Rajya Sabha polls in June took a U-turn by declaring it to abstain from floor test at the onset of the present crisis given them the power to bargain with Congress. The negotiation between the two parties ended with agreement on fulfilling 8-10 demands which were part of the tribal party’s election manifesto. The BTP’s two MLAs are crucial for the Congress government which is facing a number crunch to prove its majority in the assembly.“The ruling party has fulfilled our long pending demand of declaring a holiday on World Tribal Day. It is just the beginning of our demands to see the light of the day. CM Ashok Gehlot promised our leaders while seeking support that all our demands will be fulfilled once the crisis is over,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chorasi over the phone from Jaisalmer.The BTP which came into existence in 2017 contested the assembly elections on 11 seats in 2018 purely on the local issues against the Congress and the BJP. They won two seats—Rajkumar Roat from Chorasi and Ramprasad from Sagwara and stood second on another two seats gave a significant challenge to the bi-polar politics in the tribal region. They recorded a 0.7% vote share in the assembly polls.Since the beginning, they were seen with the Congress and in their first meeting with the CM Gehlot handed over their demands in lieu of their support for the party. The party feels that their equation with the Congress went into trouble with the merger of six BSP MLAs in September 2019 as it has taken its tally to a comfortable majority mark of 106 out of 200 seat assembly. The party again came back to them before the Rajya Sabha polls and promised to consider their demands after the RS polls.“After RS polls, our party leaders realised that Congress is not giving any word on the demands. The sense of betrayal was natural, however, the meetings with our leaders the ruling party showed resolve to fulfil our demands which are about tribal rights.” Said Roat.The party’s national president Mahesh Vasava based in Gujarat issued a whip to its MLAs in the state to abstain from voting in the event of any floor test on July 13. It was followed by mistreatment of a Roat by the police in Jaipur revelled by him in a self-shot video which was largely shared by the BJP twitter handles. Later, he called the incident an outcome of ‘miscommunication.’ It almost marked the end of BTPs relations one and a half relations with the Congress. A senior Congress leader from Dungarpur and one cabinet minister rushed to the rescue of a party. Here begin the backdoor negotiations between CM Gehlot and BTP leaders, including its state president Vela Ram Ghagra and the two MLAs. It, however, didnt took long for the Congress “Our party is committed to supporting Congress in the event of a floor test or any way round. Our association with the party is purely issued-based and will progress with every promise fulfilled by them,” said Roat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-begins-to-fulfil-our-long-pending-demands-btp/articleshow/77322770.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Again, it’s raining cave-ins as monsoon gains momentum||AHMEDABAD: What is the average life span of repairs on a cave-in in Ahmedabad? Till the next monsoon. Such ulcers emerge unannounced, halt traffic and drain the city’s already dry coffers. This monsoon, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had reported at least one cave-in every six days and the average cost of repairs is Rs 4.38 lakh. In 2019, 66 major cave-ins were repaired at a cost of Rs 2.89 crore. Officials said that this year there have been more than 20 cave-ins in the city. On Tuesday, a major cave-in was reported on the 132 Feet Ring Road near Ramol. Officials said the cave-in badly disrupted traffic movement. Two years ago, the AMC told the high court it had approached IIT Gandhinagar and IIT Powai, to help develop a cave-in forecast system, which would mainly rely on the age and health of underground sewer and stormwater drains to project which lines could be damaged. Last year, the AMC announced plans to use the strip wound lining (SWL) method to prevent cave-ins. In this Japanese method, cameras are used to assess damage inside drainage lines and seal small cracks and fractures could potentially cause cave-ins in the future. This project is yet to be pursued. A senior officer said cave-ins are caused by leaks in drains and this is mainly because there are illegal connections or blockages. Officials said that there are several spots in the city that been reporting cave-ins more than once a year, every year. Another officer said a cave-in was recently reported on the 132 Feet Ring Road near Samras Hostel, and this was a spot where there had been cave-in in 2019 and 2019. The 66 cave-ins this year have been major ones, with smaller ones and road subsidence incidents not being included. An elected AMC official said that concerning road subsidence incidents, contractors are supposed to make sure they compact the soil after they dig it up for repairs, but in 90% of cases the contractor will finish the job in a hurry just before the monsoon and the hole is filled with earth without ensuring proper soil compaction. As a result the first rain causes the mud to settle and causes a cave-in. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the city has several old drainage and stormwater lines that need repair. We are examining all these lines and tenders for retrofitting have also been issued. “Old lines develop punctures and leaks and these cause cave-ins,” Bhatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/again-its-raining-cave-ins-as-monsoon-gains-momentum/articleshow/77321895.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Ministers & MLAs step out of hotels for walks, prayers||JAISALMER: Ministers and legislators corralled in a hotel here have been freely moving around jogging, walking and offering prayers in temples, breaking away from their limited movement in a Jaipur hotel where they were kept for 19 days before being shifted to Jaisalmer on Friday. PHED minister BD Kalla went to Bhuteshwar Mahadev temple, 20km away from Jaisalmer, and offered prayers. Cabinet minister Pramod Jain Bhaya went to Devchandreshwar temple for the second time and offered prayers with traditional rituals. Later, he went to a Jain temple too to offer prayers. Ministers Bhaya and Kalla said the Ashok Gehlot-government was safe and no BJP conspiracy to topple it would succeed. “They have made a joke of democracy by trying to topple an elected government, but their dreams will not come true. Congressmen are nationalists and are ever ready to make top sacrifices for the nation,” said Kalla. On speculation about him being an alternative for the CM, Kalla said, “Our CM is Ashok Gehlot.” On possibility of sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot returning to the Congress, the minister said the decision was up to the party high command. On Sunday, Kalla, Bhaya, Sukhram Choudhary, Rajendra Yadav and Jagdish Jangid staying at the Gorbandh Palace went for a morning walk outside the hotel. Jagid went for running at the Home Guards’ ground opposite the hotel. Forest minister Sukhram Bishnoi claimed 105 MLAs were supporting the Gehlot-government and would complete its five-year term. “BJP is trying to destabilise our government and kill democracy, but will not succeed, said Bishnoi. Special arrangements have been made at the Suryagarh hotel for the CM and his minister to be able to participate in videoconferencing and carry out their official duties by interacting with the officials in Jaipur and other places. A special room has been turned into an office where 100Mpbs lease line of BSNL has been provided. The meetings would be organized virtually from this room. Minister Bishnoi staying participated in a meeting with the CM in Jaipur on Sunday. The hotel has made special arrangements for food and entertainment of the ministers and the MLAs, who are keeping themselves busy in physical and metal activities like working out at gym, playing chess, cards, billiards and swimming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ministers-mlas-step-out-of-hotels-for-walks-prayers/articleshow/77328776.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Ministers & MLAs step out of hotels for walks, prayers||JAISALMER: Ministers and legislators corralled in a hotel here have been freely moving around jogging, walking and offering prayers in temples, breaking away from their limited movement in a Jaipur hotel where they were kept for 19 days before being shifted to Jaisalmer on Friday. PHED minister BD Kalla went to Bhuteshwar Mahadev temple, 20km away from Jaisalmer, and offered prayers. Cabinet minister Pramod Jain Bhaya went to Devchandreshwar temple for the second time and offered prayers with traditional rituals. Later, he went to a Jain temple too to offer prayers. Ministers Bhaya and Kalla said the Ashok Gehlot-government was safe and no BJP conspiracy to topple it would succeed. “They have made a joke of democracy by trying to topple an elected government, but their dreams will not come true. Congressmen are nationalists and are ever ready to make top sacrifices for the nation,” said Kalla. On speculation about him being an alternative for the CM, Kalla said, “Our CM is Ashok Gehlot.” On possibility of sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot returning to the Congress, the minister said the decision was up to the party high command. On Sunday, Kalla, Bhaya, Sukhram Choudhary, Rajendra Yadav and Jagdish Jangid staying at the Gorbandh Palace went for a morning walk outside the hotel. Jagid went for running at the Home Guards’ ground opposite the hotel. Forest minister Sukhram Bishnoi claimed 105 MLAs were supporting the Gehlot-government and would complete its five-year term. “BJP is trying to destabilise our government and kill democracy, but will not succeed, said Bishnoi. Special arrangements have been made at the Suryagarh hotel for the CM and his minister to be able to participate in videoconferencing and carry out their official duties by interacting with the officials in Jaipur and other places. A special room has been turned into an office where 100Mpbs lease line of BSNL has been provided. The meetings would be organized virtually from this room. Minister Bishnoi staying participated in a meeting with the CM in Jaipur on Sunday. The hotel has made special arrangements for food and entertainment of the ministers and the MLAs, who are keeping themselves busy in physical and metal activities like working out at gym, playing chess, cards, billiards and swimming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ministers-mlas-step-out-of-hotels-for-walks-prayers/articleshow/77322781.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL cable laying work not as per norms: Consumer body||Nagpur: Norms have been allegedly violated in yet another work of laying electric cables. The Grahak Kalyan Parishad, a non-profit organization working for consumers’ rights, has alleged substandard work in cable laying work being done by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) in Sitabuldi.The MSEDCL, through a private firm, is laying underground cables in west Nagpur for the last one month. One of the sites is between Laxmi Talkies and Jhunka Bhakar centre in Sitabuldi. But it is not being done as per the Indian Standard (IS), claimed the council’s member Mohammed Shahid Sharif. According to information procured from the MSEDCL’s Congress Nagar division, the underground cabling work is being carried out under the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) of Government of India and standard operating procedure needs to be followed as per IS-1255 (1983) specifications.On Tuesday, Sharif come across that a private agency M/s Ceinsys Tech Limited, owned by a former state minister, was assigned the job. “On inspecting some sites, we observed that the norms are not being followed. This was brought to the notice of MSEDCL top officials and we also stopped the work,” he said.In the joint inspection conducted by the Parishad and MSEDCL, it was found that the excavation of trench was not done as per the norms laid down under IPDS. The trench dug up was found to be 2.5-ft deep while norms stipulated it to be 4.5-ft deep. Even the RCC done for covering the cable was of substandard quality. In the past too, Civic Action Guild Foundation (CAG), a non-profit organization from Dharampeth, had exposed substandard work in cable laying work done by MSEDCL across the city. The NGO had also submitted a complaint to the Prime Minister’s Office and had claimed that MSEDCL was laying underground cables by ignoring the Indian Standard norms. Like CAG, Sharif too exposed that the private agency is not using sand while laying the cable. “As per IS 1255, it is necessary to place 75mm sand bed under the cable and 75mm above it. This was totally missing at the site,” he said.The back filling was carried out with the excavated soil containing material not permitted in the norms and this might damage the cable in the near future.The consumers’ rights body also hinted at large-scale corruption in laying underground cable works across the city. Sharif wondered how the NMC’s Dharampeth zone is allowing cable laying works during monsoon. “In the past, several high court orders have prohibited road digging works during the rainy season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-cable-laying-work-not-as-per-norms-consumer-body/articleshow/77322778.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||High school Yediyurappa studied in to get Rs 4 crore in aid||Mandya: The district administration has sanctioned Rs 4 crore to renovate and upgrade infrastructure at the old municipal high school, where chief minister BS Yediyurappa studied. Yediyurappa has often recalled his days of primary and high schooling in Mandya. According to officials, the fund will be used for constructing a science laboratory, library and auditorium. Books and science equipment will also be purchased. “CM Yediyurappa studied in the old municipal high school. The district administration has decided to make it a model school and will provide all facilities,” said an official. Yediyurappa spent his childhood in Mandya as he was living with his grandfather. When he became the chief minister for the first time, he had released funds to upgrade municipal high school. Meanwhile, people who live near the old municipal school are furious that the district administration is neglecting the primary school. “Officials are only concentrating on developing the old municipal high school but the primary school where the CM studied is in shambles and it became a den for anti-social elements,” said a resident. “We are proud that Yediyurappa studied here in Mandya. Along with the high school, the primary school should also be developed,” said another resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/high-school-yediyurappa-studied-in-to-get-rs-4-crore-in-aid/articleshow/77320060.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||Hit by van, 12-year-old boy dies on the spot, enraged locals lynch driver||PILIBHIT: Hit by a vehicle, a 12-year-old boy died on the spot while his 14-year-old friend sustained serious injuries, enraging locals who went on a rampage and allegedly lynched the 35-year-old driver and vandalised the vehicle in Pilibhit’s Mahadkhas village under Deuria police station on Saturday evening. Senior police officers, including superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav and ASP Pavitra Mohan, rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Police sent the bodies for autopsy and registered two FIRs in this connection. Police identified the driver as Ram Singh of Shivnagar village, the deceased boy as Prashant Verma and the injured as Deepanshu, both residents of Itauria village under Gajraula police station. In his complaint, Ramautar Verma said his nephew Prashant had gone to the adjacent Mahadkhas village along with his friend Deepanshu astride a bicycle around 7pm on Saturday when they were hit by the vehicle. “After the accident, a mob brutally assaulted the driver and vandalised his Tata Magic vehicle. The critically injured driver died on his way to the district hospital. We are identifying the assailants and they will be brought to book,” said the SP. Medical officer on emergency duty at the district hospital, Dr SK Vyas, told TOI that Prashant and Ram Singh were brought dead at 8.43pm and 10.10pm, respectively, while the injured boy, Deepanshu, is undergoing treatment. Deuria SHO Sanjeev Upadhyay said following a written complaint lodged by Ramautar Verma, the first case was registered against driver Ram Singh under sections 279 (driving on a public way in a manner so rash or negligent as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The second complaint was, however, lodged by Ram Singh’s father Chheda Lal, following which police booked unidentified people under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) of the IPC, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-van-12-year-old-boy-dies-on-the-spot-enraged-locals-lynch-driver/articleshow/77319142.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||72-year-old succumbs to Covid, becomes 2nd Chanda casualty||Chandrapur: Yet another Covid-19 patient from Chandrapur succumbed to the dreaded coronavirus on Sunday evening. The second Covid-19 death in the city came in the form of a 72-year-old woman from Jairaj Nagar, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Nagpur. The patient was admitted at Chandrapur GMCH in critical condition on July 22. Suffering from ailments like diabetes, blood pressure and pneumonia, the woman was immediately put on oxygen. However, the family members of the patient later requested to take her to a private hospital in Nagpur, for which permission was granted. She was shifted there eventually. The 72-year-old fought against Covid-19 for 10 days, and her husband too had contracted the virus. Finally, she died while undergoing treatment at around 4pm on Sunday. Chandrapur, which was free of Covid deaths till July, now has two deaths to its account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/72-year-old-succumbs-to-covid-becomes-2nd-chanda-casualty/articleshow/77331263.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Surveillance teams identify at least 20 primary contacts of ex-MLC||Mangaluru: Faced with a potent situation of a super-spreader, district health authorities have scrambled surveillance teams to ascertain primary contacts of former MLC Ivan D’Souza. The step comes in the wake of D’Souza and his wife testing positive for the novel coronavirus, which he disclosed in a Facebook post on Saturday. Ivan has had busy public engagements since last Monday, culminating with the two-day visit of KPCC president D K Shivakumar to the district on Friday. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that surveillance teams are in touch over telephone with D’Souza. As per established protocols, any person who has been in contact with a person testing positive for the virus for more than 15 minutes, and without wearing a mask will be deemed a primary contact, Dr Bairy said, adding the surveillance teams as per information given by D’Souza, have zeroed in on 20 people so far. “We are also going through the video footage, wherever available, to cross-verify the same,” Dr Bairy said. Those deemed primary contacts will be asked to voluntarily undergo 14 days of self-isolation, he said, adding if any symptoms of the disease surface between days 5-10, they need to get themselves tested. Ivan had accompanied Shivakumar on his various public engagements, including a 10-minute stopover to meet the bishop at the Bishop’s House. Former health minister U T Khader, one such primary contact, stated in a Facebook post that he was isolating himself for a few days due to his proximity to Ivan since the past week. “I will always be available to my constituents over phone,” the post said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/surveillance-teams-identify-at-least-20-primary-contacts-of-ex-mlc/articleshow/77320643.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||Drunk youths kill man, injure 3 others||Mysuru: A bunch youths who were advised not to consume liquor near a school, attacked villagers with a knife leading to the death of a person and injured three others at Madralli village in Nanjangud taluk on Saturday night. The youths are absconding. Ningaiah, 32, one of the injured and a valve man working under the local panchayat, told police that a few days back, the teachers from the school had told him that some youths were regularly consuming liquor and throwing empty bottles and waste food near the school and asked him to tell the youths not to dirty the place. Around 7.45pm on August 1, Ningaiah was returning home from work when he saw a bunch of youths sitting near the school. “I told them not to dirty the place and left. But they followed me and started abusing in filthy language. Suddenly two youths caught hold of me from behind while another attacked me with a knife. When I raised an alarm, they fled,” he told cops. Ningaiah’s family members and villagers who heard his cry, rushed to the spot. “When I told them what had happened, my cousins Mahadevu, Hrithik Roshan and Chandrababu took me to one of the suspect’s house to question him. When we went there, all the three youths who attacked me were at the house,” he said. As heated words were exchanged, Nanjundaswamy allegedly attacked Mahadevu with a knife and also attacked Roshan and Chandrababu who tried to intervene. All the four people were soaked in blood and were rushed to Nanjangud Government Hospital in an autorickshaw. While doctors declared Mahadevu brough dead, Ningaiah and his two others were shifted to KR Hospital in Mysuru. Nanjangud rural police have registered a case based on Ningaiah’s complaint and are searching for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drunk-youths-kill-man-injure-3-others/articleshow/77320382.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Rain returns: Orange alert in Kolhapur & Satara||KOLHAPUR: After a gap of several days, the district received fresh rainfall on Sunday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the showers will continue over the next few days. IMD-Mumbai had predicted heavy rainfall in the Kolhapur district and issued an orange alert for three days. According to local authorities, heavy rain had lashed the ghat sections on Sunday, but in the interior areas of the district, the showers, though continuous, were not as heavy as expected. In the region, an orange alert has also been issued for Satara for the next three days. Sangli, however, is expected to remain dry. Good rainfall over the next couple of days will help the dams fill up and the farmers will be able to resume paddy transplantation activities which were halted due to the long break in the rain. Also, the farmers who have cultivated ragi and soyabean on the shallow land will also be relieved as the rain will help rejuvenate the crops. Heavy rain had lashed the region continuously for almost a week during the corresponding time last year. It had led to the unprecedented floods in Kolhapur and Sangli districts. The floods wreaked havoc between August 5 to August 11. With the rains back again this time, citizens fear a likely repeat. Anticipating the rain, officials have started water discharge from the dams along the rivers in both the districts. Koyna dam in Satara district has started releasing water. Discharge from the Almatti dam was around 2,000 cusecs. The discharge from the dams helped the river water level to remain constant. The Panchaganga river water was around 11.2 feet by Sunday evening. The flood warning level of the river is 39 feet and danger mark is 43 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rain-returns-orange-alert-in-kolhapur-satara/articleshow/77322780.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Kidnap accused flees quarantine centre||VADODARA: An accused in a kidnapping case escaped from a government quarantine centre in Limkheda taluka in Dahod district on Saturday. Aanan Mavi, who was detained on July 31, was kept at government quarantine centre set up at model school after he had given his swab samples for coronavirus test.  Mavi was kept with other criminals in a hall while cops kept a watch outside the school. On Saturday morning, while the other accused in the hall were seen moving around and talking among themselves, cops found Mavi missing after which they checked around everywhere on the campus from toilet to terrace and other rooms. But they could not locate the3 accused, when a policeman noticed a window in the building open. They suspected that Mavi must have escaped from there. This is the fourth incident in central Gujarat where an accused had escaped from the quarantine centre. Last week, Sangramsinh Rathod, who was arrested by Panchmahal police, in connection with vehicle theft had fled from quarantine centre at Maize Research Centre in Godhra. On July 27, a man who is believed to be suffering from learning disability jumped from the third floor of a quarantine centre in Godhra. The man was rushed to the Godhra civil hospital and then Vadodara for treatment. He died later at Vadodara. In Vadodara, a bootlegger identified as Jasu Rajput had escaped from Covid-19 ward at SSG Hospital on July 23. Rajput was kept in isolation as his coronavirus test report was awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kidnap-accused-flees-quarantine-centre/articleshow/77320449.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman tries to strike compromise, molested in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old woman from the Amdupura area of city on Saturday filed a complaint with city police alleging that she was molested by a man when she went to strike compromise over a family issue. The woman states in her FIR with Shaherkotda police that her niece, 19, had eloped with a man, 20, around a week ago. Later, families of the eloped couple started negotiation on whether the marriage should be accepted or not. The woman’s family members did not have any problem with the marriage, but the man’s family was aggrieved with it. On Saturday, they called up the woman’s family members to talk on the issue. At that time, the complainant also went to strike compromise over the issue. When they were talking over the issue, one Amit became aggressive and attacked the complainant, torn her clothes and molested her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-tries-to-strike-compromise-molested/articleshow/77321904.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Former min and BJP leader dies of Covid-19||Eluru: Former AP endowments minister and senior BJP leader Pydikondala Manikyala Rao died on Saturday while being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Vijayawada. The chief minister has ordered a state funeral for the deceased politician. He will be the first Covid-19 victim to get a state funeral. The politician tested positive for Covid-19 a month ago at Tadepalligudem. Later, he was shifted to a private hospital in Vijayawada after suffering respiratory troubles. While undergoing treatment, he breathed his last on Saturday afternoon. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. Born in 1961 at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district, Manikyala Rao started his career as a photographer. An RSS activist from Tadepalligudem town, the former minister made his entry into Tadepalligudem municipal council on a BJP ticket. He was elected as an MLA on a BJP ticket from Tadepalligudem in 2014. As part of a coalition with the TDP, he was inducted into Chandrababu Naidu’s cabinet as endowments minister in 2014 and continued till differences cropped up between the two coalition partners in 2018 and subsequently resigned from the cabinet. After his defeat in 2019 general elections, Manikyala Rao was made general secretary of the Andhra Pradesh BJP unit. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy expressed shock over the death of Manikyala Rao. He conveyed his sympathies to the bereaved family members. The chief minister also directed the West Godavari district collector to give state honours to the former minister and conduct the funeral. Deputy chief minister and minister for health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) also expressed shock at the demise of Manikyala Rao. He further said that as a human being, Manikyala Rao strived hard to maintain good relations with one and all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-min-and-bjp-leader-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77307933.cms||Samson Raj
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer BJP leaders slam Cong||Jaisalmer: BJP leaders and workers organised a Sadbudhi prayer at Hanuman Chowraha here on Sunday. District BJP president Chandra Prakash Sharda, former MLA Chotu Singh Bhati, BJP district secretary Sushil Vyas, leader Vikram Singh Nachna, Kanwar Raj Singh Chauhan and other took part in the prayers and shouted slogans against the Congress government.Sharda said the Congress government because of its internal clashes are enjoying in hotels leaving people to fight Covid on their own. “It shows that the government is unable to think and has become mentally challenged. For this mentally challenged government, prayers were offered by the BJP at Hanuman Chowraha from 9am to 10am,” he said.He said people are not facing problems because of Covid but also frequesnt attacks by locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-bjp-leaders-slam-cong/articleshow/77322777.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||65-yr-old woman goes missing||Hyderabad: A 65-year-old business-woman left home for work but did not come back home a few days ago. Her husband has filed a missing complaint at Chikkadpally police station. The missing woman, P Saroja, from Domalguda had left home for Siddipet district for work. However, later her phone remained switched off and she did not return. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-yr-old-woman-goes-missing/articleshow/77322779.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Surat||58-year-old-diamond polisher donates plasma||SURAT: A 58-year-old diamond polisher who recovered from Covid-19 donated plasma at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Sunday, becoming one of the oldest plasma donors in the city. According to sources, Magan Karkar, a resident of Puna area, accompanied his younger brother, donated plasma on Sunday. A native of Malaknesh village in Khambha taluka of Amreli district, Karkar had never donated blood in his life, but when told that his plasma donation will help other Covid patients recover, he promptly agreed to do so. “I am a poor person and I have nothing to offer as help to others. But when I received a call from NCH requesting plasma donation. I immediately said yes. I feel happy that my plasma will help save the lives of Covid-19 patients,” Karkar told TOI. “As per ICMR guidelines, people aged between 18 years to 60 years can donate plasma. Karkar’s case is very inspiring as he did not hesitate to come forward when many young people are shying away because their family members are discouraging them. He is one of the eldest plasma donors in the city,” said Dr.Mayur Jagar, head of department of immunohematology and blood transfusion, NCG, told TOI. Till Sunday, 106 Covid-19 recovered people have donated their plasma at NCH and 179 Covid-19 patients have been given convalescent plasma therapy. Chief minister Vijay Rupani also lauded the plasma donation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/58-year-old-diamond-polisher-donates-plasma/articleshow/77320687.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Two schools in Khargar send notices to parents on fee payment||NAVI MUMBAI: Parents of students of two schools in Kharghar were sent notices that their wards would face de-enrolment for non-payment of fees. Empyrean school’s notice stated that fees were outstanding from April to July and set an August 5 deadline. It also stated that they would initiate the de-enrolment process if the deadline was not adhered to. Vibgyor school’s notice stated that it would be assumed that parents who have not paid fees for this academic year were no longer interested in their wards continuing studies. De-enrolment process will start from July 13, it added. Another circular said online learning would be stopped on July 23. Parents’ Education Justice Committee president Munaf Amirali Ahmadabadi said, “Parents met Empyrean management many times but there was no resolution. They have to pay while no class is on due to lockdown.” Vibgyor said it empathised with parents and had extended support to “financially impacted parents” in accordance with laws. Empyrean MD Irshad Patel did not respond to phone calls, SMSes and email. Raigad zilla parishad deputy CEO Sheetal Pund said that the block education officer will probe the notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/two-schools-send-notices-to-parents-on-fee-payment/articleshow/77322605.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist gets twice the amount of expected rainfall||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad district continued to get rain bounty during the current monsoon, producing almost 190% of the expected showers so far. Harsul lake, located on the city’s outskirts, is quite close to overflowing for first time in the last 14 years as there is a possibility of rainfall over the next few days. While the tehsil limits of Aurangabad recorded 646 mm showers since June 1 accounting for 210% of the expected showers, five other talukas from the district also reported almost twice the double of expected rainfall activity. These talukas include Vaijapur (519 mm, 241%), Gangapur (555 mm, 218%), Phulambri (561 mm, 215%), Paithan (522 mm, 206%) and Kannad (580 mm, 201%). The remaining three talukas, Khuldabad (680 mm, 198%), Soyagaon (502mm, 146%) and Sillod (399mm, 132% have also reported surplus showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-gets-twice-the-amount-of-expected-rainfall/articleshow/77322784.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||MBC to get 5% quota reservation in state judicial services||Jaipur: The state cabinet, head by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, approved the amendment in the Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules, 2010, to provide 5% reservation to the candidates belonging to MBC (most backward class) category, including the Gujjars, in judicial services. Earlier, they were provided 1% reservation in judicial services.Now, candidates belonging to MBC category including - Gurjar, Raika-Rabari, Gadiya-Lohar, Banjara and Gadaria communities - can get job opportunities in the state judicial services.“Through this amendment, 5% reservation is proposed, in place of 1%, to be provided to the candidates belonging to MBC in Rajasthan Judicial Services. The candidates belonging to the MBC category have been demanding amendment in the judicial service rules for a long time so that they could get 5% reservation in the state judicial services, instead of 1% percent,” said an official statement issued by chief minister’s office (CMO).Gujjar leader Himmat Singh tweeted, “We have been demanding amendment in judicial service rules for a long time for reservation to MBC candidates. I thank Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for this.”Another Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla tweeted, “Honorable Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Thank you for 5% in RJS. Hope 5% reservation will also be provided in Nursing 2013, REET, and other recruitment processes as per agreement soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mbc-to-get-5-quota-reservation-in-state-judicial-services/articleshow/77322782.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In-laws torture woman over food, car||AHMEDABAD: A woman, Deepika Modi, 27, a resident of Gomtipur lodged a complaint on Saturday against her husband Hiteshkumar, mother-in-law Bhartiben, father-in-law Dhiraj Modi and maternal father-in-law Dilip Modi for torturing her physically and mentally over petty issues and demanding a car in dowry from her parents. Gomtipur police have lodged an offence under Sections 498(A), 323, 114 and Dowry Prohibition Act against the accused. According to the FIR, Deepika was married to Hitesh Modi of Visnagar in May 2018. “She claimed in the FIR that for two months they kept her well but then started torturing her physically and mentally over petty issues,” said inspector Chirag Tandel of Gomtipur police station. “When she told her husband about the demand, he too said that his parents are doing the right thing,” said a police source. According to the FIR, in June 2020, her mother-in-law, husband and father-in-law tortured her for not cooking food properly. “The next day, her in-laws brought her to her maternal house and left her there,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-laws-torture-woman-over-food-car/articleshow/77321912.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan receives 30 per cent lesser rainfall compared to 2019; 25 districts get deficit rainfall||JAIPUR: Even after completion of three spells of the south west monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received excess rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 30 % less rainfall till August, 2 as compared to last year. Only Churu district has received excess rainfall while seven districts have received normal rainfall. “The major concern is for 25 districts have got deficit rainfall while three spells of the south west monsoon are completed,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office while quoting the monsoon figures. “Only Churu has received 19 % excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, the districts included Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Baran, Barmer, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Tonk and Udaipur have received deficit rainfall,” the officer added. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The Jaipur district so far has received a rainfall of 171.05 mm which is 36.1 percent lesser compared to 2019. In the city limited too a rainfall of merely 50 mm is received in the three spells of the monsoon so far. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Rajsamand and Sikar. Also, the state has a whole has received 30% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till August, 2 an average rainfall of 183.81 mm was received which is 30% less compared to 293.03 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-receives-30-percent-lesser-rainfall-compared-to-2019-25-districts-get-deficit-rainfall/articleshow/77322789.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 3, 2020||Kanpur||Highest single-day surge in district as 479 test Covid +ve||Kanpur: A whopping 479 new Covid positive cases were recorded in the district on Sunday. This is the highest single-day spike in the district so far. In fact, between August 1 and 2, a total of 729 positive cases have recorded. Active Covid cases in the district have now reached 3,444. On July 31, 366 positive cases were registered.The steep rise in Covid cases is attributed to the violation of social distancing norms by many residents.Nine more Covid positive patients died on Sunday during treatment. In the last two days, 18 persons have lost their lives due the coronavirus. The Covid death toll has reached 218. Health department informed that 44 patients who had recovered from Covid-19, were discharged on Sunday. So far, a total of 2,233 Covid patients have been cured and discharged.New Covid cases were reported from several localities of the district including Shyam Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Juhi, Medical College Campus, Swaroop Nagar, Azad Nagar, Civil Lines and Nehru Nagar.The nine deceased included a 50-year-old man from Latouche Road, 54-year-old man from Barra, 53-year-old man from KDA colony, 62-year-old man from Yashoda Nagar, 70-year-old man from Shastri Nagar, 39-year-old man from Bagiya crossing, 57-year-old man from Maswanpur, 65-year-old woman from Kakadeo and 70-year-old man from Mannipurwa.While four patients died at LLR hospital, three died at Rama Covid hospital, and one each at Kashiram hospital and Narayana hospital. Health department informed that 562 teams surveyed 37,149 houses on Saturday and samples of 143 persons were collected for Covid test. Besides, a total of 1,950 samples were sent for Covid test on Sunday. The ramped up testing in the district since the past few days is also one of the reasons for the steep rise Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/highest-single-day-surge-in-district-as-479-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77322793.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Councillor to go on strike at Mangor Hill||VASCO: Former chairperson and councillor of Mormugao Municipal Council Saifulla Khan will go on an indefinite hunger strike starting Monday along with three other residents of Mangor Hill inside the containment zone. The Vasco police on Sunday served notices under Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code to six persons, including Khan, residing at Mangor Hill containment zone in view of the strike. The notice states that during the said strike there is every possibility that people will gather, due to which the infection will transfer. They will also violate section 144 put during Covid. Khan earlier told TOI, “Mangor Hill was declared a containment zone on June 1 and since then we have been given empty assurances and nobody seems to be bothered about the welfare and freedom of the people by lifting the ban on movement sooner.” A Vasco police team met Khan and tried to convince him to drop the plan but Khan is adamant. “Congress leader and former chief minister Digambar Kamat has assured us that he will visit on Monday along with South Goa collector Ajit Roy,” he said. The strike is likely to start at 10am on Monday. Khan in the letter on Tuesday to the deputy collector had asked for 100% testing of around 10,000 people living inside the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/councillor-to-go-on-strike-at-mangor-hill/articleshow/77323162.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Stalker in custody flees, held at MGBS while waiting for bus||HYDERABAD: A cyber crime accused, who fled from the clutches of police personnel at Cherlapally central prison on Saturday, was arrested at MGBS on Sunday. The fugitive was caught at MGBS on Sunday when he was trying to board a bus to his native place. Cyber crime sleuths of Rachakonda had arrested M Durga Prasad, 27, a private employee from Lingala village in Nagarkurnool district for cyber stalking and sending obscene photos and videos to women. Head constable V Ramchander and constable M Srinivas Rao took him to Cherlapally prison after he was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday evening. “When the escort constables were showing remand documents to prison authorities, Durga Prasad got down from a police vehicle and escaped around 6.30 pm,” said Kushaiguda inspector A Man Mohan. “Based on the complaint of the cyber crime police, we registered a case under Section 224 of the Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt for Prasad. We arrested him at Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station on Sunday while he was waiting to catch a bus to his native place and produced him before the magistrate on Sunday,” added the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stalker-in-custody-flees-held-at-mgbs-while-waiting-for-bus/articleshow/77322794.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Surat||Surat: 50 cases in one day makes Athwa see red||SURAT: The city on Sunday reported 209 fresh cases pushing the tally to 11,399 cases so far, while on the same day seven more patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 504. Again, 189 patients too were discharged from hospitals after recovery. City’s upscale Athwa zone reported the highest cases with 50 positives and has over 1,185 cases till now. Meanwhile, the civic body’s enforcement team collected Rs 38,323 as penalty from 165 people for not following the safety protocols including wearing of masks in public places, at shops on Sunday. SMC has collected more than Rs 1 crore as penalty from people till now. Surat rural reported 28 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/50-cases-in-one-day-makes-athwa-see-red/articleshow/77320723.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||21 Army personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly Cantonment||BAREILLY: At least 21 Army personnel from different battalions were tested positive for Covid-19 in the Cantonment area of Bareilly on Saturday evening. All the positive jawans have been now shifted to Covid-19 facility in the Army hospital. Now, efforts are on to trace their contacts to curb the spread of the disease in the cantonment. The entry for outsiders other than Army officials in the area is already restricted. There are various establishments like Jat Regiment, ASC Battalion and Mountain divisions in the Bareilly cantonment area. All the battalions have been advised to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines to contain the infection. District surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar told TOI, “Around 12 jawans were found positive in the tests conducted by IVRI while the remaining were found positive in antigen testing at the Army hospital. Most of the patients are asymptomatic and are admitted at the Army hospital.” He further said, “The sanitization in the cantonment area is already being done by the health officials of the place and we will do mass testing by placing a camp in the area on Tuesday. Also, random testing would be done in the cantonment market to keep a check on the spread of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/21-army-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly-cantonment/articleshow/77319174.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 3, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan receives 30 per cent lesser rainfall compared to 2019; 25 districts get deficit rainfall||JAIPUR: Even after completion of three spells of the south west monsoon, majority of the places in the state have not witnessed good rainfall. However, the only exception is Churu district which received excess rainfall as compared to 2019. So far, the state has received 30 % less rainfall till August, 2 as compared to last year. Only Churu district has received excess rainfall while seven districts have received normal rainfall. “The major concern is for 25 districts have got deficit rainfall while three spells of the south west monsoon are completed,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office while quoting the monsoon figures. “Only Churu has received 19 % excess rainfall compared to 2019. However, the districts included Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Baran, Barmer, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Tonk and Udaipur have received deficit rainfall,” the officer added. Jaipur has not yet seen a day where a rainfall exceeding 20mm was even received. “For Jaipur the two spells have been bad. Hopefully, Jaipur will get good rainfall in the third and fourth spells,” said an officer. The Jaipur district so far has received a rainfall of 171.05 mm which is 36.1 percent lesser compared to 2019. In the city limited too a rainfall of merely 50 mm is received in the three spells of the monsoon so far. The districts where normal rainfall (+19 percent or minus 19 percent more or less compared to 2019) included Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Rajsamand and Sikar. Also, the state has a whole has received 30% less rainfall compared with 2019. “Till August, 2 an average rainfall of 183.81 mm was received which is 30% less compared to 293.03 mm received till July 2019,” the officer added. However, Met office predicted that with the revival of southwest monsoon from Tuesday, widespread rainfall activity is likely at many districts. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur in Bharatpur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rajasthan-receives-30-percent-lesser-rainfall-compared-to-2019-25-districts-get-deficit-rainfall/articleshow/77328819.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Why set up new crematoria||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Sunday expressed doubts over the state government’s move to set up five new LPG-fuelled crematoria in the city. The LPG-fuelled crematoria would be installed at cremation grounds in Charminar, Khairatabad, Secunderabad, Uppal and Kukatpally zones in the next 15 days with each having a capacity of handling 12 bodies each day. “The Covid-19 death toll in Telangana, as shown in the official media bulletin, never exceeded 15 on any given day. Why is the state government making arrangements to cremate so many bodies by providing five new crematoria?” Narayana Reddy questioned. “The chief minister should have dedicated all resources to handle Covid-19 in the initial stages itself. The state government was not upgrading hospitals and has failed to ensure adequate supply of ventilators and oxygen equipment, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-why-set-up-new-crematoria/articleshow/77322801.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Covid’s deadliest week: India sees 3.7 lakh cases, 5,345 deaths||NEW DELHI: India recorded more than 53,500 fresh Covid-19 cases and 758 deaths on Sunday, at the end of a week that saw the biggest surge in the pandemic so far. Nearly 3.7 lakh new infections were detected, 16% higher than the previous week’s count, and 5,345 people succumbed to the virus during the week, 474 more than the preceding seven days. It was a week when Andhra Pradesh witnessed a deluge of cases. The state recorded 62,466 fresh infections in the seven-day period, almost catching up with India’s worst-hit state of Maharashtra, where 65,429 cases were detected. Nearly 40% of Andhra’s total Covid caseload till date has come in the past week, as compared with 15% in Maharashtra, which too reported its highest-ever weekly count in this period. Tamil Nadu was at third spot in highest cases reported during the week at 43,890, 17% of the state’s total caseload. Karnataka was next with 38,678, accounting for 29% of all cases, followed by UP with 26,646, (28% of total cases). On Sunday, India recorded 53,641 new cases, a slight dip from the count in the previous two days (57,151 and 55,919, respectively), taking the total tally past 18-lakh mark to 18,04,539. Four states reported their highest single-day spike in infections — Bengal with 2,739 cases, Rajasthan (1,167), Madhya Pradesh (921) and Goa (337). There were 758 deaths reported during the day, again lower than Saturday’s single-day record count of 848.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covids-deadliest-week-india-sees-3-7-lakh-cases-5345-deaths/articleshow/77323474.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Rajkot||Women in Amreli bond with trees, promise to protect green cover||RAJKOT: On Rakshabandhan every year, women tie ‘rakhi’ on their brothers’ wrists to renew the promise of brothers protecting them.  On the eve of Rakshabandhan, several women in Amreli, tied ‘rakhi’ not with a promise to get protection but to protect. Women affiliated with Bal Bhavan tied ‘rakhi’ to several trees considering them as their brothers. However, the women promised to protect the trees. The unique celebration of Rakshabandhan was organized by Bal Bhavan and Community Science Centre where forest officials were also present. The celebration was inspired by state government’s Gujarat Council on Science and Technology and the several ‘rakhi’ which were tied also bore their logo. Students who participated by maintaining social distance took pledge for protection and conservation of environment. “Trees are very necessary as they are the only source of oxygen on our planet. Currently, in the times of pandemic, people have realized how important oxygen is so trees should be given importance,” said Nilesh Pathak, director of Bal Bhavan. He added that this was the first such event where trees were made brother and the women tied ‘rakhi’ around their stem for their protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/women-in-amreli-bond-with-trees-promise-to-protect-green-cover/articleshow/77320767.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Surat||Two wanted for murder in Thane caught from Surat||SURAT: Two persons, who are allegedly involved in a murder of ‘matka king’ Jignesh Thakkar in Kalyan city of Maharashtra’s Thane district on July 31, were arrested from a city hotel on Saturday.Crime branch sleuths nabbed Dipak Ramchandani, a resident of Thane and Dhanraj Shah, a resident of Kalyan, from a hotel near Surat railway station following specific information about their location. “Their role is not known to us at present but we have handed them over to Thane police,” said a senior crime branch official. Thakkar was shot dead by four persons outside his office in the limits of Mahatma Phule Chowk police station. Police had booked gangster Dharmesh alias Nannu Shah, his associate Jaipal alias Japan and two unknown persons. Nannu has several cases registered against him and he was earlier associated with underworld don Chhota Rajan The two arrested accused from the city are suspected to be working for Nannu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-wanted-for-murder-in-thane-caught-from-city/articleshow/77320751.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||DNA report doesn’t support paternity but no bail: HC||Mumbai: The mere fact that a DNA report does not support paternity is no ground to grant bail at this stage, Bombay high court told a man accused under Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and gang-raping a minor who was then studying for higher secondary exams. The child of the survivor has been sent to an orphanage. Justice Bharati Dangre declined to release the accused, saying, “There is every likelihood he will exert pressure on the girl once being released on bail.” The accused was arrested in a 2018 case filed in Pune and charge-sheeted in September 2019. He is one of three accused of gang-rape and the survivor had given birth to a child in November 2018. He claimed he was “roped in without rhyme or reason” when the paternity test clearly showed the child was not his and thus absolved him. But HC, looking at the survivor’s detailed statement that she was introduced to him by friends while studying in March 2018 and was taken to his house, where in an alleged pre-planned conspiracy she was allegedly gang-raped. Her parents are estranged and her mother does odd jobs. She was afraid to tell her mother “revealed” the incident only in November, when an FIR was lodged. HC said, “The case against the applicant is a serious one of committing gang-rape by three persons, and taking advantage of a situation of a poor, helpless girl. The applicant indulged in an act of rape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dna-report-doesnt-support-paternity-but-no-bail-hc/articleshow/77322607.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosp asks +ve pregnant woman to leave, go home on her own||Ludhiana: A four-month pregnant corona positive woman was suddenly asked to leave by the civil hospital and go home on her own. Entire family of the woman was home quarantined, but her husband had to leave the house to get his wife back home who had to wait at the gate of the civil hospital for over an hour. On Saturday, the sister-in-law of the woman tweeted to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh about it. Speaking with The Times of India on phone, the 21-year-old resident of Kohara said her sister-in-law (brother’s wife) had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 24. Two days later, they were approached by the health department and she was shifted to Ludhiana civil hospital and their entire family was home quarantined despite all of them testing negative. She added, “On August 1, my sister-in-law called up my brother, saying the hospital staff had asked her and three other positive women in the ward to leave and go home. She was standing at the gate of the hospital when she called. Since we all were under home quarantine, we were unable to pick her up from there. As she was pregnant, she was scared to use public transport. Therefore, I called 104 Covid helpline and was given contacts of some officials. I talked to all of them, but no one helped us. Thereafter, my brother went and brought his wife home. Now, she is under home isolation.” “I tweeted this to CM Captain Amarinder Singh to highlight how irresponsible the officials are. If a corona positive person breaks isolation, a case is registered, but no action is taken when health staffers ask a patient to reach home on her own. Is this the way our health officials are trying to stop the spread of coronavirus?” she fumed. Despite repeated attempts, chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosp-asks-ve-pregnant-woman-to-leave-go-home-on-her-own/articleshow/77320753.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 3, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 patients to fill online form for home isolation nod||Kanpur: With the rising graph of Covid patients in the city, the district administration has decided to adopt new measures to contain the deadly virus. Now as soon as a person tests positive, he would receive a message on his mobile with a link. The patient has to fill an online form, apprising whether he would prefer home isolation or admission in a hospital. For this, the administration has also prepared a portal. Divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde held a meeting with health officials and district administration at Kanpur Municipal Corporation’s control room. He informed that the administration patients will have to fill a form on this portal. Doctors attached to it have been trained and would be in operation round the clock. Doctors would seek medical details of infected persons, who opt for home isolation. If a patient feels uneasy during home quarrantine, he can contact the control room number 18001805159. A medical team would arrange the admission at a government hospital or a private nursing home. The divisional commissioner said the RRT team would keep the list of infected persons. The RRT team would be constituted police station wise so that infected persons should be contacted without any delay. If the infected person fails to fill the form, the control room would contact him and help in filling the form. DM Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari said private labs must take Aadhaar card details and mobile number of infected persons. Strict action would be taken against those who would give false contact details. Similarly, the administration would take stern action against those who would give false address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-patients-to-fill-online-form-for-home-isolation-nod/articleshow/77322803.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||45 deaths, 1,050 cases in past 7 days||Ludhiana: As many as 45 deaths and over a thousand Covid-19 cases in the last seven days have sent alarm bells ringing in Ludhiana. The spurt in cases has also reduced the doubling rate of cases in the district.As per the state media bulletin released on Saturday evening, the district witnessed 45 deaths in a week’s time, which is around 39.5% of the total deaths taking place in the state during the same period. Jalandhar and Amritsar districts are at number two and three, while Fazilka, Faridkot, Fategarh Sahib, Ferozpur, Moga and Mansa recorded zero deaths in those seven days.The bulletin suggests that Ludhiana had a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3% in the last seven days — higher than the CFR for 14 districts of Punjab and more than the value for the state. Kapurthala and Amritsar had recorded 4% CFR in the last seven days.The situation is also worrying with regard to the rise in the number of cases in Ludhiana district. The bulletin suggests that the district recorded in the last seven days a whopping 1,050 cases, which is about 24% of total cases reported in the state during the period. Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar, had reported 491, 474 and 420 cases, respectively.Ludhiana had also the highest number of active cases at 1,153 compared to other districts during the period, with Patiala and Jalandhar at second and third spots with 829 and 656 active cases, respectively. The doubling rate — the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days’ growth rate — was 13 for the district on August 1, whereas it was 16 on July 18. Given the rise in Covid deaths and positive cases in the last around 10 days, one can safely say that the peak has started, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. “Peak of the pandemic has started, which is why cases are witnessing an increase and more deaths are occurring. We are taking all measures to provide top healthcare services to the patients, but the best solution to the problem is that people start taking preventive steps like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and go out only if very necessary,” said the civil surgeon.Meanwhile, many residents feel that the administration needs to deal with the violators of Covid-19 safety norms with iron hands.“Soft approach has not helped much in the fight against Covid, so it is time authorities acted tough against those not wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, etc. Fine for not wearing the mask should be increased to Rs 20,000 and there should be cases against them for subsequent violations,” said Narinder Singh, a Pakhowal Road resident. BOXShortage of beds for serious patients As per the latest media bulletin, the number of beds occupied in Level 3 facilities (meant for serious patients) in Ludhiana is 75, whereas the total availability of such beds in the district is 76. That means, there is just one bed left for serious patients. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said in a meeting with senior officers on Saturday, the private hospitals have been asked to reserve and declare 50% of such beds for patients.Cured percentage As per media bulletin of Saturday, cured percentage for Ludhiana district is 63% and 65% for the state. On July 28, the cured percentage for Ludhiana was 64% and 65% for the state .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/45-deaths-1050-cases-in-past-7-days/articleshow/77320760.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Why smog towers may not fix Delhi’s problem||NEW DELHI: Installing a smog tower in the capital may take another ten months, with a fresh MoU signed by IIT-Bombay with the central government. The work will be carried out using expertise from University of Minnesota and IIT Delhi. At present, Delhi has only one smog tower – a 20-ft-tall device, which was installed at Lajpat Nagar in January by a local traders’ association. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, experts call this solution impractical and unfeasible, with an analysis carried out by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) claiming that at least 25 lakh such smog towers will be required to clean Delhi’s air. Delhi requires permanent solutions as the capital inhaled toxic air for 241 days in 2019, the analysis adds. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Associate, CEEW, said the money being spent on these smog towers could be used elsewhere, with attention in particular required towards thermal power plants. “In no way should such unproven technologies be encouraged. The focus in the region should instead be on ensuring that the thermal power plants around Delhi comply with the emission norms notified in 2015. Also, the money could be better utilised on an augmented and reliable transit system and scientific management of waste in the city.Cutting down emissions is the only way to tackle air pollution,” added Ganguly. The smog tower at Lajpat Nagar was installed at a cost of Rs 7 lakh, with an additional amount of Rs 30,000 required each month for its maintenance. To install 25 lakh such towers, the amount required will be 2.5 times of Delhi’s annual budget, states the CEEW analysis. The tower apparently cleans 2,50,000 to 6,00000 cubic metre of air each day. However, CEEW states its impact is limited to a 50-metre radius. Organisations are calling the government to look at more concrete options, stating that ‘band-aid’ solutions can be more damaging than useful in the long run. Jhatkaa — a campaign-driven organisation —has started an online petition, asking the Supreme Court, Central Pollution Control Board and Ministry of Environment if this was the best use of taxpayers’ money when there is evidence that smog towers are not a solution to tackle PM2.5. “They are costly to maintain and run and will also give people a false sense of complacency and assurance, impacting real change,” said Meghna, a campaigner at Jhatkaa.org. Anumita Roy Chowdhury from Centre for Science and Environment says global practice also shows that no major country has used smog towers as a way to control air pollution. “Private entities have installed them, but no government is using it as a regulatory measure to improve air quality. There is also not enough data to support its effectiveness,” added Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-smog-towers-may-not-fix-citys-problem/articleshow/77320777.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Mom snatches boy from leopard’s jaws in Gujarat||VADODARA: A two-year-old boy was attacked by a leopard in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal early on Sunday morning. According to forest officials, Ganesh Bhupendra was sleeping in the front room of their house in Dharamkhetar village with his mother. His father stays in the farm to ward off crop damage by nilgais. As it was hot, Ganesh’s mother had kept the door of their house slightly ajar, which made it easy for the leopard to enter the room. The leopard caught hold of the boy’s head in his jaws which made a startled Ganesh burst out crying. Hearing her son’s cries, the mother woke up and pulled the boy by his legs. Forest officials said that as the leopard may not have had a proper grip of the boy’s head, it loosened its hold and fled to a nearby maize farm. Hearing her cries, neighbours too rushed in for help. “The boy has received stitches above his right eye and injury on his head. He is being treated at SSG Hospital in Vadodara,” said in-charge range forest officer V G Makwana. On July 29 too, leopard had attacked a 13-year-old boy in Chatha village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mom-pulls-boy-back-from-leopards-jaws/articleshow/77320470.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Infection intensifies, moves beyond containment zones||PANAJI: Covid-19 cases were being detected from certain pockets— hutments, building or residential areas—of towns and villages in early July. However, this is no longer true. Cases have spread beyond the limited area, signifying the heightened pace of infections in midst of monsoon when other viral infections are also on the rise. For instance, Margao, which has crossed 100 confirmed cases, has infections detected from all over the town. The conditions in Mapusa, Ponda, Dharbandora or Porvorim that have more cases detected during the last 15 to 20 days, is not different from Vasco and Cortalim though their caseload may be comparatively low. “We may not have 300 or 400 actives cases as reported in Vasco or Cortalim, but the underlying point is that now Covid-19 is everywhere,” a health officer in North Goa said. In Margao, the initial cases came from Moti Dongor, a slum area of the commercial town, but now cases are being detected from all over the town, a health officer said. “It’s a sign that the virus is everywhere,” the officer said. Another official said that the pattern of the spread of the infection in Margao is similar to that in Vasco in June. “People have thrown caution to the wind. Forget about observing social distancing norms, there are many who do not hesitate to organise celebrations such as birthday parties,” he said. Primary health centres at Ponda and Dharbandora, which have seen infection in industrial workers, health workers and their families, have now people testing positive from various parts. A health officer said that they have 12 new cases detected in Dharbandora on Sunday, but nine cases of industrial workers were outside his jurisdiction. “They prefer to do testing in Dharbandora as the caseload here is less compared to Margao or Ponda,” he said. While he said that there has been a dip in cases in the last two to three days in his jurisdiction, he is not confident that the situation will not change in a few days since the virus has spread. Panaji’s suburbs, which have witnessed a spike, have cases reported from Socorro, Penha-de-Franca and Salvador de Mundo, three panchayats that comprise Porvorim. The cases have been found in upmarket residential buildings, Vijaynagar, as well as other corners of Porvorim. The authorities are contemplating declaring Vijaynagar a micro containment zone with rise in cases there, an officer said. Chief officer of the Mapusa Municipal council, Kabir Shirgaonkar, said that though they have not detected more cases in the city’s slum area, Ganganagar, the cases reported during the last few days have come up in various other parts of the town. Meanwhile, Cuchelim, a closely-packed area near Tivim industrial area, continued to be sealed as test reports of some are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infection-intensifies-moves-beyond-containment-zones/articleshow/77323166.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Low-key celebrations for Anglo Indian Day||Hyderabad: Reflecting on their contribution to the areas of education, railway, defence, music and social work, Anglo Indians in the city celebrated the World Anglo Indian Day here on Sunday. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the community restrained from stepping out of their homes for the celebrations. Speaking to TOI, Christine Lazurus, an ex- MLA from the community said: “We have restricted our celebrations to our homes this year considering the current situation. Instead of meeting our family and friends in a common place outside our homes, we took part in virtual celebrations by organising zoom calls.” Nearly 8,000 Anglo Indians from the twin cities, settled in Lalaguda, Tarnaka, Mettuguda and Bolarum among other places, practise Christianity and comprise of Roman Catholics and Protestants. Earlier, the association heads used to organise celebrations to reflect on the community’s tradition of conducting events dedicated to food, music and dance. Their celebrations also reflected on the community’s contribution in serving the nation and carefully preserving the pre-independence sense of British identity. “The community has risen from dire circumstances through determination and perseverance and slowly made progress. Now, the entire community is well-educated and are very well settled. They are all leading a stable life. On this day, we only pray that we will continue to hold on to our roots and come back strong from this Covid-19 situation,” says Jimmy Lazarus, a resident of Tarnaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-key-celebrations-for-anglo-indian-day/articleshow/77322812.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||Pragya mocks Cong for its stand on Ram temple||Bhopal: Mocking the Congress for its move to celebrate Ram Utsav ahead of ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple at Ayodhya, BJP leader and Bhopal MP Pragya Singh Thakur took a jibe at the grand old party saying “those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram is now talking of celebrating the occasion.” Thakur said that every Hindu remembers how Congress tricked to stall the construction of Ram Temple. She referred to Congress leader Kamal Nath's remarks on Saturday to host recital of Hanuman Chalisa at his residence ahead of the bhumi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya. The BJP leader also attacked Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh for his remarks on muhurat of bhumi pujan. "The Pitthoo (parrot) of the Congress says that every Hindu is for Ram temple. Wow, all remembers the deceit of stalling the temple decision in the Supreme Court," tweeted Thakur, on Sunday. The two Congress veterans - Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh - have welcomed the construction of Ram Temple. Nath being an ardent devotee of Lord Hanuman asked the party cadre and leaders to recite Hanuman Chalisa at the homes. "It represents the fulfillment of the long-awaited dream of the people. It has become possible due to the collective agreement of all people in the country. This is possible in India only," Nath had said in a video message on Saturday. Just a few hours later, Digvijaya Singh tweeted on the issue, "Lord Ram is the nucleus of our faith and the entire country is running by his grace only. We aspire that a grand Ram Temple is built in Ayodhya soon. Late Rajiv Gandhi also wanted it to happen." In another tweet, Singh, however, wrote that the muhurat (auspicious time) when the foundation of the temple will be laid on August 5 is 'inauspicious'. Congress meanwhile retorted to Pragya’s remarks saying, “Several leaders associated with the BJP like Subramanian Swamy, have accepted that it was Rajiv Gandhi and former Congress Prime Minister late PV Narasimha Rao who were instrumental in paving the way for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The BJP is only publicising and politicising the issue for personal gains," said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pragya-mocks-cong-for-its-stand-on-ram-temple/articleshow/77322809.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Hunger competes with virus as budget hotels fight for survival in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Mohammed Shoeb went back to his native place Kishanganj after Shelton Hotel in Paharganj was shut down because of the pandemic, but the 23-year-old cook has now been calling his manager frequently to inquire when he can return and join work. As of now, there’s no clarity on when Delhi’s hotels will be back in business. The same kind of desperation is being felt by 20-year-old Mohammed Tausif, who comes from the same place as Shoeb. “I returned to Delhi around two weeks ago. There are hundreds of hotel employees who are finding it difficult to sustain their families. Much more than the disease, hunger will kill them,” Tausif added. Paharganj used to be a commercial hub bustling with life with cafes and entertainment centres teeming with tourists. But nowadays it’s a pale shadow of its former self. Posters of closure and locked gates dominate the scene. Apart from the iconic German Bakery, many smaller cafes have permanently closed down. “There are no customers. I have grown up in Paharganj, but have never seen it so lifeless,” said Vinod Kumar, a trader at Baoli Chowk. Krishna Cafe, which was across his shop, went bankrupt and shut down permanently. “The place used to be full of foreigners. Last month, they came and moved out all their goods. Hotels and cafes running out of rented premises have either closed down or are on the verge of closure,” he added. The local association of hotels said there were close to 650 big and small lodging houses in the area employing over a lakh people directly and indirectly. Daljeet Chadha, the head a hotel association and owner of a budget hotel on Ara Kasha Road, said every unit like his with 20-25 rooms gave livelihood to many. “Many of us have taken the premises on lease. With over four months of closure, how are we expected to keep paying the lease amount and bills?” he asked. The hopes of many employees rose briefly after Delhi government announced that hotels would be opened in Unlock 3.0. But they were dejected after the LG didn’t give his nod to the proposal. Many hotel owners told TOI that they had made arrangements for sanitising luggage, procuring disinfection machines and buying masks to keep everyone safe. “If people coming from the airport and railway stations are being scanned on landing, how will it be risky to provide them lodging facilities?” asked Mahendra Gupta, the owner of Sopan Heights Hotel and vice-president of Delhi Hotels and Restaurants Association. There are around 2,600 budget hotels across the city, with most being concentrated in Paharganj, Karol Bagh and Mahipalpur. While each unit directly employs 20-25 people, they indirectly help provide livelihood to suppliers of food, milk, newspapers and laundry services. “Even with no operations, we are spending up to Rs 1 lakh as fixed charges for maintenance, electricity bills and salaries,” said Gupta. Pawan Mittal, who owns Hotel Star View near Imperial cinema, said he had asked his employees to return after the announcement was made. “My staffers had been calling me for the past month asking when they could return. I had to ask them to stay put. We have already purchased disinfection equipment. The government is making us pay commercial taxes and utility bills, but not allowing us to function,” he added. Watch Covid-19: Shuttered budget hotels 'fight for survival' in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hunger-competes-with-virus-as-budget-hotels-fight-for-survival/articleshow/77322020.cms||Paras Singh
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Man, woman die in two separate road accidents||Ludhiana: Two separate road accidents claimed the lives of two, a man and a woman, in the city on Saturday evening. In the first case, a 65-year-old Surjit Singh of Jamalpur died in a road mishap at Vardhman Chowk on Saturday evening. Surjit was returning home on his scooter from work when the incident occurred. He was a driver by profession. In his complaint to police, Gurpreet Singh, son of the deceased, said when his father reached near Vardhman Chowk on Chandigarh Road, a speeding canter hit his scooter. His father fell on the road and died on the spot. According to him, the driver of the canter tried to escape from the spot with the vehicle, but the onlookers managed to stop him and called the police. Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pavittar Singh from Division number 7 police station said the police have arrested Gurinder of Lalton Kalan village. A case has been registered against him under sections of 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC. The police said, according to eyewitnesses, deceased slowed down his two-wheeler at the signal, as the traffic light was about to turn red. But the canter driver, who was coming too fast, couldn’t stop on time and hit the scooter. In the second case, a 65-year-old woman, Amarjit Kaur, died when a speeding car, coming from the wrong side, hit her. The woman and her son had gone for an evening walk on Shahpur road when the incident occurred. Gurinder Singh, son of the deceased, said they walk every evening after dinner. On Saturday too, at around 9.30pm, they were walking on the road when a speeding car hit his mother from behind. The car driver managed to flee. Gurinder said he rushed his mother to a nearby hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries while undergoing treatment. Investigating officer from Division number 2police station, ASI Des Raj said the son had noted down the car number. The police have traced the accused, who has been identified as Noni of Barewal road. The accused owns a shop on Shahpur road. A case has been registered against the accused who is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-woman-die-in-two-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/77320795.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kanpur||BEO tests positive, hangs self||Kanpur: A 52-year-old block education officer, allegedly committed suicide by hanging self from ceiling fan of his room after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Suresh Chandra Verma of Kalyani Devi area in Unnao was posted at BEO headquarters in Kanpur, said the police. According to the police, Verma’s family members took him to Ursala Horseman hospital in Kanpur after he complained of fever and breathlessness on July 26. Later, he underwent a Covid test on July 27. “On August 1, he was confirmed positive for novel coronavirus infection after which doctors asked him to follow remain in home quarantine,” said police. Inspector Kotwali Dinesh Chandra Mishra said the BEO was found hanging from ceiling fan of his room on Sunday morning. However, no suicide note has been recovered, he said, adding that further investigations are under way. Police said that his family members suspect that he committed suicide due to his ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/beo-tests-positive-hangs-self/articleshow/77322821.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||CM: Ensure screening of people coming for Rakhi||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed the district collectors to make sure that there is proper arrangement of screening of people coming from outside on Raksha Bandhan. He advised that vigilance should be maintained in the state, so that no lockdown situation can be created in any district. Chouhan was reviewing the Covid-19 status in the state through video conferencing on Sunday from the hospital. After repeated complaints and ruckus by patients under quarantine about irregularities and poor facilities at the Covid and quarantine centres, Chouhan directed for proper arrangements of food, water and cleanliness at the quarantine centres. During the review of Jabalpur and Rajgarh districts, Chouhan directed that precautions such as wearing masks, sanitization and physical distancing should be strictly followed. He instructed to maintain special vigil in hospitals. In the meeting, it was informed that patients with serious ailments have also recovered from Corona in Jabalpur. It was informed in the video conference that the process of Rapid Antigen Test of Corona has started in the state. As many 507 tests were conducted in the state on July 31 and 1,021 on August 1. This will enable quick identification of Corona affected persons. Instructions were also given to all districts to increase sampling of Corona test and identify contact history of the Corona affected persons and strengthen the system of checking the persons who come in contact. Information was also taken by the Crisis Management Group of all districts to review the latest status of Corona infection and to ensure management accordingly. Chief minister said that it is necessary to monitor the time that an ambulance takes to reach the patient. Additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman informed that there is adequate arrangement of ambulances in all the districts and funds were also provided to the collectors for arranging additional ambulances when needed. In the same sequence, information was given that adequate number of other machines needed for treatment including ventilators is available in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-ensure-screening-of-people-coming-for-rakhi/articleshow/77322816.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||White car gang busted with arrest of 3 women||Times News Network Ludhiana: The white car women gang has been busted with the arrest of three.The gang had been active in the city for the past few years. They would target women and rob them of their gold jewellery.While Roopo of Samana, Lachmi of Langrai village in Patiala and Karamjit Kaur of Bhawanigarh in Sangrur were arrested from Patiala, their two accomplices managed to flee.On Saturday night, the Ludhiana Police uploaded the trio’s pictures on its official Facebook page, asking their victims to approach the cops. The police said the accused have confessed to have executed five crimes in the city.Police said the gang moved in a car, which was driven by their male accomplice. They usually targeted elderly women near religious places. After claiming to be their relatives, the gang would offer them a lift in their cars. After stealing their jewelry, they made their victims alight from the car. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “The women have confessed to have executed five such crimes in Ludhiana city and several more in other districts. However, we suspect their involvement in more such cases as at times people don’t report the incident. Their victims are requested to contact police. The trio will be brought here on a production warrant for questioning.”When gang was on the prowlJuly 26: Suman Singh, 53, of Ganpati Colony, Sahnewal, was returning home on her two-wheeler when the gang snatched her gold chain near Sahnewal main market. They first intercepted her, then a woman came near her, snatched the gold chain and fled. November 5, 2019: The gang targeted Nirmal Mahajan, 73, and escaped with her gold bangles. The elderly woman was going to Radha Soami Satsang center in Daad village when the gang offered her lift.October 2, 2019: The gang robbed Veeran Malhotra, 73, a resident of Rajpura Road and mother of a high court advocate, of her gold bangle near Kitchlu Nagar police post. After robbing her, they pushed her out of the car and escaped. July 24, 2019: The gang made off with the gold chain of Kanchan Sharma, 45, of Chandigarh near Kohara. The woman had come to the city to visit her relatives.June 7, 2019: The gang robbed an elderly woman, Jaswant Kaur of Urban Estate, Focal Point, of her gold bangles after offering her lift in their car.May 26, 2019: The gang robbed Usha Kakkar, 38, of Tagore Nagar of her ‘mangalsutra’ and a gold bangle on Humbran Road on the pretext of offering her lift in their car.February 8, 2019: The robbers targeted Karamjeet Kaur, 70, and escaped with her gold bangle outsider her house in Phase-II of Urban Estate, Dugri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/white-car-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-3-women/articleshow/77320780.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain, floods likely in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai this week||MUMBAI: The city, Thane and Navi Mumbai could witness a flood-like situation in low-lying areas following heavy rain this week. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for parts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar from August 3-6, while a red alert was issued for Raigad and Ratnagiri for August 3. Rainfall is likely to intensify due to strengthening of monsoon currents and likely formation of a low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal around August 4. Enhanced rainfall is also expected over districts of interior Maharashtra, which is much needed as it has some areas that supply water to the city. An orange alert indicates heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places, while a red alert indicates extremely heavy rain at isolated places being very likely. IMD headquarters in Delhi also issued a red alert for Konkan coast, which includes Mumbai, for August 4. IMD deputy director-general (western region) K S Hosalikar said, “Enhanced rainfall is likely in Mumbai from Monday. It could continue till August 6, with a likely maximum impact on August 4-5 in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. It could lead to a flood-like situation, especially in low-lying areas. People must check IMD’s website for updates.” Ministry of earth sciences secretary Dr M Rajeevan tweeted that models indicate a weather system over Bay of Bengal by August 4, a remnant from Pacific is likely to move across Central India to Gujarat and very heavy rain is expected over central plains and west coast, including Mumbai, especially on August 6. IMD had warned fisherman along Maharashtra and Goa coast as squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50kmph was likely along and off north Maharashtra coast on August 2 and wind speed reaching 45-55kmph gusting to 60kmph was likely along and off North Maharashtra coast between August 3-6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-rain-floods-likely-in-mumbai-thane-navi-mum-this-week/articleshow/77322609.cms||Richa Pinto
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: At 15, Sunday toll lowest in about 2.5 months; total 4,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 4,000 mark on Sunday, while the number of deaths reported due to the viral infection in the last 24 hours was 15, one of the lowest in more than two and a half months. The capital reported 961 new cases on Sunday, while 1,186 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. Though the total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached the figure of 1,37,677 on Sunday, the number of those who have recovered stands at 1,23,317. The city’s recovery rate has climbed to 89.5%. The number of active Covid-19 cases was 10,356, the lowest in more than two months. “Deaths in Delhi come down to 15. Less than 1,000 cases. Lets all keep working hard to ensure that the downward trend continues (sic),” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. After the peak of 28,329 active cases on June 27, the numbers of both active and new cases have shown a sharp decline. On Monday, the city had recorded 613 new cases, the lowest in two months. The chief minister, however, has been cautioning Delhiites not to get complacent and continue wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. As on Sunday, most of Covid-19 positive patients — 5,663 — are recuperating in home isolation and 2,886 are admitted in hospitals, apart from 685 in Covid care centres and 161 in Covid health centres. Total 10,692 Covid beds are vacant in hospitals, 5,389 in Covid care centres and 393 in health centres. However, 4,170 beds in Covid care centres are being used as quarantine facilities for travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. Delhi had recorded its first and the country’s second Covid-19 death on March 13, when a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri succumbed to the infection. It took another 79 days for the death figures to cross the mark of 500 and about three months to reach the figure of 1,000. The city, however, crossed the figure of 2,000 Covid-19 deaths in about a week from then and breached the 3,000 mark in about a fortnight from then. The biggest spike in the number of deaths also came at a time when Delhi was witnessing a spike in the number of active cases and new cases every day. The graph started dipping from June-end and for the total number of deaths to reach from 3,004 to 4,004, it took almost a month. The city’s fatality rate, at present, is 2.9%. Watch Covid-19: At 15, Sunday toll lowest in about 2.5 mths; total 4k in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-15-sunday-toll-lowest-in-about-2-5-mths-total-4k/articleshow/77322032.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Portion of demolished SNDT bridge in Mumbai reopens, bringing relief to motorists||MUMBAI: A part of SNDT bridge over a nullah at Juhu Tara Road which had been demolished, was reopened to traffic on August 1. The bridge was open only for light vehicles and height barriers had been placed. The bridge was shut last year in June following an audit after Himalaya bridge crashed at CSMT in March 2019. The audit pointed out that the structure had to be shut as steel portions of the bridge had been exposed. But after a hue and cry by residents and elected representatives, a fresh audit found it could be opened to light vehicles, with a slab being cast over, as part of it was taken up for reconstruction. Civic officials opened up the reconstructed part on Saturday. “There was a delay in work as we were unable to find labourers due to Covid-19 outbreak in the city. The part temporarily kept open with height barriers will be taken up for repairs now. We plan to complete it by the year-end,” said an official. Khar resident Zoru Bhathena, who uses the route frequently, said there seemed to be a significant amount of work left. “BEST double-decker buses on the route should resume now,” he added. The route is used by devotees for Ganpati idol immersions at Juhu beach. But BMC has restricted movement in containment zones, especially for immersions, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/part-of-sndt-bridge-reopens/articleshow/77322610.cms||Richa Pinto
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot urges PM Modi to hold VC with CMs||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold a video conference with the chief ministers over Covid-19 management. In a letter to the PM on Sunday, Gehlot said that since the last meeting with the CMs via video conference was held on June 17, the indicators related to the coronavirus and economy have changed drastically. “My request is to hold a meeting via video conferencing on the present situation of Covid-19 with the CMs of all states to discuss the management of the pandemic. The fight against Covid-19 is in the final stage and every state is fighting with full force, ability and resources. Also, the state did everything possible to help those who lost their livelihoods,” reads the letter. The letter further reads that at a time when the country is facing a pandemic, the PM has established communication with CMs of states, which is praiseworthy. “Under the cooperative federalism system, dialogue between the state and central governments, the exchange of information on strategy helps to the best practices,” said Gehlot in the letter, while reminding the importance of dialogue between the Centre and the state. The letter also contains detailed information on efforts taken by Gehlot in dealing with Covid-19. It reads, “Till June 17, the number of tests done in the state was 6.37 lakh, which shot up to 15.26 lakh on August 1. The percentage of Covid-19 positive cases was 2.12 on July 17 which touched 2.79% on August 1. In the same period, the test capacity has been increased from 22, 000 to 45,000 per day.” The letter also has a mention of plasma therapy used in the state which showed good results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-urges-pm-to-hold-vc-with-cms/articleshow/77322828.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||Pyare had used B’wood actor’s name to register his hsg society||Bhopal: Local newspaper owner Pyare Mian, accused of raping and sexually exploiting minor girls, had fraudulently added the name of a veteran Bollywood actor and another eminent person in the list of members to get his housing society registered. Pyare had later rented out the apartment terrace to a telecommunication company for setting up a mobile tower. Later, he removed the names of the celebrities and made his family members and servants members of the society. These facts were revealed by Shyamla Hills police on Sunday which is investigating the fraud and forgery case registered against Pyare Mian, his two wives, son and an advocate. Police said that Pyare Mian and his family members extorted Rs 1.25 crore from the telecom company and submitted fake audit reports of society for a duration of eight years in 2019 through his lawyer, who was later made accused in the case by police. Pyare Mian is presently on remand taken by Shyamla Hills police. He will be produced before the court on Monday. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that Shyamla Hills police had registered a case on charges of fraud and forgery against Pyare Mian, his wives Badrunissa and Tanveer Fatima along with son Shahnawaz for making a fake housing society in the name E-Block Lake View Welfare Society and renting the terrace of the E-Block at Ansal Apartment to a telecom company to set up their mobile tower. During investigation, Pyare Mian revealed that he purchased three flats in E-Block in the name of Badrunnisa, Tanveer Fatima and Shahnawaz. In the same block the telecommunication company has their flat and their mobile tower was built on the terrace in 2002. SP Thota said that Pyare Mian revealed that in 2010 his wife Tanveer Fatima sent a legal notice to the telecom company through an advocate asking them to remove the tower from the terrace. Pyare Mian started creating hurdles in tower operation by blocking the way to the terrace and snapping the electricity. He used to hurl abuses on the company employees to mount pressure. When the company officials contacted him to resolve the dispute, he demanded money from them for the tower otherwise he would create problems for them. This way he extorted Rs 1.25 crore from the company in the name of rent. SP Thota said that when the company told Pyare Mian that they cannot sign an agreement with an individual but the housing society, then Pyare Mian formed the fake E-Block Lake View Welfare Society using the name of the actor and another eminent person without their knowledge. A few days later he removed the names of the actor and the eminent person and added the name of his family members and servants in society. In 2019 his advocate and accused in the case Sahabuddin Jamali filed fake audit reports of the society for a duration of eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-had-used-bwood-actors-name-to-register-his-hsg-society/articleshow/77322826.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Perambalur’s low count attributed to quarantine strategy||Trichy: With as many as 524 positive cases reported so far, including 207 active cases, Perambalur remains the district with the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu. Enforcement of mandatory quarantine for those returning from hotspot districts has worked well for the district in preventing large scale local spread.Beginning June, rigid screening has been conducted at the district borders, mainly focussing on returnees from Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu districts. This has helped the district administration contain the local spread. Since June, Perambalur has managed to keep the positive cases in single digits on many days and there have even been days when the district reported zero cases.That the district has a low population compared to other districts has worked in its favour. Perambalur has a population of about 6 lakh people, but only V Kalathur and Labbaikudikadu towns are densely populated, health officials said. Even Perambalur town has a low population density. As the district has very few large-scale industries, officials said that influx of people from other districts was low during the lockdown. But with Perambalur natives working in other parts of the state and outside Tamil Nadu returning, four quarantine centres were established in the district. Quarantine centres in Perambalur, Veppanthattai, Veppur and Alathur blocks helped accommodate the returnees from hotspots. The returnees who tested negative were sent home under the condition that spent the next seven days under home quarantine. People returning from places that are not hotspots were told to under 14 days of home quarantine. “We do not have any active clusters now, the cases presently turning positive are mostly family contacts. Fever camps conducted in the rural hamlets have also helped us to identify cases,” R Geetharani, deputy director of health services, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/perambalurs-low-count-attributed-to-quarantine-strategy/articleshow/77322813.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Tech help for 2021 gurdwara polls: Govt||New Delhi: Minister of gurdwara elections Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday said that Delhi government’s Information Technology Department will develop a dedicated software for the preparation and customization of new photo electoral rolls of Gurdwara wards in the capital for upcoming Gurdwara Elections, 2021. Delhi minister of gurdwara elections Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday said a dedicated software will be developed for the preparation and customisation of new photo electoral rolls for gurdwara polls in March next year. The directorate of gurdwara elections has made a request to the information and technology department in this regard, the minister added. “The directorate of gurdwara elections has also requested the Office of chief electoral officer to help in matching and verifying the data of electoral rolls of gurdwara wards, with the data of state electoral rolls. The cross-checking will ensure transparency in the preparation of photo electoral rolls for the elections of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. To expedite the process, the directorate will extend the manpower support to the electoral office,” Gautam said. Directorate of gurdwara elections conducts the elections of members of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee and its members have a term of four years. The last general elections were held in February 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-help-for-2021-gurdwara-polls-govt/articleshow/77320829.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ajmer||Turnout remains low in first RPSC exam during Covid-19||AJMER: In the first recruitment examinations of Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) after the Covid-19 lockdown, the percentage of candidates remained low. On Sunday, two selection exams were conducted at the division headquarters in two different sessions. Around 65.75% candidates appeared for the veterinary officers’ exam while 54.80% appeared for librarian grade II exam. According to officials, exam for 900 posts of vet officers was conducted from 9am to 12noon on Sunday. As many as 3,536 candidates had applied for the exam which was conducted at all division headquarters in the state. However, only 2,325 candidates appeared for the test. For Librarian grade II selection exam-2019, written test was conducted from 2pm to 5pm for filling 12 posts in the department. As many as 14,315 candidates registered for the exam, but only 7,844 candidates appeared, which is about 54.80%. Officials said RPSC strictly followed the Covid guidelines and maintained social distancing among candidates. It was ensured that all candidates entering the examination centres were wearing face masks. RPSC has released admit cards for school lecturers (Sanskrit Education) exam-2018, which will be conducted from August 4 to 7. On August 4, there will be a common exam of general awareness and from August 5 there will be subject exams in Hindi, English, Grammar, Literature and History in two sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/turnout-remains-low-in-first-rpsc-exam-during-covid-19/articleshow/77328866.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Turnout remains low in first RPSC exam during Covid-19||AJMER: In the first recruitment examinations of Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) after the Covid-19 lockdown, the percentage of candidates remained low. On Sunday, two selection exams were conducted at the division headquarters in two different sessions. Around 65.75% candidates appeared for the veterinary officers’ exam while 54.80% appeared for librarian grade II exam. According to officials, exam for 900 posts of vet officers was conducted from 9am to 12noon on Sunday. As many as 3,536 candidates had applied for the exam which was conducted at all division headquarters in the state. However, only 2,325 candidates appeared for the test. For Librarian grade II selection exam-2019, written test was conducted from 2pm to 5pm for filling 12 posts in the department. As many as 14,315 candidates registered for the exam, but only 7,844 candidates appeared, which is about 54.80%. Officials said RPSC strictly followed the Covid guidelines and maintained social distancing among candidates. It was ensured that all candidates entering the examination centres were wearing face masks. RPSC has released admit cards for school lecturers (Sanskrit Education) exam-2018, which will be conducted from August 4 to 7. On August 4, there will be a common exam of general awareness and from August 5 there will be subject exams in Hindi, English, Grammar, Literature and History in two sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/turnout-remains-low-in-first-rpsc-exam-during-covid-19/articleshow/77322831.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||Lack of demand, finance hit business||Bhopal: Industries in Madhya Pradesh, like any other parts of the country, continue to be under severe stress. Once in a century pandemic, after the global slowdown has hit the industries badly with most struggling to survive. Though post lockdown, the industries in Madhya Pradesh may have started functioning, albeit with reduced strength, partial or non -functioning of industries in many regions of the country coupled with a general drop in demand and consumption have impacted their performance badly. “The whole eco -system is affected. You cannot run your unit in isolation till the units in Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat among others do not run in full swing,” said industrialists. The latest quarterly survey of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) assessed the sentiments of manufacturers for Q-1 and revealed a “bleak status” for Q-1 (April-June 2020-21) compared to previous few quarters of 2019. High raw material prices, high cost of finance, uncertainty of demand, shortage of skilled labour and working capital, high logistic cost, low domestic and global demand due to lockdown across all countries to contain spread of coronavirus, excess capacities due to high volume of cheap imports into India, lack of financial assistance, unstable market, complex procedures for obtaining environmental clearances, high power tariff, are some of the major constraints which are affecting the future plans also, the survey said . Though the survey is not Madhya Pradesh specific, the industrial scene in the state is no different from other parts of the country, an office bearer of the FICCI commented. Pithampur Industrial area, one of the biggest industrial estates of MP, is under tremendous stress. There are about 850 units in the industrial area. Auto sector, comprising almost 25% of the estate, is one of the worst affected industrial sectors of the country. Sales of two, three and four-wheelers have nosedived during the pandemic. There were zero sales in April and May. President of Pithampur Audhogik Sangathan Gautam Kothari said, “the industrial units in Pithampur function at 20% to 50% strength.” Revealing an interesting statistic, president of the Mandideep Industry association Rajeev Agrawal told TOI, “the number of trucks carrying raw material has gone down considerably from about 500 daily to about 375 which sums up the industrial scene.” State chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry Anurag Shrivastava said, “I still see light at the end of the tunnel as people are learning new and positive things because people are locked down. We will ourselves have to figure out the best way to revive,” he said. Referring on the wish-list of industries, he said that few things all need from the state government was waiving off fixed power charges and relief in minimum wages payment to labourers. “Besides, we also want the government to consider waiving loan interest rates or extend flexibility as long as the industrial units are performing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lack-of-demand-finance-hit-business/articleshow/77322836.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Secy in-charge of dist inpsects quarantine centres||Jaipur: Secretary in-charge of Jaipur Subodh Agarwal on Sunday inspected arrangements at the quarantine centres in the district including the one at Bagrana where people who have returned from Gulf countries are kept. He directed the officials to ensure the centres are sanitized regularly and people living there are provided proper medical facilitiesThere are 1,159 people at the Bagrana quarantine centre and many of them were workers who came from Dubai and Kuwait. He also visited two other hotels - Clarks Amer and Royal Orchid - which are also serving as quarantine centres.Agarwal, who is ACS (mines and petroleum department), enquired from officials about the quality of food, drinking water arrangements, about sample checking of people staying there, sanitization, medical facilities and other facilities at the quarantine centres he visited. In order to prevent the spread of Covid, the district administration has started awareness campaign in the city using e-rickshaws. Soon, municipal corporation vehicles will be used for spreading messages to prevent Covid infection, said district collector Antar Singh Nehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/secy-in-charge-of-dist-inpsects-quarantine-centres/articleshow/77322837.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Residents, RWAs in tussle over closed gates||NEW DELHI: Even as the Covid-19 lockdown is being relaxed in phases, most residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are trying to play safe by controlling access to their areas to avoid the viral spread. But some residents are opposed to keeping most colony gates closed even in daytime. In some colonies, arguments have erupted after Delhi high court, on July 17, directed in a case filed by residents of N Block in Greater Kailash I that the gates should not be closed in daytime and without following guidelines. Some RWAs of GK-I & II, CR Park and Safdarjung Enclave claimed that they had to open the gates following similar demands from a few residents. “The majority of residents is in favour of keeping the gates closed. We offered to give keys to those who wanted a specific gate open, but it didn’t work out,” said M K Gupta, president of S block RWA, GK-I. “We finally opened the gate but wrote to the SHO of the local police station for enough force to regulate entry of unwanted people. The RWA doesn’t have so many guards,” he added. Vikram Badhwar, a resident, however, disagreed with him. “You can find two-three guards sitting at each gate that’s open. Why can’t they be sent to other gates?” he asked. “We raised our voice only after writing to the RWA twice for opening gate No. 3.” Closing a gate may be important for some senior citizens to avoid unnecessary traffic and honking, but roads are meant for commuting and barricading them is not legally correct, Badhwar said. “Why should a person make a detour every time to reach the main road when there is a road right in front of his house?” An RWA member, however, claimed that only two guards were deployed at two entry gates while a third one made the rounds inside the colony. Many RWAs complained that more than convenience, some people had made opening a gate a prestige issue. “They don’t mind putting others at risk,” a member said. Sangita Thukral, president of CR Park (M&P blocks) RWA, said, “The association had problems with just two-three residents. We have five gates for 2,500 residents living in 27 houses in M, P, N and G blocks and 21 houses in Pocket 52. Out of these, one gate is used for entry and an open area for exit to check entry of unwanted people.” But, she alleged, a few people are also using the gate between M Block and GK II, putting “the security of residents living on this street at risk”. Members of most RWAs argued that keeping all gates open during Covid-19 would mean inviting trouble. B S Vohra, president of an umbrella group of east Delhi RWAs, said gates had been put up in colonies for people’s safety. “Often outsiders coming to local markets park their vehicles in residential colonies, creating trouble for locals.” Pankaj Agarwal of Safdarjung Enclave RWA, however, said restrictions should end during Unlock 3.0 “as people have started going out in numbers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-rwas-in-tussle-over-closed-gates/articleshow/77322061.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Covid-19 spread not uniform in all families’||AHMEDABAD: The virus that the experts warn about due to its high infection rate, is surprisingly not affecting families that have members with infection, claim a review study by IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) published in Quarterly Journal of Medicine by Oxford University Press. The study titled ‘Secondary Attack Rate of COVID-19 in Household Contacts: Systematic Review’ is authored by Dr Komal Shah, Prof Dileep Mavalankar and Prof Deepak Saxena from IIPH-G. “The assumption that everybody is susceptible to coronavirus may not be true. It is said that a few minutes of exposure to the coronavirus outside will get us infected. If that is the case, then why not everybody in the same household is getting Covid-19 (after one member gets infected)?” Prof Mavalankar said on Sunday. “There are some families where all the members are infected, but they are not in majority. There are even homes where one person has died of Covid-19, but no other member is infected,” he added. Dr Shah told TOI that they took into consideration 13 global papers, including one from India, to conclude. “We surely need more data and more understanding of the phenomenon. We know that it’s happening, but we don’t know why it is happening. IIPH-G has launched a ground-level study in Ahmedabad for the same,” she said. The paper argues that the secondary infection rate in households having at least one person infected varies from 4.6% to 49.6%. “The rates were unaffected by confounders such as population of the country, lockdown status and geographic location. Review suggested greater vulnerability of spouse and elderly population for secondary transmission than other household members. It was also observed that quarantining and isolation are most effective strategies for prevention of the secondary transmission of the disease,’stated the paper. Prof Mavalankar also pointed at the ‘immunological dark matter’ that claims that about half the population is not susceptible to the infection according to a theory propagated by Prof Karl Friston. He pointed at the example of central Ahmedabad that recorded a surge in cases in beginning of the infection but then the share got diminished over the months. City-based experts said that the claim requires more ground-level study and more testing of the family members of the positive patients to understand infection and spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-spread-not-uniform-in-all-families/articleshow/77322115.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Experts urge comorbid patients to seek help sooner||Panaji: The Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital’s head of pulmonary medicine has said that patients with comorbid conditions such as renal disease, diabetes, hypertension, cancer or heart disease run a 50% higher risk of succumbing to Covid-19. “It is advised that such persons take maximum precautions to keep the infection at bay,” said Dr Durga Lawande. A team from her department is deployed at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. While Goa’s fatality rate is less than 1%, the lowest in the country, the steadily-rising Covid-19 deaths have heightened concerns and fears. As of Sunday, 53 persons have died of the virus. Lawande also said that persons with compromised immune systems must ensure that they access medical help without delay, so that they can be saved before it’s too late. “Goa offers better medical care compared to other states,” Lawande said. “There are beds available in the Covid hospital, unlike in other places, where patients contract the disease and, even if they have severe symtpoms, can’t get admission to a hospital.” She added that taking precautions and keeping oneself safe by observing social distancing norms and other measures are essential and the only option till a vaccine is discovered. She stressed that even a person who doesn’t have any serious health conditions must seek medical help on contracting the virus if there are any signs of their health deteriorating. Meanwhile, consultant ENT and head and neck oncology surgeon at Healthway Hospital, Dr Pawan Rane, said that a situation can be salvaged even if a persons with comorbid conditions gets the infection. “Get in touch with your physician or call the helpline. High-risk patients are best monitored at a designated Covid hospital,” he said. If it’s not possible to get admitted, isolate yourself and monitor for signs for breathlessness, he said. “It is advisable to use a pulse oximeter.” The health minister also said that for cancer patients, the priority must be to survive the virus first and then fight the cancer. He said that cancer patients must continue treatment while simultaneously protecting themselves from Covid-19. A person with compromised immune systems must ensure that they access medical help without delay, so that they can be saved before it’s too late. Taking precautions is the only option till a vaccine is discovered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-urge-comorbid-patients-to-seek-help-sooner/articleshow/77323170.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Over 6,200 active Covid cases are under home isolation||JAIPUR: More Covid positive patients in the state are under home isolation than in hospitals. Currently there are only 150 patients who are undergoing treatment in ICUs of different hospitals. Since the state government has allowed home isolation, asymptomatic patients are opting for it. “Currently, we have 6,255 Covid positive patients under home isolation across the state,” said a senior health department official. Out of the 12,000 active cases, 52% are under home quarantine. A 68-year-old man, Adarsh (name changed), who tested positive said, “It is much better to get treatment at home. However, you need a family member who is your caregiver and a medical officer who remains in touch.” While the state has witnessed a sudden spike in cases, the health department officials allow home isolation only if the patient has a separate toilet facility attached to his room. When a person tests positive, health department’s medical officers examine the health of the patient for categorising him as an asymptomatic, mild, severe or high risk patient and take the decision accordingly depending on the guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “Those who are asymptomatic and does not need hospitalisation are kept under home isolation. We are following the ICMR guidelines. In Jaipur, more than 500 patients are under home isolation,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. Officials said medical officers are constantly keeping a watch on the health of patients under home isolation. Besides, patient and his or her caregiver have also been asked to keep monitoring their health. However, the department officials claimed that they are also admitting patients to covid care centres and dedicated hospitals depending on their condition. Asymptomatic patients who do not have sufficient space for home isolation or who come under high risk category have been admitted to covid care centres under care of doctors. However, those who come under severe category and their condition have deteriorated are undergoing treatment in ICUs. “We have 150 patients in ICUs who are in need of critical care,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-6200-active-covid-cases-are-under-home-isolation/articleshow/77322843.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Iconic bridge gets signature lighting||NEW DELHI: The Signature Bridge will now appear with a new look every evening, thanks to a theme-based lighting system that can showcase thousands of different patterns and customised lighting on special occasions. Sanjay Goel, the managing director and CEO of Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) that is executing the project, said there would be special lighting on not only the main platform and pylon of the bridge but also on its cables and even the approach roads. “A state-of-the-art technology has been used to give this aesthetic theme-based lighting at the bridge, which has thousands of different patterns that will keep changing every day and can be customised for occasions, particularly at the observatory,” Goel said. “There will be separate focus lights on the cables, which will show different patterns every few minutes. One can see similar kinds of lighting in other international cities,” he added. Apart from being an important link between northeast Delhi and the rest of the city, the Signature Bridge has also been planned as a tourist spot by Delhi government and though delayed, work on different aspects of the project are going on. “Another part of the project is 70% complete and we are expecting to ready by November a ramp that will ferry tourists from the approach part to the main deck, without disrupting the traffic on the bridge,” Goel said. “There will be a small parking, café and toilet near the approach area where tourists can have tea before taking the ramp along the approach road right up to the pylon,” he said, adding that the ramp is coming up along the bridge and veers towards the other side from below the bridge. In the area near the pylon, DTTDC is creating selfie points in an enclosed area but those who want a 360-degree view of Delhi from the observatory deck atop the bridge will have to wait. There are two inclined and two vertical elevators to access the four-storey viewers’ gallery. “The work is 100% complete and it is the first oblique lift in the country at 60 degrees, which goes to the top of the observatory. Right now we are using a service lift but a permission is needed for allowing tourists to use the lifts,” the CEO said. The point where tourists will shift from the oblique to the vertical lift has slight “difficulties” that are being modified to make the experience easy and user friendly, Goel added. A permission is required from the labour department’s inspector of lifts to ferry tourists. “Once we get the permission, we can use the lifts for tourists. However, the lift is inside the pylon and the available area is less. We have to see how many tourists can go at one time and how long they can stay at the deck,” Goel said. The deck can accommodate up to 50 people at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iconic-bridge-gets-signature-lighting/articleshow/77322128.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad reduces Covid case numbers||AHMEDABAD: Among the four major districts of Gujarat having the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot — Surat recorded maximum reduction in deaths and Ahmedabad in cases in one week. According to the analysis of weekly cases, Surat had recorded 100 deaths between July 20 and 26, which got reduced to 77 between July 27 and August 2, recording decline of 23%. In the same period, Ahmedabad recorded decline of 15% in cases from 1,317 to 1,126. Ahmedabad’s deaths remained the same at 28 whereas Surat’s cases went down slightly (4%) from 1,978 to 1,896. Rajkot recorded maximum rise in both cases and deaths in percentage — 37% and 133% respectively — as the cases rose from 424 to 579 and deaths from three to seven. Vadodara added 663 cases in a week compared to 593 the previous week, recording rise of 12%, whereas the deaths rose from 14 to 16, recording rise of 14%. Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday recorded total tally of 63,675 cases and 2,487 deaths with addition of 1,101 cases and 22 deaths. A total of 805 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 46,587. The discharges include 207 from Surat, 110 from Vadodara 107 from Ahmedabad, and 39 from Dahod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-reduces-case-numbers/articleshow/77322132.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s Covid toll touches 200 mark||JAIPUR: The city has witnessed a spike in Covid deaths as it touched the 200 mark on Sunday. In the past week, 18 people have lost their lives to the virus, which is the worst week in terms casualties in the city since June last week. The state also set the new record of highest single-day jump of 1,167 new infections taking the cumulative count to 44,410. Out of the 12 deaths in the state on Sunday, five fatalities took place in Jaipur. Pink City is the first to report 200 deaths, while Jodhpur with 84 deaths is at the second spot in the list of districts reporting highest number of Covid fatalities. Jaipur accounts for 28% of the total casualties reported in the state. With Sunday’s 12 deaths, fatalities in the state crossed the 700 mark. While five deaths were reported in Jaipur, Nagaur reported two deaths, Ajmer (3) and Alwar (2). Active cases touched new high of 12,488 cases breaking Saturday’s record of 11,881. While active cases are constantly increasing over the past few days, it has affected state’s recovery rate badly. The recovery ratio, which had touched 80% in first week of June, has now slipped to 70%. For the past 10 days, the state has been constantly reporting more than 1,000 new infections daily, which is why, the growth rate once again has rose to 3.2% from 3%. In the last one week, the number of cases has grown by an average of 3.2% every day. Currently, Alwar has the highest number of active cases at 2405, followed by Jodhpur (1776), Jaipur (1445) and Kota (960). Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (128), Jaipur (127), Kota (142), Pali (105), Ajmer (95), Jodhpur (84), Bikaner (77), Barmer (49), Sikar (43), Baran (42), Jhalawar (41), Nagaur (33), Udaipur (30), Bharatpur (22), Sriganganagar (21), Sirohi (20), Dungarpur (20), Sawai Madhopur (16), Jalore (15), Churu (11), Pratapgarh (9), Karauli (8), Tonk (6), Chittorgarh (6), Rajsamand (5), Hanumangarh (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Bhilwara (2), Banswara (2) and Dausa (2). BOX: New infections: 1167 Cumulative cases: 44,410 Today’s deaths: 12 Cumulative deaths: 706 Today’s recovered: 548 Cumulative recovered: 31,216 Active cases: 12,488 Today’s highlights: Jaipur crossed 200 mark in Covid deaths State breached 700 mark in fatalities Active cases set a new high of 12,488 Ajmer zoomed past 2,000 cases Last 10 days saw more than 1000 cases in Raj August 2 1167 August 1 1160 July 31 1147 July 30 1156 July 29 1144 July 28 1072 July 27 1134 July 26 1132 July 25 1120 Week by week deaths in Jaipur June 29- July 5 06 July 6-12 10 July 13-19 06 July 20-26 03 July 27-02 18||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-covid-toll-touches-200-mark/articleshow/77322845.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Most critical patients ignored or hid symptoms: Doctors||JAIPUR: At least 150 Covid-19 patients are currently admitted to ICUs with 15 of them being on ventilator support. Doctors claim that patients are getting admitted with severe complications as they initially hide their symptoms. In just three days, 14 patients with complications have been admitted to ICUs. Doctors also claimed that one of the major reasons for Covid-19 mortalities is delay in getting treatment. “Patients are brought to the hospital with complications who require aggressive treatment. It is seen that initially, patients ignore the symptoms and hide their medical condition, which is quite wrong. They do it to ignore hospitalization but now government is allowing home isolation for patients with mild symptoms. So, they should consult the doctors in case of onset of mild symptoms,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. Even doctors working in the field have realized that people do not want to get the Covid-19 test done, especially those who are asymptomatic. “We have to face problems while collecting samples from suspected Covid-19 patients, especially those who are asymptomatic as they say that they are fine. It is seen that they do not have any fear of Covid-19,” said Dr BL Meena, chief medical health officer, Bikaner, which is one of the worst-affected districts in the state. In a death audit conducted early in July, the health department had found that 78 patients who were tested positive for Covid-19, were actually brought dead to the hospital. Out of those 78 deaths, the death audit of 41 was conducted and it was found that in 10 cases, the family took late decision to rush the critical patient to the hospital. If five cases, the patients did not get treatment from the hospital on time. In 16 cases, no delay was found. In another five cases, deaths occurred due to non-Covid reasons such as suicide but they also tested positive for the virus. However, in other five cases, the deaths were not auditable as they belonged to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-critical-patients-ignored-or-hid-symptoms/articleshow/77322848.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Camel, calf run over in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A camel and her calf died after being hit by a vehicle within Sangad police station limits on Sunday morning. Police have seized the vehicle and detained four youths. Degrai Ustra Sanrakshan organisation president Sumer Singh Bhati said this was the fifth such incident in last three days. A week ago, the legs of a female camel were broken and it has not yet been rescued. Sangad SHO Karan Singh said that four youths from Patan in Gujarat were coming to Ramdeora. Near Devikot, they ran over a female camel and her calf, who were sitting on the road. He said that the government has declared camel as the state animal, but no special efforts are made for their conservation.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/camel-calf-run-over-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77322850.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Telemedicine facility aids NWR staff||Jaipur: Retired and current employees of the North Western Railway (NWR) and their dependents no longer need to visit its hospitals in various divisions for their medical needs. Tele-medicine started by NWR in its hospitals has been facilitating employees where they are getting doctors’ advice and prescriptions. This has been done to minimise human contact during Covid times. Pushpa Lata (80), mother of a retired guard from Jaipur division of NWR, has been reluctant to visit the central railway hospital here. “We have to book an appointment over phone. Thereafter on the day of appointment, we discuss health issues with the doctor. The doctor tells us to send previous test results and prescriptions through WhatsApp. Thereafter, any member of the family can go and get the medicines based on his prescription. This is a good initiative,” Lata said. Many senior citizens who are either retired railway employees or their dependents are everyday using the tele-medicines. “Only in the cases of emergency, they are admitted or sent to our empanelled hospitals,” said a doctor at the hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/telemedicine-facility-aids-nwr-staff/articleshow/77322847.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||NIA raids DU professor’s house again, kin to move for bail||NEW DELHI: The house of Delhi University teacher Hany Babu MT, who is in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mumbai in the Bhima Koregaon case, was raided again on Sunday. Babu’s wife, Jenny Rowena, called it a “real harassment” as NIA had come to pick up literature that was present in their house during last year’s raid. On September 10, 2019, Pune police raided the house in Delhi and seized laptops, books and other electronic materials. Rowena, also a DU teacher, told TOI, “An NIA-Delhi team came to search for articles specifically related to the defence committee for the release of G N Saibaba. It took an external drive too. Even a permission letter for an event, which has been in the public domain, has been taken.” Babu’s custody ends on August 4 and the family will move a bail application. Babu, an English teacher, is the convener of the defence committee for Saibaba, a DU teacher with 90% disability who has been charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case. The NIA team of 12 officials conducted the raid between 7.30am and 9.30am. They even spoke to Babu’s 17-year-old daughter. DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA) has demanded a fair investigation and safeguards for his family. The association “expresses shock at the arrest of our colleague and a fresh raid in their house,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nia-raids-du-profs-house-again-kin-to-move-for-bail/articleshow/77320857.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Mock test questions erased from data base||VADODARA: A day after M S University’s attempt to conduct online exams crashed miserably, it has come to light that even questions that many teachers had set for the mock tests too have vanished from the database. Saturday turned out to be a test on embarrassment for MSU officials themselves after their plans to conduct mock test of nearly 4,000 students for two days crashed before it could click start. This test was supposed to a precursor to the semester-end exams that were scheduled to begin from August 5. Thousands of students could not even login on the portal that the university had developed even as the portal itself crashed. While the officials played victim of cyber attack, university’s ill-preparedness in organising such online exam in which over 17,000 students were scheduled to appear has become a topic of discussion. One of the faculty members of science complained that questions that an external faculty member had uploaded on the previous night are no longer visible on the portal. “The count of the total number of questions is less than what it was earlier,” said another faculty member of science faculty. A commerce faculty teacher too had similar experience to share. “The questions that were uploaded are not seen,” said the teacher. Hundreds of teachers had submitted thousands of questions for the online test using the user id and password allocated to them. But when they re-checked the set of questions using the code of the papers, the questions had simply vanished. Sources in the computer centre too confirmed that there has been damage to the database due to damage to the server. “Many teachers had uploaded their questions on the previous day or night before the mock test. The complete backup of this database could not be taken. Some unidentified professional agencies and hackers were already trying to disrupt the system from Friday evening,” said an official. Meanwhile, all eyes on its next move as both mock test and semester-end exams have been postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mock-test-questions-erased-from-data-base/articleshow/77320510.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||India conducted over 5 million tests between July 15 & 28||NEW DELHI: In the last fortnight, between July 15 and 28, India conducted over five million Covid-19 tests (50,04,250), up from 3.4 million in the preceding fortnight. After China, the US and Russia, India is the fourth country to have conducted over 20 million tests. Among states, UP ramped up testing by conducting the highest number of 7.5 lakh coronavirus tests in two weeks, more than Tamil Nadu (7.3 lakh), Maharashtra (5.6 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (5.3 lakh) and Karnataka (3.4 lakh) — the hotspot states which are also among those rapidly adding new Covid-19 cases. Just a fortnight before, between July 2-15, UP had tested 4 lakh samples and raised it by more than 87% to 7.5 lakh in the last two weeks. Rajasthan (3.2 lakh), Kerala (2.5 lakh), Delhi (2.4 lakh), Assam and Gujarat are among states that have conducted more than 2 lakh tests in the two-week period. On the tests per million parameter, Delhi continues to remain at the top with 53,682 tests/million, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu with 38,539 and 35,916 tests respectively. Maharashtra has 18,000 tests/million while UP has 10,751. The all-India tests per million stands at 14,352, still seen as short of the required screening as positivity rate, or total confirmed cases per 100 tests, has been rising and touched 11.23% over the last 14-day period between July 15-28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-conducted-over-5-million-tests-between-july-15-28/articleshow/77323491.cms||Pradeep Thakur
August 3, 2020||Faridabad||Work awarded for new Delhi-Mumbai e-way link||NEW DELHI: Accelerating the extension of Gurugram-Mumbai expressway to DND Flyway in Delhi, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has bid out first two packages from DND to Ballabhgarh. The work will start from February and is scheduled for completion by mid- 2023. The NHAI will build an 8 km long 6-lane flyover between DND to Jaitpur along the Yamuna and the second package from Jaitpur to Ballabhgarh (25 km) via the existing bypass will be made a six-lane signal-free stretch. This two stretches will have six lane service roads for local traffic. NHAI officials said the third package from Ballabhgarh to Sohna (26 km), which is a Greenfield stretch, will be awarded this week. The construction work on the Sohna-Mumbai stretch is in full swing and the first stretch from Sohna to Dausa is scheduled for completion by November next year. “Works have been awarded for about 1,000 km out of the 1,250 km. The bituminous work has started on certain portions,” said an official. The plan to extend the expressway to DND was included later. This will bring huge relief for commuters to get out of the capital by avoiding the congested Gurugram and Faridabad highway links. “The commuters can take this road to head towards Agra and Jaipur. A new link would also be approved to provide direct connectivity from the expressway to Jewar airport,” said an official. Meanwhile, to ensure there is no fund crunch in execution of the Expressway project, the NHAI Board has approved setting up of a SPV, which will be fully-owned by the highways authority. “We have started work to set up the SPV. If the model becomes successful, we will go for this model for financing of large highway projects,” NHAI chairman S S Sandhu told TOI. Sources said while NHAI will put Rs 5,000 crore as equity in the SPV, the special entity will raise the Rs 40,000 crore as loan. The loan will be repaid from toll revenue. The NHAI may also give a few more tolled stretches connecting this expressway to the SPV to recover the investment. “By November 2021, one can drive from Delhi airport to Dausa. By that time we will complete the elevated road on Gurugram-Sohna stretch. So, one can take the Gurugram expressway from Delhi airport or Dhaula Kuan to Rajiv Chowk and from there can take the elevated road to reach Sohna,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/work-awarded-for-new-delhi-mumbai-e-way-link/articleshow/77325295.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Work awarded for new Delhi-Mumbai e-way link||NEW DELHI: Accelerating the extension of Gurugram-Mumbai expressway to DND Flyway in Delhi, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has bid out first two packages from DND to Ballabhgarh. The work will start from February and is scheduled for completion by mid- 2023. The NHAI will build an 8 km long 6-lane flyover between DND to Jaitpur along the Yamuna and the second package from Jaitpur to Ballabhgarh (25 km) via the existing bypass will be made a six-lane signal-free stretch. This two stretches will have six lane service roads for local traffic. NHAI officials said the third package from Ballabhgarh to Sohna (26 km), which is a Greenfield stretch, will be awarded this week. The construction work on the Sohna-Mumbai stretch is in full swing and the first stretch from Sohna to Dausa is scheduled for completion by November next year. “Works have been awarded for about 1,000 km out of the 1,250 km. The bituminous work has started on certain portions,” said an official. The plan to extend the expressway to DND was included later. This will bring huge relief for commuters to get out of the capital by avoiding the congested Gurugram and Faridabad highway links. “The commuters can take this road to head towards Agra and Jaipur. A new link would also be approved to provide direct connectivity from the expressway to Jewar airport,” said an official. Meanwhile, to ensure there is no fund crunch in execution of the Expressway project, the NHAI Board has approved setting up of a SPV, which will be fully-owned by the highways authority. “We have started work to set up the SPV. If the model becomes successful, we will go for this model for financing of large highway projects,” NHAI chairman S S Sandhu told TOI. Sources said while NHAI will put Rs 5,000 crore as equity in the SPV, the special entity will raise the Rs 40,000 crore as loan. The loan will be repaid from toll revenue. The NHAI may also give a few more tolled stretches connecting this expressway to the SPV to recover the investment. “By November 2021, one can drive from Delhi airport to Dausa. By that time we will complete the elevated road on Gurugram-Sohna stretch. So, one can take the Gurugram expressway from Delhi airport or Dhaula Kuan to Rajiv Chowk and from there can take the elevated road to reach Sohna,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-awarded-for-new-delhi-mumbai-e-way-link/articleshow/77322137.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Work awarded for new Delhi-Mumbai e-way link||NEW DELHI: Accelerating the extension of Gurugram-Mumbai expressway to DND Flyway in Delhi, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has bid out first two packages from DND to Ballabhgarh. The work will start from February and is scheduled for completion by mid- 2023. The NHAI will build an 8 km long 6-lane flyover between DND to Jaitpur along the Yamuna and the second package from Jaitpur to Ballabhgarh (25 km) via the existing bypass will be made a six-lane signal-free stretch. This two stretches will have six lane service roads for local traffic. NHAI officials said the third package from Ballabhgarh to Sohna (26 km), which is a Greenfield stretch, will be awarded this week. The construction work on the Sohna-Mumbai stretch is in full swing and the first stretch from Sohna to Dausa is scheduled for completion by November next year. “Works have been awarded for about 1,000 km out of the 1,250 km. The bituminous work has started on certain portions,” said an official. The plan to extend the expressway to DND was included later. This will bring huge relief for commuters to get out of the capital by avoiding the congested Gurugram and Faridabad highway links. “The commuters can take this road to head towards Agra and Jaipur. A new link would also be approved to provide direct connectivity from the expressway to Jewar airport,” said an official. Meanwhile, to ensure there is no fund crunch in execution of the Expressway project, the NHAI Board has approved setting up of a SPV, which will be fully-owned by the highways authority. “We have started work to set up the SPV. If the model becomes successful, we will go for this model for financing of large highway projects,” NHAI chairman S S Sandhu told TOI. Sources said while NHAI will put Rs 5,000 crore as equity in the SPV, the special entity will raise the Rs 40,000 crore as loan. The loan will be repaid from toll revenue. The NHAI may also give a few more tolled stretches connecting this expressway to the SPV to recover the investment. “By November 2021, one can drive from Delhi airport to Dausa. By that time we will complete the elevated road on Gurugram-Sohna stretch. So, one can take the Gurugram expressway from Delhi airport or Dhaula Kuan to Rajiv Chowk and from there can take the elevated road to reach Sohna,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/work-awarded-for-new-delhi-mumbai-e-way-link/articleshow/77325294.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Virus changes travel, mass transit’s appeal masked||AHMEDABAD/RAJKOT/SURAT/ VADODARA: Amid the Covid pandemic, civic bodies in Gujarat are reimagining their public transit systems. Ahmedabad has 251 BRT AC buses. The metro rail systems are also air-conditioned. Experts are now reworking air-conditioning systems to ensure better ventilation. “The fear of an air-conditioning system seeding a mass infection cannot be dismissed,” said a senior AMC official. “Seating has to be redesigned too.” Surat, Rajkot, and Vadodara have already sent signals to bus operators about massive cuts in operational costs. These cities are planning to improve their footpaths and establish better parking facilities, anticipating an increase in the use of personal transport. An interesting trend is that the sales of petrol and diesel in Gujarat have reached up to 70% and 75% of the pre-Covid levels respectively. At the same time, there has been a drastic drop between 73% and 92% in passenger traffic in all forms of public transport. Many citizens have opted for personal transport. Scores of people such as students, the elderly, and women have preferred to stay back home. Autorickshaws, shared autos, and dial-a-cab operators are running at 30% capacities in Ahmedabad and Surat. All told, city and intercity bus businesses are losing crores every month, making it difficult for operators to meet even staff expenses. Pranav Shah, regional director, Gujarat, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association, said: “More than 85% of vehicle inquiries come from people who earlier used cabs or public transport.” Shah further said: “This has caused a rise in demand for two-wheelers. However, two-wheeler buyers are the ones whose incomes have been massively impacted due to the lockdown.” In Ahmedabad, Vadodara, and Rajkot sales of cars, bicycles, and two-wheelers are increasing. In Rajkot, Harish Chandra, the CEO of a car dealership, said: “In July, we achieved pre-Covid-level car sales in the mid and luxury segments, while entry-level cars sales have surged by 5%.” Shyam Raichura, a two-wheeler dealer in Rajkot, said: “The demand for two-wheelers in July surged past January and February numbers by 25%.” In Vadodara, a two-wheeler showroom owner, Tapan Parikh, said: “We sold over 200 vehicles over the past three months and half of them were bought by our customers on loan.” Another surprise is the sale of bicycles which is gradually going up. In Vadodara, Kuntal Parikh, a bicycle shop owner, said: “The demand is up by 30-40%.” In Ahmedabad, the bicycle-sharing model has seen a surge in rentals from 2,000 a month during the pre-Covid months to 8,000 by July, said Arjit Soni, the founder of MyByk. The overall mobility of cities has gone down. Transport experts said that Ahmedabad recorded a 60% mobility drop, while Surat registered a 35% dive. In Ahmedabad, Ashok Punjabi, a member of the autorickshaw drivers’ action committee, said: “With the new two-people per auto rule, the shared-rickshaw culture of the city has taken a major hit.” He further said: “Our average earning of Rs 600-700 per day has come down to Rs 200.” AMTS chairman Atul Bhavsar said, “The number of passengers per bus has been restricted to 18. We usually paid Rs 40 per km to operators, but now we pay just 30% of this sum for idle buses.” (Inputs from Himanshu Kaushik, Nimesh Khakhariya, Melvyn Thomas, Niyati Parikh, Sachin Sharma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-changes-travel-mass-transits-appeal-masked/articleshow/77322192.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||New normal: Placements go virtual in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Engineering colleges in the state, which in terms of placements had a good 2019-20 when many recorded their highest numbers in recent years, are looking forward with optimism to 2020-21, with virtual hiring the order of the day. Several colleges are holding tests and mock interviews for their students. In some colleges, virtual hiring has begun and a few students have bagged offers. Purushottam Hari, a final year computer science student who got a big offer, said he cleared three rounds of online interviews after initial screening. “Except for a lag issue, I didn’t face any issues during the interviews which lasted more than 45 minutes in each round.” K Govind, an electrical and electronics engineering student from a city college who got an offer from an IT company, said he attended a technical round after clearing the online test. “They gave us a project and asked us to complete it within 24 hours. We were shortlisted for the final round.” The interviews were through the zoom app. “There was a comfort feeling since I attended the interview from my home and I felt no nervousness,” said Govind whose college arranged online mock tests through platforms like Skill Rack. At VIT, 125 students bagged offers in virtual hiring since July 14, with 7 getting a ₹44 lakh annual package each from Microsoft. “The process included pre-placement talk, online test, technical and HR interviews. Our placement calendar is packed till end-August,” said G V Selvam, vice-president, VIT. V Samuel Rajkumar, director (placement and training), said all students prepared through mock interviews. Students at SRM Institute of Science and Technology had virtual town hall meetings. “We addressed students in batches explaining the dos and don’ts, requirements in terms of software and hardware, importance of private seating space and investing in tools. We trained our students to crack aptitude tests and coding tests in virtual mode,” said Sriram Padmanaban, director of career centre. “We were waiting for semester exams to start campus placements for 2020-21. Following the cancellation of exams, the process will begin in the next few weeks,” said S Iniyan, director, Centre for University Industry Collaboration, Anna University. The university, which has invited more than 500 companies and got responses from companies like Oracle, Amazon, SAP Labs and Wells Fargo, will train and hold mock interviews for its students. Top city institutions including RMK Engineering College and Sri Sairam Engineering College have started preparing students with the help of testing companies. L Arunachalam, dean (training and placement) at Sairam Group of Institutions, said almost all companies were prepared for online recruitment. Institutions are also opening up campuses for students in remote areas for attending online interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-normal-placements-go-virtual/articleshow/77322158.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 3, 2020||Agra||Married woman and a widower found murdered in Mainpuri||Agra: A young widower and a married woman were allegedly murdered in Manipuri’s Nagla Vichitra village by the latter’s husband and his accomplices on Sunday morning. Police said prima facie they were allegedly stranglulated to death as cord marks were found around their necks.The couple has been identified as Sanjeev Lodhi and Ritu Lodhi. Both were of the same age group in their 20s and were allegedly having an affair. Their bodies were found at a distance of 20 meters from their houses. Police have sent the bodies for post mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death.Mainpuri SP Ajay Kumar told TOI that Ritu’s 4-year-old son Satyam told police that his mother was killed by his father, Guarav Lodhi, last night. However, Guarav and his two cousins, who have been named in the FIR are absconding, his uncle Radheshyam was detained by the police for questioning. Police have registered a murder case under section 302 of IPC against four persons including Ritu’s husband Guarav on a complaint filed by Sanjeev’s father at Bhogaon police station.While Sanjeev had no children and his wife died a year ago, Ritu is survived by two minor sons aged 1 and 4 years. Ritu’s husband Guarav was working in Delhi and had returned to his village during Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/married-woman-and-a-widower-found-murdered-in-mainpuri/articleshow/77320870.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lokayukta seeks report on NESCO Covid centre deal||MUMBAI: Lokayukta has sought a report from the BMC commissioner I S Chahal after BJP MLA Ameet Satam complained about how a contract for work at a jumbo Covid centre at NESCO in Goregaon was given to a firm with no experience in the field. Satam said no tenders were invited. “The firm has no experience setting up hospital equipment or nursing centre, nor are they manufacturers of that equipment, so why is BMC giving work of Rs 10 crore to it without a tender? This shows it was to favour them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lokayukta-seeks-report-on-nesco-covid-centre-deal/articleshow/77322611.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Rajkot||Kidnapping accused on the run for a year arrested||RAJKOT: An accused in a case of kidnapping who was on the run since last year was arrested in Bhuj on Saturday night. Ramji Dafda, a resident of Gandhinagar in Bhuj, was booked for kidnapping and abducting a minor girl by luring her of marriage in 2015 at Kothara police station. Bhuj police later arrested Dafda last year, but when he was being taken to GK General hospital under police custody for medical check-up, he managed to give cops the slip and escaped from there. Another case was then registered against Dafda for fleeing from police custody. On Saturday night, he was spotted near the gate of Muslim Education High School and cops nabbed him. They are interrogating him about his escapade and also about the people who helped him stay hidden till now. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kidnapping-accused-on-the-run-for-a-year-arrested/articleshow/77320889.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Agra||29 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||BAREILLY/AGRA: At least 136 people were tested positive for Covid-19 while three persons died during treatment at a hospital in Bareilly district. Among the deaths included a woman inmate of a mental hospital. In Agra district, at least 29 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the district tally to 1,870. Seventeen Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 1,870 cases, 78.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 295 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Also, 33 more people were found positive in Shahjahanpur, taking the district tally to 1,189. At least 48 people, including a child and two health workers, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Sunday, taking the total tally to 2,212, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. Meanwhile, three new deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 92.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/29-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/77320854.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Agra||Free ride for women in UP roadways buses for Raksha Bandhan||AGRA: On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has announced free travel for girls and women in all its buses from midnight of August 2 to midnight of August 3. The festival will be celebrated today. As part of the Covid-19 protocol, wearing a face mask will be mandatory throughout the journey.The free bus travel scheme was announced by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The corporation will also be running extra buses from 11 cities -- Delhi, Meerut, Saharanpur, Bareilly, Moradabad, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra -- during the festival. Talking with TOI, UPSRTC service manager (Agra region) SP Singh said, “All women passengers who board the roadways buses during this period will get a free ride. The scheme will be implemented in all categories of buses -- AC, Volvo, Shatabdi, Janrath and ordinary buses.” UPSRTC's Saharanpur region manager MK Trivedi said, “Following the state government orders, the buses will be operated at full seating capacity. Passengers will not be allowed to travel standing in the bus. Besides, arrangements have been made for sanitization of passengers. Use of face masks is mandatory for travelling in UPSRTC buses.” Ahead of Raksha Bandhan, UPSRTC ferried a record 10 lakh passengers, earning more than Rs 10 crore on July 31, said officials. This is the first time that UPSRTC has achieved the target during commercial operations after Unlock 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/free-ride-for-women-in-up-roadways-buses-for-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/77320858.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar police to get lookout notice against Rhea Chakraborty: DGP Gupteshwar Pandey||PATNA: Bihar police may get a lookout notice issued against actress Rhea Chakraborty, who has been absconding since Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K K Singh lodged an FIR against her in Patna, alleging that she abetted his son to commit suicide besides cheating him financially, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said on Sunday. “The state police would go to the extent of getting a lookout circular issued against Rhea and other accused in the case to prevent her from leaving the country. She is absconding. She has her own sources in Mumbai for helping her out there,” Pandey told TOI. The state police headquarters has also sent Patna City SP (central) Vinay Tiwary to Mumbai to lead the four-member Patna police team already there since July 27 to investigate the case. Tiwary, an IPS officer, reached Mumbai at around 4pm. But the Mumbai civil administration quarantined the Patna SP on the grounds of Covid-19 protocols. Sources said a woman IPS officer will also be sent to trace Rhea and liaison with Mumbai police to procure all necessary documents for carrying out the investigation in Sushant’s suicide case. The Patna police team visited Malwani police station to collect details of Sushant’s former manager Disha Salian’s mysterious suicide a few days before the actor from Patna was found hanging at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. A senior IPS officer said the state police would have to write to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for a lookout notice against Rhea. “It is the MHA which finally issues the circular so that the intelligence bureau of immigration keeps surveillance on every exit point, especially at airports, in the country for those against whom a lookout circular is issued,” he said. DGP Pandey said Mumbai police were yet to share even a single document with the Patna police team. “We don’t want any special favour from Mumbai police. Besides medico-legal documents like forensic, inquest and postmortem reports, we need statements of people recorded by the Mumbai police. We want to know what information they had shared with Mumbai police,” the DGP said. A senior IPS officer said the state police headquarters would send a woman IPS officer who could liaison with her counterparts in Maharashtra police to make things easy for Patna police team members, who are conducting investigation in Mumbai in a virtually hostile environment. He said the woman officer hails from Maharashtra. When asked, DGP Pandey told TOI that she would hopefully be sent to Mumbai soon. “However, we have not taken a final call yet,” he said. Pandey said Tiwary was sent to Mumbai to meet senior police officers there. “I am not very sure, but they may share important medico-legal documents with him,” Pandey said. The DGP said Tiwary will also monitor the course of investigation and give task to Patna police team in Mumbai every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-police-to-get-lookout-notice-against-rhea-dgp/articleshow/77322142.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Diwali bonanza comes early for Ayodhya potters||JAISINGHPUR (AYODHYA): When an unknown number rang on Ravindra Prajapati’s cellphone on July 25, he dismissed it as spam. When he picked up the phone in the second go, the leader of 40 potter families in Jaisinghpur, about 30km from the temple town, was dancing in joy. Prajapati was given a mammoth order of making 1.50 lakh earthen lamps for the bhoomi pujan of Ram temple. For these potters, it came as an advance Diwali bonanza. “It is a bonus…” he shouted and called the community to share the happiness. “Thanks to Ram Lalla, this off season opportunity has brought smiles for all of us,” Prajapati said. “Bhoomi pujan is a historic moment and we have urged the people of Ayodhya to celebrate the moment by lighting earthen lamps,” said Champat Rai, the general secretary of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. Soon after the call, potters in Ayodhya got into action. On Sunday, potters of Jaisinghpur dispatched over 75,000 earthen lamps to mark the return of Ram from ‘second exile’ (the lord had been in a makeshift tarpaulin roof since the demolition of Babri Masjid. Now he has been moved to his original abode on janmabhoomi premises). “Men, women and children across 40 families in our village have been working overtime to complete the order,” said Rajesh Prajapati, whose family has made over 25,000 lamps. His relative Poonam said the order came as a blessing in disguise. Rainy season, however, threw a major challenge before potters. “There was no sunlight. Also, the humidity content in the air is high. Both the things prolonged the drying up process. So, the freshly made lamps were dried under the fan. In fact, pedestal fans were also deployed to speed up the process,” said Rakesh. Watch Ram Temple: Diwali bonanza comes early for Ayodhya potters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-bonanza-comes-early-for-ayodhya-potters/articleshow/77323178.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||State moves down to 15th position in positive cases||Bhopal: The state capital recorded a positivity rate of 13% in the last week of July. This was the highest rate of growth in corona-hit cases in the entire state during this period, said additional chief secretary of health Mohammed Suleman on Sunday. The 13% positivity rate is far above the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation to keep the rate below 5% to contain the spread of the disease. It is exactly due to the high rate that the government has increased tests in Bhopal where 51,129 tests per million population is being conducted as of now. This means that out of every 100 people tested at least 13 were found positive in recent times. Talking about the covid-19 management in the state with mediapersons, Suleman said, “The death rate in the state was 10% in April, but it has now reduced to 2.7%. In April we had 2400 general beds, now we have 26000 general beds,” he said. In April only 600 tests were being done on per million population, which has now increased to 9334 tests per million, he informed. The state has also moved down to become the 15th state with largest number of positive cases. It is only the 10 districts of state which have the maximum number of positive cases and have contributed to 71% of the total case load of the entire state. Among the districts, with the positivity rate above 5% in 7-day days are Bhopal (13%), Barwani (10%), Indore (8.3%), Jabalpur (7.7%) and Khargone (7%). No wonder, the government is focusing more on testing in these districts. Interestingly, Bhopal has now not only outnumbered Indore in having highest number of active cases, but when it comes to positive persons per million population, here too a whopping 3122 patients out of every 10 lakh population have tested positive in state capital as compared to only 2655 in Indore. Suleman said that since the treatment capacity in terms of number of beds and ICU beds has increased in the state, the current occupancy of general beds is only 22% and ICU beds is 29.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-moves-down-to-15th-position-in-positive-cases/articleshow/77322856.cms||Amarjeet Singh
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist records 167 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||Coimbatore: The district logged 167 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 5,230, of which 1,690 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, went up to 71 with the state including seven more deaths in the district in its bulletin. According to health officials, Ukkadam, Jothipuram and Saravanamapatti, which are the most affected areas, have seen three new cases each, while Ganapathy and Tatabad reported four each and Pollachi five. At least 224 patients, including 39 from ESI Hospital, have recovered and were discharged in the day, taking the total number of recovered Covid-19 patients to 3,469. Among the seven patients who succumbed to the virus, two died in the ESI Hospital and the remaining in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CHCH). The causalities in the ESI Hospital include a 67-year-old man, who was hospitalized on Monday after he tested positive for the virus and died on Friday, and a 69-year-old man, who died on Saturday. Both of them died of acute respiratory distress syndrome. The patients who died in CMCH include a 59-year-old woman, a 54-year-old man, a 46-year-old woman, a 63-year-old man and an 80-year-old man. All of them had comorbidities. The 59-year-old woman was hospitalized with chronic kidney disease on Wednesday. Later, she tested positive for the virus and died of bilateral bronchopneumonia, cerebrovascular accident, haemorrhagic stroke, chronic kidney disease, pneumonia and respiratory distress syndrome on Saturday. The 54-year-old man was also admitted to the hospital with chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, on July 24. He died of bilateral bronchopneumonia, chronic kidney disease, acute pulmonary oedema and systemic hypertension on Friday. The 46-year-old woman had type-2 diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension. She too was hospitalized on July 24 and died of cerebrovascular accident, haemorrhagic stroke, chronic kidney disease and pneumonia on Friday. The remaining too had type-2 diabetes mellitus. While the 63-year-old man died a few hours after hospitalization on Thursday, the 80-year-old man died on Friday, a day after admission. The neighbouring Tirupur, meanwhile, reported 40 Covid-19 cases, taking its count to 949, of which 339 are active cases. It also recorded two deaths, taking the toll to 13. An official identified the deceased as a 67-year-old man, who was hospitalized on Tuesday and died of bronchial pneumonia the same day, and a 37-year-old man who died of bilateral bronchopneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and seizure disorder on Saturday, two days after his hospitalization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-records-167-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/77322168.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to zoom in on education for kids with lecture playlist||In an ambitious effort to get children back into classrooms, BMC has launched an online education initiative using its best teachers for each subject in all four mediums – Marathi, Hindi, Urdu and English. Live Zoom classes, which start next week, will be accessible to state government school children via YouTube, which will stay online as a knowledge repository. “Anyone in Maharashtra can access it, so you can go revisit the lecture at any time anywhere,” said joint municipal commissioner in charge of education Ashutosh Salil. “We are opening our umbrella to the whole state.” There are around 10,000 teachers on BMC payrolls, working with 1,100 schools here. “Beat officers work closely with headmasters and teachers and are identifying schools with a track record in say 10th grade Algebra or 9th grade Biology,” said Shubham Pareek, a Fellow working on policy and projects at BMC. If the lecture is not deemed good enough, another teacher will record the subject and it will be uploaded on the channel playlist. The next day’s timetable will also be posted. While the idea of curated remote learning will be fantastic in a world where every child has a device and internet connectivity, education officials are aware of the lack of access and are trying to find ways to get around the problem. Blended learning, which involves use of worksheets, notebooks, and supervision by senior students, are some possibilities. “Our teachers have been identifying senior students who have been mentoring younger students in slums or neighbourhoods,” said Salil. “While I am a great advocate of technology, we cannot rely on it entirely. The access problem will not go go away.” Data shows that 50% children do not have access to devices, or have to share a device between siblings and parents, said Shaheen Mistri of Teach for India, which works closely with BMC schools. “Post-lockdown, once their parents return to work, we anticipate that problem getting worse,” says Mistri. “But the YouTube channel is a great step. We strongly recommend that we find the best teachers from within and outside the system to make it work. Teaching online requires different skills — you have to exaggerate movement, be more animated and find ways to keep kids engaged,” she added. While online education has been happening via WhatsApp and Zoom, it has been random and ad hoc depending on the teacher’s network access, availability and ability to work the medium. This system will be supervised from the top. BMC had been broadcasting well-taught classes via satellite to its other schools. This is the first time it will be in entirety, and through the school year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-zoom-in-on-edu-for-kids-with-lecture-playlist/articleshow/77322612.cms||Namita Devidayal
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 300 sailors await return from UAE||AHMEDABAD: More than 300 crew members of several cargo and merchant ships, which have remained docked at ports in the United Arab Emirates, are awaiting Vande Bharat mission flights to return to Gujarat. A majority of the crew members are from Salaya in Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar and Kutch districts. These crew members work on various harbours and are engaged for loading and off-loading cargo. Some also travel with ships to other destinations from ports of the UAE. With cargo handling having come to a standstill, these crew members are left with little funds to return and are awaiting Vande Bharat flights. NRG businessman Bharat Joshi, who has so far facilitated the return of 1,550 stranded persons from various parts of the UAE back to Gujarat, says he visited the ships and found the crew members and workers did not have adequate money to return to Gujarat by chartered flights. “These workers got in touch with me over social media and sought help. They say that the merchant ships are not returning to Gujarat any time soon and they do not have adequate money to bear costs of tickets of chartered flights. The government should operate more Vande Bharat flights from the UAE,” Joshi said. “I am from Jamnagar and there are more than 300 of us here who are waiting to return to Gujarat. We are appealing to the government to take us home through Vande Bharat mission flights. There is no work or money,” said Hussain Mohammed, a crew on one of the ships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/300-sailors-await-return-from-uae/articleshow/77322193.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rakhi shopping takes a big hit in city due to pandemic||Jaipur: The presence of Covid-19 has affected everything and festivals are no different. The markets which are otherwise crowded on the eve of Rakshabandhan, failed to lure crowds despite a Sunday. Women in limited numbers were seen in the markets to select the best rakhi, sweets and chocolates for their brothers. However, many women have prioritised social distancing this year and have preferred to send their rakhi by post or online despite living in the same city. On Sunday, the Walled City markets including Purohit ji Ka Katla and Chandpole, where rakhis are sold in wholesale, had a limited number of customers. “Ab darr to hai par tyohaar bhi manana hai (Though we have fear still festival needs to be celebrated,” said Sangeeta Sharma, who was getting some pairs of rakhis for her brothers at Chandpole. Shimona Sharma, a housewife living in Pratap Nagar, who has an 8-month-old child, has preferred to send her Rakhi online to her brother and cousins even though they live in the Pink City. “I have been advised to take proper precaution because of my infant son and also for my ageing father-in-law and mother-in-law. I think my cousins and brother understand this and I would like to tell them that I want them to be safe as well,” Sharma added. Meanwhile, the pandemic has also enhanced demand for customized rakhis. “We are making rakhis having pictures of brothers pasted on them and on order we are delivering them to the doorstep of the brothers. Compared to previous years, we have got good number of orders,” said Ramesh Sharma, a maker of customized rakhis. On the other hand, a limited number of people were seen at sweet shops which have curtailed the quantity of sweets they are preparing. “Every year prior to rakhi I order 100kg of mawa (milk extract), but this year I have got only 25kg as customers are very few,” said Vikram Agarwal, owner of a sweet shop at Vaishali Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rakhi-shopping-takes-a-big-hit-in-city-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/77322862.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Noida||Arms licences of 68 with crime record to be cancelled||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad police have recommended cancellation of arms licences of those with criminal record or are relatives of those with a criminal record. The police have prepared a list of 68 people and sent it to the district administration for appropriate action. “The move has been initiated after it was established that most of the firearms were in the possession of the slain don and his accomplices,” an official said. Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani told TOI that in the past few months, it has been found that criminals are using their guns or of their relatives’ to commit crime. “We have started opening the records of these criminals and have made a list of those people who used their licensed gun or their relatives’ gun to commit crimes," he added. So far, the district administration has issued over 1,500 gun licenses in total and of them police have made a list of 68 people who have gun licenses. “Officers of various police stations around the district have been asked to prepare a list of criminals and their relatives who have access to licensed arms,” he said. The senior police officer added that in between June and July, police have arrested 53 people who have illegal pistols and they have posted a photo or video on the social media sites which open firing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/arms-licences-of-68-with-crime-record-to-be-cancelled/articleshow/77322171.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Study findings on frontline staff likely this week||MUMBAI: Findings of a study conducted among frontline health workers in three wards are likely to be released this week. Last week, results of a SARS-CoV2 sero-prevalence study in Mumbai by BMC in partnership with NITI Ayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) among slum and non-slum pockets of the city were released. Investigators had collected around 1,000 samples from healthcare workers in R-North (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Sion, GTB Nagar, Matunga) wards. The first study found 57% sero-prevalence in slums and 16% sero-prevalence in non-slums. Investigators said it will be interesting to see results of frontline workers as it is known to be indicative of the general spread of the virus among people. An investigator hinted that while one may think more healthcare workers will be infected, the results are likely to spring a surprise. Authorities appealed to people to participate in the second phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/study-findings-on-frontline-staff-likely-this-week/articleshow/77322613.cms||Richa Pinto
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 3,024 crore for dept under ‘rebel’ Pilot not cleared by state finance wing||JAIPUR: The finance department has not yet released the state finance commission (SFC-V) grant of Rs 3,024 crore to the rural development and panchayati raj department, which came under the ministry held by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, for the 2019-20 period. This was revealed in a presentation given by the rural development and panchayati raj department on issues it had with various departments to the state-level development and coordination committee, headed by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, on July 30. Under the head, 'inter-departmental issues', the presentation stated that the fund was part of the state finance commission (SFC-V) grant. The finance department is under the ministry held by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. It also pointed out that Rs 1,883.25 crore from the central share was pending as the state share of Rs 1,262.53 crore for implementing MGNREGA, Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMAY-G), National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), National Rural Economic Transformation Project (NRETP) and Border Area Development Programme (BADP) schemes has not been released. Among other issues that the panchayati raj department had with the finance department include payment of interest against delay in transfer of money of the Central Finance Commission to gram panchayat; Rs 11 crore required for completing undergoing works for 16 PS buildings of panchayat samitis created in 2014; formation of State Finance Commission (VI); non-payment of honorarium to panchayat sahayaks since April 2020. Under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY-WC), bills amounting to over Rs 45 crore are pending at treasury and bills amounting to Rs 90 crore pending for sending to treasury, the presentation pointed out. This would delay the second instalment of Rs 116 crore from the Centre. Other pending issues are matter of provision of additional allocation of Rs 148.97 crore from water cess under Rajiv Gandhi Jal Sanchay Yojana (RGJSY) and creation of posts in new panchayat samitis and gram panchayats. Asked about the Rs 3,024 crore pending under SFC-V grant for the year 2019-20, additional chief secretary (finance) Niranjan Kumar Arya, said, “I will have to check. As far as I know, there is no pendency. Whatever demands or bills we receive from them, we release it immediately.” The rural development and panchayati raj department also pointed out issues with the revenue department. These include not allotting residential land to 14,503 landless beneficiaries under PMAY-G and land allotment by collectors for gram panchayat and panchayat samiti bhawans. Similarly, the issue with the education department was related to transfer of closed school buildings to panchayati raj department for gram panchayat bhawans and panchayat samiti bhawans. The local self-government too has been found wanting on an issue related to the notification of new nagar palikas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-3024cr-for-dept-under-rebel-pilot-not-cleared-by-state-finance-wing/articleshow/77322861.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Another high of 921 Covid cases in a day||BHOPAL: August hasn’t started on a good note for MP on the Covid-19 front. The highest-yet tally of 921 was reported on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 33,535. Ten more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 886. MP is at ninth position in deaths, though it is 15th in tally and active cases. The number of active cases has shot up from 2,625 on July 1to 9,099 on August 2.It’s the second time in four days that the daily Covid tally in MP has crossed 900. Also of concern is the positivity rate, which was 5.9% of 15,731 samples tested – while the average is about 4.1%. In Bhopal, the pandemic seems to be getting worse as it again had the highest chunk of Sunday’s record tally – 158 in all. Recovery rate inches up to 70%; 581 cured in a dayIn Bhopal, the pandemic seems to be getting worse as it again had the highest chunk of Sunday’s record tally – 158 in all, with Gwalior (129), alarmingly, coming second and Indore (107) third. The state capital had topped the MP Covid chart in July. Bhopal and Indore reported three deaths each on Sunday, and Burhanpur, Ratlam, Sehore and Hoshangabad districts one each. With 43 of the state’s 52 districts reporting fresh cases, it’s clear the virus is still creeping into new areas. At the same time, 581 people recovered on Sunday, taking the cure count to 23,550. MP’s recovery rate has inched back up to 70% after falling from 76% to 67% in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-high-of-921-covid-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77322860.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Indore||MP: Another high of 921 Covid cases in a day||BHOPAL: August hasn’t started on a good note for MP on the Covid-19 front. The highest-yet tally of 921 was reported on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 33,535. Ten more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 886. MP is at ninth position in deaths, though it is 15th in tally and active cases. The number of active cases has shot up from 2,625 on July 1to 9,099 on August 2.It’s the second time in four days that the daily Covid tally in MP has crossed 900. Also of concern is the positivity rate, which was 5.9% of 15,731 samples tested – while the average is about 4.1%. In Bhopal, the pandemic seems to be getting worse as it again had the highest chunk of Sunday’s record tally – 158 in all. Recovery rate inches up to 70%; 581 cured in a dayIn Bhopal, the pandemic seems to be getting worse as it again had the highest chunk of Sunday’s record tally – 158 in all, with Gwalior (129), alarmingly, coming second and Indore (107) third. The state capital had topped the MP Covid chart in July. Bhopal and Indore reported three deaths each on Sunday, and Burhanpur, Ratlam, Sehore and Hoshangabad districts one each. With 43 of the state’s 52 districts reporting fresh cases, it’s clear the virus is still creeping into new areas. At the same time, 581 people recovered on Sunday, taking the cure count to 23,550. MP’s recovery rate has inched back up to 70% after falling from 76% to 67% in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/another-high-of-921-covid-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77324290.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Sister of slain kar sevaks to attend Ayodhya function||JAIPUR: Nearly 30 years after two brothers, both kar sevaks, were killed in police firing in Ayodhya, their sister Purnima Kothari has been invited to the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Temple. The family, which is associated with business, spent their childhood in Bikaner before they migrated to Kolkata. On the eve of Raksha Bandhan, TOI spoke to Purnima who has been offering rakhi to her two brothers — Ram Kothari and Sharad Kothari — who were killed in police firing in Ayodhya on November 2, 1990, when the kar sevaks were returning after offering flags at the disputed land. “We spent our childhood in Bikaner and still have many relatives there. Even after 30 years, I still believe my brothers will come and see me,” said Purnima in choked voice while talking to TOI over phone from Kolkata on Sunday On her invitation, she said, “I am associated with various Ram Bhakt groups and they all are happy to know that I have been invited to witness the foundation stone-laying ceremony. I also believe had my brothers were alive they would have certainly attended the event,” she said. Recalling the incident when her brothers decided to go to Ayodhya in 1990, she said, “I was 19 years old when my father first asked my brothers not to go there. My father opined that we belong to business family so we can always contribute monetarily. However, my elder brother Ram told my father that they have to go for Lord Rama. And while my father asked my youngest brother to stay back, he said he will follow his elder brother Ram Kothari wherever he goes.” Purnima has been offering rakhi in front of the photos of her brother every year at their Kolkata-based house. “Even after 30 years I still have intact memories of my childhood and sometimes I believe that my brothers have gone somewhere and will come back. On Rakshabandhan, I only tie rakhi to my cousins in person while to my two brothers I offer to their photos and pray,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sister-of-slain-kar-sevaks-to-attend-ayodhya-function/articleshow/77322858.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rs 46 lakh groceries given in containment zones||PANAJI: The Goa State Horticulture Corporation Ltd (GSHCL) has distributed 8,000 grocery kits worth Rs 46 lakh in containment zones across the state, until July 31. “As per the requirement, the corporation has carried out the distribution of these kits because no one else could do,” GSHCL chairman, Pravin Zantye said.  The kits have basic vegetables, like onion, potato and tomato in them besides green chillies. In groceries, the kit contains sugar, tea powder, moong and vatana that are procured and packed along with utilities like toothpaste, soap and detergent. “While the GSHCL is providing the vegetables from its own horticulture outlets, we are procuring the groceries from other stores and preparing the kits. These are distributed to individual households with the help of the collectorate staff of North and South Goa,” GSHCL managing director, Sandeep Faldesai said. The kits have been distributed in Chimbel, Camrabhat and Mongor Hill besides Fatorpa (Quepem), Moti Dongor and Raia, Faldesai said. In addition to this, the GSHCL has also started distributing saplings of fruit bearing trees at reasonable rates to homes in a bid to encourage people to grow their own food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-46l-groceries-given-in-containment-zones/articleshow/77323182.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||14 test +ve in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the count to 812, of which 138 are active cases. At least 22 patients were also discharged in the day. With this, 672 patients have recovered from the virus in the district. The recovery rate now stands at 82.8%. While nine patients have succumbed to the virus in the district so far, the state has recorded just two of them in its bulletin. Among the new cases are a five-year-old boy and a nine-year-old girl. The new cases were spread across villages such as Denadu, Kavilorai, Sholur, Gundada, Odayaratty and Adhikaratti. A 27-year-old woman, who came from Sivaganga district, was also tested positive. According to health officials, the case will be cross-notified to her district. According to a release from the Madras Regimental Centre, it has recorded seven cases so far, of which four are active. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/14-test-ve-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77322186.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Social distancing goes for toss in front of Tasmac outlets in Trichy||Trichy: Several Tasmac outlets in parts of Trichy city are always seen crowded by tipplers without maintaining physical distancing as authorities are not enforcing safety measures. Although Tasmac officials claim that liquor sale has been down by 30% in the district during the lockdown, there is persistent footfall at most of the liquor outlets here, particularly between 7pm and 8pm. Of the total 177 Tasmac outlets in the district, 60 are in the city. Wooden barricades are set up in front of Tasmac outlets to ensure distancing, but the measures were followed only during the initial days, say locals. Tasmac outlets in densely populated Gandhi market, Rockfort, Thennur and Marakkadai witnesses dozens of tipplers thronging the counters to buy liquor at a time.“A month back, authorities had sealed a bakery for not maintaining social distancing. Going by that precedence, officials should have sealed several Tasmac outlets in the city where social distancing is ignored,” said T Senthil Kumar, a resident of Palakkarai. The liquor outlets that start their business by 10am are supposed to down their shutters by 8pm, but serpentine queues at the counters at the last minute cause chaos.Tasmac employees or police personnel are supposed to control the crowd at Tasmac shops, but it is rarely enforced. Daily wagers usually throng the Tasmac shops near Gandhi market after completing their work and had even caused bottlenecks in commercial streets recently. The liquor outlets located in residential areas like Babu road in Rockfort give residents the jitters visiting grocery stores nearby or returning from work. While Saturdays see a heavy rush, the situation is no different during closing hours. “We will request the city police to enhance surveillance at the crowded shops and inform our employees to ensure social distancing,” said R Parthiban, district manager, Tasmac.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/social-distancing-goes-for-toss-in-front-of-tasmac-outlets-in-trichy/articleshow/77322854.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Floods hit 53 lakh people in 14 districts||PATNA: Major rivers in north Bihar continued to flow above the danger mark as 53,67,182 people were affected by the floods in 14 districts on Sunday. Over 3.5 lakh more people have been marooned compared to 49,05,007 till late Saturday evening. An embankment of Tirhut canal breached in Mohammadpur Kothi panchayat area under the Sakra police station in Muzaffarpur early Sunday morning, inundating several adjoining villages near Pilkhi under Muraul block. The over 50 feet wide breach was caused due to the pressure of floodwaters in the canal which is connected to Burhi Gandak river. NDRF teams have been deployed in the area for relief work. The floodwaters have inundated 113 blocks. While 13 people have died so far, 4,03,269 people have been evacuated to safer places as 31 NDRF and SDRF teams are carrying out rescue and relief operations in the affected areas. The Mahananda was rising as well as flowing above the danger mark at Taiyabpur in Kishanganj and Dhangaraghat in Purnia. Similarly, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Ghaghra, Kosi and Khiroi rivers either showed a rising trend or remained steady. These rivers, however, were flowing above the danger mark at all flood gauge stations in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Khagaria, Madhubani, Siwan and Darbhanga districts. Bagmati river was above the danger mark at almost all flood gauge stations in Sitamarhi, but had a falling trend at most places. The Ganga was rising at Buxar, Digha (Patna), Munger and Bhagalpur, but remained below the danger mark. The Patna Meteorological Centre has issued yellow alert (thunderstorm with lightning and rainfall likely at one or two places) for the north Bihar districts on Monday and orange alert (moderate thunderstorm with lightning and heavy rain likely at one or two places) for all the districts on Tuesday. Its weather bulletin said rainfall with thunderstorm are very likely at many places in West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Vaishali, Sheohar and Samastipur for three days from Tuesday till August 6. A report from Darbhanga said over 17 lakh people of 196 panchayats were reeling from floods. According to disaster management department, altogether 450 boats, including 399 private, were ferrying the people and three NDRF and SDRF teams were carrying out rescue and relief operations through 17 motorboats. In Khagaria, the flood situation remained grim, affecting 85,660 population in 39 panchayats. The floodwaters of Kosi and Bagmati rivers have entered Buchha, Sarsawa, Rohiyar, Sonebersa, Thutthi Mohanpur, Maijani, Madhya Baurne, Poorvi Baurne, Balkunda, Kaithi Tola and Bangliya villages under Chautham block. All embankments were safe, Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said. Engineers were on high alert in Bagaha following the alarming situation on the Pipara-Piparasi embankment. The swollen Ghaghra surged toward the riparian area of Chausa block in Madhepura district, damaging roads in the region. Floodwaters entered Arajpur, Chausa West, Chirauri, Fulaut East and West, Ghosai, Laualagan East and West Paina panchayats. Surging floodwaters posed erosion threat to Morsanda-Dhaneshpur road near Ramcharan Tola and SH-58 near Bhargama, which links Kosi region with Bhagalpur and Jharkhand. The Gandak floodwaters entered the State Food Corporation (SFC) godown at Kesariya in East Champaran and destroyed grains. The DM has been informed about the lapses on the part of the SFC officials. (With inputs from B K Jha in Darbhanga, N P Thakur in Khagaria, Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha, D N Saha in Madhepura and C B Pandey in Motihari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-hit-53-lakh-people-in-14-dists/articleshow/77322205.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vegetable traders back on the roads in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vegetable traders of the city are back on the roads again with the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) authorities continuing to deny permission to trade at the Jamalpur APMC market. This led to heated arguments between police and the traders on Saturday. The traders had on Saturday forcibly entered the market. Later, police made the traders vacate the premises. Bharat Khamar, the president of the Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society, said that the traders then went to Jetalpur and conducted business on the service road outside the APMC. Khamar said that the government has relaxed Covid norms and the night curfew has been lifted as well. So he wondered why the APMC and civic authorities are reluctant to give permission for trading at Jamalpur. The traders were shifted from Jamalpur in April and since then have been trading from Jetalpur. Khamar said that Jetalpur shopkeepers are not renting out their premises and so vegetable traders are carrying out transactions on the roads. He said that the traders are willing to follow the odd-even formula and restrict trade but the authorities are not willing to grant permission. A trader said that he like others was asked to shift from Jamalpur to Jetalpur till August 1. When there was no communication from the authorities, the traders rushed to Jamalpur only to be met by police. On the other hand, police told the traders they had been clearly informed that the APMC is closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vegetable-traders-back-on-the-roads/articleshow/77322196.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Covid toll mounts to 115 as virus claims 14 more lives in 48 hours||Lucknow: Covid-19 deaths in the city zoomed past 100 mark to touch 115 on Sunday with 14 more deaths, including that of a state minister, in the past 24 hours, the highest single day spike so far since the pandemic’s outbreak. Of the total casualties, 95 took place in the past 30 days with an average of one every three hours. As per the state government bulletin, total 19 patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection in the 48 hours, including five on Saturday. However, district health authorities could neither provide details of all the victims, nor hospital wise break-up of casualties. Health officials said hospitals feed casualties in the centralised portal in real time, but give them details after two-three days. TOI then contacted individual hospitals separately. Some of them, including KGMU, SPM Civil hospital and a few private ones, gave details, but SGPGI refused to share any information about deaths except that of technical education minister Kamal Rani Varun. When contacted to inquire about any other casualties, SGPGIMS medical superintendent Dr R K Singh said, “We have specific orders to report case and death details only to government.” However, in KGMU things were transparent. Officers informed that two deaths of patients belonging to Lucknow took place on Saturday and three on Sunday. Besides, three patients who had been brought from other districts died in two days. SPM Civil hospital and Era Lucknow Medical College and hospital reported one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-toll-mounts-to-115-as-virus-claims-14-more-lives-in-48-hours/articleshow/77323183.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 3, 2020||Rajkot||65-year-old woman dies of snake bite in Gujarat's Modasa||PALANPUR: A 65-year-old woman died after being bitten by a snake in her house at Nava Kalikhat village of Modasa taluka in Aravalli district on Saturday. The victim, Shanta Chauhan, was unaware that a snake had sneaked into the house and she was cleaning the room. Chauhan was taken to the Modasa Civil Hospital she succumbed. Meanwhile, the snake was captured and released into the wild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/65-year-old-woman-dies-of-snake-bite-in-modasa/articleshow/77320935.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bhopal||255 cops infected, PHQ cancels all leaves||Bhopal: With 255 police personnel Covid-infected and four times this number in quarantine, the MP police HQ on Sunday cancelled sanctioned leaves of all cops. “There has been blatant violation of SOP issued by PHQ in all districts for travelling and other purposes. Officers and employees are not being careful while taking accommodation. It has also been found that officers and employees are not getting quarantined after returning from their vacation before joining duty. This has led to spread of infection,” reads the order issued by the administration wing. Covid numbers have been rising rapidly in MP, and police personnel on the forefront in the fight against the pandemic. “Looking at these circumstances, all leaves that have been sanctioned for leaving headquarters are being cancelled. Till further orders, only zonal IGs will have the power to sanction any leave. Only family and medical emergencies should be taken into consideration while accepting leave applications,” says the order. P4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/255-cops-infected-phq-cancels-all-leaves/articleshow/77322865.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Online hiring needs better preparation, say experts||CHENNAI: Students need better than the routine preparation to get selected in a virtual hiring process, said recruiters. Recruitment managers say it will be difficult for companies to understand a student’s body language and background in an online interview. “The duration of the interview will be shorter. Only if students are able to impress in the first few minutes, the interview will last longer,” a top recruiter from the IT industry said. Though virtual, these interviews will no way be casual. “Our recruitment process ― from evaluation to onboarding is 100% digital now,” said Suresh Bethavandu, vice-president and global head, talent acquisition at Cognizant. “But it can sometimes take more effort to articulate one’s thoughts and highlight achievements/capabilities virtually. So virtual hiring calls for better preparation,” he said. Prasad Srinivas, director of Analog Devices India, said Covid-19 will have an impact on campus hiring this year. “Nothing can replace a face-to-face interview because it gives an opportunity to look at the person, have an open conversation and look at the student’s body language. Online interviews will always be a limitation, but there are sophisticated tools that would help to assess a candidate’s technical knowledge, aptitude and competence,” he said. For logistics tech firm Fourkites, the company will hire up to 60% of the numbers selected last year. “We have got the dates from colleges and will begin recruiting in October. The evaluation process will be through video interviews, and hence the challenge would be more in exhibiting their soft skills,” said Neeraj Sharma, VP, HR, Fourkites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-hiring-needs-better-preparation-say-experts/articleshow/77322224.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Noida||As nurses turn sisters, hospitals gear up for rakhi||Noida/Greater Noida: Covid patients admitted to various hospitals in the district will be able to celebrate the festival of Rakshabandhan today. While healthcare workers in some hospitals will tie rakhis to the patients and vice versa, others have made special arrangements for sisters to come in PPE kits to tie rakhis to their brothers. At Sharda hospital, women doctors and nurses will tie rakhis to the men in Covid wards and women patients will tie the same to the male healthcare workers. The hospital is also making arrangements for patients to talk to their siblings via video conference. It has also arranged for sweets to be made in the hospital under the dietician’s instructions. Meanwhile, GIMS and Child PGI have made arrangements for rakhis for patients. The Child PGI has also purchased rakhis and sweets for patients. At Yatharth hospital in Noida extension, a special corner has been arranged where sisters will tie rakhis with PPE kits, N-95 masks and gloves followed by a buffet dinner on the hospital terrace with due social distancing. Dr Sunil Kumar, medical superintendent at Yatharth hospital, said: “All healthcare staffers, sisters and attendants will be given PPE kits, N-95 masks and gloves for free before they tie rakhis in the special area.” Meanwhile, Dr DK Gupta, director at Child PGI, said: “We are also taking suggestions from patients to make the festival memorable for them,” said Dr Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-nurses-turn-sisters-hospitals-gear-up-for-rakhi/articleshow/77322221.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 3, 2020||Coimbatore||CMCH to begin plasma therapy on Covid patients||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) is likely to start plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms from next week on a trial basis. The health department has asked willing plasma donors to register with the hospital from Monday. P Kalidas, CMCH dean, said, “We have necessary equipment to collect plasma from donors. We are in the process of enrolling recovered patients who are willing to donate plasma. We are planning to form a separate team to carry out this task. If everything goes well, we will start plasma therapy within six to seven working days after obtaining permission from higher officials.” Plasma is separated from blood by way of plasmapheresis. The hospital management has placed orders for plasmapheresis kits, which are expected to arrive in a few days. A Mangayarkarasi, medical officer, CMCH blood bank, said, “To start with, we will perform plasma therapy on patients who are moderately ill to prevent them from getting worse. For this, we need plasma donors and are in touch with blood donor organizations for the same.” The therapy is not required for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. “The plasma should be donated within 15 days after a Covid-19 patient tests negative for the virus or within 28 days of onset of symptoms. In the case of women, only those who have neither given birth nor had miscarriage or abortion would be allowed to donate. The donor should also satisfy all the criteria that are required for blood donation,” the medical officer said. Pointing out that several patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, from the first batch were willing to donate plasma, she said they were not eligible for donation now. “We did not do plasma therapy then, as there wasn’t any demand.” While the hospital authorities are confident of finding donors to meet the demand for plasma, coordinators of blood donor organizations said awareness need to be created on the same among the public. P Nagaraj, coordinator of blood donor organization Makkal Needhi Maiam, said, “In general, people are hesitant to donate blood. Because of Covid-19 scare, blood donation has come down. In addition to it, people are hesitant to reveal they were infected or recovered from the virus. In that case, it would be difficult to ask them to donate plasma. But things would change once we start to sensitize the public.” Nagaraj, along with two other organizations, have decided to work together to help CMCH get plasma. There are, however, always exceptions. Deepakumar, 36, who is undergoing Covid-19 treatment at a private hospital, said he would donate plasma as soon as the government hospital starts accepting the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmch-to-begin-plasma-therapy-on-covid-patients/articleshow/77322216.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 3, 2020||Agra||Newlywed shot dead by her jilted lover in Aligarh||AGRA: A 22-year-old jilted lover allegedly shot dead a newly-married woman in Aligarh on Sunday morning as her family had refused to accept their relationship and married off her in Bulandshahr last month. Caste difference was an apparent reason behind the woman’s family objection to their relationship, said police. The 20-year-old woman had come to her parent’s house for the first time after the marriage for Raksha Bandhan. She was sleeping on the terrace, when the accused, a neighbour, shot her into the head around 4am, said police, adding that the accused had been absconding since then. Police, meanwhile, detained the accused’s uncle for questioning. Circle officer (II) Pankaj Srivastava said an FIR was registered against the accused under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint filed by the girl’s family. “He will be arrested soon. Meanwhile, police are probing all angles of the case,” added the CO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/newlywed-shot-dead-by-her-jilted-lover-in-aligarh/articleshow/77320920.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||UP minister succumbs to Covid, state BJP chief +ve||LUCKNOW: UP technical education minister and two-time MP Kamal Rani Varun died on Sunday of complications caused by Covid-19, becoming the first serving cabinet member of any state and the fourth sitting legislator to succumb to the virus. She was 62. Kamal Rani had tested positive on July 18 and was being treated at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences. According to a statement from the hospital, “she died of multi-organ dysfunction at 9:30am”. Kamal Rani’s death coincided with UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh testing positive for the virus. He has gone into quarantine in his Lucknow home. Overall, six ministers in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet have so far contracted the virus. Former Lucknow deputy mayor Abhay Seth and former minister Ghura Ram died of Covid-19 within 10 days of each other in July. CM Adityanath termed the demise of Kamal Rani, a Dalit MLA representing Kanpur’s Ghatampur assembly constituency, an “irreparable loss” to his government and the people she served. President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi posted tweets hailing her as a grass roots leader. “Her life was devoted to social service and she played a vital role in strengthening BJP in the state. My condolences are with her family and supporters... Om Shanti!” PM Modi wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-minister-succumbs-to-covid-state-bjp-chief-ve/articleshow/77323492.cms||Yusra Husain
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Subsidised food at Rs 8 soon||JAIPUR: The state government will launch its ambitious Indira Rasoi scheme on August 20 to provide food at subsidised rates to poor. These kitchens will be set up at 358 locations of 213 urban local bodies after spending Rs 100 crore on the scheme. In a review meeting, chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Rs 8 was fixed per plate for poor. An official said, “To develop the infrastructure, the state government will provide Rs 4.87 lakh to each operator. Every year, Rs 2 lakh grant will also be provided. The cost per plate will be Rs 20, however, it will be provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8 per plate.” As per the strategy, these kitchens will be established near bus stands, hospitals and railway stations. The municipal corporations, councils and municipalities are on the task to earmark locations. After the change in regime, the Congress government is all set to overhaul the Annapurna Rasoi scheme launched by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje to serve food at subsidised rates across the state. The reason for the move is that the existing Congress government wants to provide food to the poor, after spending money in a transparent manner. “The monitoring of the scheme will be done using IT technology. Those beneficiaries who have mobile phones will receive a coupon via SMS. CCTV cameras will also be installed for monitoring,” said another official. In previous tenure, the state government spent approximately Rs 240 crore to provide food at 495 locations in 191 urban local bodies. After coming to power, on UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal’s direction, a team of officials went to Chennai and Bengaluru to study the Amma Canteen and Indira Canteen schemes, respectively. The team in its report had submitted that the government can provide food to the poor at subsidised rate after making the expenditure on the existing scheme half.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/subsidised-food-at-rs-8-soon/articleshow/77322869.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||Despite easing of lockdown, few venture out in Mysuru||Mysuru: Even as the lockdown restrictions were lifted on Sunday, the movement of people and traffic was less in Mysuru city, while the two famous temples of the district, the Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi hills and Sri Srikanteshwara Swami Temple in Nanjanagud, remained shut for devotees. A majority of the commercial establishments in the city remained shut today, as less people ventured out. The roads had a deserted look with the public preferring to stay indoors. Yathiraj Sampathkumar, executive officer, Sri Chamundeshwari Temple, said the temple was shut on Sundays even before the Sunday lockdown announcement. Similarly, Nanjnagud Temple was also shut today morning after daily puja rituals were performed. As Monday is Shravana full moon day, the temple will remain closed to devotees as per the directions of the district administration, to ensure that there will not be any rush. However, the Malai Mahadeshwara Swamy Temple on MM Hills was opened for devotees on Sunday, after a break of nearly four months. “The temple was opened as usual at 7 am for devotees,” said authorities. Devotees can have darshan on all 7 days of the week, said Jayavibhava Swamy, secretary, Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Swamy Kshetra development Authority, MM Hills. According to the authorities, mass feeding has been restarted in the temple. Nagamail bhavan of the temple was thrown open for the devotees to stay. However no prasadm is given to devotees and the barrin of utsavs at the temple continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/despite-easing-of-lockdown-few-venture-out-in-mysuru/articleshow/77320696.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Beliaghata, Kankurgachhi are among Kolkata’s biggest containment-zones||KOLKATA: The latest additions to the containment zone list 48 hours ago have brought Beliaghata-Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi belt back under the scanner. At present, the area has as many as 11 containment zones — spread across posh complexes, slums, mixed zones and even markets. Just like Bhowanipore-Ballygunge in the south, this zone has continued to be part of the containment list with fears of spread of virus to neighbouring areas like Maniktala (now on the list) and Ultadanga (on earlier lists). So, the Beliaghata-Kankurgachhi-Phoolbagan belt is now one of Kolkata’s biggest containment zones, with each area reporting over 50 active cases. According to police and KMC, while they have received success in Ultadanga’s Telengabagan and Karbagan, the same cannot be said about Suren Sarkar Street that presently has four containment zones. While the area coordinator has pointed to its proximity to Salt Lake that has reported hundreds of cases, the fact remains that this area — a mix of slums and flats — has multiple access points. The residents from different strata of society have resumed work after the Unlock-1. The police, though, said they were not looking at “one-pill solution” to the rising Covid cases. “In the initial days, controlling crowds at markets like Rashmoni Bazar and Chaulpatty had helped in checking the virus spread. Now that Covid has reached apartments, we are choosing the highest affected zones by rotation — one by one — instead of shutting down the entire area and concentrating on controlling the disease,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The police have already barricaded slums, apartments and even markets that can possibly spread the virus. “The mixed areas have received maximum attention and our maximum manpower,” said a police officer. KMC has now proposed to carry out antigen tests at specific locations to stop the spread of the disease to neighbouring areas. Anindya Raut, the borough chief, said he was open to trying the “relaxed” containment policy. “Instead of shutting down everything, we can then concentrate only on the affected buildings. That’s out focus are now,” he said. Beliaghata resident Anubrata Mitra, who is a resident of Raja Rajendra Lal Mitra Road, said when he had returned from Delhi, locals had requested him to go for a two-week quarantine. “That was the time when Beliaghata strated recording Covid deaths. The timings of the markets were regulated and people were following lockdown rules. I had gladly quarantined myself as that was the need of the hour. But now, except at the containment zones, there is hardly any self-restraint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beliaghata-kankurgachhi-are-among-kols-biggest-c-zones/articleshow/77322226.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 3, 2020||Vadodara||Brave army brothers in Galwan get rakhis from sisters across India||VADODARA: Despite being miles away from their families, the wrists of hundreds of soldiers standing guard at Galwan on Indo-Chinese border will not miss the rakhis on Monday. Women from eight states have sent the soldiers colourful rakhis on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan to help these brothers who are braving the tough weather and Chinese army aggression feel loved and protected. “The soldiers posted at Galwan border gave a great sacrifice to protect our borders. They ensured that we remained safe so we decided to extend our gesture for our army men,” said Sanjay Bachav, a teacher at Baroda High School, Bagikhana. “We collected rakhis over the last few weeks and were overwhelmed by the huge response we received despite the danger of Covid virus still looming large. Apart from Gujaratis, women from other states too sent rakhis for the soldiers,” Bachav told TOI. Bachav with some of his students packed the rakhis and sent them by courier to not just Galwan but also Kargil and Siachen. “We sent over 12,000 rakhis this year, of which over 3,000 were for Galwan. Phone calls have started coming in from the soldiers who received the rakhis,” Bachav added. “I got a call from an army man posted in Kargil on Saturday. He thanked us for sending in rakhis for the soldiers despite the pandemic. They have been serving our nation selflessly and by sending rakhis we send in a message that we are all a one big family,” said Himali Patel, a chartered accountant and former student of Bachav. Bachav ensured that every rakhi was sanitized several times before packing. He began sending in rakhis to the army men four years ago. “These soldiers are away from their families but they also love to celebrate festivals like all of us. So I decided to send them rakhis and forge a bond with the men who protect us day in day out,” Bachav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brave-army-brothers-in-galwan-get-rakhis-from-sisters-across-india/articleshow/77320536.cms||Tushar Tere
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Patients’ arrival at hospitals in advanced stage led to 60% Covid-19 deaths in city||Lucknow: At least 60% of 101 Covid-19 patients, who have died in the city till August 1, were brought to the hospital in advanced stage of the disease. The common factors in all these deaths were that patients came with breathing problems and died of respiratory failure as by that time novel coronavirus had severely damaged their lungs. According to experts, this points to the fact that an important and identified symptom of the disease – breathlessness or short breath – is being overlooked by people either due to ignorance or self-denial or even fear of disclosing their status for various reasons. Breathlessness occurs as novel coronavirus mainly attacks lungs, resulting in hypoxemia (critically low blood oxygen levels in the body) which, if not addressed timely, leads to respiratory and multi-organ failure. TOI analysed the data procured from hospitals and found that 62 victims (60%) came to the hospital in the advanced stage of the disease. Of these, 36 died within 24 hours of admission. Further, 38 had no comorbidity and 31 were in the age group of 41-60 years. “These deaths indicate that people couldn’t realise that they have been infected by the virus. Short breath is a sign that a person is breathing faster to get more oxygen. It occurs in Covid-19 because the virus hits the lungs. Serious symptoms may surface later,” said virologist and former head of SGPGI’s microbiology department Prof TN Dhole. “In most cases, patients had no idea that breathlessness is a symptom of Covid-19. They considered fever and cough as the only symptom,” KGMU spokesman Prof Sudhir Singh said, emphasising on the need for a massive awareness campaign particularly for the economically weaker sections. Prof Kausar Usman from KGMU’s medicine department, who is also involved in Covid-19 care, said: “Self-denial (it cannot happen to me) or self-diagnosis (this is happening because of some other cause) are responsible for the delay. In some cases, patients initially thought that breathlessness was because of humid weather or due to a heart condition.” “Self-denial generally occurs when people have no comorbidity. They believe that they are fit. And, the tendency of self-diagnosis is most among those with health condition. They attribute all symptoms to it,” he added. Besides breathlessness, loss of taste is also an indication of Covid-19. Prof Santosh Kumar from pulmonary medicine department of KGMU said some people did not report early out of fear of being kept in ‘isolation’ in the hospital. “People can keep an oximeter at home to measure oxygen levels regularly. Normal oxygen saturation level is between 95%-100%. If it remains low for some time, seek medical assistance immediately. If you can’t afford oximeter, watch out for numbness in limbs or difficulty in getting up to walk which are also signs of low oxygen levels,” Prof Dhole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patients-arrival-at-hospitals-in-advanced-stage-led-to-60-covid-19-deaths-in-city/articleshow/77323187.cms||Yusra Husain
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||Machine at JMC helps to maintain social distancing||Jaipur: Maintaining social distance has been a major issue at all the government departments which is now being resolved by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). JMC has installed a machine at the Citizen Helpline Centre where birth and death certificates are made to identify people who are violating the social distancing norms. Citizen Helpline Centre is visited by hundreds of people every day, so the authorities felt the need to install a machine over there, said sources. Additional commissioner, JMC, Arun Garg, said, “We installed the machine a few days ago and till now the results have been good. The machine can detect any one getting closer than four feet and will circle it on the screen at the helpline centre hall. The moment it is shown on the screen, immediately announcement is made on the loud speaker connected to the machine – ‘maintain distance’. This is a welcome step and to a large extent it has helped us in preventing crowds.” It is still in experimental phase and after a month JMC is planning to install it in every zonal office in the city. People belonging to different zones have to get their certificates from zonal office, but relatives of people died or born at SMS hospital have to get it from JMC’s Lal Kothi headquarters. Since the outbreak of pandemic, there has been a decline in the number of people coming to the helpline centre for getting a certificate. Everyone was applying online for the certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/machine-at-jmc-helps-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/77322871.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||Two girls washed away in Tungabhadra River||Haveri: Two girls were washed away while crossing Tungabhadra river at Hirebidari village in Ranebennur taluk on Saturday night. The deceased are Keertana Ingalagundi, 17, and Abhilasha Halageri, 19. They had gone to the river on Saturday evening along with their relatives. All of them allegedly slipped into the river, but a girl, a boy and a man were rescued by locals, who were on the spot. But two girls were washed away. The body of Keertana was found two hours after the incident while Abhilasha’s body was found at 3.30am on Sunday by the fire and police department. The case has been registered at Ranebennur rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-girls-washed-away-in-tungabhadra-river/articleshow/77319661.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Most MSMEs not eligible for Centre’s credit scheme||CHANDIGARH: For the Centre’s much-hyped Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, only 12 % of Punjab’s nearly 15 lakh micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) were found eligible clients by the banks. Even among those approached, 25% have either opted out or are yet to respond. As per the figures available till July 18, 2020, almost 19% of the eligible borrowers have opted out of the scheme, and another 6% are yet to respond. Resultantly, merely 7% of the total MSMEs have so far consented to avail of the scheme. The scheme is on till October. RBI Chair at Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) Prof Satish Verma said, “While the scheme has been widely touted to benefit the cash-strapped, functional, indebted MSMEs, a huge proportion have either opted out or not responded. It raises doubts about the scheme’s structural design. As it is, Punjab’s share in the scheme of Rs 3 lakh crore comes to a minuscule 1.44%.” The credit scheme was a part of the Rs 20 lakh crore financial stimulus package announced on May 13, 2020, by the Union finance minister. It promises to provide collateral-free, government-guaranteed, and pre-approved working capital term loan to the enterprises that were non-NPA as on February 29, 2020. Verma points out that the problem lies with the fact that the loan facility amounts to 20% of the combined outstanding loans of the enterprise. However, only the enterprises with up to Rs 25 crore outstanding loans and Rs 100 crore turnover are eligible to avail it. Essentially, the scheme is intended to infuse liquidity into the small enterprises to enable them to meet their outstanding bills and to ensure an uninterrupted supply line of raw materials. “Importantly, many enterprises have been reeling under financial stress for quite a long period and may have accumulated NPA loans over time. On the other hand, the enterprises that somehow managed their own resources seem to have been doubly penalised; first for getting accommodation from informal sources, which have their own costs, and second for being ineligible for the loan available under the scheme at lower rate of interest. Still, slow down can be a reason for some eligible borrowers to opt out,” added Verma. “Making loans collateral free has been touted as the incentive for the eligible enterprises under the scheme. In reality, however, the loan is not collateral free; rather it is a loan without additional collateral. Third, the government guaranteed feature of the loan should incentivise banks to extend loans liberally. On the contrary, it is alleged that intensive documentation is undertaken by banks while sanctioning the loan as the banks too have a share in default rate.” “The conditions put up to avail the scheme were not very exciting for most units and that is why it has failed to generate the expected response. The Centre should have been more liberal in extending benefits for MSMEs that have been struggling with finances,” said the owner of a medium-sized unit in Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/most-msmes-not-eligible-for-centres-credit-scheme/articleshow/77320967.cms||Vibhor Mohan
August 3, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to launch four housing schemes on August 15||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is planning to launch four more housing schemes in the state capital after the successful endeavour to attract buyers in recently launched projects. A total of 1,500 plots will be developed in these four schemes, which will be launched on August 15. Allotment of about 1,500 plots in the housing schemes will be done through lottery and auction. The civic body will develop colony named as Hiralal Shastri Nagar in zone-14, Gokul Nagar in Prithviraj Nagar Scheme (North zone), APJ Abdul Kalam Nagar in zone 11. Around 200 plots of Nilay Kunj Scheme which were developed earlier in zone-9 will be allotted after re-planning. To sell the plots in its developed schemes, the JDA recently had reduced the reserve price of uninhabited land in its region by 10% to 37%. The decision was taken by the higher authorities looking at the slump in prices in the region and also for many years, they were unable to auction the plots. The JDA is confident to selling the plots in these schemes, looking at the previous response. As these schemes will not be developed in far-flung areas, many buyers are expected to show interest to buy plots at these locations. A senior official said, “The move is expected to boost the revenues, that will be utilised to develop infrastructure.” “As the market condition has improved, the JDA will also fill its coffers after auctioning plots in its old scheme,” he said. As JDA has many schemes in far-flung areas, not many residents have applied to buy those in the past as the authorities failed to provide even basic facilities. Due to lack of power and water, the sites of these colonies continue to wear a deserted look. An official source said, since 2005, the civic body has launched 38 housing schemes, but most of those are still unoccupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-launch-four-housing-schemes-on-august-15/articleshow/77322867.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||Pandemic, conflict with China result in sales of rakhis drying up in twin cities||Hubballi: The souring of relations between India and China following the face-off in Ladakh recently has had a trickle-down effect, affecting everything from electronic gadgets to the rakhis that sisters tie around the wrist of brothers as a reaffirmation of their relationship on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. Many women in Hubballi-Dharwad are refusing to buy China-made rakhis that are on sale in the retail markets, and insisting on purchasing those made in India. Furthermore, the Covid-19 crisis having sent the economy plummeting, most women were found opting for modestly priced rakhis. Proprietor of Mahalaxmi Lace and Embroidery on Ullagaddimath Street in Hubballi Sachin Jadhav said that there was a marked dip in the sales of rakhis across twin cities. Moreover, he said that the disruption in the supply chain owing to the Covid-19 crisis and the standoff between India and China, had resulted in shops having minimal stock of the rakhis. “India-made rakhis could not be supplied across the country owing to the lockdown, while we do not have enough of the China-made ones either. Chinese rakhis were more colourful and hence, more popular among customers,” said Jadhav, ruing the slide in the business for the embroidery industry in the festive season. Owner of another embroidery store Venkatesh Dalabhanjan observed a growing trend among women to purchase the required raw materials, and make the rakhis at home. He said that the rejection of Chinese rakhis had opened a window for the Indian manufacturers to cash in on. “But the Covid-19 crisis has meant that they could not capitalise on this chance,” he said. Sources in the embroidery and lace industry said that even small retail outlets sold rakhis worth Rs 5,000 in the run-up to Rakshabandhan. “This time, sales have dipped by 60 to 70%, on average,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pandemic-conflict-with-china-result-in-sales-of-rakhis-drying-up-in-twin-cities/articleshow/77319487.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Workers’ entry: New Dakshina Kannada to confer with Kasaragod officials||Mangaluru: Even as hundreds of employees from Kasaragod working in various sectors in Dakshina Kannada district are on the verge of losing their jobs due to Kerala government’s decision of not allowing regular entry and exit via Talapady border, deputy commissioner KV Rajendra, who has recently taken charge, has decided to take up the matter. The DC will have a discussion with Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu soon. Majority of the employees from Kasaragod working in private sectors in Mangaluru have been asked to either report to duty or resign. Many have already resigned to find job in Kasaragod and they have started an online campaign with the hashtags #Opentheborder and #Savemyjob requesting Kasaragod district collector to allow them to commute daily between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. “As per the order, we are not allowed to come back to Kasaragod for the next 28 days if we go to Mangaluru. About 90% of us have no facility to stay in Mangaluru. I heard that some have already lost their jobs,” Prithwiraj JS, a daily commuter wrote to Kasaragod DC. Harinarayana Holla, a service engineer in a tools company in Mangaluru, told TOI that he has requested the authorities concerned to provide permission for people of Kasaragod, who are employed in Mangaluru, to attend to work in Mangaluru and return home in the evening on daily pass. When contacted, Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said he will discuss the issue with his Kasaragod counterpart. “It is a very serious issue. We will definitely try to solve it through a conference,” he added. District minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said there is a need to clear the heaps of soil dumped on roads connecting Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod during lockdown. Meanwhile, Kasaragod DC in an FB post stated that various issues related to inter-state border will be discussed with Kerala revenue minister E Chandrashekharan on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/workers-entry-new-dakshina-kannada-to-confer-with-kasaragod-officials/articleshow/77320528.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||Heart-shaped paddy farm a tourist attraction in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru: Although it is not unusual to find people from cities visiting popular tourist destinations stop by fields of flowers, and take photographs and selfies, a paddy farm owned and cultivated by two brothers in a small hamlet in Chikkamagaluru has turned into quite an attraction among locals and visitors alike. Bamikonda is a hilly hamlet, not too far from Kalasa town, with the few houses dotting the slope of the undulating terrain. It is here that the paddy farm of Krishna Gowda and Vishwanath Gowda is nestled. What makes this paddy farm unique is the shape that the crops have been hemmed into: A heart. Interestingly, that their paddy farm was shaped as attractively remained unnoticed by the brothers themselves till it started gaining in popularity. “We really did not notice the shape of the field. We shaped our farm in this way to ensure to retain water and fertility of the soil. Someone clicked a few photographs, uploaded them on social media, which went viral. The shape can be distinguished only from a distance, Krishna told TOI. The brothers’ ancestors settled down in Bamikonda nearly a century ago, and started cultivating paddy at the foot of the hill. Both Krishna and Vishwanath have been tilling the land with bullock-drawn carts. Divin Mudigere, among the first travellers to have stumbled upon this vista, said, “One gets to Bamikonda by a road that is in terrible shape, more so during the monsoon. But it was a great moment for me, to capture the scene in front of me.” Meanwhile, owners of resorts and homestays in Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru are more than pleased with the addition of another tourist attraction, albeit a remote one. Owner of a hometay in Bamikonda Abhi Ballal told TOI that Krishna and Vishwanath were his neighbours. “They had no idea that the paddy farm would draw visitors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/heart-shaped-paddy-farm-a-tourist-attraction-in-chikkamagaluru/articleshow/77319884.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||Two years after Nainital Mall Rd collapse, govt sanctions Rs 82 lakh for its repair||Nainital: Almost two years after a 20-metre long stretch of Nainital’s Mall Road collapsed into the Naini Lake, the state government has finally sanctioned money for its repair work. According to the district administration, an amount of Rs 82 lakh has been sanctioned to build the retention walls as well as to repair the cracks in the road. “A proposal amounting to Rs 82 lakh was prepared and sent to the government for approval. The amount was sanctioned and the tender will soon be floated,” said Nainital’s district magistrate Savin Bansal. The DM added that the administration is hoping that the work will begin by September after the monsoon eases. “The process of floating tenders and inviting technical bids will be completed in a few days and we expect the work to commence by September. The rains are also expected to subside in a month and therefore, the work will start after monsoon ends,” Bansal said. “The repair work will include inserting poles into the lake as deep as 20 metres and using sandbags to prevent loosening of rocks,” said PWD’s executive engineer, Deepak Gupta. He said that the PWD has also prepared a bigger plan for repairing the 190-metre stretch of the Mall Road and another proposal worth Rs 42 crore has also been sent for approval. “A study was done in collaboration with IIT Roorkee, and a proposal has been sent to the state government for repair work and strengthening of 190 metre portion of the road. While we are waiting for the approval, the work on the damaged portion will start by September,” Gupta added. As reported by TOI earlier, the Mall Road that runs around the Naini Lake had collapsed in August 2018. Consequently, traffic movement on the stretch had to be stopped for over a month. However, soon after its collapse, the administration had temporarily put some pillars and sandbags to prevent further damage and built a road over it. But barely a few months later, cracks had started to reappear. Experts had said that heavy traffic movement and loosening of rocks beneath the road could be the reasons for the damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-years-after-nainital-mall-rd-collapse-govt-sanctions-rs-82-lakh-for-its-repair/articleshow/77319316.cms||Prashant Jha
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Year-end Class 1-9 exams may be cancelled for Karnataka board schools||BENGALURU: With the pandemic having caused massive loss of class hours, year-end exams may not be held for class 1-9 students of all schools following state board syllabus, as per a comprehensive plan on continuous learning. It will probably be unveiled this week. The programme, Vidyagama, targeted at students of government, aided and unaided state board schools, seeks to promote guided self-learning among kids by getting every institution to set up virtual classrooms based on the geographical location of its students’ homes. It will benefit 44 lakh students of government schools and 14 lakh from aided ones. The number of students in unaided schools was not immediately available. Mid-term exams are also likely to be cancelled, according to highlights of the Vidyagama project report accessed by TOI. Students from classes 1-5, 6-8 and 9-10 will be grouped together in each area. A group of 20-25 children will be mentored by a teacher from the same locality. The mentors will conduct four formative assessments even if schools continue to remain closed, according to Vidyagama, which is expected to be announced by minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar this week. It requires the mentor teacher to divide her class based on children’s accessibility to technology — students who have continuous internet facility, those with mobiles but no internet and those without any gadget. Each group will have a different mode of learning. While teachers can reach students with internet accessibility through WhatsApp groups and recorded videos or online classes, those with mobiles will get SMSs or voice calls. For those without gadgets, parents will be asked to collect worksheets from schools and will be guided on how to assist them in self-learning. Teachers will be asked to visit homes of children at least once a week. While the mentor teacher will conduct classes for all subjects in primary classes, in higher grades, she will teach her own subject and coordinate with other teachers for her group of children. Subject teachers have to hand over worksheets /other learning material to the mentor teacher. Meetings of the student-teacher groups will be held at community centres, religious places or under trees with social-distancing norms in place. The headmaster of each school will be responsible for allotting mentor teachers and monitoring the system. Schools are directed to take help from the community, NGOs, volunteers or even higher grade students. While TV classes will continue for high school students, lessons for classes 1-10 in Kannada and English medium will be recorded by experienced teachers and uploaded on YouTube channels. The programme’s objective is to help students self-learn and to ensure they don’t depend only on gadgets or teachers. A class-wise and subject-wise ‘annual programme of work’ has been prepared at the state level to ensure uniformity in schools. It should be ensured that mid-day meal provisions reach students’ homes. The mentor teacher also has the responsibility of enroling any out-of-school student without asking for documents. Special care will be taken for children with special needs. While many school teachers are reaching out to their students through ‘vatara shale’ (classes in vatara, cluster of houses in a single building) to prevent a learning gap, the government’s new plan will streamline the system and ensure all schools follow suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/year-end-class-1-9-exams-may-be-cancelled-for-state-board-schools/articleshow/77320727.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 3, 2020||Patna||Covid tally races past 57,000 in Bihar, toll mounts to 322||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 tally has mounted to 57,270 on Sunday with 2,762 people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With the death of 10 more people on Sunday, Covid toll in the state has touched 322. Three deaths were reported from Kaimur, two from Rohtas and one each from Buxar, Gaya, Patna, Saran and Supaul. Altogether 1,164 people have recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. Of the 57,270 Covid patients in the state, 36,637 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state stood at 20,310 and recovery rate at 63.97% on Sunday. The state has managed to ramp up Covid testing by 50.04% in the last five days as per the data shared by the health department on Sunday. Altogether 35,619 samples were tested in the last 24 hours alone at various health facilities in the state. Positivity rate in the state also declined from 9.82% to 7.75 % on Sunday. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said the number of Covid tests went up in the state following round-the-clock supply of rapid antigen test kits. “Our focus is on flood-affected areas. Medical teams are visiting relief camps to conduct antigen test of people living there. Number of Covid tests in the state will increase in the days to come. The more we test, the less will be positivity rate in the state,” Amrit added. The health department has asked all nine medical college and hospitals in the state to conduct antigen test of patients coming to the hospital for treatment of any ailment. “Additional lab technicians have been engaged in each district to ramp up testing. RT-PCR tests will also be ramped up in the state. One machine will be installed at Bettiah Medical College and Hospital and another at Pawapuri Medical College and Hospital by August 7. One more machine will be installed at Madhepura Medical College and Hospital. All these machines will become operational by August 15,” Amrit said. Meanwhile, AIIMS-Patna on Sunday recorded five fresh deaths. Among the deceased, two were from Patna – a 69-year-old man from Patrakar Nagar and a 63-year-old man from Kadamkuan. The other three victims were from Samastipur, Begusarai and Aurangabad districts. Nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-P Dr Sanjeev Kumar has confirmed the death of five people at the hospital. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer of Covid at NMCH-Patna, confirmed three deaths on Sunday. Among the victims, two were from Patna – a 70- year-old woman from Alamganj and a 65-year-old man from Vijay Nagar. The third deceased – a 37-year-old woman – was a resident of Nalanda. Altogether 460 people were tested positive for Covid in Patna district on Sunday. The number of active Covid cases in district stood at 3,863 on Sunday. Altogether 5,916 people have so far recovered from the disease in the district. COVID FACTSHEET Today’s cases: 2,762 Total cases: 57,270 Total recovery: 36,637 Active cases: 20,311 Total deaths: 322, including two suicides||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-races-past-57k-in-state-toll-mounts-to-322/articleshow/77322232.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Despite free pass, Old Mahabalipuram Road residents made to pay toll fee||CHENNAI: Despite having a free pass to cross toll gates on Old Mahabalipuram Road, residents who have subscribed to FASTag are made to pay the toll fee. The scanning device at toll plazas on OMR detects FASTag stickers on car windshields and the money is deducted from the users’ bank accounts linked to FASTag. At present, OMR has a centralised toll system run by state-owned IT Expressway Limited (ITEL) and has five toll plazas. A car has to pay Rs 54 for a two-way journey. However, cars of local residents were exempted from paying this user fee. On application, residents are provided with local resident passes (LRPs) -- a radio-frequency tag they can affix on the car windshields or side glasses. Equipment fixed at toll lanes scans these RFID tags and it allows users to cross the toll without paying any fee. But after FASTtag, Union road transport ministry’s electronic toll collection system, was made mandatory for travel on national highways, many OMR residents started affixing FASTag stickers right next to the LRP stickers on their car glasses. FASTag, which was used only in NH toll plazas, was recently expanded to OMR toll gates after repeated requests from the public to move to cashless transactions. The toll plazas on OMR, which were shut in April due to Covid-19 lockdown, resumed fee collection from Wednesday. “Since the toll started to function again, users with LRP are made to pay a fee just because they have FASTag stickers on their cars,” said G Satish, a resident of Semmanchery, who was one of the first persons in OMR to get a LRP. So users have to either remove the FASTag stickers for now or paste the LRPs near their steering wheels or at a different spot on the car, he said. An ITEL official said efforts were underway to come up with a common RFID sticker for residents using both the tags. Residents can approach the ITEL office for assistance, he said. But banks are demanding a higher fee for installing such a system and soon it will be integrated, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-free-passomr-residentsmade-to-pay-toll-fee/articleshow/77322235.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||Now, Nepalese town mayor stakes claim over no-man’s land near Uttarakhand border||PITHORAGARH: The mayor of Bhimdutt nagar palika in Kanchanpur district of Nepal has claimed that a patch of no-man’s land near the India-Nepal border in Champawat district of Kumaon is actually Nepalese territory. The mayor, Surendra Bisht, also alleged that the area which adjoins the Brahmdev area in Nepal has “for years been administered by the community forest committee (van samiti) of our nagar palika.” He further added that the nagar palika had put up wooden fencing in the area years ago which has recently been replaced as it had become old. Saplings have also been planted in the area, as per the mayor. As per sources in Champawat district, a sum of Rs 45 lakh has been spent on the fencing exercise and planting of saplings by the Nepalese nagar palika. When queried on how Nepal is staking claim on land that has been deemed as no-man’s land, Bisht said, “ A joint survey of the land should be undertaken to sort out the issue. That will make the picture clear. We agree that border dispute is not good for both countries and it should be solved soon.” The border row at Tanakpur in Champawat district had erupted sometime ago when Nepalese nationals were alleged to have encroached upon the area at border pillar number 811, deemed as no-man’s land. After Indian security agencies objected and registered a complaint with Nepal, Nepalese officials had come to the spot for inspection. Officials from both countries are now expected to meet each other in the coming week to discuss the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-nepalese-town-mayor-stakes-claim-over-no-mans-land-near-ukhand-border/articleshow/77319324.cms||Prem Punetha
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Civic volunteer murdered during Hastings brawl, three held||KOLKATA: A 36-year-old civic volunteer attached with Maidan police was allegedly murdered near the Hastings Mazar on Saturday after he had tried to stop an argument between horse carriage operators. The victim, Irshad Hossain alias Md Sunny, a resident of MM Ali Road in Ekbalpore, was himself the owner of some horses used to pull the carriages. Three persons, Safed Rahaman alias Saiba, Ajoy Roy and Abhisek Singh, have been arrested so far in connection with the murder. The civic volunteer, who is survived by his parents, wife and two daughters, was allegedly hit with a brick on his head in the wee hours of Saturday. He succumbed to his injuries later on the same day. According to joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma, there was a dispute between Danish and Rahaman of Hastings over the use of the road leading to the mazar. “In the past few days, slum dwellers from Strand Road and those from Watgunge had been arguing over the issue,” said Sharma. “As an argument was on, Sunny and Danish’s father Md Firoj reached the spot in the early hours of Saturday. Though Sunny was not on duty, he had gone there to feed his horses and wash his cart. Meanwhile, Rahaman called some locals to come to his rescue. Sunny, Firoj and at least five others objected to the presence of so many people, who had no connection with the business, at the spot. Ajoy Roy of Watgunge and a friend of Rahaman became furious suddenly and had a scuffle with Sunny, Firoj and Danish. During the scuffle, Abhisek Singh, a resident of St Georges Terrace Road and a friend of both Rahaman and Roy, hit Sunny on his head with a brick. As he fell on the ground, the accused fled away,” said DC (south) Meeraj Khalid. Soon, some seniors rushed to the spot hearing the commotion. “Around 12.30am, Sunny said he was feeling unwell and was shifted to SSKM Hospital. He died while being shifted to the trauma care unit. Arrangement has been made for his post-mortem that will ascertain the exact reason behind his death,” added Khalid. The arrested trio have been charged with murder by Maidan police. Firoj is the complainant, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-volunteer-murdered-during-hastings-brawl-3-held/articleshow/77322252.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Source of infection in over 65,000 patients in Karnataka unknown||BENGALURU: As the Covid-19 cases in Karnataka surge, the source of infection for one in every two patients who have tested positive remains a mystery, prompting authorities to shift strategy to increasing isolation. As of Saturday night, the government was unable to pinpoint the source of the virus in 65,099 of the 1.3 lakh cases in the state, while the remaining contracted an infection either through a contact or had a history of domestic or international travel. “The number is not surprising given the government has diverted a significant percentage of resources to manage beds and coordinate, while ignoring tracking and tracing,” one expert working with the government said, without wanting to be named. However, many experts said the government should not waste resources in finding the source anymore, but focus on enhancing testing capacity. While the Sunday health bulletin showed an increase in total cases, the government did not immediately release data on transmission source, which will come Monday. Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 task force, had earlier explained said the inability to pinpoint the source of infection clearly indicates that these patients were infected somewhere in the community. He had even said that in the long-run this would work as a stimulus for herd immunity given the low fatality rate. “However, it is too early to say anything concrete now,” he had said. Experts also pointed out the government must conduct more sero-surveillance studies to understand this and data must also be collected on infection-per-case — how many people could be infected for every one positive case — rate to manage the infrastructure and resources better. Of the 65,099 patients, 15,896 — 13,092 with ILI and 2,804 with SARI — have known comorbidities, and investigations are on to identify the source of transmission. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said: “It would be critical for the government to now ramp up testing capacity and identify all the people who may have been infected. Once this is done, they must all be isolated to prevent the infection from spreading as it is clear there is some local transmission.” While there is no clear break-up of where the unidentified cases are from, a senior official said that a majority of cases could be from Bengaluru. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said: “We understand the problem, which is why we are working on increasing our testing capacity. Just yesterday we did more than 10,000 tests and we hope to ramp this up to 50,000 a day soon. Besides this we are identifying vulnerable populations across wards and they will be put under surveillance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/source-of-infection-in-over-65000-patients-in-karnataka-unknown/articleshow/77321003.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 3, 2020||Agra||Rakhis tie postal dept to its glorious past again, keep humble postmen on toes on Sunday||AGRA: Just three years shy of his retirement, Ummid Singh, 57, found himself occupied again, and happy too. “Last two weeks reminded me of the good old days of the post offices,” says the humble postman, while rushing to distribute the rest of the lot of envelopes containing brightly-hued rakhis. Like Ummid, lakhs of employees of India Post in Uttar Pradesh and several other northern states were on the streets busy distributing rakhis on Sunday. “Sunday comes every week. But the joy of delivering rakhis to the families expecting it is precious. All the hard work is rewarded when people thank you with a smile,” says another postman-- a younger one-- Pushpendra Singh, 29, in Agra. Raksha Bandhan will be celebrated today. Amid curtailed social gatherings due to the pandemic, women thronged post offices to send rakhis to their brothers. For most of the younger lot, it was first of its kind experience. While for the grey-haired, it was like the return of the good old days. Most of the rakhi mails were sent through speed post service-- a quicker version of ordinary mail. Chief post master general of UP, KK Sinha, said, “All 15,109 branch post offices and more than 1,600 delivery post offices were open on Sunday. And they will also work on Raksha Bandhan,” he added. RB Tripathi, assistant director post services (Agra region), said, “Due to the pandemic, the number of rakhi mails have increased significantly. We are making all possible efforts to ensure that all the mails reach their destination by Monday. Top authorities also took the decision to continue operations on Sunday.” Senior postmaster Jitendra Singh said, “For the last two weeks, our teams have been working overtime to ensure that rakhis are delivered on the same day. Our postmen will continue delivering mails on Raksha Bandhan also.” The department also deployed the red-coloured mail motors for inter-district operation amid the restricted movement of rail and flights. According to the department officials, before the Covid-19 pandemic, the mail motors were used to deliver mail from the post office to railway stations and also for cash circulation within the district. “I will go home only after all the rakhi envelopes are distributed. People of Agra’s Rajpur Chungi area, where I work, treat me as a family member. I am happy to serve on Sunday. I just want that rakhi sent by a sister is on her brother’s wrist on Raksha Bandhan,” Ummid said. “We are using face masks, gloves and sanitizer provided by the department to save ourselves from Covid-19 infection. People request me to have a cup of tea, but I politely refuse,” he said. While Pushpendra says, “I cover densely populated Sarai Khawaja and Arjun Nagar areas of Agra. I have been working 12 hours a day for the last one week to deliver these posts, mostly rakhi envelopes. As compared to previous years, workload on Raksha Bandhan is much more due to Covid-19 pandemic. In some parts, families don’t even have the house number. I somehow managed to deliver over 50 rakhi mails to such homes. Just mobile numbers written on the envelopes helped us a lot.” Meanwhile, special rakhi envelopes launched by the postal department were selling like hot cakes. The waterproof envelopes were available in yellow and pink colors for just Rs 10. Krishna Kumar Yadav, director of postal services, Lucknow headquarters region, told TOI that more than one lakh articles (rakhi envelopes and related items) were booked from Lucknow and around 2lakh articles were being delivered in the district. “Instead of sending sweets to their brothers, women have sent sanitisers, masks and giloy as gifts,” he said. Ratan Singh, deputy postmaster of Meerut city, said, “All our offices operated on Sunday. This year, the workload was much higher as compared to the previous years. Our operations will continue on Raksha Bandhan on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rakhis-tie-postal-dept-to-its-glorious-past-again-keep-humble-postmen-on-toes-on-sunday/articleshow/77321009.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 3, 2020||Goa||Sakhali housewife turns poultry farmer during lockdown||PANAJI: The lockdown compelled many people to look towards agriculture in a bid to grow their own greens but meat-eaters that were depending upon the scarcely available chicken in the market had to make do with whatever was sold at the time. Sakhali-based Pallavi Mainkar, a housewife, however, thought differently. She purchased 100 poultry birds from the Old Goa-based ICAR-CCARI Krishi Vigyan Kendra for Rs 10,000 during the lockdown and reared them for 45 days. While few birds were used for self consumption, she managed to sell majority of the birds netting a profit of Rs 13,200. Mainkar already had a cow shed in her premises and was supposed to start a cattle farm in March. However, owing to the lockdown, her family was forced to drop the idea. Instead of letting the shed remain shut, she decided to source chickens from the ICAR-CCARI and accommodate them inside the shed. “The cost for feed came to Rs 10,000. After rearing the chickens for 45 days, a total of 80 adult male birds were sold for Rs 400 each,” Mainkar said. These were sold to locals during the lockdown for consumption. This was the Cari Nirbheek (Aseel Cross) breed of chicken that was reared. Aseel is well known for its pugnacity, high stamina, majestic gait and dogged fighting qualities. The standard weight varies from 1.5 to 2.2 kg for cocks and 1.5 to 1.7 kg for hens. Age at which the birds were purchased was two months. The annual egg production is approximately 160 eggs a year. Chickens retained by Mainkar have been laying these eggs which are being sold for Rs 110 per dozen. “There are many proven technologies that can be used by the citizens for their livelihood so that people can be self employed as well as improve the chicken production in the state,” director of ICAR-CCARI, EB Chakurkar said. Dr Sanjay Udharwar, animal scientist at the ICAR-CCARI who guided Mainkar through the purchase of the birds said that others in the state can learn from this success story. “This will serve like a model which if anyone wants to replicate, can do so. Along with agriculture, if such components are added, it will give subsidiary income to farmers,” he said. The health of the birds is being monitored by the ICAR-CCARI scientists and medical advise is also being provided whenever the birds show signs of poor health. “The birds have been vaccinated with three vaccines Lasota, Gambora and Pox vaccine,” Udharwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-housewife-turns-poultry-farmer-during-lockdown/articleshow/77323198.cms||Nida Sayed
August 3, 2020||India||Bengaluru civic body to rope in 1.5k students as swab collectors||BENGALURU: Citing Covid emergency, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has ordered Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) and the higher education department to allot students to be part of BBMP’s testing teams as it seeks to carry out 50,000 daily tests in the coming weeks. The BBMP has identified 994 paramedical students from colleges affiliated to RGUHS, and the higher education department has listed 460 science students from various colleges to be part of testing teams. Some 150 of the 460 students have confirmed voluntary participation and will begin training on Monday. Each student will get a monthly pay of Rs 19,000, including Rs 5,000 as risk allowance, besides overalls, globes and other safety gear. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told TOI the students will be trained on Monday how to collect swab samples and join the teams going into each ward to conduct tests. Additional chief secretary (higher education) EV Ramana Reddy said the department of collegiate education has prepared a list of students willing to work with BBMP and shared the same with the Palike. The BBMP had, on July 31, advertised requesting private institutions, volunteer organisations, private labs and hospitals to help BBMP in swab collection. There were separate advertisements urging students above the age of 18 and with a BSc biology or equivalent degree to join the BBMP in its Covid mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-civic-body-to-rope-in-1-5k-students-as-swab-collectors/articleshow/77323501.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man caught with marijuana worth Rs 10 lakh||RAJKOT: The special operations group (SOG) of Rajkot police arrested a man living on Kalavad Road on Sunday for possessing marijuana worth over Rs 10 lakh. Police had received tip-off that bthe man would cross Nana Mava Road in a hatchback car with the drug stock. SOG sleuths kept vigil and caught Tausif Ahmed Sama with his car. Cops found 57 kg of marijuana worth Rs 10 lakh in the car. When questioned, Sama revealed that he buys his stock from Surat and sells it in Rajkot to smaller peddlers. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against Sama. He will be produced before a local court for custody. “We will extract more information about the drug network in Rajkot and his source in Surat,” said inspector R Y Rawal of SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-caught-with-marijuana-worth-rs-10-lakh/articleshow/77321213.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 recoveries cross 50,000, but rate still below national average||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which has seen a surge in cases which has taken the caseload to more than 1.3 lakh, now has another milestone, albeit a happy one: The number of recoveries has now crossed 50,000. On Sunday, the state reported a record 4,077 discharges, the highest single-day figure yet, taking the total recoveries to 57,725. However, only 43% of people have recovered in the state, much below the national average of 65%. Medical education minister K Sudhakar, while pointing out that the state has crossed the milestone, said: “My appeal to people: Do not panic, take precautions and keep up the guard. Together, we can defeat this pandemic.” An analysis of the discharge data from July 1 to August 2 shows that a total 49,807 patients recovered, with a majority of them having been discharged in the past week. Ten of the last 33 days saw more than 1,000 discharges each day, six saw more than 2,000 and three more than 3,000. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said: “The pace of recoveries had slowed earlier, but it will improve in the coming days and a new equilibrium will be achieved in the coming weeks.” Sudhakar too had earlier projected recoveries to increase in August, and officials TOI spoke with said they were hopeful the gap between discharges and total cases will decrease by the end of the month. As on date, the state compares poorly with four other states with more than 1 lakh cases. Recoveries in Maharashtra stand at 62%, while it is 76% in Tamil Nadu, 89% in Delhi and 51% in Andhra Pradesh, which just last week overtook Karnataka in total cases. Compared to Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, cases in Karnataka began to peak late and recoveries will show an increase in coming weeks. However, Karnataka has been battling an increase in acute cases which require more number of days to recover, thereby affecting the overall recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/recoveries-cross-50000-but-rate-still-below-national-average/articleshow/77321051.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Constable falls prey to Covid after 26-day fight||Kolkata: A 46-year-old police constable, who was hospitalized for the past 26 days — 18 of them on ventilation — passed away early on Sunday morning. Constable Dipankar Sarkar was posted with the Jorabagan traffic guard and was the personal guard of the traffic guard’s additional OC. He became the eighth victim of Covid from Kolkata Police and the fourth from the traffic wing. Three others from south division and one from the north had passed away earlier. Sarkar, a resident of Barasat, is survived by his wife, who is a schoolteacher, and two children — an 11 year-old girl and a three-year-old boy. He passed away at a hospital off EM Bypass. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma said, “We stand by his family during their hours of grief.” Police said Sarkar was having fever at the beginning of July and was quarantined. But he had to be soon shifted to a hospital in Park Street on July 6. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to another hospital located at Park Circus the next day. Finally on July 13, he was shifted to this hospital off EM Bypass and put on ventilation a day after. According to sources, the constable was also put on ECMO after his condition deteriorated. His hospital charges have run into several lakhs, said his colleagues. The hospital has assured the family of help and promised senior officers to help out with the bill. Given the steady number of deaths in the force, Kolkata Police has now directed all OCs to report about the status of their personnel twice a day to the concerned DCP. The OC has to work in accordance with the police welfare cell at Lalbazar to arrange for treatment and beds on a priority basis. The instruction followed after at least 20 police stations in the city reported more than seven cases each. Till now, a total of 1,271 personnel have been diagnosed with Covid, 970 of whom have completely recovered. A section of officers was unhappy in the manner an ASI of Chitpore police was recently shifted to the Sagar Dutta Hospital from quarantine without knowledge of the seniors. He later passed away. The traffic police continues to battle Covid. The officers have now been instructed not to hold any seized items by hand directly and to sanitize everything before sending them to the Malkhana (storage). Meanwhile, an additional OC of Jorabagan traffic guard was asked to take charge of the Ultadanga traffic guard after both the OC and the additional OC there showed symptoms and were quarantined after a mandatory test. The police said that such an arrangement was made at Tallah PS, where the additional OC from Chitpore had stepped in for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/constable-falls-prey-to-covid-after-26-day-fight/articleshow/77322271.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Mantri, BJP chief among 754 new Covid-19 patients in two days||LUCKNOW: Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh and UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh were among 754 more persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the city in 48 hours till Sunday evening. The relief, however, was that almost an equal numbers recovered from the disease. Singh is the seventh minister to have been tested positive for the infection so far. Other six include health minister JP Singh and a minister-rank functionary. As many as 363 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday, while 391 were diagnosed with the disease on Sunday, taking the caseload to 8,686 since the outbreak on March 11. Of these, 7,550 (87%) were reported in a month with an average of over 250 cases daily. Total 757 patients — 347 on Saturday and 410 on Sunday — in hospitals or home isolation were cured, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,559. With this, the number of recoveries are now more than the number of active cases (4,012). “The minister was tested after he developed influenza-like-illness and has been admitted to SGPGIMS”, said chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh. The BJP state president tweeted his status, saying he got himself tested after experiencing initial Covid-19 symptoms and has home quarantined himself on advice of doctors. He also requested all those who had been in contact with him to self-isolate and get themselves tested. Overall, 19 politicians and their 25 contacts, including Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, have been diagnosed with the disease till date. On Sunday, highest 18 persons were found to be infected in Gomtinagar, followed by Indiranagar 15, Talkatora and Chowk 14 each, Krishnanagar 13, Alambagh and Madiaon 12 each, Thakurganj 11 and Chinhat, Cantonment and Hasanganj 10 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mantri-bjp-chief-among-754-new-covid-patients-in-2-days/articleshow/77323193.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 3, 2020||Agra||Visiting Ayodhya was painful earlier, now there is a sense of satisfaction, says Sadhvi Ritambhara||Agra: One of the leading voices of Ram Janmabhoomi movement, Sadhvi Ritambhara on Sunday said that there was a sense of satisfaction as a Ram temple in Ayodhya will soon be a reality and the “pain” temple activists went through will soon be forgotten. She will be present at the bhoomi pujan ceremony to mark the beginning of the Ram temple’s construction in Ayodhya. Talking to the media on Sunday, before leaving for Ayodhya, the sadhvi said, “Hindus have gone through a lot of pain to see this day. This movement reached its peak due to the sacrifices of the people and not because of slogans and talks”. Criticizing the opposition parties, Ritambhara said, “The previous governments had been arranging flights for people of minority community to make them visit their holy places. But Hindus were deprived from worshipping their god at his birth place-- the Ram Janmabhoomi. Visiting Ayodhya was painful earlier, but there is a sense of satisfaction now.” Ritambhara is one of the main accused in the demolition of Babri mosque on December 6, 1992. The case is still pending in the special CBI court. On August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Ayodhya for bhoomi pujan and will place silver brick in the foundation of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/visiting-ayodhya-was-painful-earlier-now-there-is-a-sense-of-satisfaction-says-sadhvi-ritambhara/articleshow/77321077.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||New Town safe house may start operations this week||Kolkata: The 20-bedded New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) safe house — the first in New Town that will be tagged with CNCI — may start admitting patients from this week as the authority is planning to conduct rapid antigen tests on shopkeepers across New Town. The NKDA officials said the decision to conduct rapid antigen tests on the shopkeepers of NKDA markets was taken to contain the spread of coronavirus. The process to enlist the names of all shopkeepers will start from Monday and they will undergo the test at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, Salt Lake. The officials said though New Town has three safe houses, the Haj House, NBCC Complex and CFL Building , these are mostly used to cater to the needs of asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms, who are coming from the city or neighbouring districts. The safe house in Action Area II will mostly cater to the locals of New Town, who will test positive but are asymptomatic and do not have the required home isolation facility. The authorities have already requisitioned oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters, oxygen masks, PPEs and other necessary medical equipments from the CMOH office. Two doctors and two nurses have been asked by the health department to take care of people at the safe house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-safe-house-may-start-operations-this-week/articleshow/77322308.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU to march forward under Lt Gen Puri as VC||Lucknow: After a glorious 20-year career in the armed forces as doctor and serving as Director-General of Armed Forces Medical Services and honorary surgeon of the President of India, Lieutenant General Dr Bipin Puri will now lead the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) for next three years. Governor and chancellor of state universities Anandiben Patel has appointed Lt Gen Puri as the vice-chancellor (VC) of the KGMU. Hailing from Lucknow, he is the first army general to be made the VC of any medical university in the country. “It would be a matter of pride for me to serve at KGMU and that too in Lucknow, a place whose values shaped my personality,” said Lt Gen Puri, a renowned paediatric surgeon, while talking to TOI over phone. Recipient of Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM) for his exemplary services in the army’s medical core and Emeritus Professor at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at present, Lt Gen Puri will assume charge on August 10. It will be Lt Gen Puri’s third tryst with the city. Apart from schooling, he was also posted at the Central Command AMC Centre in Lucknow for some time. Born in Kanpur, he did his schooling from class 1 to 12 at the La Martiniere College before being selected for MBBS in Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune. He was commissioned to the Army Medical Corps on March 29, 1979, and did his post-graduation in general surgery from AFMC in 1985 and MCH in paediatrics surgery from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, in 1993. Dr Puri went on to become the Director-General of Armed Forces Medical Services and was awarded PSVM by the President in 2017. He also served as honorary surgeon of the President from June 2016 till superannuation in 2019 and thereafter he served in RR Hospital, Delhi, and as emeritus professor at ICMR. The post of KGMU VC had fallen vacant after completion of Prof MLB Bhatt’s tenure on April 14. He was given a three-month extension because a new appointment could not be made due to Covid-19 pandemic. The appointment was delayed further when the chancellor did not find any candidate suitable for the post in the first round of the selection process. In view of the delay, SGPGIMS director Prof RK Dhiman was given additional charge of KGMU on July 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-to-march-forward-under-lt-gen-puri-as-vc/articleshow/77323199.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||Police Training School in Karnataka's Dharwad turns Covid-19 hotspot||DHARWAD: The Police Training School on Kalghatagi Road, Dharwad, has become a Covid hotspot with over 100 trainees and some staff members contracting an infection over the past few days. On Saturday, 46 trainees tested positive, sparking panic among inmates. The school provides basic training for newly recruited police constables, The present batch has 380 trainees from different parts of the state. They all stay on the campus. Training for the current batch began in March, but was halted when the nationwide lockdown was announced. The trainees were sent back home, but were summoned back to the school about a month ago and training resumed. Some visiting faculty, including retired police officers, has refused to conduct classes fearing infection. However, training continued with the help of regular instructors. “Training had continued even after some trainees and staff tested positive, but now it has been stopped for the past week. However, trainees continue to stay in the hostel,” said an insider. On retired officer said, “I don’t know how training has continued here when lockdown guidelines prohibit conducting classes in schools and colleges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-training-school-in-dharwad-turns-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/77321092.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Agra||Sweet shops can operate for Raksha Bandhan: UP govt||AGRA: After the state government orders of exemption in the weekend lockdown on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, sweet shops have opened on Sunday. People started arriving at the sweet shops in the afternoon and sales continued in the evening till 9 pm. For Monday, on the festival of Raksha Bandhan, the district administration has allowed the sweet shops to open at 6 am. Sweetshop owner's association leader, Shishir Bhagat said, “State government had taken the right decision by providing an exemption in lockdown and allowing the sweet shops to operate on Sunday. Now, people will not gather in large numbers to purchase sweets on Monday." Shahganj-based sweet seller Vinod Agarwal said, “We are ensuring customers wear a mask and not gather around the counter. Using disinfectant, frequent mopping is being done at shops. Arrangement for sanitizer spray has been made at the entrance." Ahead of Raksha Bandhan, Agra municipal corporation - following orders of the state government - carried out cleanliness and sanitization in major marketplaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sweet-shops-can-operate-for-raksha-bandhan-govt/articleshow/77321049.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Aadi Perukku muted, many in Trichy offer prayers at water taps||TRICHY: Aadi Perukku, also called Aadi 18, the traditional thanksgiving festival to the nature celebrated by Tamils on the 18th day of the Tamil month of Aadi, was observed as a low-key event on Sunday. Although the Cauvery is gushing, the complete lockdown on Sundays and Covid-19 preventive measures have restricted people from visiting the river. Several residents offered their prayers at the corporation water taps that dispense Cauvery water. Aadi Perukku is one of the oldest and significant festivals celebrated in the Cauvery delta marking the commencement of yearly cultivation in the agrarian hamlets. Since the arrival of the Cauvery water infuses happiness, local people, particularly, newly-wed couples offer special prayers to the river wishing for prosperity in their lives. Families perform offer fruits and prayers on the banks of the Cauvery thanking the nature to sustain prosperity in the agrarian sector. However, owing to the complete lockdown imposed on Sundays, Amma Mandapam ghats, Thillainayagam ghats and Aiyalamman ghats were deserted. Thousands of people used to throng the river banks on Aadi Perukku for an ideal family time. But this year, people offered prayers at their houses. Residents on Sunday said that this year’s Aadi Perukku was unprecedented as they have never seen the Cauvery banks so deserted. “Even during the recent droughts, we visited the Cauvery to offer prayers. Although the river is brimming now, Covid-19 has prevented us from celebrating Aadi Perukku on the river banks,” N Amuthavalli, a resident of Eda Street, said. Even in 2017’s drought, the civic body had dug borewells on the river bed to help people celebrate the festival. The lockdown has also hit street vendors who depend on the festive crowd for selling flowers and pooja items. Rag pickers who were making revenue by recovering and selling the tonnes of clothes dumped in the river were also hit by the complete lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-dampens-aadi-perukku-fete-in-trichy-residents-offer-prayers-at-water-taps/articleshow/77322886.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||Rain fury in U’khand: Two youths drown, national highways connecting Char Dham towns blocked following landslides; Met forecasts more rainfall in hills||Dehradun: Two teenagers drowned in Toshi river in Chamoli’s Dewal village on Saturday night. The youths were reportedly crossing the river but were swept away by the strong current. The deceased were identified as Anil Ram, 17, and Vikram Lal, 18, both residents of Torti village. Their bodies were recovered by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team after a difficult search and rescue operation. Meanwhile, the highways leading to the Char Dham shrines kept on continuously getting blocked due to heavy rains. On Sunday, the national highways connecting all four shrine towns — Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — were blocked due to landslides at different places, triggered by heavy rainfall, which started Saturday night and lasted till Sunday. The Rishikesh-Kedarnath National Highway (NH-107) was blocked between Kund and Kakada in Rudraprayag district, while the Badrinath National Highway (NH-58) was obstructed at Kuhed in Chamoli district. In Uttarkashi district, the Rishikesh-Gangotri National Highway (NH-108) was blocked at four different places between Bhatwari and Gangnani. The constant falling of boulders and debris in Kisala also left the Rishikesh-Yamunotri National Highway (NH-94) blocked. An official of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said that continuous efforts are being made to reopen the highways. “Several earth-moving vehicles have been pressed into service for clearing the debris. However, frequent falling of debris is posing problems,” he added. Meanwhile, an Army truck on its way to Auli from Gauchar fell into a 100-metre deep gorge near Tangni on Badrinath highway in Chamoli district. According to information available till the time of filing this report, three jawans had sustained minor injuries and were admitted to an Army hospital in Joshimath. The regional meteorological centre has issued an alert for heavy rainfall in Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Almora districts. Several places, especially the Kumaon region, have received heavy to very heavy rainfall between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Kapkot received maximum 120mm rainfall, while Banbasa was lashed by 90mm, Ukhimath 80mm, Loharkhet 80mm, and Bhatwari 50mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-fury-in-ukhand-two-youths-drown-national-highways-connecting-char-dham-towns-blocked-following-landslides-met-forecasts-more-rainfall-in-hills/articleshow/77320074.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar goes KMC way, plans rapid testing||Kolkata: The daily Covid numbers in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area continue to fluctuate and the total numbers are now 2,049. The civic authorities are planning to follow the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and conduct rapid antigen tests in the most-affected areas across Bidhannagar. Bidhannagar MMiC (health) Pranay Roy said they are holding talks with the health department on the plans to start rapid antigen tests as Covid cases continue to increase in the civic body area. “We are planning to conduct rapid antigen tests in areas, from where most of the cases are being reported. Also, a swab sample collection centre is being operated in Salt Lake and we are planning to set up another one in Rajarhat soon,” Roy added. Civic authorities said the rate, at which Covid cases had been rising, had come down slightly in the last week. Officials said most of the cases are being reported from multi-storied residential complexes and various parts of Baguiati and Kestopur that come under the civic body’s Rajarhat jurisdiction. A locality in Duttabad, Samarpally in Kestopur, a portion of FE Block, IB Block, the SBI quarters in HC Block and a locality in Sukantanagar have been listed as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-goes-kmc-way-plans-rapid-testing/articleshow/77322329.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Many dried up trees may collapse, cause serious accidents: Survey||Nagpur: A survey carried out by an environmentalist from city has found that there are many fully-grown trees across Nagpur that have dried-up and pose serious threat to citizens. Recently, environment activist Manish Chandekar carried out a field study in different areas and found completely dried up trees along roads and at traffic junctions in areas like Civil Lines, Trimurti Nagar, Ranapratap Nagar Square, Law College Square and others. “Because of choking, poor maintenance and old age, these trees have become completely dry and are on the verge of collapsing. Spot visits have revealed that if such trees collapse they can cause serious accidents and damage human lives and property,” said Chandekar. Following the survey, the activist has appealed to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to either cut or transplant these trees. “New trees should be planted at the same location and it should be made sure that they are watered and protected regularly,” he said. As per experts, if a tree is a real threat to life and infrastructure, the same should be immediately reported to NMC’s garden department which can take a proper call after inspection. Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation, said, “The main reason of drying of trees is lack of water and nutrient intake. Sometimes fungal attack also causes decay of trees. However in Nagpur, many trees have dried up due to choking. Another probable reason of drying of trees could be nailing advertisements on them wherein the xylem and phloem carrying water and nutrients get punctured, making the area prone to fungal attack.” TOI has repeatedly reported about the damage concretization of roads is causing to age-old trees in the city. Many trees have collapsed due to severe choking around its base. Blaming concretization for the drying up of trees, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das said, “Most of the trees which are dying are falling to slightest wind as their roots are completely choked. NMC should clear the choked bases, keeping a minimum open circumference of three feet.” Adding that many dried up trees too have ecological importance, Das said, “Their barks are home to numerous species like woodpeckers, owls, civet cats, squirrels and many insects which the birds eat. They also serve as perches for birds. If dried up trees are not posing any threat, then they should be left as it is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-dried-up-trees-may-collapse-cause-serious-accidents-survey/articleshow/77322917.cms||Manka Behl
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||August 2 redux: Big B tested Covid negative, fans ecstatic in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city rejoiced as megastar Amitabh Bachchan was released from hospital on Sunday, 22 days after he had tested Covid positive, along with son Abhishek. On this day, exactly 38 years ago, Bachchan had emerged from a semi-comatose stage following his near-fatal accident on the sets of ‘Coolie’. The coincidence was not missed by his fans who celebrated his ‘rebirth’ day with gusto. Abhishek, along with wife Aishwarya and daughter Aaradhya, who had later tested positive, remain admitted in hospital. All Bengal Amitabh Bachchan Fans’ Association, which manages the “Bachchan Dham” temple at Bondel Gate in south Kolkata, has been performing a “mahamrityunjay jap” for his recovery since he was admitted on July 12. On Sunday, scores of fans gathered and erupted in joy. “We consider him our God and it has been proved yet again that the divine powers are with him. Bachchan ji has defeated the killer virus and come out of the hospital on his rebirth day. We couldn’t have asked for more,” said Sanjay Patodia, secretary of the association. The Bachchan Dham temple has an idol of the megastar which is worshipped. Several yajnas were also conducted at Kalighat and Shyambazar by other fan groups. “Our prayers have been answered,” Patodia said. Multiple other fan clubs distributed sweets and garlanded Bachchan’s photographs. “To me, he is an inspiration. I wasn’t even born when he was in his prime, but I have grown up watching his movies and started admiring him more and more as years went by,” said Rohit Kumar as he garlanded a portrait of the actor in his bedroom. Coming out of the hospital after more than three weeks, Bachchan wrote on his Twitter profile at 5.11 pm: “I have tested Covid-19 negative, have been discharged. I am back home in solitary quarantine. Grace of the Almighty, blessings of Ma Babuji, prayers & duas of near & dear & friends fans EF .. and the excellent care and nursing at Nanavati made it possible for me to see this day”. Just before his release, Bachchan posted a blog in which he recalled his days at the ICU of Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital back in 1982. He wrote how he would pull the pipes attached to his body in his stupor, forcing doctors to stitch one to his nostril leaving a permanent mark. Bachchan also recalled how he would gesture to wife Jaya or scribble on a piece of paper in ‘broken Bengali’ asking for a sip of water that had been forbidden by doctors while he was undergoing a tracheostomy. “It never worked,” he wrote. Other fans said while they were happy with the icon being released from the hospital, they will continue to pray for the recovery of junior Bachchan, Abhishek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/august-2-redux-big-b-ve-fans-ecstatic/articleshow/77322369.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: While ryot and family recovered, locals farmed his land for free||MYSURU: While patients and their family members have been stigmatised and ostracized in many parts of the state, locals in Taltareshettalli, a small village in Somwarpet taluk, Kodagu district, not only came to the aid of a family that was badly hit by the virus, but also welcomed them back with much fanfare after they were discharged from hospital. When Puttaiah, a small farmer and his family contracted the virus, more than 30 residents of the village banded together to till the family’s field, planting a crop of paddy while the man and his family coalesced in hospital. When the family returned home from the hospital in Madikeri, they were pleasantly surprised to find a crop of paddy had been neatly sowed. Taltareshettalli is a remote village located 10km from Somwarpet town and Puttaiah owned around 1.5 acres of land. He, his daughter and wife all tested positive last week, while his 18-year-old son and two-and-half-year-old grandson were negative. All three were admitted to a Covid-19 hospital in Madikeri, while the son and grandson were home quarantined. “With Puttaiah in hospital, there was no one to maintain his paddy field,” said KG Jeevan, a neighbour. “He had planned to plant paddy. If there was a delay in planting, it would have resulted in a loss of yield. So, some of us joined together and decided to do the planting for free.” BP Anil Kumar, local gram panchayat president, said members of several families including Kurada Gowdana, Basavera and Chittera joined together to plan the paddy. “The family returned to the village on Saturday afternoon after treatment. They were surprised to see the paddy had been planted,” said Kumar. “To ensure the family do not suffer psychological problems, we welcomed them with a garland.” Puttaiah’s son thanked his fellow villagers for their help. “They have done a big job for us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/while-ryot-and-family-recovered-locals-farmed-his-land-for-free/articleshow/77321173.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Koel Mallick recovers||Kolkata: After announcing on social media about having tested positive on July 10, actress Koel Mallick, on Sunday evening, tweeted to inform that she and her family members have recovered. Incidentally, both Koel and Amitabh Bachchan had tested Covid-19 positive and negative on the same day. “That is really an interesting coincidence,” she said, adding that her tip for beating corona is “being positive to be negative”. According to Koel, “It’s very important to read stories of those who have recovered. More than the actual thing, it’s the negative news that’s making people nervous. My advice would be to be strong.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/koel-mallick-recovers/articleshow/77322391.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||In a first for Uttarakhand, 10 python eggs hatched in an artificial incubator||Dehradun: A clutch of python eggs got a new lease of life after forest officials of Terai region decided to hatch them and keep them inside an artificial makeshift incubator for nearly two months, starting May-end. The forest officials had taken custody of this clutch of abandoned eggs from a farmhouse in Bazpur area of Banakhera forest range on May 28. The eggs were spotted by kids playing there. Subsequently, forest authorities kept the eggs in a safe place in a forest where the mother python visited for nearly 8-9 hours but thereafter, it abandoned them. After waiting for almost a day, the authorities took them to a Ramnagar-based forest office where they were kept in a silent place inside a room in a ‘makeshift incubator.’ The python eggs, artificially incubated for almost two months at a maintained temperature between 28 and 31 degrees Celsius and humidity between 72 and 80%, saw hatchlings coming out of it this week. All the hatchlings have now been released into the wild of Terai West where their mother was last spotted. This was the first-of-its-kind experiment of the state forest department with the help of veterinarians and wildlife scientists. Prior to this, Kerala is one of the states where python eggs have been hatched artificially. Notably, pythons are categorised under Schedule 1 of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the same as snow leopards, which means the species has to be conserved on priority. “We saw 10 hatchlings coming out which were all fed reptiles and left in the wild safely. Every species has a strong role to play in the ecosystem and thus, we wanted to save them at any cost," said Himanshu Bagri, DFO, Terai West. The eggs were given a safe environment for incubation and two empty thermocol medicines boxes (used to keep vaccines) were used as an incubator. The base of the box was made up of sand to provide humidity and moisture to the eggs while the exterior of this box was covered with husk (used in a cooler) to keep it moist and damp. Surprisingly, this informal technique saved the eggs and hatchlings came out on July 31. The boxes had a thermometer and hygrometer each inside them so that at a regular interval staff could check the internal environment of the temporary incubator. “It was a unique experiment because it was conducted without any professional equipment like incubators. We managed everything out of waste material and it proved to be quite a successful experiment. We maintained adequate humidity and temperature for the proper growth of the reptiles,” said Dushyant Sharma, senior veterinary doctor at Corbett Tiger Reserve. It is worth mentioning that pythons are poached for their meat and skin internationally. Many tribal communities consume them as bushmeat while the skin is illicitly traded to Europe and North America for manufacture of high-end accessories like bags, belts, and shoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-for-uttarakhand-10-python-eggs-hatched-in-an-artificial-incubator/articleshow/77320103.cms||Shivani Azad
August 3, 2020||Varanasi||PM: NEP’s focus is to make job creators, instead of seekers||Varanasi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the focus of New Education Policy is on making job creators instead of job seekers and emphasized that time has come for increased focus on learning, research and innovation in education. “The 21st century is the era of knowledge, it’s time for increased focus on learning, research, innovation. The NEP emphasises on inter-disciplinary study to match the pace of fast changes in the 21st century. Our attempt is to make our education system advanced and modern to create opportunities for talent,” PM said in a virtual interaction with participants of grand finale of Smart India Hackathon 2020 being hosted by Banaras Hindu University on Saturday evening. “We have given legendary scientists, technology enterprise leaders to the world in past, and have to change ourselves as per the needs of 21st century. It is the time to increase focus on learning, research and innovation,” Modi said. “Learn, question and solve. When you learn, you get the wisdom to question. When you question, you come up with out-of-the-box methods to solve problems. When you do that, you grow, India grows,” said Modi. “We are shifting focus from the burden of school bag to the boon of learning, from simply memorising to critical thinking. For years, the limitations of the system had an adverse effect on students,” said Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-neps-focus-is-to-make-job-creators-instead-of-seekers/articleshow/77321177.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 3, 2020||Varanasi||Hackathon finalists design solutions for AAI challenges||Varanasi: The 36-hour grand finale of Smart India Hackathon 2020 commenced Saturday morning, as 240 master brains in 39 groups were given the task to find software solutions for the challenges faced by the Airport Authority of India. Addressing the inaugural session, AAI general manager (IT) and information security officer Bijendra Singh Dalal said AAI is connected with SIH since its first edition in 2017. The participants were asked to design tools to aid in search and rescue operations by calculating search area from the last known position of a missing aircraft, besides rating an airport mapping database and web-based software for fail-free operations of Communications, Navigation and Surveillance Systems for Air Traffic Management. The tasks also incuded designing preventive maintenance and mobile-based inventory management system using QR code application, a visual dashboard based on data analytics for percentage utilization of airport facilities and utilities, a mobile-based dwell time management system, a knowledge management system through block chain, and a passenger facilitation system using artificial intelligence. SIH 2020 is being hosted online by Banaras Hindu University this year due to Covid-19 crisis. Earlier, BHU vice-chancellor Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar inaugurated the event and wished success to finalists. BHU had set up a committee of experts and academicians for conducting the event, said coordinator Prof. Kavita Shah. The event is being watched live on www.sih.gov.in and is being monitored online by a 17-member jury. The grand finale will conclude on Monday, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hackathon-finalists-design-solutions-for-aai-challenges/articleshow/77321236.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Councillor builds road with own money||Perambalur: A union councillor in the district has spent Rs 12 lakh from her own pocket to construct a road connecting the remote hamlet with Veppur. A Tamilarasi, 39, purchased the land the from villagers and constructed the makeshift road without waiting for fund from the rural civic body. Tamilarasi was elected as Veppur union councillor from ward 9. During her election campaign, villagers of Sathanatham near Veppur had demanded a rural road to connect their village with Veppur that has a government hospital. The absence of road for decades was forcing the Sathanatham villagers to take a 4km detour via Nannai village to reach Veppur. As there was a significant delay in sanctioning funds from the panchayat, she purchased 47.25 cents of land from villagers to connect the Sathanatham at the shortest possible distance with Veppur. “With my family’s support, a linear stretch of land bordering cultivation land from 23 villagers including farmers was purchased last month. For now, a gravel road is laid without disturbing the adjoining farmland,” Tamilarasi Arul told TOI. The makeshift road is laid for 1.2 km in length and measures 20 feet in width. The councillor said that farmers and people having livestock will benefit from the Veppur-Sathanatham road to market their harvested agriculture produce and reach the veterinary hospital. The Sathanatham village has a population of 1,100 people including school-going children. The villagers said that the neighbouring Kilumathur village in Veppur block will also reap the benefits of the new road by reaching Veppur in a short time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/councillor-builds-road-with-own-money/articleshow/77322908.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||8-mnth-old found dead in central Kol park||Kolkata: An eight-month-old girl child, who had gone missing while sleeping with her mother in the wee hours of Sunday, was later found dead in a central Kolkata park. The incident was reported from Subodh Mullick Square in the Wellington area. Initially, cops suspected that the child might have been killed by an unidentified person after they had spotted some marks on her neck. But the post-mortem indicated that her death might have been accidental. “We found that the child had suffered from traumatic asphyxia. We believe that she had woken up at night and crawled inside the park, where her head might have got stuck on to something and she died either by hitting on the ground or while trying to free her head,” said a police officer. “The child’s mother woke up around 3.30am and found that she was missing. People in the area started searching for the child who was finally located by a security guard inside the park around 5am,” added the officer investigating the case. Cops are taking the help of CCTV footage obtained from the area to ascertain their theory of her death. They are also questioning a few pavement dwellers in the area regarding the child’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/8-mnth-old-found-dead-in-central-kol-park/articleshow/77322396.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University increases 30% seats in LLB 5-year course, 10%, in UG courses||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University has increased 10% seats for admission to its undergraduate courses and also extended its last date for application to UG and PG courses till August 17. The decision was taken in the admission committee meeting on Sunday. The university has increased seats both in regular and self-finance courses like BA, BSc and BCom. In case of LLB (5 years), the demand for the course is more than three times the number of seats, hence, the university authorities have increased seats by more than 30% from 120 to 160. “The number of seats was increased after the university broke all its previous records of receiving the highest number of applications. The last date for submission of UG and PG application forms has been extended keeping in view the increased demand and coronavirus pandemic in which a candidate might have missed filling the form due to financial, health or other reasons,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. “All UG applicants will have to upload their documents on the university portal from August 5-20,” he added. He said the students could upload the copy of online class XII marksheet along with other documents like EWS certificate, income certificate and category certificate. “The entire admission process has been made online and candidtes will not have to visit the campus even for counselling or fee submission,” Srivastava added. Admissions to MBA programme will be made through Common Admission Test (CAT) scores instead of LU’s own entrance test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-increases-30-seats-in-llb-5-year-course-10-in-ug-progs/articleshow/77323216.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Govt will give incentives to new industries in Vidarbha: Shinde||Nagpur: The state government is planning to give incentives to new factories in Vidarbha as the industries are concentrated in Mumbai-Pune belt, said urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Sunday. He had come to TOI-MT office on a courtesy visit. “The Samruddhi Mahamarg will be a game changer for the entire state. It passes through 10 districts and additionally link 14 districts. The travelling time to Nagpur from Mumbai will reduce from the current 12 to 15 hours to 6 to 7 hours. Industries will then be ready to set shop in Vidarbha,” said the minister. “I have urged the chief minister to increase the incentive for companies that set up units far from Mumbai. More the distance, higher should be the incentive,” he said. Shinde, who is the guardian minister of Gadchiroli district, said that Naxalites could not be rehabilitated just by paying six lakhs to the surrendered ones. “We will now work with a concrete plan to completely rehabilitate them. They will be trained to make them self-sufficient. The government has made a Rs10 crore provision for this. We will also spend money on improving education, healthcare, roads, etc in the district,” he added. According to the minister, the lockdown helped the government in reducing Covid-19 cases. “However, this should be accompanied by mass testing. All positive patients should be identified and isolated,” he said. Replying to a query, Shinde said that municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was unpopular among public representatives because he had been reducing Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC’s) spending. “He has done a good job of controlling Covid-19 in the city. People fully back him. However, public representatives have been elected by the people and he should take them along while doing his job,” he added. The high profile death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is being probed by Mumbai as well as Bihar police. Additionally, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also probing money transactions between Rajput and his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. When asked whether he thought that Bihar police and ED were probing the case due to political reasons, Shinde avoided a direct reply. “CM has said that Mumbai police is capable of handling such cases. Devendra Fadnavis was home minister for five years and Mumbai police was under him. He should not doubt its ability,” he said. However, when pointed out that Parth, son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, had demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the case, he could not give any reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-will-give-incentives-to-new-industries-in-vidarbha-shinde/articleshow/77322927.cms||Ashish Roy
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy tries out red & white stripes on speed breakers||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation has attempted the combination of red and white stripes for a speed breaker stripes to alert the commuters passing through it in Melapudur locality instead of the conventional white stripes. The red and white stripes, according to the corporation, were emulated from the practice attempted in cities in Maharashtra subscribing to Indian Roads Congress (IRC) protocols. The white stripes conventionally painted over the speed breakers, using thermoplastic paint, goes with the black colour of the road, giving black and white alternate stripes. But the white paint fades away in time. Whereas the combination of red and white stripes was found withstanding, even if the white paint would fade, the red stripes stand to alert road users. The civic body in late 2018 had attempted a similar move on Bharathidasan road near the main corporation office. Since the red and white stripes tried in the speed breaker was bright and endured all weather conditions, the novel attempt was expanded to Melapudur speed breakers recently.  “The red stripes on speed breakers have indeed made the commuters slow down at a distance before the bumps,” an official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-tries-out-red-white-stripes-on-speed-breakers/articleshow/77322919.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||Hawkers encroach upon NH wall in Prem Nagar, residents fear mishap||Dehradun: The encroachment of a pushta wall being constructed by NHAI in Prem Nagar area of Doon has become a challenge for the administration. Locals claim shops with temporary sheds have come up on the wall, putting lives in danger especially during rains. A PIL has been filed at the Nainital high court, but no action has been taken so far, locals alleged. Akash Yadav, an advocate and local resident , said he has raised the issue with several departments, including police, cantonment board and district administration, but nothing has happened on ground. Talking to TOI, Yadav said, “The pushta wall in Prem Nagar along National Highway 72 has been encroached upon by people by erecting temporary sheds along it, which are being used as shops. Earlier, the hawkers would sit on footpaths. Now, they have erected these structures. Concerned authorities have been alerted, and I’ve also filed a PIL at Nainital high court earlier this month.” Officials claimed the shopkeepers were asked to vacate as it was illegal to build any structure on a pushta wall or near a national highway. But few days after they were removed, the shops returned to the place. Another local, Kamal Prakash, said “It’s not only this particular wall. The shopkeepers dump their belongings on the road, encroaching upon it and hampering traffic movement. Authorities must take quick action to resolve the issue.” Gopal Ram Binwal, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar), said, “The shops were there before the pushta wall was built by NHAI. We’re co-ordinating with concerned departments and a drive will soon be conducted to remove encroachments, if any.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hawkers-encroach-upon-nh-wall-in-prem-nagar-residents-fear-mishap/articleshow/77320126.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UG, PG final sem exams from Sept 9||Lucknow: Lucknow University will conduct final semester undergraduate and postgraduate examination in multiple-choice question-based pattern from September 9 till September 21. A detailed schedule was released on website after the examination committee meeting on Sunday. Exam will be of two hours instead of three. Meanwhile, the university will promote students of remaining years on basis of their marks in previous semesters. “As per government oredr, examinations of only final year students will be held, while others will be promoted on the basis of their marks in the previous semester. The final year annual examinations which used to be theoretical will also be objective type,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ug-pg-final-sem-exams-from-sept-9/articleshow/77323221.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||19-year-old boy killed in ‘accidental’ firing by friend||Bareilly: A 19-year-old boy was killed in an alleged accidental fire from a country-made pistol by his close friend in Lakhimpur city on Saturday night.The incident took place when the victim, Vaibhav Shah, had gone out for a walk with his friends after the dinner when a bullet struck him on his stomach in a gunshot fired accidently by his friend Satyam Tiwari, said police. Vaibhav was rushed to the district hospital, where doctors referred him to a higher medical centre, but he died on his way to Lucknow. Meanwhile, police took Satyam in their custody. “The accused said he was showing his country-made pistol to his friend when he was shot by an accidental fire,” kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra told TOI. “An autopsy on the body was conducted on Sunday. The victim’s family has, so far, not lodged a complaint in this connection. Satyam was absconding after the incident, but we nabbed him. We are grilling him. We are trying to check CCTV footage of the area to ascertain whether it was an accidental fire or Satyam shot his friend dead. We are yet to find any motive behind the murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/19-year-old-boy-killed-in-accidental-firing-by-friend/articleshow/77319378.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 3, 2020||Chennai||A peek into Jayalalithaa’s world of knowledge||A person similar to ‘Man Friday’ was very important to Madam Jayalalithaa. Being alone, such a person meant everything to her. I always referred to her as Leader. She often compared herself to Robinson Crusoe, the hero, in Daniel Defoe’s novel, who is shipwrecked on an island of man-eaters. Arthur Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes also captivated her as he had a good friend and associate in Dr Watson. The two authors held a pride of place in the Leader’s vast library on the first floor of Poes’ Garden residence Veda Nilayam. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/a-peek-into-jayalalithaas-world-of-knowledge/articleshow/77325315.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-peek-into-jayalalithaas-world-of-knowledge/articleshow/77323509.cms||N Jothi
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||Two friends spar over ‘booze’, stab each other||Bareilly: Two close friends stabbed each other with knives under influence of alcohol in the ensuing quarrel over alleged liquor in full a public view in Lakhimpur Kheri town on Sunday evening. Kheri police station SHO Fateh Singh admitted both to a hospital, where their condition is stated to be critical. “Nirbhay, 26, and his friend Yuvraj, 25, were consuming liquor when a quarrel ensued possibly over liquor and they attacked each other with knives in an inebriated condition. Both sustained multiple stab injuries and their condition is critical due to excessive bleeding. We will record their statements once they are stable,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-friends-spar-over-booze-stab-each-other/articleshow/77319391.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh: Govt indifferent to people needs||Lucknow: Charging the ruling BJP of having failed all fronts, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Sunday that the ‘party with a difference’ is now being completely indifferent to the needs of the people reeling under joblessness and lack of proper medical facilities in the times of Covid-19. “The chaos within the government can be gauged from the fact that those in power are openly blaming each other within the party and the government over the prevailing state of affairs in the state. “Party’s Hardoi MP is saying that the money that he has given for ventilators has disappeared. Unnao police are accusing BJP MLA of siding with encroachers of government land. In Lucknow Nigam Nigam, engineers are being threatened by contractors enjoying political patronage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-govt-indifferent-to-people-needs/articleshow/77323226.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||CM announces Rs 1,000 bonus for anganwadi, Asha workers, free bus ride for women||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday announced a bonus of Rs 1,000 each for anganwadi and Asha workers on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. While extending greetings on Raksha Bandhan, the CM said that about 50,000 anganwadi and Asha workers in Uttarakhand will be benefited from the bonus. Besides, Rawat said that women will be allowed to travel free of cost in state-run Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) buses on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-rs-1000-bonus-for-anganwadi-asha-workers-free-bus-ride-for-women/articleshow/77320149.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Farooq calls for judicial probe into exodus of Pandits||JAMMU: Former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Sunday demanded a probe by retired Supreme Court judges into the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley in early 1990s. Replying to questions during a webinar, Abdullah said he was of the firm belief that Kashmir is incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits and that he would support any mechanism to bring them back honourably. Nearly 60,000 Kashmiri Pandit families are registered as migrants after the onset of militancy in the Kashmir Valley in early 1990s. Abdullah, a member of Lok Sabha and president of the National Conference, chose to blame then former governor Jagmohan for the exodus and said that he “took them away” on the false promise of ensuring their return within three months. During the webinar, Abdullah was asked whether he would support a genocide bill being floated by the Panun Kashmir, a Kashmiri Pandit organisation demanding a separate homeland for the migrants. The former CM said he would have to go into the details of the bill first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farooq-calls-for-judicial-probe-into-exodus-of-pandits/articleshow/77323510.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Can fetus get Covid-19 from mother? Doctors begin study||CHENNAI: While studies are now beginning to show evidence that the novel coronavirus can be transmitted from a pregnant woman to her fetus, a state-run hospital in Chennai has initiated a study to find if the risk to the child is higher from labour or from close contact with the mother. At least 400 women with Covid-19 have delivered at the Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore and about 11% of the newborns tested positive for the viral infection. Since the pandemic began, there have been isolated cases of newborns testing positive for coronavirus at birth, but there has not been enough evidence to rule out the possibility that the infants became infected by the mother after they were born. "While about four babies tested positive on the first day of birth, others were tested on the third or fifth day. We don’t know if the babies who tested positive on the third day got the infection because of close contact with the mother or because they were passed on during labour," said hospital director Dr Vijaya. In the last week of July, doctors at Sasson Hospital in Pune announced that they had the first and convincing evidence of transmission of the virus during pregnancy. Doctors said the baby’s nasal swab, placenta and umbilical stump tested positive for Covid-19 on RT-PCR test at birth. A week before the delivery, the mother, who had a history of fever, was tested because her results were negative. She was later found to have elevated levels of the virus-specific antibodies in her blood confirming that she had the Covid-19 infection in the recent past. Similar cases have emerged from the US and France. Doctors in the city said they plan to test the placenta, amniotic fluid, cord blood and breast milk of at least 1,000 women who go into labour. "We want to see if the virus reaches the placenta and replicates there. It will tell us if it is transmitted to the fetus. We also want to know if the fetus can have symptoms similar to adult Covid-19 patients," Dr Vijaya said. The results of the study will also help them analyse the effect of the virus in the first, second and third trimester of pregnancies. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was encouraging tertiary care hospitals and medical colleges to conduct similar research to understand the virus better. "It helps doctors improve clinical management of pregnant women, check neonates and reduce the risk of viral transmission besides suggesting need for better policies," he said. "Most babies and mothers have recovered," he said. According to the public health department, at least 3,000 women have tested positive for the viral infection so far among which 32% were positive after they delivered. Thirteen mothers (0.4%) have died, 72% of them have recovered and have been discharged along with their infants. "Little more than a quarter of the pregnant women are still under treatment," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/can-fetus-get-covid-19-from-mother-docs-begin-study/articleshow/77322433.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Pune||PCMC limits record over 15,000 recoveries so far||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The total number of Covid-19 recoveries within the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits crossed the 15,000-mark on Sunday. The civic body’s health department said the recovery rate has been good as most of the positive patients — around 40% — have been between the ages of 22 and 39. Also, nearly 80% of the patients within PCMC limits have been asymptomatic. Data put out on Sunday evening showed the twin cities have 6,600 active patients and 15,479 recoveries. An official from the civic body said after the 22 to 39 age group, the 40 to 59 age group remains the most affected by the coronavirus. A total of 6,566 people from this group have contracted the virus so far. And except for a few cases with comorbidities, individuals in these age groups have been able to fight off the virus because of overall good health. The official added that most of the asymptomatic patients have opted for home isolation. The official said, “Many are in home isolation. These patients are with their families and that can play a major role in early recovery.” Records reveal that around 6,000 patients have opted for home isolation so far. Officials from the PCMC said their health is being monitored regularly via a dedicated call centre. Other officials attributed PCMC's recovery rate to the increase in the number of Covid Care Centres. Many of these units came up as PCMC scaled up Covid-19 testing. Officials said the increased testing and the availability of isolation units helped in early detection and swift treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-15000-have-recovered-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77322446.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand education dept’s staff to sit on protest on August 5||Dehradun: Several staffers of the state education department have decided to sit on a protest at the department’s directorate office from August 5. The staff members will be protesting to show their unhappiness towards the lack of promotion in the department. The members accused the education department of not following the promotion norms as per the latest rules. The decision to protest was taken at a webinar meeting of the Educational Ministerial Officers' Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-education-depts-staff-to-sit-on-protest-on-august-5/articleshow/77320177.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 3, 2020||Pune||Pune mayor orders probe after woman dies at care hub||PUNE: Mayor Murulidhar Mohol on Saturday ordered the civic administration to conduct an inquiry into the management of a Covid care centre in the Nagar Road area, two days after a woman lost her life after she allegedly did not get an oxygen-supported bed there. The local citizens’ group and family members of the deceased women had alleged that the mismanagement at the centre had led to her death on Thursday. They claimed that though oxygen-supported beds and cylinders were available on the premises of the centre, the laggardness of the municipal staffers led to their unavailability. “The citizens have highlighted the problem faced by the family. They have given us a memorandum about the issue. Directives have been given to the Pune Municipal Corporation officers concerned for looking into the matter and to take appropriate action,” Mohol said. According to the victim’s family members, the patient, along with her husband, was admitted at the care centre in the Vishrantwadi area. The woman, admitted on the third-floor of the centre, reported shortness of breath on Thursday. According to the protocol, the woman had to be shifted from the third-floor to the first-floor of the centre for oxygen support. Her family members alleged that a stretcher was not available for her transport. They themselves brought her down to the first-floor, following which the staffers allegedly told them that the room with the oxygen-supported beds was locked and the keys were missing. The staffers then had to break open the room, and despite that, oxygen could not be administered to the patient as the tools for operating the same were not available. “My wife would have been alive today had she received timely care. We have lost her because of the callous attitude of the people operating the CCC,” the deceased woman’s husband told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-orders-probe-2-days-after-womans-death-at-care-hub/articleshow/77322419.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Thrashed by cops, man in Chennai ends life, inspector suspended||CHENNAI: A 42-year-old house painter, who set himself ablaze after allegedly being beaten up by police at Puzhal in Chennai on Saturday, died of burn injuries on Sunday afternoon. Puzhal inspector Bensam has been placed under suspension. In a video recorded by his brother at the Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital where he was admitted for treatment late on Saturday, Srinivasan said Rajendran, his landlord who is an AIADMK functionary, had brought the inspector to pressure him into vacating his house. According to sources, Srinivasan had not paid rent for the past three months. He had rented the house at Vinayakapuram a year ago and was staying there with his wife and two daughters. Seven other tenants reside in the compound. Police said Srinivasan was let off with a warning eight months ago after neighbours complained that he often created ruckus after getting drunk. Inspector suspended for the second time in 3 yrsAccording to police, the neighbours again complained about him to the landlord on Saturday, and a police team reached the spot after being informed by Rajendran. Around 7pm, inspector Bensam allegedly beat up Srinivasan for creating ruckus and for not paying rent. As Srinivasan was completely sozzled, the inspector asked him to come to the police station on Sunday morning. According to his relatives, Srinivasan failed to pay rent as he could not find a job due to the lockdown, but police attacked him at the behest of Rajendran who wanted him to vacate the house. Unable to bear the humiliation of being beaten up by police in front of other tenants, Srinivasan set himself on fire at 11pm and was taken to the KMCH. Puzhal police have registered a case under CrPC 174 (unnatural death). “A detailed probe is on and we have sought a report,” a senior police officer said. This is the second suspension of inspector Bensam in the last three years. In July 2018, action was taken against him for making obscene gestures at an unidentified woman in a video call when he was the inspector of Karungal police station in Kanyakumari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thrashed-by-cops-man-in-chennai-ends-life-inspector-suspended/articleshow/77323511.cms||Sindhu Kannan
August 3, 2020||Pune||E zone has highest active cases, A has had most casualties||Pimpri Chinchwad: The ‘E’ zone of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) now has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. The PCMC has a total of eight zones. As of August 1, the health department said E zone has nearly 1,552 active cases. The localities of Bhosari, Dighi, Gavalinagar, and Charholi area fall within this zone. The G zone comes second with 1,156 active cases followed by Zone A with 917 patients. The E zone also has had the highest number of people testing positive with a total of 4,076 cases so far. Zone A comes a close second with 4,009 followed by G zone which has had 3,006 positives. Zone A also has had the highest number of deaths so far with 72 casualties. This zone includes sensitive slum areas such as Anandnagar and Bhatnagar, which have recorded steady increase in positive cases over the last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-zone-has-highest-active-cases-a-has-had-most-casualties/articleshow/77322457.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Lab gives +ve report 3 hrs after –ve, hospital issues Rs 1.9L bill for 7 days||Nagpur: Testing at a private laboratory and treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital became a nightmare for a person recently. The 38-year-old man was given a ‘positive’ report three hours after a ‘negative’ report. Then, despite being asymptomatic, the person got billed Rs1.9 lakh, reduced to Rs1.39 lakh after strong objections, for just six days of hospital stay. A copy of the reports available with TOI show one of the three private laboratories in the city released a report to the person at 9pm on July 26. The date and time of sample collection and report is same, though the person gave the sample a day earlier. The report said he tested negative using Real Time (RT) PCR method. The person received another report at 11.58pm from the same laboratory, saying he was positive. The person got admitted at Seven Star Hospital at Jagnade Square at 9.26pm on July 27. As per hospital’s tie-up, another private laboratory took a sample and gave a negative report on July 31. The person had fever a week before testing and pain in legs. When admitted, he reported no symptoms like fever, cough, cold etc. The hospital discharged him at 10.49am on August 2 with a bill of Rs1.9 lakh. The patient’s elder brother objected and said he intended to lodge a complaint with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The hospital revised the bill to Rs1.39 lakh, which the patient paid and returned home. Citing state government orders, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had on June 4 set charges for private hospitals for Covid and non-Covid patients. Private hospitals were to charge Rs4,000 per day for ward stay with isolation, monitoring and investigations. The private hospital billed the man for seven days. For twin-sharing room, Rs10,000 per day was charged with separate charges of Rs7,000 for nursing, Rs17,500 for consultation, Rs10,500 for RMO charges and fees for all types of investigations. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said a proper investigation will be done followed by appropriate action. Director of Seven Star Hospital Dr Prashant Rahate denied any violations. “As per government’s guidelines, we are supposed to charge 80% beds as per government rates, and 20% beds our rates. We are asking patients if they wish to get admitted in government-rate facility or our rate. We give all facilities like TV, internet Wi-Fi etc in our rate,” he said. Dr Rahate added, “We were directed to start Covid-19 services but were not getting non-Covid patients since then. We are paying high salaries to doctors and staff for risky Covid-19 work. Also, we all are residing in a costly private hotel, to prevent infection to our families. Also, we are taking care of our staff to boost immunity etc. We cannot operate in government charges. All should appreciate our efforts.” Representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) had approached divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar a few days ago opposing the charges finalized by NMC. They submitted their list of rates to Kumar, who forwarded it to the government for approval, but told them to start Covid-19 services at NMC rates till government approval is received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lab-gives-ve-report-3-hrs-after-ve-hospital-issues-rs-1-9l-bill-for-7-days/articleshow/77322469.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 3, 2020||Pune||Pune tally crosses 90k as 3,017 added in a day||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s Covid-19 case count breached the 90,000 mark on Sunday, with 3,017 new cases. More than 20,000 cases have been added in the region over the past week — the tally stood at 69,738 on July 26. On Sunday, the total number of cases was 90,393. Of these, over 60,000 patients have recovered from the contagion, while — with 49 fatalities on Sunday — more than 2,000 people have succumbed to the virus. The area under Pune Municipal Corporation added 1762 nCoV positive cases on Sunday, while PCMC recorded 871 fresh cases. Pune rural (259), cantonments (48) and other areas (77) made up the rest, as per an update issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. Of the 49 deaths, 32 were from PMC areas and 10 from PCMC limits. In Pune municipal limits, 1,203 people were discharged on Sunday, while 18,040 are being treated. The total number of those discharged is now 38,117. According to PMC’s daily report, 639 patients are in a critical condition and are receiving treatment at various hospitals. The report added that 392 patients were on ventilator support. The civic administration’s report further stated that a majority of those who died on Sunday had underlying health issues, such as heart diseases, blood pressure, diabetes and respiratory problems. The district health officer’s report further showed that a total of 4.36 lakh samples were tested so far, with over 2.8 lakh tests being conducted in PMC limits, and nearly 1.10 lakh tests in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-tally-crosses-90k-as-3017-added-in-a-day/articleshow/77322472.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Tribal party wrangles deal with Gehlot over support||JAIPUR: As the dissidence-struck Congress government in Rajasthan heads into a possible trust vote, even the two-MLA Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has played its bargaining chips to get a long-pending demand fulfilled by CM Ashok Gehlot in return for its support. Gehlot’s announcement of August 9 as a public holiday in the state to mark World Tribal Day is one among several demands negotiated by the BTP. The party had supported Congress in the Rajya Sabha polls in June, but the crisis triggered by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot's revolt seemed too good an opportunity to pass for some hard negotiations, sources said. Gehlot has since committed to fulfilling 8-10 demands mentioned in the tribal party’s election manifesto. "The state government declaring a holiday on World Tribal Day is just the beginning. CM Gehlot promised while seeking support that all our demands would be fulfilled once the crisis is over," BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat told TOI over phone from Jaisalmer on Sunday. The BTP, formed in 2017, had contested 11 seats in 2018 against Congress and BJP. The party won two seats — Roat from Chorasi and Ramprasad from Sagwara – and finished second in two other constituencies. From the start, BTP was seen as a Congress ally. The relationship, however, soured after the merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress last September, giving Gehlot a comfortable majority of 106 in the 200-seat assembly. The party returned to Congress's side before the Rajya Sabha polls, lured by the government's promise to consider its demands. "After RS polls, our party realised that Congress is not working on our demands. The sense of betrayal was natural," Roat said. The party’s national president, Gujarat-based Mahesh Vasava, issued a whip to its two MLAs in Rajasthan to abstain from voting in the event of any floor test. This was followed by Roat being allegedly mistreated by the police in Jaipur over a video clip of him with BJP functionaries. This almost marked the end of BTP's ties with Congress until a patch-up effort was made by two of Gehlot's colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tribal-party-wrangles-deal-with-gehlot-over-support/articleshow/77323513.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||AIKSCC to launch countrywide protest on day of Quit India Movement with slogan ‘Corporate Bhagao, Kisani Bachao’||Pilibhit: Two hundred and fifty farmer’s unions from across the country are set to launch a countrywide protest in support of their nine-point demand under the auspices of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on August 9, the day India’s freedom fighters launched the ‘Quit India Movement’.Their demands include withdrawal of three ordinances passed by the Union government in June, to modify agricultural marketing. A loan waiver relief package for farmers is another crucial demand of AIKSCC.Notably, the Union government had amended the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) as a first step towards wiping out existing restrictions on stocking of food products like grains, oilseeds, pulses, potatoes, onions, etc.A second contentious ordinance was the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance (FPTC), passed with an objective of perforating monopolistic powers of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC), in order to “empower farmers to sell their produce anywhere within the country”.The third contentious ordinance was the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (FAPAFS), by virtue of which, the government legalised contract farming.Talking to TOI on the phone, Singh said, “We’ll target all three ordinances as they are unconstitutional and will intensify farmers’ woes, instead of addressing them.” He said the ECA amendment will protect traders’ malpractices of hoarding, which would be enough to spoil the entire food produce marketing ecosystem.Slamming FPTC, he said over 80% agriculturists in the country were marginal or small farmers who are not internet savvy to search for suitable markets in other states. “How can a small farmer afford the expenses of transporting his crop to another state? How can he expect a fair deal from traders after reaching there?” Singh asked.Regarding FAPAFS, he said the ordinance will convert farmers into labourers on their own lands, as big business groups and companies will begin cultivating vast swathes of agricultural lands on contract. “We’ll send our memo of nine-point demands to the PM on August 9, which will also include our demand for interest-free fresh crop loans for forthcoming crops, as the farmers suffered great losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown, and price of produce as per the Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations,” he said.The farmers will raise the slogan “Corporate Bhagao, Kisani Bachao” from their tractors, roofs of their houses and fields. They will also hand over a copy of AIKSCC’s memorandum to the DM or SDM of their respective areas. Afterwards, they will upload their selfies on Twitter, Facebook and the AIKSCC website, Singh said.He added the protest will continue like the Quit India Movement until the desired result is achieved by the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aikscc-to-launch-countrywide-protest-on-day-of-quit-india-movement-with-slogan-corporate-bhagao-kisani-bachao/articleshow/77318792.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Sena dist chief, Wardha MP file police plaint against each other||Wardha: BJP MP Ramdas Tadas and former district chief of Shiv Sena Ashok Kakade on Sunday lodged complaint against each other at Deoli police station following a heated argument over laying water pipeline in ward no. 14 of Deoli. The pipeline is being laid by Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran on a land Kakade claims he owns. The MP has taken a stand that the pipeline will pass only through this land. According to information, the work started on Sunday morning. Kakade stopped the work and protested by getting down into the trench dug for the pipeline. Tadas rushed to the spot along with officials. A heated argument took place between Tadas and Kakade. Deoli police too reached the spot. Kakade and Tadas even got into a scuffle. A video which has gone viral shows Tadas and Kakade threatening each other. The camera also captured the MP while pelting stones. Tadas said, the work is being disrupted again and again. “This is obstructing government work. Several attempts have been made to convince Kakade but he is not ready. I was abused at the spot,” he said. Kakade told media that it was his ancestral land. “I have all the property papers. This land was encroached but tehsil office has given verdict in my favour. But why was the MP there? He attacked me fatally,” said Kakade. The tehsil office in its order had stated that the encroachment should be removed through the court. Deoli PSO Nitin Leverkar said a case has been registered against Tadas and Kakade and further investigation is under way. Shiv Sena has demanded action against Tadas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sena-dist-chief-wardha-mp-file-police-plaint-against-each-other/articleshow/77322932.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Three Cobas 8,800 machines to ramp up Covid tests in UP||LUCKNOW: Amid rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, the medical education department has decided to install three Cobas 8800 machines, each having capacity of conducting 4,000 tests every day. Besides, 17 more labs conducting RT-PCR tests would be made functional in UP this month. Talking to TOI, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey said that the first Cobas 8800 machine would be installed at Prayagraj, while in the next phase Lucknow and Gorakhpur would get one machine each. Cobas 8800 machine has a capacity to test 4,000 tests per day, Dubey said, adding that the state has already crossed the cumulative figure of 10,000 tests mark per million population. Starting with a single lab at KGMU with the capacity to conduct around 100 tests per day on January 29, the state has now over 150 labs, conducting over one lakh tests every day which is 20 per cent of the total tests conducted in the country, Dubey said and added that the state is conducting highest number of tests in the country. By crossing over 10,000 tests per million per day, the medical education department has created a record of sorts. In fact, UP today is the only state in the country conducting over one lakh tests per day which is 20% of the total tests being conducted in the country. UP has 53 labs conducting RT-PCR tests and of them 31 are government labs. The state also has 117 labs, including 100 government labs, conducting Truenattests. The ACS added that 17 more labs, including seven in private medical colleges, conducting RT-PCR tests, would be set up in the state this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-cobas-8800-machines-to-ramp-up-covid-tests-in-up/articleshow/77323231.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Resentment grows against PSPCL’ s Rs 2/unit hike||Ludhiana: Resentment against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) decision to levy Rs 2 per unit extra in addition to the normal power charges from 6pm to 10pm in industries is growing among the businessmen. This decision of the PSPCL has become a headache for the industry as according to the businessmen, their financial position is worse at this moment as their sales have not picked up owing to the situation caused by Covid-19 and therefore they are unable to pay these charges. Giving more information, Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organization (FICO), said, “We strongly oppose the decision of the PSPCL of imposing peak load charges of Rs 2 per unit for use of power from 6pm to 10pm. It is very unfortunate that even in these unprecedented times of coronavirus pandemic the PSPCL and the government has put burden of additional Rs2 per unit on us for the consumption of electricity from June 1 till September 30. If this was not enough , the PSPCL also withdrew the concession of Rs 1.25 against the night tariff available to industry for running operations from 10pm to 6am. We will not sit silent and take up this matter with chief minister Amarinder Singh and demand immediate roll back.” According to KK Seth, chairman of FICO, “Due the prevailing Covid-19 conditions, industries are going through a period of recession and imposing the peak load charges in these times will only increase the hurdles for it. Punjab’s industry generates huge revenue for the government in form of various taxes and duties and in return expects the support of the government in ease of doing business. By imposing the peak load charges, the raw material cost of the industry will be increased as electricity is one major raw material. So, the government should roll back its decision.” Dinesh Singh Bhogal, secretary of FICO, said, “As electricity cannot be stored, it can only be used after it’s produced, so the huge units of electricity is still available in surplus, which can be utilised by the industry and government can earn revenue on it. Therefore, the government should provide discount on the night usage of power rather than slapping extra charges for consumption post 6pm.” Ashpreet Singh Sahni, organizing secretary, FICO, said, “Punjab is a surplus state in terms of power, especially hydel, which costs very low. Industrialists are already getting the most expensive power in Punjab, when compared to the neighbouring states and over and above this Rs 2 per unit has been further slapped on us. This decision is beyond our understanding and will hurt the industry very badly and will also hit government revenue as factories will refrain from operating during these hours, so it’s better that the PSPCL takes back this decision as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/resentment-grows-against-pspcl-s-rs-2/unit-hike/articleshow/77321342.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nashik||NMC to start hiring staff on contractual basis from today||Nashik: After receiving an overwhelming response to the special recruitment drive that was conducted to fill up the 800-odd vacancies in the health department, the civic administration is now all set to issue recruitment letters to the selected candidates from Monday onwards. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game told TOI, “We will present recruitment letters from Monday onwards. We have received about 700 entries. To start with, about 300 posts will be filled with immediate effect.” The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will also be maintaining a waiting list of the candidates who have qualified for the posts in the recruitment drive and issue them joining letters as and when required. Game pointed out that Zakir Hussain hospital has about 160 beds. The New Bytco Hospital, which has a 1,000-bed capacity, is coming up from August 15. The new recruits will primarily be appointed in various Covid-19 facilities across the city. A section of the experienced people will be withdrawn from the existing Covid facilities and put in the new facilities that are coming up in the city. “With the rise in the number of patients in the city, the NMC is coming up with more health facilities. Experienced staff will be responsible for managing both the previous as well as the new Covid facilities. The new recruits will play a secondary role in both the old and the new facilities till they get trained in carrying out the respective duties,” said Game.The NMC is conducting a recruitment drive for over 200 posts for doctors and an equal number of nurses and paramedical staff on a contractual basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-start-hiring-staff-on-contractual-basis-from-today/articleshow/77320205.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||Dubey’s aide who fired at policemen arrested||Lucknow: In another breakthrough, UP STF arrested slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Ram Singh Yadav, who fired at the police team and tried to set afire the bodies after the Bikru ambush. ASP, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh said Yadav carried a reward of Rs 50,000 and was present during ambush as per electronic evidence and statements of those arrested. “Yadav is gram pradhan of Madaripurwa and owns a double barrel gun which was used in Bikru carnage,” said Singh. He was arrested near Dr PC Verma clinic under Akbarpur police station in Kanpur Dehat on Sunday night. Another STF official said Yadav was hiding at a relative’s place in Kanpur Dehat. He was apprehensive of police raids and hence decided to change his location. The double barrel gun used by him to attack police team has already been seized by Kanpur Nagar police. Sources disclosed that on the night of carnage, Yadav had collected all the bodies of policemen and tried to set them afire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dubeys-aide-who-fired-at-policemen-arrested/articleshow/77323233.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Central govt won't impose any language on states, says Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||CHENNAI: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Sunday reiterated that the Centre will not impose any language on any state. Tweeting in Tamil, Pokhriyal sought the support of the people in Tamil Nadu for the New Education Policy 2020. "We are looking forward to your guidance in implementing the New Education Policy 2020 in Tamil Nadu. I would like to reiterate that the Centre will not impose any language on any state," Pokhriyal said in his tweet in Tamil, in response to former Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan, who had attached Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech about NEP 2020 in his twitter handle. The move comes in the wake of political parties in Tamil Nadu opposing NEP. DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday said NEP will make education affordable only to a small segment of people and called on ruling AIADMK to reject NEP. Pokhriyal's tweet elicited response, with several people countering the Union Minister on the NEP. "If no language will be imposed on any state, then it is better to continue with the two-language formula being followed at present. Why introduce the three-language formula at all," asked one. "If third language option has to be there, then let the option be for learning an international language," said another. "While I thank you for at least making a statement that the intent is not to impose any language on anyone, eventually you will end up saying that we have teachers only for teaching Hindi," countered yet another in his tweet. The developments came on a day when DMK president Stalin urged the ruling AIADMK to oppose NEP 2020. "NEP will create havoc in the education system and will make education affordable for only a few, while villages will suffer without proper education. Everyone should oppose this. The ruling party (AIADMK) should reject the new education policy," Stalin said, while participating in a panel discussion on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-central-govt-wont-impose-any-language-on-states-says-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank/articleshow/77323514.cms||D Govardan
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Balanced diet while breastfeeding helps in post-delivery weight loss||NAGPUR: Most of us know that breast milk helps to keep the baby healthy by providing all the important nutrients that the child requires in the proper quantities. Breastfeeding also has its benefits for mothers. Apart from saving new mothers from various types of cancer, diabetes and hypertension, it helps burn calories thereby helping in post-partum weight loss, said dietitian Malvika Fulwani. “Mother should exclusively breastfeed her child for first six months. This will not only make the baby feel safe and loved, but also helps mothers lose some extra pounds gained during pregnancy,” said Fulwani. But, for this, there is no need for the mother to eat for two. “Mother has to eat for two is a myth. The mother has to eat for herself and a little extra like 500 calorie more in the diet, which can get her fit and back in shape within six months. But, this diet should be nutrient-rich and packed with the nutrition which supports breastfeeding and nurtures a healthy baby,” she said. Eating double will only add unnecessary weight which may land mothers in post-partum depression, she said. “Mothers can avoid all such complications by having a balanced diet. Theme of breastfeeding week 2020 is ‘Support breastfeeding for a healthier planet’. I think diet is the most important support for breastfeeding,” she said. Doctors said breast milk constantly changes itself in its composition as and how required by the baby to meet all of its Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA). “Weight gain is the best way to tell if your baby is getting enough nutrition through milk. It is normal for babies to lose about 7 to 8 per cent of their weight in the first five days and return to birth weight by 10 to 14 days. You will establish a milk supply for baby in the first three weeks. The more the baby has, the more milk your body produces,” said gynecologist Dr Rajasi Sengupta, secretary of Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society (NOGS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/balanced-diet-while-breastfeeding-helps-in-post-delivery-weight-loss/articleshow/77322939.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Health officials caught off guard as spot testing begins||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started spot rapid antigen test for high risk close contacts of positive patients at five quarantine centres and one Covid Care Centre (CCC) on Sunday. The move came unexpectedly a day before the announced start from Monday. Additional municipal corporation Ram Joshi told TOI the testing was started early to assess challenges that would have come on the first day. “We got good response from people and the process was largely carried out without major glitches,” he said. Joshi admitted some difficulties were encountered in setting up kiosk for contactless swab collection and arrangements for suspects. “These would be overcomed,” he said. Fifty suspects were tested at Pachpaoli CCC. Of them, six tested positive. At NU Law College hostel quarantine centre, four out of 35 tested positive. At RPTS quarters, Morris College Girls hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Raj Nagar PWD quarters, the total number of tests was in single digits. The suspected cases were shortlisted in high risk contact tracing of positive patients by zonal medical officers. These were brought in NMC buses to the testing centres. However, the sudden move to begin testing allegedly took the administrative staff by surprise. The Ashi Nagar zone suspects complained they had to stand outside for over two hours before chairs were provided. Later, the centre officials made seating arrangements with distancing norms. The collection teams had to don PPE kits to collect swabs as kiosk were not set up. Making matters worse, the positive persons had to be asked to return home allegedly in their own vehicles as there was no plan in case anyone turns out positive. Officials said such persons were counselled to directly go home and collect their belongings. They were then shifted to MLA Hostel CCC which received around 100 patients in the day. Questions were raised as Pachpaoli itself is a CCC and the patients could have been accommodated there right away instead of being sent home. The positive cases would be screened and those found asymptomatic can avail home isolation if they wish. The public health department officials said they were not informed about the decision though most of their staff is deployed. Some suspects drove to MLA Hostel CCC and had to be convinced it was not a testing centre. All asymptomatic patients would be screened at MLA Hostel CCC. Joshi clarified the facility for spot rapid antigen test is only for high risk close contacts, people with symptoms and comorbities. “It is not advisable for everyone. People need to come through proper channel. First they must contact the zone office where the medical team will guide them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-officials-caught-off-guard-as-spot-testing-begins/articleshow/77322479.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 3, 2020||Nashik||Cops: Don’t spread rumours||Nashik: Rural police have appealed to the residents to refrain from posting or forwarding wrong information on the social media, warning of strict action against the offenders. A senior police officer said that certain information circulated on the social media can have bad impact in the society and there are provision in the law of strict action against people who share such information. Recently, there was a case of two men of a particular community being beaten up in a village of Jalgaon district. The police had reached the incident spot in time and rescued the concerned men averting a major untoward incident. However, there was a post on the social media that the incident had happened in Malegaon. The rural police’s piece of advice and warning came on backdrop of this post on the social media. “People who share such wrong information cannot escape legal action against them,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-dont-spread-rumours/articleshow/77320217.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||Experts, academicians hail new education policy||Dharwad: Academicians and experts have welcomed the National Education Policy-2020 announced by the Modi-led Central government. Director of UGC Human Resource Development Centre Harish Ramaswamy said the new policy is a leap forward in India’s long-standing ambition of becoming a global education hub. It promotes multi-dimensional development of education and highlights cherished Indian values. Early childhood care education is an excellent step. Aided by the flexible 5+3+3+4 structure of schooling, it benefits students and helps in lateral entry in their careers. The removal of bureaucratic affiliations is another positive step. Inviting foreign universities will introduce competitiveness while renewed focus on India’s myriad languages will help extract our own knowledge and culture, Harish added. Former vice-president of Karnatak University Srinivas Saidapur said overhauling education system was long due and hence the NEP is welcome. Changes suggested for school education are in general welcome he said, and added that the proposal to convert colleges and universities as multi-faculty institutions is most welcome and timely. At the same time, the universities should have been given total autonomy and control by authorities like the UGC should have been reduced, he said. They are often stumbling blocks and discourage varsities from making new inroads, experiments and innovations in the education system as a whole, he felt. Director of Karnataka State Higher Education Academy SM Shivaprasad said the architects of NEP, after due reflection and extensive consultation, have chiselled a vision and a roadmap that is in tune with contemporary societal requirements. The thrust to prioritize higher education in the budget, forming appropriate central regulatory, policy making and research funding agencies, and credit carry-overs across institutions and disciplines is laudable, he said. Though this brilliant document throughout highlights the critical role of teachers in higher education, the actual teacher empowerment programmes necessary to make it happen could have been elaborated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/experts-academicians-hail-new-education-policy/articleshow/77320737.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 3, 2020||Hubballi||In Hubballi, people soak in freedom from Sunday curfew||Hubballi: Residents in the twin cities had only a memory of the fun that the onset of Sunday promised. In the vice-like grip of the pandemic, the state government imposed restrictions on movement of public on Sunday, which meant that people were robbed of their regular dose of weekend fun. However, with both the central and state governments easing all restrictions, the people in Hubballi-Dharwad on August 2 experienced the fun of a Sunday, which was how it had been before the pandemic. Malls, restaurants and places of worship were thrown open on Sunday, with all the necessary precautionary measures being taken in all places. Many business establishments in Hubballi’s Central Business District registered encouraging business as a result. Most of the people who ventured outside wore masks, and were found carrying hand sanitisers. “It is very encouraging to see people returning to the markets and visiting restaurants, and even having food at roadside eateries. Business is picking up in most places, and we hope the government does not impose another lockdown,” said Rajesh, owner of a chat shop in Broadway area of Hubballi. Since it was the eve of Raksha Bandhan, flower stalls in the Old Hubballi area witnessed surging crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-hubballi-people-soak-in-freedom-from-sunday-curfew/articleshow/77320656.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||To allay fear, Guntur joint collector attends funeral of Covid-19 victim||GUNTUR: In an attempt to clear apprehensions among people, Guntur district joint collector Dinesh Kumar participated in the funeral of a Covid-19 victim on Sunday. He attended the funeral without wearing a PPE kit to show that one could not contract the virus seven hours after a patient’s death. A 57-year-old from Challapalli village in Krishna district had died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur. The family members refused to claim the body to perform the final rites. Upon learning about the incident, joint collector Dinesh Kumar swung into action and roped in Amma Charitable Trust to perform the funeral. Along with the representatives of the trust, the joint collector visited the burial ground where the funeral was performed as per the religious traditions of the victim. Amma trust chief Swamy Gnana Prasanna Giri lit the pyre. “We wanted to send a message to people that they cannot contract the virus if they perform the final rites of their kin after six to seven hours after death,” said Dinesh Kumar. Dinesh Kumar said families can claim the bodies after 24 hours and perform final rites without any fear. “Families could wear PPEs and take a little care if they still have fear. In my view, they would not need any kits after 24 hours,” said the joint collector. He said the bodies of Covid-19 victims would be sprayed with sodium hypochlorite and packed in sealed bag as a precaution. In a similar gesture, Kurnool legislator Hafeez Khan wore a PPE kit to perform the funeral of a person who had succumbed to Covid-19. Meanwhile, Gopichand, district principal and sessions judge and chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), has directed the police to book criminal cases against those obstructing the funerals of Covid-19 victims. “As per IPC 297, 341, 147 and 148, it is a crime to obstruct funerals. We advise people not to create obstructions to funerals Covid-19 victims,” said the district judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/to-allay-fear-guntur-joint-collector-attends-funeral-of-covid-19-victim/articleshow/77320214.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy-Mumbai biweekly IndiGo flights from August 14||TRICHY: IndiGo Airlines will launch a direct bi-weekly special flight service between Trichy and Mumbai on August 14. According to the airline authorities, they will operate the service till August 24. “Based on several enquiries, we will operate the service on a trial-basis for four days. If we get good patronage, we will decide on to extend the service further,” a senior authority from the airlines at Trichy international airport told TOI. Four flights will be operated on Fridays and Mondays. The first service will commence on August 14, the second service on 17. While the third service will be operated on August 21, the last service will be on August 24. Flight (6E 6265) would depart from Mumbai at 3.30 pm and would arrive at Trichy international airport at 5.45 pm. In return, the flight (6E 6267) is to be departed from Trichy airport at 6.20 pm and would reach Mumbai at 8.35 pm, airport sources said. Jet Airways had operated Trichy-Mumbai-Delhi service for a brief period in 2018. However, it terminated the service citing operational reasons. Ever since the termination of the service between Trichy-Mumbai, frequent travelers and travel agents have been asking to resume the service. The new service by IndiGo Air will attract a good number of passengers as the sector has been growing enormously, airport sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-mumbai-biweekly-indigo-flights-from-aug-14/articleshow/77322930.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 3, 2020||Mangaluru||345 more test positive for novel coronavirus in DK, Udupi districts||Mangaluru/Udupi: Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi, with the two districts combining for 345 new cases on Sunday. Out of this, Udupi’s tally was 182 and that of DK’s 163. Likewise, Covid19 related deaths too continued unabated in the two districts, with DK reporting 10 deaths and Udupi one, taking their respective tallies to 169 and 36, respectively. Mangaluru taluk at 107 cases accounted for the lion’s share of 163 case that pushed the total positive cases in DK past the 6,000 mark at 6,015 cases. Belthangady reported 19 cases, Bantwal 13, Puttur 11, and Sullia 1 case. The discharge of 45 patients from Wenlock Hospital and private hospitals, took the total number of those discharged to 2,730, meant that the district as on date has 3,116 active cases. Likewise, Udupi taluk contributed the bulk of the cases reported in the district with 75 cases, while Kundapur and Karkala tallied 55 and 51 cases, respectively. The total positive cases in Udupi is 4,673 and the active cases after the discharge of 78 patients stood at 1,943. In all, 779 patients are in home isolation in the district. District health and family welfare officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda said a 54-year-old woman from Udupi taluk was the day’s lone victim. In a related development, the maiden two-day visit of D K Shivakumar after assuming charge as KPCC president to Dakshina Kannada district from Friday took a political hue with newly appointed BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik questioning Congress leaders for not observing Covid-19 protocol. “When will Congress leaders who were part of Shivakumar’s programme quarantine themselves? Don’t quarantine rules apply to them?” he wondered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/345-more-test-positive-for-novel-coronavirus-in-dk-udupi-districts/articleshow/77320554.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Tejbir Sidhu gets addl charge of dy excise commissioner||Ludhiana: In a change of guard at the state taxation department, Ludhiana, Tejbir Singh Sidhu has been given the additional charge of deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Ludhiana, as the current in-charge Pawan Garg, who had the regular charge of the department, retired on Friday. Sidhu already is serving as deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Faridkot, and is also the joint director, investigation (Bathinda), and according to sources it is likely that Sidhu will be given the permanent charge of Ludhiana in the coming days. Speaking to TOI on the development, Sidhu said, “I will be joining Ludhiana office on Monday and my first priority will be to ensure the safety of all our officers, staff and those visiting us regularly, including tax professionals and assessees, from Covid-19 pandemic. Along with reviewing all precautionary measures, our special focus will now be on how to reduce the need for tax professionals and assessees to visit the department. In addition to this, it will also be ensured that the process of initiating GST refunds on timely basis and solving all problems of the tax payers do not get affected due to the ongoing situation when Covid-19 cases are on the rise.” Meanwhile, the working of Ludhiana office of the department is bound to suffer for some time as three staffers of the range-2 had tested positive on Friday, following which the building was sealed, though the senior officials of department had decided to open the office on Monday. But the reports of all officials and staffers who came in contact with the three positive cases have went into self quarantine due to which various works are likely to get affected. However, in another reshuffle which took place on July 27, Damanjit Singh Mann, who was serving as secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), was made the assistant excise and taxation commissioner of range -2 of the Ludhiana office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tejbir-sidhu-gets-addl-charge-of-dy-excise-commissioner/articleshow/77321347.cms||Mohit Behl
August 3, 2020||Mysuru||Woman jumps into river with two daughters||Chikkamagaluru: A woman committed suicide along with her two young daughters by jumping into a pond in a coffee estate at Hunasekoppa village in NR Pura taluk. The bodies were recovered on Sunday. The deceased are Lakshmi, 35, Soujanya, 5, and Adya, 2. Lakshmi went missing from her home three days ago, taking her daughters along. However, her husband Suresh and his family members remained silent on the matter. Balehonnur police quizzed them on Sunday, after the bodies were recovered. Lakshmi’s parents lodged a domestic violence complaint against her husband. Balehonnuru police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-jumps-into-river-with-two-daughters/articleshow/77320272.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||CP tells SHOs to bust illicit liquor rackets in 24 hrs||Ludhiana: Following the hooch tragedy in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal has directed all SHOs to raid and bust illicit liquor rackets under their jurisdiction within 24 hours. The commissioner has also directed that the SHO and senior officials concerned of that area would be responsible if any case of liquor smuggling comes to light. Meanwhile, during this ongoing drive, the police have seized 2 lakh lt of ‘lahan’ and also 55 lt of illicit liquor on Saturday night. The police have arrested two accused, while their six accomplices managed to escape. The arrested accused have been identified as Surjit Singh and Om Parkash of Rajapur village. The accused who are yet to be arrested are Gurcharan Singh, Soni, Paramjit Singh of Rajapur village, Gurnam Singh, Balvir Singh and Jagir Singh of Bholewal Jadid village. The investigating officer, ASI Satnam Singh, said the police conducted a raid on the banks of the Satluj near Bholewal Jadid village following a tip-off. The police managed to seize 2 lakh lt ‘lahan’ and 55 lt of illicit liquor hidden near the banks of the river. The police managed to arrest two of the accused from the spot while their accomplices managed to escape. A case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been lodged against the accused at Ladhowal police station. Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that the Ludhiana police had initiated a special drive against illicit liquor. All SHOs have been directed to immediately start operations so the whole illicit liquor racket will be smashed in their areas within the next 24 hours. Agarwal added that another special drive against the liquor smuggling was initiated on May 18. During that drive the police had managed to arrest 301 accused of liquor smuggling in 270 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cp-tells-shos-to-bust-illicit-liquor-rackets-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77321362.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four youths land in trouble for spin into actor Mohan Babu’s farmhouse||HYDERABAD: What seemed like a joy ride to four youngsters, ended up in them getting arrested on Saturday night. A criminal trespass case was registered after the four sped past the main gate into actor-producer Mohan Babu’s farmhouse at Jalpally, took a U-turn at the portico of the main building, zoomed out of the premises. Police arrested four youngsters — Raghav Biradar, 30, private employee, K Anand, 24, student, Gowtam Rao, 23, car driver, and S Raju David, 22, grocery store worker, all residents of Durga Nagar in Mylardevpally, late on Saturday night. Around 8.30 pm on Saturday, they trespassed into the Manchu Township farmhouse of the actor an Innova vehicle in Pahadesharif. Alerted by security guard and other staff, the actor’s family immediately alerted police as they perceived the incident as a potential security threat. A criminal trespass case was registered. During preliminary probe, Pahadesharif police found out that the security guard of the compound had opened the main gate to allow a bike to leave the premises. “There was a security guard manning the huge main gate of the compound. He had to open the gate completely to let the bike leave the premises. When the gate was open, an Innova suddenly entered the premises from outside. As it was raining, the security guard was holding an umbrella in one hand and tried to stop the Innova. As the vehicle did not stop, he gave a chase,” Pahadesharif inspector S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy said. Even as the security guard was chasing the vehicle on foot, the Innova went till the main building and took a U-turn in front of the portico. They drove out of the premises quickly through the main gate, which remained open, the inspector said. Police verified CCTV camera footage at the farmhouse and identified the registration number of the Innova (AP 31 AN 0004). Six traffic challans were pending against the vehicle number, mostly for speeding. Later in the night, police apprehended Raghav, Anand, Gowtam and David, residents of Durga Nagar, which is located a few kilometres away from the farmhouse. “One of them is a college student and the rest are private workers. They did not know whose farmhouse they entered. They thought it is some kind of adventure to enter into the place which is frequented by film industry people,” the inspector said. Police summoned the family members of the four youngsters. After counselling them, police arrested them. “We will produce them before the magistrate tomorrow,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-youths-land-in-trouble-for-spin-into-actors-farmhouse/articleshow/77322519.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala crosses 25,000 Covid-19 positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed 25,000, with 1,169 new cases reported on Sunday. The state capital recorded an all-time high of 377 positive cases in a day. The total now stands at 25,911. The state reported one more death on Sunday— 68-year-old Vijayalakshmi from Thiruvananthapuram—taking the toll to 83 to date. In Kottayam, 94-year-old Rosamma Paily, a native of Kanakkaray who died on Saturday, has been confirmed with Covid. Thiruvananthapuram has reported the highest number of Covid deaths: 14. There were 688 recoveries in the day. Of the new cases, 1,031 are contact cases while 43 came from abroad and 95 from other states. The source of 56 cases has not yet been traced. Among healthcare workers, 29 cases were reported, including 11 from Thiruvananthapuram, seven in Ernakulam, five in Kannur, four in Malappuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. Ten KSE employees and a KLF employee in Thrissur were also among those infected. The other district-wise cases in the day were: Ernakulam, 128, Malappuram, 126, Kasaragod, 113, Kottayam, 70, Kollam, 69, Thrissur, 58, Kozhikode, 50, Idukki, 42, Alappuzha and Palakkad, 38 each, Pathanamthitta, 25, Wayanad, 19 and Kannur, 16. Thiruvananthapuram had 363 contact cases while among other districts, 113 in Malappuram, 110 in Kasaragod, 79 in Ernakulam, 70 in Kottayam, 51 in Kollam, 40 in Thrissur, 39 in Kozhikode, 36 in Palakkad, 24 in Alappuzha, 23 in Idukki, 18 each in Pathanamthitta and Wayanad, and seven in Kannur. On Sunday, 30 more new places were designated as hotspots while 25 were removed from the list. At present, there are 497 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-crosses-25k-ve-cases/articleshow/77327091.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Body of BSF soldier laid to rest in Tiruvarur||TIRUVARUR: The body of the havildar S Thirumoorthi, 47, from the Border Security Force (BSF), who died in Jammu and Kashmir, was laid to rest with military honour at his native place near Tiruvarur on Sunday. Food Minister R Kamaraj, district collector, T Anand, and officials paid their tributes. Earlier on Saturday, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had condoled the death of Thirumoorthi, a native of Pullavarayankudikadu in Tiruvarur district. He also announced that a family member of the deceased would be provided with a government job based on their qualification. DMK leader M K Stalin also in a statement paid homage to the soldier. Thirumoorthi was injured on July 25 when his firearm fired accidentally while he was cleaning it. He was then taken to a military hospital and was referred to another hospital in Udhampur. However, he died on July 31. Thirumoorthi joined the forces at the age of 21. His body was brought to his native Pullavarayankudikadu in Tiruvarur district on Sunday morning. A gun salute was given after which his body was cremated. Officials from the BSF, Kamaraj, Anand and district superintendent of police M Durai and leaders from various political parties paid their tributes. Thirumoorthi is survived by his wife T Tanizharasi, daughter T Akalya and son T Agathiyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/body-of-bsf-soldier-laid-to-rest-in-tiruvarur/articleshow/77322933.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Patients from old-age home find it hard in hospital||Thiruvananthapuram: She has been tested positive for Covid-19. She is feverish and has severe body pain; but a woman employed as caretaker at an old-age home continues to do her job even while under treatment for Covid-19 at General Hospital. Around 10 inmates of the 27 of an old-age home at Kochuthura, who were tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to General Hospital, have been bed-ridden for years and always need help to eat, to drink water and even for their basic needs. This has left the caretaker woman with no other option but to feed them, to make them drink water and to remove their sheets whenever they pass urine and stool. At the old-age home, it took around five people to move them in wheel chairs to toilets. In a hospital ward crowded with patients and with no attached toilets, these old women, tested positive and suffering from other ailments, are becoming glaring reminders of need to mandate reverse quarantine. “I feel severe body pain, but I can’t lie around watching them suffer. I had fed them and taken care of them at the old-age home. When I know that one person is paralysed or one cannot move their right arm or one can’t see clearly, I have to help them eat and meet their basic requirements. Here hospital staff are also overburdened,” the woman said. One of the old women who is admitted has blurred vision and again it is the caretaker woman who has to take her to toilet. As for other women, who can’t move on their own, the only way is to keep changing sheets. There is nothing much the hospital authorities can do at this stage. Specialised care is needed for perennially bed-ridden patients — something that is difficult to implement when cases surge at an alarming pace. Local ward councillor has been apprising the officials concerned about the issues of transferring bed-ridden patients to Covid hospitals. A total of 27 inmates and six others at old-age home were tested positive for Covid-19. The district administration has recently started a reverse quarantine facility at Vallakadavu. The authorities are also seeking community support to run reverse-quarantine facilities in coastal areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/patients-from-old-age-home-find-it-hard-in-hospital/articleshow/77316004.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala crosses 25,000 Covid-19 positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed 25,000, with 1,169 new cases reported on Sunday. The state capital recorded an all-time high of 377 positive cases in a day. The total now stands at 25,911. The state reported one more death on Sunday— 68-year-old Vijayalakshmi from Thiruvananthapuram—taking the toll to 83 to date. In Kottayam, 94-year-old Rosamma Paily, a native of Kanakkaray who died on Saturday, has been confirmed with Covid. Thiruvananthapuram has reported the highest number of Covid deaths: 14. There were 688 recoveries in the day. Of the new cases, 1,031 are contact cases while 43 came from abroad and 95 from other states. The source of 56 cases has not yet been traced. Among healthcare workers, 29 cases were reported, including 11 from Thiruvananthapuram, seven in Ernakulam, five in Kannur, four in Malappuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. Ten KSE employees and a KLF employee in Thrissur were also among those infected. The other district-wise cases in the day were: Ernakulam, 128, Malappuram, 126, Kasaragod, 113, Kottayam, 70, Kollam, 69, Thrissur, 58, Kozhikode, 50, Idukki, 42, Alappuzha and Palakkad, 38 each, Pathanamthitta, 25, Wayanad, 19 and Kannur, 16. Thiruvananthapuram had 363 contact cases while among other districts, 113 in Malappuram, 110 in Kasaragod, 79 in Ernakulam, 70 in Kottayam, 51 in Kollam, 40 in Thrissur, 39 in Kozhikode, 36 in Palakkad, 24 in Alappuzha, 23 in Idukki, 18 each in Pathanamthitta and Wayanad, and seven in Kannur. On Sunday, 30 more new places were designated as hotspots while 25 were removed from the list. At present, there are 497 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-crosses-25k-ve-cases/articleshow/77320236.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Pune||Rush of outside nCoV patients to city points to ignored H1N1 lessons||Pune: As early warnings go, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic was critical for Maharashtra. It was the first pandemic of the 21st century and it threw open the possibility of mass-scale infection capable of overwhelming healthcare systems. Vital lessons were learned and promises were made to boost disease surveillance, the number of doctors and local healthcare. But 11 years later, Covid-19 has seeped into the gaps that were supposed to have been sealed in the state and particularly Pune district, widely regarded as the epicentre of swine flu in the country.One indicator of failure is the number of Covid patients pouring into Pune’s intensive care units. Since early July, city doctors have been reporting a noticeable increase in patients from neighbouring districts and rural areas. One estimate states that 20% of all admissions in most city hospitals are from outside Pune city. Every week, at least 10 seriously-ill patients are being moved from the rural areas to Sassoon hospital, Yeshwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital or Aundh chest hospital.Most of these patients are from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur and Ahmednagar — regions impacted by H1N1. In a 2012 paper, experts studying swine flu at the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik, and Government Medical College, Miraj, had concluded: “Early case detection can reduce the burden of disease, so the health system should be strengthened.”“That wasn't done,” said a retired Pune-based doctor. “We had 10 years to build trust within local communities. Patients from these parts are fleeing ill-equipped hospitals. Their only hope is the big city hospitals.”But the big units are fast running out of beds themselves. Over the weekend, hospitals in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits had no more than a handful of vacant ICU beds for critical pateints.Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, said they have treated six Covid-19 patients, mainly from Baramati (Pune district), Wai (Satara district) and Sangli since early July. “Three of them needed ICU care. Hospitals in smaller cities and towns don’t have infectious diseases experts or trained intensivists,” he pointed out.Nashik is one such example. Seven private intensivists have now been roped in by the Nashik civil hospital to visit it once a day in turns to treat coronavirus patients. Intensivists play a key role in ensuring shorter ICU stays.In Aurangabad too, there has been a similar scramble for equipment and personnel. The number of ventilators at the government medical college and hospital there rose from 28 to 83. Requests have been made for more machines, but that would mean more trained staff. The hospital serves eight districts of Marathwada.“We did very little to improve the public health sector,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state government on pandemic control. “Only a few states like Tamil Nadu and Kerala have taken steps to improve local healthcare systems. Merely constructing hospitals will not do. In Maharashtra, there are not enough doctors or trained staff to run these hospitals. We have done nothing, or very little, to prepare for an extreme situation like Covid-19. What we are facing today is the result of several decades of ignorance,” he said.Salunkhe said even at the national level, not much was done to improve disease surveillance. “We still do not have foolproof early-warning systems that can detect pandemic-level events. And barring ICMR guidelines, no state has research institutes or teams of experts working on the subject. We need branches of the National Centre for Disease Control in every state.” Other experts said lapses such as these have led to delayed treatment. A Telangana-based doctor said many of his Covid patients spent on average at least two days looking up helplines and information on the internet after symptom onset. “Those two days could have been put to better use. The pace of this virus can only be met with swift treatment,” he said.Sanjay Pathare, director of Pune’s Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We have been receiving Covid-19 patients from districts in western Maharashtra. Most of them needed ICU care because they delayed medical care.”Salunkhe said capable institutes and personnel should be localised to catch infectious diseases early. “How many epidemiologists do we have in each block or ward? Each state needs to create institutes like the National Institute of Virology. Only then can we have an early-warning net. We need to learn from the coronavirus.”(With inputs from Santosh Sonawane, Syed Rizwanullah and Satyajit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rush-of-outside-ncov-patients-to-city-points-to-ignored-h1n1-lessons/articleshow/77322516.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Breather for hospitality industry after closing time extended by 1 hour||Ludhiana: In a big relief to the hospitality industry, hotels, restaurants and other similar ventures, the closing time has been extended by one hour and now they will be allowed to operate till 10pm. The development is a big breather, especially for the industry as due to closing time of 9pm many difficulties were being faced by the businessmen as maximum turnout of customers was post 8pm and it was challenging for them to cater to the huge rush and also ensure closing by 9pm to avoid action by the authorities. The banquet hall owners too were facing the same problem but now with the deadline extended they too are feeling relieved. The businessmen, however, are demanding that the number of guests allowed for marriage and other functions, which still has been capped at 30, should be increased to 50 at least. Speaking to TOI, Amarveer Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “We welcome the decision of the state government and district administration to allow restaurants, food outlets, banquet halls to open till 10pm. It was getting impossible for us to do business with the 9pm deadline as majority of food outlets and restaurants had to turn away clients post 8pm as there was pressure on us to close down our units by 9pm. A huge number of businessmen got penalised recently for inability to meet the deadline, but now with one hour extension in the deadline we will be able to ensure that we attend to our customers till 9.30pm and wind up operations by 10pm.” Amarveer added that, “We also want to draw the attention of the government towards the crisis being faced by the banquet hall owners due to capping of 30 guests for marriage and other functions. We request the authorities to review this decision and allow us to host up to 50 guests as every property has made all kind of safety arrangements for the hosting of such gatherings and business worth several crores has been affected due to the limitation on number of guests.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, owner of a hotel and member of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, “Extending the closing time of the hotels, restaurants and banquet halls is a big relief for the hospitality industry as huge business opportunity was being lost due to the 9pm deadline. The only problem which now remains is the number of guests allowed in a marriage function, which currently is 30 only. With such small number of guests a lot of marriage functions are being postponed by residents while some have even started organising the small gatherings, particularly of functions like ring ceremonies, anniversary celebrations at home. Because of all this, hotel, banquet hall and marriage palace owners are facing huge losses. So, the government needs to increase the capping on number of guests and save our industry.” Box – Changes for hospitality industry Hotels, restaurants and food outlets allowed to function till 10pm Restaurants allowed to function with 50% capacity or 50 guests, which ever is less. These will also remain open on Sunday as well Restaurants in hotels allowed to serve food, including buffet meals, to up to 50% of their seating capacity or 50 guests, which ever is less Restaurants in hotels will also be open to persons other than hotel guests, but bars shall remain closed Liquor can be served in the rooms and restaurants of hotel as permitted under the excise policy of the state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/breather-for-hospitality-industry-after-closing-time-extended-by-1-hour/articleshow/77321394.cms||Mohit Behl
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP for CBI probe in Kanpur lab technician’s kidnapping||Lucknow: The state government on Sunday recommended a CBI probe into kidnapping and murder of 28-year-old Kanpur's lab technician Sanjeet Yadav. The recommendation was made on the request of the family members. Sanjeet was kidnapped from the Barra area on June 22, and was allegedly murdered by his abductors. Later, his body was dumped in the Pandu river and is yet to be traced, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. Five people -- Gyanendra, Kuldeep, Neelu, Ramji and Preeti -- were arrested for their involvement in the case on July 24. Among them, Kuldeep and Ramji were Sanjeet's friends. Later, 11 cops, including an IPS officer, were suspended by the then SSP Kanpur Nagar Dinesh Kumar and the government had also asked ADG, PHQ, BP Jogdand, to probe whether any ransom was paid by the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-for-cbi-probe-in-kanpur-lab-technicians-kidnapping/articleshow/77323235.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Two women jump into well to save cow, rescued||MADURAI: A woman who did not know swimming had a providential escape when she jumped into a 70-feet well swollen with water to save their pregnant cow, which they loved dearly. Fire force personnel later pulled her, her sister-in-law who too jumped down, and the animal. Though the incident happened a few days ago, the matter came to light when it went viral on social media. The incident happened at Meikilarpatti, a village near Usilampatti in Madurai populated by about 1,000 families who were into cattle rearing as a livelihood. Recounting the event, Ragavendran, 40, an electrician, said his wife, Muthu Bhuvaneswari, 34, heard a loud splash of something falling into their well in their backyard. ``I was shocked to see our spotted cow, Thangameena struggling in the well. She was two months pregnant and saving her was my only thought, so I jumped into the well,” she said, sobbing. Her sister-in-law Sudha heard her cry and rushed to her help. Since she was a good swimmer, she climbed down. Their cries were heard by Ragavendran and his nephew who also went down to save the women. Since they could not lift the cow, Usilampatti fire service personnel were called in. Usilampatti fire officer R Thangam said they used stretchers and ropes to pull out the animal and women. ``She is like my child, and hearing her cry made me act, but what would I do in these corona times when milch animals are our only livelihood and we are forced to eat the bad quality ration rice’’ she said. Muthu Bhuvaneswari’s heroic act has come in for much praise in her village where milch cows are revered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-women-jump-into-well-to-save-cow-rescued/articleshow/77322483.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Madurai||1,774 new Covid cases, 37 deaths in south TN||MADURAI: Southern districts reported 1,774 new cases and 16,287 active cases on Sunday. With this the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 54,913, while 37 people have succumbed to the disease. The death toll in the southern districts has climbed to 759. Virudhunagar, which reported the highest number of cases with 337, claims to be conducting about 900 tests per day. There are 2,297 active cases in the district and the number of deaths has gone up to 96 with six deaths . Theni District administration said they conducted 235 tests on Sunday, while 88 new Covid-19 cases were reported. Among them 23 were children, which included 8 boys and 15 girls. Theni district now has 311 containment zones. Tuticorin reported 271 and Tirunelveli 209 new cases. Both districts have six deaths each. Kanyakumari district was the only other district to have more than 200 new cases on Sunday, apart from four deaths taking the death toll to 49. Tenkasi recorded 95 new cases and four deaths while Dindigul recorded 94 new cases and two deaths. Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga reported 45 new cases each with Sivaganga recording three deaths. In Madurai, 178 new cases were reported, of which 67 of them had ILI/SARI and many of them were detected through fever clinics. The district is doing about 3,500 tests on average daily, according to district collector Dr T G Vinay. Madurai, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported six deaths each. With six new deaths, Madurai became the fourth district in the state to cross 250 after Chennai (2,157), Chengalpattu (257) and Thiruvallur (254).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1774-new-covid-cases-37-deaths-in-south-tn/articleshow/77322499.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Old KSRTC buses to morph into fish & grocery stalls||Thiruvananthapuram: KSRTC has been launching various ventures to boost revenues and tide over the crisis brought about by the pandemic as most of its bus services have been stopped since the lockdown kicked in. The public transporter’s latest venture, KSRTC Fresh Mart, aims at revamping old and abandoned buses labelled as scrap and renting them out to government agencies such as Matsyafed, Meat Products of India, Kepco, Consumerfed, Supplyco, Kudumbashree, Horticorp and cooperative institutions to run their outlets at bus stands. The announcement was made on its social media page. “On an average, 30 lakh people travel daily in KSRTC buses. Among them, some are government servants while some are from the private sector. Many people waiting for the bus at the depot may prefer to have a facility to purchase vegetables and other essentials from the bus stand itself. The bus stands, which could provide the facility for passengers, will become a shopping centre. As the construction of a shopping complex is an expensive option and takes time, KSRTC Fresh Mart has been launched by converting old buses into small stalls,” read the KSRTC’s post on the social media. The buses, which are in the fleet for more than 15 years and that cannot be used for service will be modified for the venture. Milma and Matsyafed have already agreed to start such stalls near bus stands at Thampanoor and East Fort. It will be a three-year contract and the agencies will have to pay rent for the vehicle as well as the leased-out land where the stalls will function. “The scrap value of a bus comes to around Rs 1 lakh. This scheme will bring in additional revenue in the form of rent. The body of the bus will be modified and placed in the space set aside for setting up the stall. The agency will have to pay for the bus modification also. At Thampanoor, the stall will be started at a bus stand and at East Fort, a space near Putharikandom ground will be used to set up the facility. The stalls are likely to start functioning in the middle of August. Milma is considering our proposal to start their stall in KSRTC depots,” said a KSRTC official. In the second phase of the project, KSRTC has proposed to start mobile Fresh Mart units based on demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/old-ksrtc-buses-to-morph-into-fish-grocery-stalls/articleshow/77316024.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Nagapattinam MP tests +ve, in MCH||NAGAPATTINAM: Nagapattinam MP M Selvarasu tested positive for Covid-19 here on Sunday and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. The CPI leader who has been elected from Nagapattinam parliamentary constituency had given his swab for Covid-19 test at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. He had visited Tiruvarur hospital to get treatment for a wound in his leg. Since he was suffering from fever for the last few days, he volunteered for Covid-19 test. After the result came, he instantly travelled to Thanjavur from Nagapattinam and got admitted in the isolation ward, hospital sources said. Earlier on Thursday, he participated in a public hearing conducted by the state government to get public opinion on the bifurcation of the new Mayiladuthurai district from Nagapattinam district. Commissioner of revenue administration K Phanindra Reddy chaired the meeting where handloom and textile minister O S Manian, Mayiladuthurai DMK MP S Ramalingam, district collector Praveen P Nair, special officer Lalitha, Thanjavur range DIG Rupesh Kumar Meena and Keelvelur MLA U Mathivanan and several others from the general public and activists participated. Health officials have decided to screen MP Selvarasu family members, his driver and close associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nagapattinam-mp-tests-ve-in-mch/articleshow/77322936.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Humane approach makes juveniles withdraw from crime||NAGPUR: The lockdown has re-defined policing to such an extent that even some integrated programmes are bringing surprising outcomes. The city police were surprised to find a dramatic drop in the crimes committed by the juveniles till June this year after their families received assistance from the police department including ration kit and food packets during tighter version of lockdown amid pandemic outbreak. In 2018, city had witnessed 239 crimes committed by the juveniles or average of around 20 per month. Till June this year, only 44 offences were committed for an average of around seven per month. City had earlier the dubious distinction of having high numbers of juveniles in conflict with law. The programme, Counselling and Reformative Education (Care), initiated for reforming and rehabilitating juvenile offenders in September 2018 by city police chief BK Upadhyay, was one such initiative that was stretched to include helping their families too during the lockdown. This led to a transformation in their behaviour too. The bonding that took place between the police and juvenile offenders is learnt to have convinced many of them to reform. The programme currently has 387 juvenile under it’s purview. Upadhyay said crimes committed by the juvenile have seen an encouraging drop after measures like Care and Chhatra-police were made a part of policing. “We ensured several juveniles returned to the mainstream of the society abandoning the criminal path. There was a cultivated effort behind the change that ensured a sizable number of teenagers will now possibly not grow up to become a dreaded anti-social element,” he said. Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station explained the manner in which the top cop’s Care programme was re-moulded during the lockdown. “Officers are supposed to check the juveniles who have criminal records as a part of the Care programme. Lakadganj police had six such juveniles under surveillance. We were shocked to see their hardship with no food, ration or even other basic materials at home,” said Hiware. “Immediately, we had started diverting food packets, ration kits and other assistance from NGOs and our own initiatives to their families during the lockdown. The juveniles in turn refrained from taking part in any kind of anti-social activities despite their past record,” said Hiware. It is learnt the Social Service Branch (SSB), under Inspector Shubhada Sankhe, had organized seven programmes for the juvenile offenders under the supervision of Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne and DCP Gajanan Rajmane. Bharne too said several juvenile offenders bonded with the cops when the latter reached out with love and caring approach. “There is a definite change of heart among youngsters who were earlier in crime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/humane-approach-makes-juveniles-withdraw-from-crime/articleshow/77322972.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Online class: Rights panel to check burden on kids||Kochi: The Kerala state commission for protection of child rights (KeSCPCR) will look into the complaints that schools are overburdening children with long hours of screen-time exposure as part of online education. “We have received two complaints about overexposing small children to screen learning. We cannot condone this practice if it violates the mental and physical health of children,” said Manoj Kumar, chairman, KeSCPCR. He said that even if parents are pressurising schools to take classes, long hours of screen watching is not acceptable, especially without proper breaks. A TOI infographic, ‘Learn, don’t cram’, appeared on July 31, had published the NCERT guidelines on online education for schoolchildren, which clearly stipulate reduction of screen time and more off-screen activities. “Many of the private schools, especially those that follow CBSE curriculum, are conducting online classes continuously for three-four hours even for primary students. The schools are fixing the class hours without considering the adverse impact the activity will have on children. The children are forced to attend classes and sit for hours together. After the class hours, they are made to write loads of notes by again looking at the screens as notes and assignments are given on WhatsApp,” said J Sandhya, lawyer and former member of KeSCPCR, in her complaint. She said that in this hurry to conduct classes, everybody seems to have forgotten that exposure to the screen for long hours would result in poor eye-sight and other physical issues in children. “Though I tried to intervene and discuss with a few school authorities, they refused to reduce the hours citing that they cannot charge the same school fees if the class hours are reduced. On the other hand, parents are unable to come forward with complaints fearing action from the part of the school management. Hence in the best interest of children, the commission may urgently take this petition into consideration and ensure that online class timings are not excessive,” she said. A parent who tried to raise this issue in the PTA said, “They are not bothered about it. Parents are equating the screen time with school fees, as are the schools themselves. Some of them seem to be worried about the missed classes and examinations!” Even as the discussion picks up, parents are remarking about children developing headaches and eye strain. “A school principal told me that since a vehicle goes to pick up the teachers, it has to be worth the while. If the teacher does not take three-four periods a day, it is not economically viable,” said Sandhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-class-rights-panel-to-check-burden-on-kids/articleshow/77320260.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 3, 2020||India||Digvijaya takes aim at Rahul, adds fuel to Cong’s ‘old vs new’ fire||NEW DELHI: The exchange within Congress over introspection and leadership continued to simmer on Sunday as senior leader Digvijaya Singh urged Rahul Gandhi to undertake “yatras” across the country and young MP Manickam Tagore said the Gandhi scion had already done so but needed support of senior leaders who were not putting their weight behind him. On Twitter, Singh said while Rahul was “different and wants to do politics differently”, he should be “more active in Parliament and more accessible to people”. “As advised by Sharad Pawar, he should go around India. ‘Yatras’ are important to connect,” he said. The former CM had done a yatra before the state election in Madhya Pradesh. Tagore waded in to insist Rahul had already held nearly 100 marches. “I think if (those) who occupy high positions in party truly stand with him and not criticise behind his back, we won't be in opposition for long,” he said, adding that if those given to “leaking” information about the party stopped to do so, Congress would win. Yet, Tagore, who had a day earlier agreed with party colleague Rajeev Satav that there was merit in keeping party discussions within the party, deleted his tweets later. Sunday's fresh salvos were a continuation of Satav’s remarks that “introspection” over defeats should go back to the UPA era. This led to a strong reaction from a clutch of leaders who said Congressmen should not run down UPA, with Satav's comments coming in a meeting with Sonia Gandhi where former PM Manmohan Singh was present. Satav clarified that he did not question Singh’s leadership during the meeting of Rajya Sabha MPs, dubbing it “a lie, a total misrepresentation of facts” and a “malicious attempt” to draw the former PM into the exchange. “UPA-2 was a good government, people’s government. The success of UPA-2 is reinforced when we compare it to the sharp slide under Modi. BJP’s misdeeds have piled up. We need to jointly stand together under the leadership of Soniaji, Dr Singhji, Rahulji,” he said. While representing restiveness over leadership and strategy in Congress, the Twitter exchange between senior and junior leaders point to Rahul being urged to take back the reins of Congress and end the uncertainty and ad hocism created by his resignation after the 2019 Lok Sabha debacle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/digvijaya-takes-aim-at-rahul-adds-fuel-to-congs-old-vs-new-fire/articleshow/77323518.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||BJP cries over power bills, gives no relief in water dues||NAGPUR: At a time when the BJP has been demanding scrapping of inflated power bills, complete waiver of bills up to 100 units for consumers hit by Covid-19 lockdown and instalment facility, the saffron party-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is disconnecting water supply to residential buildings for recovery of arrears from the citizens facing financial difficulties. The civic body, which has already effected 5% water tariff hike from April 1 for the 10th year in a row, has not given any waiver or instalment facility or offered extension to due date to pay the water bills. Instead, the NMC has disconnected water supply to 650 residential buildings in the last two months. Even the BJP seems to be a divided house over the issue. Two of the BJP corporators on Sunday staged a sit-in outside the residence of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe protesting against the disconnection of illegal water connections. On Sunday, a few residents of MHADA Colony led by BJP leader Prashant Singh Thakur, his corporator wife Rupali and corporator Abhay Gotekar staged a dharna in front of civic chief’s residence. “Water supply to 96 houses in MHADA Colony, Vishwakarma Nagar was disconnected terming them illegal connections. Even amid the pandemic, the authorities did not consider regularization. Moreover, a few connections were snapped citing arrears even though the residents have been paying the dues to MHADA,” said Thakur. Former Congress corporator Arun Dawre said, “This exposes BJP’s double standard. For the last two months, I have been urging authorities not to snap water supply amid the pandemic, but none listened. On one hand, governments and NMC are telling people to wash hands frequently to prevent contracting novel coronavirus, on the other water supply to residential buildings is being disconnected that too without any intimation.” “BJP should resume water supply to all, offer respite in the water bills by waiving off some units and also extend instalment facility,” he said. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said, “The civic administration is disconnecting water supply. We are against the disconnection during the Covid-19 period.” Zalke said the protest by party corporators was not expected. “I support disconnection of illegal connections. I had assured party corporators of resolving the issue, but still they went ahead with the agitation,” he said. An NMC official said, “In all 156 houses are in MHADA Colony. Of them, 96 had illegal connections and hence the supply was snapped on July 31. Remaining households owe NMC arrears to the tune of Rs9.13 lakh from July 30, 2016. All these year, water supply was not disconnected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-cries-over-power-bills-gives-no-relief-in-water-dues/articleshow/77322999.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Missing sailor’s kin write to DG shipping, demand probe||Thiruvananthapuram: The family of a sailor who went missing from a ship has approached the director general of shipping with a complaint seeking detailed investigation. Abey Chandran who was sailing as an ‘AB seaman’ on-board MV GLOCEM, manned by SALS Shipping, Mumbai went missing on July 22 near Mauritius. The ship had started its journey from Visakhapatnam on March 12. Chandran’s family, based in Thiruvananthapuram, received an email from Anil Walke, general manager, SALS Shipping on July 23, informing them he was swept away when heavy swell struck the vessel.  M V GLOCEM and another vessel, M V ASALI started the search operation for locating Chandran. In the meantime they also informed D G Shipping India, Panama Flag Authorities, the insurance company of the vessel, coastal authorities of Port Louis and D G Shipping Mauritius and MRCC Mauritius. The mail said that M V GLOCEM and M V ASALI conducted search operations till 12 noon on July 23 adding that the weather in the area where the incident took place was very bad, with heavy winds and high swells reducing the visibility. In the letter to Amitabh Kumar, DG shipping, the family alleged that the captain of MV GLOCEM told Chandran’s relative that the mooring rope was swept away in the swell and Abey and another seaman were sent to retrieve the rope. “The family are of the view that we lost Chandran due to the negligence on the part of the captain. When the sea condition was very bad, the captain should not have asked him to retrieve the rope which fell in the sea,” said the letter. They have requested for a detailed investigation into the incident. “Chandran was not engaged in any personal work and was obeying the orders of the captain. How could they send a person outside in the rough weather? No person in authority is sharing any details with us. They earlier said that there were other sailors with Chandran when the incident happened, later they claimed that he was all alone. We have requested for an investigation on the accident,” said S Sabitha, Chandran’s sister. The family has also requested authorities to provide a copy of the captain’s statement of facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/missing-sailors-kin-write-to-dg-shipping-demand-probe/articleshow/77316035.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kochi||Isolated but inspired: Pillai turns to poetry||Kozhikode: Confined in the sprawling Raj Bhavan in Aizawl, Mizoram’s capital city, for the past five months, governor P S Sreedharan Pillai has taken to writing poetries to vent his pent-up feelings. “I have been locked down in this ‘five-star prison’, unable to move around due to Covid 19 and there are strict regulations in the Raj Bhavan for visitors,” said Pillai. And the result of the ‘solitary confinement’ is a collection of poems in Malayalam ‘Covid Kavithakal’ that ruminate on philosophical questions in pandemic times. “I read the news about an incident that happened in Italy where elderly persons were allowed to die when the pandemic peaked. The ventilators were removed to be used for younger patients,” Pillai said. “One nurse found the practice cruel and against the oath taken while doing the nursing course. Unable to bear the tension, she committed suicide. This incident triggered the poem Vayojanam (Elderly). We live in a culture where the elderly are respected and cared,” he said. The poems centre around the theme of human helplessness in the face of impending death. The virus has taught humanity how dependent we are on each other and how silly our petty clashes are, he said. The poem Mahamari (Pandemic) asserts the power of human will to take on adversities. It reminds us that humanity has conquered outbreaks of diseases like plague and smallpox in the past. “There is no need to despair because together, human beings will defeat the enemy and will reach the other end of the tunnel,” he said. The poem ‘Wuhan’ deplores how the ancient city that was the cradle of civilization has become the synonym of the disease. The release of the anthology along with two other books will be held at Raj Bhavan on August 8. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and other dignitaries will attend the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/isolated-but-inspired-pillai-turns-to-poetry/articleshow/77320283.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nashik||Structural audit must for bldgs older than 30 years||Nashik: The civic administration has made structural audit mandatory for buildings over 30 years old and warned that those who fail to do the needful will be slapped a fine of Rs 25,000. The decision to this effect was taken following incidents of old wadas collapsing across the city in the last one year. Last year, over a dozen old wadas had collapsed during monsoon. The Nashik Municipal Corporatio (NMC) had warned the occupants to vacate wadas but their appeal fell on deaf ears. This year too, an old wada collapsed last month in which one youth was killed and two others were injured.The civic body has appointed three agencies in the city to conduct structural audits. The owners of the buildings will have to get the structural audit done from the agency appointed by the NMC.The structural engineers of the agencies certified by the municipal corporation will inspect the buildings and will give certificates about the status of the building on whether it is fit for occupation or not.Moreover, the agency will also suggest the works that need to be carried to repair the old structures. Once the necessary works are carried out, the agency will submit a certificate stating that the structure is in a good condition to the divisional office of the municipal corporation. The owners of the old buildings will have to pay the service charges of Rs 23 per sq metre or at least Rs 5,000 each.The structure of the old buildings which are unsafe or dangerous will have to be removed by the owners on their own. The NMC has already identified 1,032 old and unsafe buildings in the city and served notices to the owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/structural-audit-must-for-bldgs-older-than-30-years/articleshow/77320267.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Six months since completion, Hambran slaughter house yet to open||Ludhiana: Even after passing of six months since the completion of the modern abattoir on Hambran Road, the civic authorities has not been able to make it functional. Earlier, there were certain issues with the contractor, who had been hired for running this slaughter house, over annual payment to the civic body and now it was being said that the contractor was reluctant to take over, citing lesser demand of chicken and mutton in the city these days. However, the officials claimed that recently the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) had given the final nod for handing over the operations and maintenance of this slaughter house, but they had not received the file and so they were unable to sign an agreement with the contractor. The modernisation of the slaughter house was completed in January and it was supposed to get inaugurated, but it was cancelled as the operation and maintenance was not final till then. But when it got finalised the lockdown was imposed and all activities were stopped. Almost a month back the civic body officials got the consent from the Punjab Pollution Control Board to run this slaughter house. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had asked the officials to increase the annual revenue generation from this slaughter house to Rs 35 lakh from Rs 31 lakh. The mayor on being contacted claimed that they had asked the contractor to take over the slaughter house but he was asking for some time as due to Covid-19 there was lesser demand among the public for chicken or mutton. He said moreover, during rainy season people avoid consuming these things, so they were expecting that after a few days this slaughter house could get functional. Meanwhile, senior veterinary officer Y P Singh said, “We are yet to sign an agreement and issue work order to the contractor. We are waiting for the file of this case that had gone to the F&CC for a final approval. As soon as the file will reach us we will go ahead with the project.” The project was announced in 2008 but it kept on delaying due to scarcity of funds. The total cost of this project is around Rs 19.50 crore. The main objective behind this modern slaughter house is to bring slaughtering under one roof in a systematic manner and avoid slaughtering in every nook and corner of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/six-months-since-completion-hambran-slaughter-house-yet-to-open/articleshow/77321429.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Madurai||Idol-makers concerned over dull sales ahead of Ganesha Chaturthi||MADURAI: Vinayaka Chaturthi falls on August 22 this year, but for the families of idol-makers at Vilacheri and Mattuthavani uncertainty looms large amid the Covid-19 pandemic as they are yet to get any orders so far. Usually, Vinayaka Chaturthi is a big time for them to earn some money but this time they are bracing to face huge losses due to the prevailing uncertainty. Vilacheri doll makers, who use clay mixed with elephant dung for making large Ganesh idols, have not made even a single doll so far. But, migrant doll makers at Surveyor Colony Road at Mattuthavani have made some idols, but are waiting for orders. However, doll markers continue to make small idols meant for household poojas, in limited quantity due to the uncertainty. Many doll makers from Vilacheri said that they are making small idols to kill boredom. They are only making a few as they do not have adequate place to store all the finished idols. P Vijayakumar, from Vilachery said, “Last year, I made 40 big Vinayaka idols ranging between five to 10 foot, which fetched me Rs 3 lakh. I have not made even a single piece so far. An inquiry came from Manamadurai in Sivaganga district for an order. I have asked them to get police permission first. They are yet to respond,” he said. Vijayakumar has not faced livelihood loss of this scale so far. “Only those into making smaller ones are doing some work. There are 100 families in the village who are involved in the work, of which 90% are into making small idols. A couple of families have opened grocery stores at their house to eke out a living,” Vijayakumar said. P Santhi, who is into making dolls for Navratri Golu and Christmas, has not started her work in full swing due to the uncertainty. “I don’t think the upcoming festivals will be celebrated with fanfare like that of the previous years. We do not want to invest money and face loss,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/idol-makers-concerned-over-dull-sales-ahead-of-ganesha-chaturthi/articleshow/77322521.cms||V Devanathan
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||NGOs urge Andhra Pradesh government to screen homeless for Covid-19||AMARAVATI: There has been growing concern among social workers that the state government has not been keen to screen the destitute for Covid-19. The NGOs are struggling to feed orphans and the destitute as the government has not released funds under National Urban Livelihood Management (NULM) programme which is mandatory as per the Supreme Court directive. About 11,500 people are taking shelter in different districts in the state. Former Union secretary EAS Sarma requested chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to take urgent steps to screen the homeless. He cited the issue of about 57 inmates of a UP government shelter home, including two pregnant women, testing positive for Covid-19. “I find that the state government has not been undertaking Covid-19 testing for the inmates of the shelters, homes and hostels run by NGOs on behalf of the government, though the responsibility for the welfare of the inmates rests with it. In my view they are highly vulnerable to diseases such as Covid-19,” said Sarma. The non-release of funds for maintenance of shelters for homeless is scaring organisers. Sources said the government has not released funds since March to the NGOs despite the Centre releasing funds for the same. Many NGOs started shelters after signing an understanding with respective urban civic bodies following a SC verdict in 2011. The state governments through civic bodies should release funds to NGOs under National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). The Supreme Court had directed municipal bodies to set up shelters for the homeless at least one for each one lakh population. The SC also said that each shelter should provide food and shelter to at least 100 people. “The state government had identified about 12,000 homeless people and allowed nearly 76 shelters to operate. There is dire need to open more shelters but NGOs are not coming forward due to lack of encouragement from government and civic bodies,” said Pragada Vasu of Association for Urban and Tribal Development (AUTD) in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ngos-urge-govt-to-screen-homeless-for-covid-19/articleshow/77320258.cms||Samdani MN
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Being fearless helped many with comorbidities defeat Covid-19||Nagpur: Meera Rajurkar, 80, returned home on August 1 after 10-day stay at AIIMS, Nagpur, as a Covid-19 positive patient. Apart from advanced age, she had comorbidities and history of knee replacement and other surgeries. Still, she recovered within the standard protocol. Megha Dixit, 52, who has history of angioplasty and gall bladder removal surgery, also recovered within the specific 10-day period and went home last week. From a 94-year-old man from Amravati to 88-year-old retired army soldier from Akola, many patients with advanced age and severe co-morbidities have recovered successfully, irrespective of their health problems. Vidarbha has one of the best recovery rates in country and there are many examples of people recovering from Covid-19 despite having heart, kidney, diabetes, liver and other diseases. According to doctors, co-morbidities like cardiovascular disease, diabetes and CKDs are definitely risk factors when you get infected with Covid-19, but if these lifestyle diseases are kept in good control, patients can definitely recover from Covid-19. “You can be a patient of diabetes or hypertension and still beat Covid-19 easily if you have good control on your disease,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, who is leading a team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at Wockhardt Hospital. Dr Jaiswal is also a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by state health department to deal with cases and deaths in Nagpur. “Diabetic condition can be aggravated due to medication, hospitalization and mainly due to stress and trauma regarding Covid-19. But, if the sugar level is restricted under 180 and blood pressure maintained, one can surely recover within the prescribed period,” he said. Seconding Dr Jaiswal’s views, patients who recovered said that positive attitude and avoiding fear was the key of their recovery. “I had a history of heart disease and surgery. I had mild symptoms when tested positive. I kept on telling myself that these symptoms are like a common cold and will be cured in three-four days. Finally, the same happened,” said Megha Dixit. She appealed to people with comorbidities to get tested early. Doctors also suggest early testing for people with lifestyle ailments. “It’s better to get tested when you have early symptoms. Early detection will ensure that you are mild symptomatic or asymptomatic. As per new policy, asymptomatic patients are allowed to rest at home,” said Dr Vaibhav Agrawal. According to doctors, staying at home provides big psychological relief and recovery becomes easy for asymptomatic patients. In case they need medical assistance, it’s just a phone call away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/being-fearless-helped-many-with-comorbidities-defeat-covid-19/articleshow/77322524.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 3, 2020||Allahabad||Biz boom amid Covid gloom as bhang shops see queues||Prayagraj: Among the businesses hit by novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, there is one which managed to stay afloat thanks to the devotion of devotees of Lord Shiva. The lull in markets notwithstanding, licensed shops selling ‘bhaang’ are cashing in on the ‘Shrawan’ boom as devotees of Lord Shiva are lining up at these stores to buy (cannabis). In Hindu mythology, bhaang is offered to Lord Shiva as a prasad (offering). According to excise department officials, the city has witnessed a multi-fold increase in the sale of bhaang during Shrawan. The demands from licensed bhaang sellers for increased supply indicates to the surge in demand. “There are 121 licensed cannabis sellers in the city and their monthly quota differs from shop to shop. Annually, we provide 25,000kg bhaang to these 121 sellers, which is around 2,000kg per month. The sellers can request for more, if the demand exceeds their monthly quota,” said district excise officer Sandeep Bihari Modwell. Sources said that sellers’ sold their monthly quota of bhaang in a first fortnight during Shrawan. Even though ‘kanwar yatras’ have been cancelled this year due to the pandemic, devotees of Lord Shiva are filled with enthusiasm. They are offering ‘bhaang’ to the deity and are then consuming the ‘bhog’ of cannabis as ‘prasad’. The excise department officials admit that demand for bhaang this month has increased by up to 20%. Sanjeev, a licensed bhaang seller in Muttiganj locality, said, “On normal days, especially during the lockdown, the sale of cannabis was much lower. I was even struggling to sell our monthly quota. However, during Shrawan this year I sold my monthly quota in just two weeks and people are still demanding it.” Modwell said, “The surge in demand has also generated more revenue. From the 121 licensed cannabis shops in the district, Rs 43 lakh revenue was generated this month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/biz-boom-amid-covid-gloom-as-bhang-shops-see-queues/articleshow/77321433.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||Man found dead with head crushed near PTR, kin suspects foul play||PILIBHIT: Mystery surrounds the death of Khushnood Khan (30) of Sherpur village under Puranpur Kotwali police station. The body with the head crushed was found on Pilibhit – Madhotanda road, adjoining Mala range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. The deceased's brother, Khursheed Khan, the younger brother of deceased, said Khushnood was present at home till 11 pm on Saturday. He was baffled over the discovery of his brother's body 45 km from his native village on Sunday. Suspecting foul play, Khursheed said, “I will file a written complaint in the matter on Monday after I collect some more information." Jai Prakash, SHO of Gajraula police station, said police were waiting for the autopsy report to take further action in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-found-dead-with-head-crushed-near-ptr-kin-suspects-foul-play/articleshow/77320259.cms||Keshav Agarwal
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Migratory birds start arriving early at Udayamarthandapuram||TRICHY: With the advent of south west monsoon, migratory birds have started arriving at different waterbodies in the eastern coast of Tamil Nadu including the Udayamarthandapuram bird sanctuary in Tiruvarur district. Usually birds start arriving in October every year, but they started arriving from mid-June this year. The sanctuary, which spreads across 44 hectares, has become habitable for bird as well as other living beings. According to forest officials, this is perhaps the first time in the last decade that birds have arrived much ahead of season. Usually, birds start arriving by October from Europe, Siberia, China and Russia and stay there till February. “Normally the south west monsoon will not be so active on the eastern coast of Tamil Nadu. But this year all the tanks are brimming with water because of good rain making the conditions favourable for birds much earlier,” said conservator of forests, Ramasubramanian (IFS), Thanjavur circle. Among the more than 9,000 birds that arrive at the sanctuary, white ibis have come in large numbers besides painted stork, spot billed duck and coot. While the sanctuary having paddy field adjoining it attracts a good number of wetland birds, it also receives a good number of terrestrial and arboreal birds. Tiruvarur district forest officer (DFO) K Arivoli said that habitat improvement activities such as removal of aquatic weeds and invasive shrubs species carried last year has ensured that the water spread area is not chocked. Growth of these weeds will affect breeding of fish and nesting by birds, he said. Wildlife biologist K Sasi Kumar said birds from Siberia and western countries start moving towards equator from these western countries sensing harsh summer. No vehicular movement around the sanctuary owing to the lockdown has made the place more conducive for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/migratory-birds-start-arriving-early-at-udayamarthandapuram/articleshow/77322996.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||MC officials want 10% rebate on property tax dues extended till Sept||Ludhiana: Covid-19 has hit the recovery of property tax being collected by the civic body hard and if the 10% rebate scheme on previous years property tax dues had not been extended for June and July then it would have become difficult for it to achieve the same. The rebate period has come to end on July 31 and now officials are keeping their fingers crossed, whether it will get extended up to September, so that more recovery could reach the MC kitty. Another reason is that due to coronavirus the civic body officials are not going from door to door for recovery of property tax dues and in the absence of rebate people will not come to clear dues. April and May got wasted due to lockdown as only some of the dues amount was cleared during these two months. But when the MC suvidha centres were opened in June the recovery picked up while in July too there was good response from the residents. As per the officials, only in June and July they were able to recover Rs 17 crore in property tax dues, out of which Rs 9 crore is for the current year while Rs 8 crore is the arrear amount. Conforming the same the superintendent of MC, Vivek Verma, said both months remained good for the civic body as people came to clear their dues. He said on July 31 only they generated Rs 1 crore at the suvidha centres and through online payment. He admitted the fact that due to coronavirus people were avoiding coming out of their houses but since 10% rebate was there, so they came out somehow. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity, one of the civic body officials claimed that now 10% rebate option was available only for the current year tax payers that is up to September end. He said they were not sure whether they would be able to go in field for recovery this year as it was not safe enough to visit door to door. He claimed that the state government should extend the rebate period for previous years till September end so that more revenue could be generated as otherwise they would not be able to match the target of this financial year. Poor recovery will directly hit the services being provided by the civic body like water supply, sewerage lines, roads, streetlights, parks and garbage lifting. When there will be paucity of funds the civic body will not be able to do anything for the residents. In the past two years the civic body did not take up any major project for the city and the present works are going on were under smart city mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-want-10-rebate-on-property-tax-dues-extended-till-sept/articleshow/77321460.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Madurai||How Tuticorin managed to keep death rate lowest in south Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: In the last two weeks, Tuticorin district has reported not less than 200 fresh Covid-19 cases a day, with the highest being 415 on July 23. However, despite having 7,628 positive cases and 54 deaths, the district’s death rate of 0.7% is the lowest among the southern districts. It is also the lowest among 15 districts with more than 50 deaths and second lowest among the 14 districts that have more than 5,000 cases. Early detection by reducing the waiting time to less than a day from two days was a key factor in lowering the death rate, says district collector Sandeep Nanduri. “ The focus on proactively finding (cases) among those with comorbidities and antenatal mothers and other vulnerable persons in the containment zones and surrounding areas and during the fever camps is among factors that helped reduce the deaths,” he told TOI He said that in a recent death audit they had stressed on early shifting of those with symptoms or comorbidities from the primary health centres and other government hospitals to the tertiary care facility (Thoothukudi government medical college and hospital) to bring down the death rate further. Medical college hospital dean C Revathy Balan said their team made judicious use of X-rays and CT scans to determine the infection for those with comorbidities. “Results of these persons are obtained on priority to change the treatment protocol without delay,” she said. Of the 700 beds for Covid patients in the hospital, 350 have oxygen support. The hospital got the fully automated Electrochemiluminescence Immunoassay Analyser (ECLEA), the first government facility outside Chennai to be equipped with it. The analyser helps to analyse five inflammatory markers in Covid-19 patients – Interleukin 6, d - dimer, Ferritin, Procalcitonin and CRP. “These parameters are used to predict the progression of Covid patients to severe forms and to make treatment decisions,” she said. The hospital received the equipment in the first week of June and has analysed 536 samples so far. “Now, at least 10 samples are tested in it every day,” the dean added. As many as 179 women who tested positive and admitted to the Covid ward gynaecology department have delivered babies. “There has been no mortality among them and 155 of them were in July,” she said. Only 13 frontline workers from the hospital including 4 doctors and 9 others were infected by Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/how-tuticorin-managed-to-keep-death-rate-lowest-in-south-tn/articleshow/77322518.cms||M K Ananth
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘Mr Fixit’ who grew beyond UP politics||LUCKNOW: In July 2018, while inaugurating the first ground-breaking ceremony in Lucknow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi surprised the audience by making special mention of Amar Singh. While starting his address, the PM paused and said "Amar Singh ji, namaskar”. Seated in the second row at the sprawling pandal, Singh smiled but observers of UP politics say that it was an indirect acknowledgment of the fact that the Rajya Sabha member was the pioneer of bringing investment from outside to the state. Singh passed away in Singapore after prolonged illness on Saturday. As the second most powerful person in SP government between 2003 and 2007, he headed the UP Development Council to bring corporate India closer to UP. As members of the council, the likes of Anil Ambani, Adi Godrej, Subrata Roy, and Amitabh Bachchan helped the state get India Inc to invest in UP. However, before it could bring a desirable result, the SP was voted out and the council was disbanded. Singh, however, was instrumental in setting a precedence. After joining SP in late 90s, it was Singh who helped this regional outfit acquire a national stature through his connections which transcended the moorings of political leanings. After Amar’s departure from the party which coincided with the growing influence of the present chief Akhilesh Yadav, it has also lost its impact in the national politics as his successor, Ram Gopal Yadav failed to perform that role. The role of 'Mr Fixit' that he played with aplomb, benefited many. He claimed that it was he who introduced Big B to Subrata Roy, who helped the superstar ward off the financial storm he was facing. Besides, Singh also introduced Bachchan as a farmer in Barabanki, and named his Gomatinagar residence in Lucknow as 'Aishwarya' and opened a school in her name in Barabanki. Singh was also responsible for adding glamour quotient to Saifai Mahotsava, a rural festival at the village of the SP's first family, by bringing Bollywood A-listers to the event. Although the party was criticised for this for losing its core value. He aggressively campaigned for the release of Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya, who was languishing in jail after being slapped with POTA by the Mayawati government in 2002. He also helped his mentor Mulayam Singh Yadav to take a second shot at the CM's chair in 2003 by 'managing' adequate number of legislatures after Mayawati walked out of the coalition government she was running along with BJP. His falling out with the Yadavs started after Akhilesh's wife Dimple lost Lok Sabha bypoll against Raj Babbar in Firozabad in 2009. He was sacked from the party in 2010 but continued to be its Rajya Sabha member till 2014. Two years later, he mended the fence with Mulayam and got another term at the upper house by regaining entry into the party. However, the second innings didn't last long and the Yadav family's internal feud took a toll on him. Akhilesh lashed out at him publicly holding him responsible for the schism between him and his father, and ousted him from the party. But Singh continued to be an RS member till his death. In his condolence message, Akhilesh tweeted a picture of Amar Singh walking between him and his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mr-fixit-who-grew-beyond-up-politics/articleshow/77323237.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Conduct exams for failed students of class IX, XI: CBSE to schools||NAGPUR: CBSE has asked all affiliated schools to conduct exams for failed students of Std IX and XI, if not done already. These exams are internally conducted and assessed. Since these classes are outside the purview of RTE, students do not have the safety cover of a guaranteed promotion to the next class. In a notification dated July 23, CBSE’s controller of examination (CoE) Sanyam Bhardwaj said schools must proceed with the examinations for such students, if not done so already. Bhardwaj informed schools that online, offline and/or innovative tests may be taken to ensure compliance. CBSE has not set any time frame for these tests to be conducted. Bhardwaj has written to schools that these must be done “as and when possible”. Reena Dargan, chairperson of Nagpur Sahodaya Schools’ Complex, said this would be applicable to hardly a few schools. “I believe almost every school has already completed these internal exams. March is usually when most of us conduct these exams. There is no point in keeping Std IX and XI failures in suspended animation for so long. There might have been some who missed out due to the lockdown,” said Dargan. Last week, the Maharashtra state board, too, issued similar instructions to all affiliated schools to ensure that students who failed in Std IX and XI get pushed to the next grade. The only difference, however, is that state board has been specific about the type of exams. Ashok Gavhankar, a senior state board academician, said “These exams have to be conducted through online oral tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/conduct-exams-for-failed-students-of-class-ix-xi-cbse-to-schools/articleshow/77323000.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 3, 2020||Ludhiana||BRS Nagar to have 2 new parks; LIT to develop these||Ludhiana: Residents of BRS Nagar will get two new parks in I and L blocks shortly as the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) is going to develop these. In L-block it will be the first public park for the residents as there is no other park in the locality. However, in I block it will be a leisure valley spread on 2 acres. The officials claimed that already trees have been planted in these parks, so it will be an additional thing as they need not to wait for plants to grow and people will immediately get shades of trees. Meanwhile, on Sunday, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu too visited the sites where the park and leisure valley are to be developed. The LIT chairman, Raman Balasubramanium, and other officials also accompanied the minister. They discussed the plan on the basis of which these would be developed. This will be the fifth leisure valley coming up in Ludhiana (west) constituency represented by Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Ashu said that tenders for both these projects would be floated shortly as all approvals had been granted by the local bodies department He said that the leisure valley in block I of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar would have a dedicated footpath for morning/evening walkers, badminton and basketball courts, an open gym, swings for children, canopies, besides several such amenities. The other four leisure valleys are coming up near DAV Public School (along Sidhwan Canal) in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, in Haibowal, near Lodhi Club and behind Blocks D and E in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. He said that these projects would prove as lifelines for the city and its residents. He said that near DAV Public School the leisure valley was around 1.5km in length (starting from opposite DAV Public School till railway crossing near Pakhowal road). He said that near DAV Public School, the vacant chunk of land was literally being used as a garbage dump. He added that this space had been fully transformed into one of the best leisure valley’s of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brs-nagar-to-have-2-new-parks-lit-to-develop-these/articleshow/77321462.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||Pending electric bills stalling power projects, says UPCL||Dehradun: The power-related development projects in Uttarakhand have run into a wall as the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) is claiming to be struggling with finances due to long-pending electricity bill payments of government agencies and commercial establishments. As per the data available on the website of the corporation, the total arrears amounted to nearly Rs 1,500 crore till April 2020. BCK Mishra, managing director of UPCL, told TOI, “The overdue electricity bills are a big concern for us. It is impacting our collection efficiency and revenues directly. Since UPCL has long-term power supply agreements with commercial units, the overdue power bills delay the repayment process to our creditors who supply us power for further distribution. Even though we also carry out drives for expediting the collection of bills and disconnect power connections whenever necessary, the mounting arrears are a big cause of concern.” As per the data, the top defaulters include various units of Uttarakhand Jal Sansthan with overdues of more than Rs 100 crore, Northern Division Ganges Canal of Haridwar with over Rs 58 crore dues, and many other government departments and commercial establishments. In order to address the problem, UPCL officials said that a new revised list of bill repayment defaulters is also being prepared which will include many more establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pending-electric-bills-stalling-power-projects-says-upcl/articleshow/77320302.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Madurai||Students excited, but worries galore as online classes begin||MADURAI/TRICHY: As colleges start online classes for second year and third year UG and second year PG students from Monday, students are excited at having a semblance of normalcy. However, many teachers and colleges are apprehensive about internet connectivity as well as lack of guidelines on going about the job. “Now that we have no exams too, I’m glad we are able to quickly carry on with classes for the next semester. I’m worried how well I’ll be able to understand with online classes but I still am excited,” said D Anierudh, a second year BSc Physics student. Though timings vary for different colleges, online classes are set to happen every working day for three to five hours. “We have already intimated our students about the classes, given them email IDs and held demo classes. We are taking this as a challenge. Currently, of course, we are having only theory classes which will be live,” said Dr Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. Bharathidasan University vice-chancellor P Manisankar briefed college principals and head of university departments on taking least 450 hours of online class for a semester within 90 working days. The colleges were asked to keep their content ready for classes from Monday. Asked if up to seven hours of classes would not be hectic for students, BDU registrar G Gopinath told TOI that it need not be a lecture, but a demonstration, a tutorial or a case study. However, several colleges in Trichy said no proper guidelines are in place for the online classes. Besides, most colleges were busy with admission work when they were asked to start online classes in less than a weeks’ time. Vimal Jerald, faculty member of computer science department, St Joseph’s College, said online education is essential to engage the college students during the pandemic. But it is vital to frame guidelines and provide basic ICT infrastructure facilities both for the institutions and students. Jamal Mohamed College (JMC) Trichy was holding trial with students on online classes for a week. Principal Ismail Mohideen said students exhausted their data within two hours of classes. It could be an issue in the long run if online classes become compulsory. Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science, Madurai said they have been holding online classes throughout July for two hours per working day. “Though there was some resistance initially, we had 90% attendance in July. But, some students do have internet connectivity issues. Hence, we are also recording the live lectures and posting in our learning portal. Now, there will be classes for at least four hours,” he said. Assignment and tests will also be carried out online in real time and otherwise. A survey by Lady Doak College Madurai revealed that about 90% of its students had access to their own or shared gadgets though not all of them had good connectivity. “For those without access to gadgets and internet, we are also trying to get second hand devices with the help of an NGO,” said Dr Christianna Singh, principal of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-excited-but-worries-galore-as-online-classes-begin/articleshow/77322531.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Only 50,000 benefited from Atmanirbhar scheme in July||BENGALURU: Barely a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, aimed to ensure migrant workers do not go hungry, the demand for rations under the scheme has fallen in Karnataka. Under the scheme, every migrant with an Aadhar card could receive a one-time dole of rations for two months. The scheme initially received strong response from migrant workers, many of whom were stranded in Karnataka with neither jobs nor savings. As per government records, more than 10 lakh migrants were provided free rice and channa (whole gram) for June. However, by the end of July, the numbers had plummeted to about 50,000 beneficiaries, a small fraction of the 80 lakh migrant workers estimated to have been in the state prior to the lockdown. While on the one hand those figures suggest a huge chunk of the labour force moved out of Karnataka, on the other hand the state claims there is still a considerable number of migrants who reside in Bengaluru and other parts of the state, but are ineligible for rations under the scheme since, under the Centre’s directive, a migrant worker, who does not have a ration card, is applicable to receive rations only once under the scheme. State records show each of the 10 lakh migrants in June, and another 3.2 lakh people in May, received 10kg of rice and 2kg of channa. These people cannot seek rations again. “In my constituency of Mahalakshmi Layout alone, there are 41,000 beneficiaries. However, there are many people who would need another round of assistance to survive till economic activity pick up,” said K Gopalaiah, food and civil supplies minister. The minister did admit lakhs of migrants had left Karnataka due to lockdowns and loss of work, but many more remain in the hope of securing employment. Officials believe that if the ANBP scheme is extended again to first-time beneficiaries, 6 to 7 lakh migrants will benefit. In fact, the state has written to the Centre to allow Karnataka to open another round of distribution under ANBP. Besides Karnataka, Rajasthan is said to be the only other state with a widespread distribution of ANBP rations. “Even last month we had a video conference where the Centre categorically said the scheme has been extended in terms of time, but not for the same people. We are hoping, with lockdowns ending, the numbers will increase,” said Shamala Iqbal, commissioner food and civil supplies department. The government has also asked the Centre to extend the scheme till November for all migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-50k-migrants-benefitted-from-atmanirbhar-rations-scheme-in-july/articleshow/77320926.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||29 test positive in Chanda||Chandrapur: Chandrapur registered a spike of 29 patients during the day taking the total caseload of Covid-19 in the district to 580 on Sunday. However, 349 of these patients have been treated and cured, while remaining 230 are active and under treatment. The new found patients include five from Chandrapur and villages on the outskirts, 12 patients from Nagbhid teshil, while rest are scattered across the district. A total of 133 containment zones were made in district. Out of these, 74 have been revoked after completion of 14 days, while remaining 59 are effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/29-test-positive-in-chanda/articleshow/77320307.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||19-year-old boy killed in ‘accidental’ firing by friend||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old boy was killed in an alleged accidental fire from a country-made pistol by his close friend in Lakhimpur city on Saturday night. The incident took place when the victim, Vaibhav Shah, had gone out for a walk with his friends after the dinner when a bullet struck him on his stomach in a gunshot fired accidently by his friend Satyam Tiwari, said police. Vaibhav was rushed to the district hospital, where doctors referred him to a higher medical centre, but he died on his way to Lucknow. Meanwhile, police took Satyam in their custody. “The accused said he was showing his country-made pistol to his friend when he was shot by an accidental fire,” kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra told TOI. “An autopsy on the body was conducted on Sunday. The victim’s family has, so far, not lodged a complaint in this connection. Satyam was absconding after the incident, but we nabbed him. We are grilling him. We are trying to check CCTV footage of the area to ascertain whether it was an accidental fire or Satyam shot his friend dead. We are yet to find any motive behind the murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/19-year-old-boy-killed-in-accidental-firing-by-friend/articleshow/77320313.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Transporters plan protest over tax, insurance waiver||HYDERABAD: With very few people opting to commute via cabs, autos and private buses even during unlock 3.0, the transport operators who have suffered immense financial losses due to the pandemic are planning to stage a protest after not receiving any help from authorities. The operators say that despite submitting multiple representations to the transport department authorities requesting a tax and insurance waiver, there has been no communication from them till now. “The prevailing situation and the constantly increasing diesel prices have crippled our incomes. Most drivers haven’t been earning anything from past four months. We have been repeatedly asking the authorities to consider our plea but there is no response from their side. Every time we try to talk to them, the police intervenes and stops us from entering their office premises,” said Shaik Salauddin, the chairman of Telangana State Taxi and Driver joint action committee. “The state government keeps extending the deadline for fines, taxes, insurance and other things but they are not accepting the request for a waiver. We have decided to stage a protest because the police are not allowing us to hold talks with the transport commissioner,” he said. The JAC also reiterated the high court order asking all the transport operators to form a union and submit a representation to the department. “We have been trying to give representations and hold talks with the transport department authorities by following instructions of the high court. Despite that, neither the authorities nor the government is ready to listen to our problems,” said Manchireddy Rajender Reddy, the Working President of Telangana Lorry Owners’ Association. In a similar protest last month, bus and cab operators raised their concerns by parking over one thousand buses on roads near the offices of Road Transport Authority across Telangana state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transporters-plan-protest-over-tax-insurance-waiver/articleshow/77322536.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Quick response saves one, delayed test claims another||Nagpur: A week after a patient in Kamptee town died before an ambulance could take him to the hospital, quick action by the same doctor from whom the deceased was also undergoing treatment saved a life. Another person who consulted the private practitioner, however, could not survive. Kin of the patient who died were reluctant to get a Covid test done. Both the incidents happened within the gap of one day. The person who has survived reached the hospital on Thursday and the other incident took place on Friday. The death of an over 50-year-old tailoring contractor at Gora Bazaar locality of Kamptee had led left the locals agitating. The two incidents happened after that. Last week, a female patient was brought to Sneha Clinic of Dr Rajendra Dipani in Kamptee. The oxygen level had dipped to critical level. Instead of waiting to get the tests done in Kamptee first, the doctor and the Kamptee Tehsildar Arvind Hinge took a call and sent her straight to the Indira Gandhi Government Medial College (IGGMC). “She tested positive at IGGMC but has survived. The patient was administered oxygen at the government hospital in Kamptee and timely cooperation by the Tehsildar helped,” said Dipani. The patient’s daughter gave her version of events to TOI. “My mother was first taken to another private hospital where they advised a typhoid test. Later, at Sneh Clinic we were asked to get a Covid test done soon. By the time we reached the government hospital in Kamptee, the timings for the day were over and my mother started getting breathless. She was administered oxygen but there was no arrangement in the ambulance,” she said. The daughter, however, complained of lack of facilities at IGGMC and also said that no testing facility was open at that time in Kamptee. It was around 1:30pm when they reached. Another female patient was, however, not so lucky. This patient was given a written note in the prescription. However, the relatives resisted and did not get the tests done. Soon, the condition deteriorated. “We had planned to send her straight to Nagpur. However, for some reason the ambulance could not be arranged at that time. The patient was taken to Nagpur in an autorickshaw. She reached there but could not be saved,” said Dipani. “Patients should realize that early testing helps. These days every person with even slight symptoms is referred for a test. There are chances that the mild symptoms can soon turn into a severe condition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/quick-response-saves-one-delayed-test-claims-another/articleshow/77322535.cms||Shishir Arya
August 3, 2020||Madurai||13 more deaths reconcile Madurai district’s toll||Madurai: At least 13 Covid-19 deaths at Government Rajaji Hospital have been reconciled and added to Madurai district’s tally in the state’s daily medical bulletin in the past few days. Authorities said this was in keeping with the latest ICMR guidelines, according to which even if the cause of death is due to other illnesses, it is considered a Covid-19 death if the patient had tested positive. The deaths, which occurred between June 21 and July 13, were reconciled similar to the 444 deaths added to Chennai’s death toll. Among the 13, the test results of seven had returned positive after their death. The reconciled deaths have raised the total deaths in Madurai to 253 and death rate from 2.1% to 2.2% as on Sunday. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam told TOI that reconciliation of Covid-19 deaths was being done on a weekly basis by the death audit committee under the director of medical services. “Across all districts, from all government and private institutions, all Covid-19 deaths are being reconciled as per latest ICMR guidelines. Deaths are being updated daily as per these guidelines. Any deaths that were missed out previously also continue to be updated in the state medical bulletin,” he said. Head of Treatment Protocol Committee at GRH, Dr K Senthil, asserted that there were no delays in submitting reports from the hospital side and that all Covid-19 deaths were being given immediate certification. “There are cases wherein the Covid-19 test results of the deceased are awaited which we specify as ‘awaited’. In such cases, there may be a delay in communication and reconciliation with reports,” he said. However, Dr Senthil said that the overall death rate in Madurai during the past week has been declining considerably compared to previous weeks. “It is a positive sign. So, we are hoping the trend continues this week too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-more-deaths-reconcile-madurai-districts-toll/articleshow/77322534.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 3, 2020||Business||‘Combat Covid’ tank for safe wash||Kolkata: Patton, one of the leaders in water tanks, is entering into ‘combat Covid’ product ranges. Patton has designed and developed the Contactless Safe Wash Station as a safety initiative. The product is hands-free and foot-operated. “It is easy to operate and maintain, it is suitable for residential, commercial, industrial, medical, and public spaces,” the company has said. Preeyam Budhia (president – business development), Patton Group, pointed out that the 200-litre tank allows for up to 300 hand washes per refill, while the 500-litre tank allows for up to 750 hand washes per refill. According to her, the company already got clients like Indian Army, Indian Navy, INS Netaji Subhas, the West Bengal State Agricultural Marketing Board, Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) for the ranges. Upon being asked about the early stages of product development, Budhia said, “We are already living in a VUCA (Volatile, Uncertain, Complex, Ambiguous) world and COVID-19 has shaken up our very of way existing, locally and globally. It was the need of the hour to be prepared for a post-lockdown new normal. Handwashing is crucial to winning this battle and our focus was on creating a solution that could be easily adopted by multiple sectors and industries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/combat-covid-tank-for-safe-wash/articleshow/77321463.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada youths return home, take up farming||VIJAYAWADA: The Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown to curb its spread has seen many youth take to farming as an alternative livelihood option. Many daily wage earners who moved to Vijayawada have turned to agriculture as a means to support their families. Interestingly, their families have been in farming for years. Around one lakh daily wage earners at wholesale markets in One Town, Gollapudi and Bhavanipuram — the largest marketplaces in the state — are from the villages surrounding the city. Workers from Gudivada, Nuzividu and Jaggiahpet commute to the city every day to work in the marketplaces. With the pandemic, however, matters changed overnight. Most wholesale and retail outlets in the city emptied out and ‘Staff wanted’ boards came up. Workers from the nearby rural areas returned home, preferring to take up cultivation rather than staying on in Vijayawada. Absence of public transport and half wages paid by managements also drove many daily wagers to pick up farming. “I have worked in a garment store in Vasthralatha market for more than ten years. I used to travel to Vijayawada from Thotlavalluru every day for earning Rs 12,000 per month. The lockdown bared the real face of life as my shop remained closed and there was no option left for me except to start cultivation on a small piece of land. I have started cultivating vegetables as there is huge demand in Vijayawada. Cultivation helped me to lead my life comfortably despite the Covid-19 crisis,” said N Venkata Prasad, a farmer from Thotlavalluru. The shift in employment has made an older generation of farmers happy who hope that agriculture may now prove to be more profitable. “I have been a farmer for the last 40 years and cultivate seven acres of land in Agiripalli. Both my sons are graduates and they preferred working in Vijayawada for a lower salary. I requested them to take up farming but they made fun of me. But they lost their jobs with the lockdown and took to farming along with me. We have focused on good crops. I’m happy that the next generation of my family will continue farming,” said Pallem Jamalayya, a farmer from Edhara village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-youths-return-home-take-up-farming/articleshow/77320305.cms||Venu Lanka
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools welcome NEP pre-primary rules, say formalization necessary||KOLKATA: The news that three years of pre-school will now be a part of formal schooling, according to the new National Education Policy guidelines has left both educators and parents happy. After years of uncertainty about how kids going to pre-schools should be hand-held into the portals of education, finally clear guidelines are expected, they said. La Martiniere schools, St James, Modern High, South Point are some city schools that run pre-primary sections and have hailed the change because it is expected to ring in uniformity based on scientific methods. “Children are going to schools very early and the government now recognizes that pre-schools have to be formalized. A realistic practical curriculum is expected, focusing on skill development, to make the transition into the primary department smoother and better structured,” said Aban Confectioner, head of the primary and junior department, Modern High School for Girls. A curriculum was loosely followed in the pre-school sections of formal schools that would dovetail into the primary system. “However, now it would be formalized and we will have a national guideline to fall back upon,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson of South Point School. Most pre-schools now follow informal rules that have been laid down by two bodies — Early Childhood Association and India Montessori Foundation. The ECA had been pushing the Centre for this formalization and has expressed its joy. “It was a matter of concern that pre-schools are largely not governed by any authority, not any more,” said Suman Sood, national core committee member of the association. Keeping with the present trend, most pre-schools have started online classes for kids between two and five-plus. Most have perfected modules keeping in mind that at this age it is difficult to hold their attention for long. At Modern High School, it took three months before the pre-schoolers were hand-held to the screen by parents. Kids are given worksheets, along with a practice schedule of the written work like joining the dots, colouring, pattern writing etc. During online class, kids listen to stories, introduction of the letters through sound/phonics, colour identification, singing, rhyming and craft. Pre-school kids are playing with dough/clay, pre-writing on slates, having a messy time with their salt trays and squishy bags in the online classes of Kangaroo Kids, Kankurgachhi, as they would in the real classroom, said Khushbu Agarwal, owner. Parents at all branches of Little Laureates were trained for three months on online teaching techniques and classes have now started. “It’s a new platform and has to be carefully introduced and cannot happen without parents partnering us.” explained CEO Tamal Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-welcome-nep-pre-primary-rules-say-formalization-necessary/articleshow/77322537.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 3, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 146 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally spiked by 146 new cases to 7,593 on Sunday while the death of three patients took the toll in the state to 86, the health department said. Till Sunday, Uttarakhand had 3,031 active cases and test results of 8,002 samples were awaited. Two deaths were reported at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). The first was a 44-year-old man, who died on Saturday (August 1), and the second was aged 68 years, who died on Sunday. The death summary of the both the victims said that they died of Covid-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome along with comorbid illness type-II diabetes mellitus. The third death was of a 77-year-old Covid-19-positive woman who died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani on July 31. She suffered co-morbidities, officials said. On Sunday, the maximum of 51 cases surfaced from state capital Dehradun, followed by 33 cases from Nainital, 28 from Haridwar, 12 from Uttarkashi, 10 from Udham Singh Nagar, 5 from Chamoli, and two cases each at Tehri, Rudraprayag, and Pauri Garhwal districts. Among the five patients who tested positive for the virus in Chamoli, were three Army personnel and a doctor working at the Srinagar Base Hospital. “Rapid antigen tests revealed that three hospital staff members were Covid-19 positive. We have isolated them and are urging everyone who came in contact with them to get themselves tested,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Bahukhandi, who works at the Srinagar Base Hospital. So far, Dehradun has reported the maximum of 1,737 cases in the state, followed by Haridwar (1,486), Udham Singh Nagar (1,292), Nainital (1,232) and Tehri (521). Meanwhile, the maximum of active cases at present are in Haridwar (901), followed by Udham Singh Nagar (818), Nainital (541), and Dehradun (399). On Sunday, 107 people were cured of the virus, taking the tally of recovered people in the state to 4,437.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-146-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/77320333.cms||Shivani Azad
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Burrabazar remembers boy next door Amar bhaiya||KOLKATA: His family owned a thriving lock business in Burrabazar, yet he decided to carve a niche in unlocking the world of politics. He often got scolded by his parents for watching too many movies, but little did they know that their son would go on to count some of the biggest film stars as his friends including Jaya Prada, Sanjay Dutt and Amitabh Bachchan, who often addressed him as “chhote bhai”. The news of Amar Singh’s demise in Singapore on Saturday turned the mood in 202 Chittaranjan Avenue, a Burrabazar borough, sombre. It was here that he had spent his childhood and a few years of his adult life before his meteoric rise to national politics where he earned monikers like “trouble shooter”. Singh had spent his childhood in a 500sqft apartment on the third floor of 202 CR Avenue in Jorasanko where he lived with his father Harishchandra, mother Shail Kumari and brother Arvind. He studied in Khatri Vidyalaya in Mechhua and cut his teeth in politics as a student leader. “We are saddened by Amar bhaiya’s death. He had spent his formative years in Kolkata and the foundation of his successful political carrier was laid in Burrabazar,” said Vijay Upadhyay, a school friend of Amar Singh who is now a TMC leader. Family and friends said he owed his meteoric rise from Kolkata’s ward politics to the highest echelon of power in the country to a former Congress leader, who is now a senior minister in TMC government. “In the 1970s and 1980s Congress was at its peak in central politics but leaders from West Bengal did not know very good Hindi. A senior Congress leader who is now a minister in the TMC government inducted Amar bhaiya into his inner circle because he knew both Hindi and Bengali and helped the leader interact with seniors. Amar bhaiya used this opportunity to build bridges with several senior Congress leaders and industrialists, a relationship that lasted till he breathed his last,” said Upadhayay. Cousin Vinod Singh, who still owns Vinod Stores on the ground floor of 202 CR Avenue, said Amar would win any debate he participated in. Family members also recalled his fondness for Kolkata puri sabzi and phuchkas. “He would relish them whenever he visited Kolkata even till a few years ago. He was also a big movie buff,” said a cousin. The buzz in Burrabazar is that he was often scolded by his father for ignoring the family business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-remembers-boy-next-door-amar-bhaiya/articleshow/77322546.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 3, 2020||Nashik||Yeola pattern to be followed across rural district||Nashik: The health department of Nashik zilla parishad has decided to implement the pattern used in Yeola taluka to bring down the Covid-19 case numbers in other areas of rural district. Cases of coronavirus are increasing in rural parts of the district with more then 960 active cases being reported till August 1. Hence, the health department is trying everything to curb the spread of the infection in the rural areas. Kapil Aher, district health officer of Nashik ZP, said, “At one point in time the maximum number of cases were being detected in Yeola following which we had taken up an intensive drive to check the health of comorbid patients and also take up Covid testing on a large scale.” He added, “At the same time, we also started distributing immunity booster medicine to the residents of Yeola, following which the cases started to stabilise. Now, the rate of new cases have started falling down. We are planning to follow the same approach in other parts of the rural district.” Meanwhile, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday instructed the district administration to ensure there was sufficient availability of beds for Covid patients and at the same time oxygen centres should be set up in every taluka. Bhujbal was speaking during a review meeting held in Dindori and it was attended by top officials.“There is a need to set up disaster management committees at taluka level. Members should be sensitized about the steps that need to be taken against Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yeola-pattern-to-be-followed-across-rural-district/articleshow/77320318.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 3, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Medical College enters 67th year||MADURAI: The Madurai Medical College, on Sunday, entered its 67th year since it was inaugurated on August 2, 1954, by the then Union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur in the presence of then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Kamaraj. From 50 students in its first MBBS batch and a bed capacity of 500, now the college has 250 students in its batch every year and 3,100 beds. In a press release, Madurai Medical College dean Dr J Sangumani, said that the college has been functioning as one of the best tertiary care centres in the state for 66 years. “Even at this time of Covid-19 pandemic, the college has been doing only its best for care of patients. From a mere 8-bedded isolation ward in January, now 1,461 beds have been made available for Covid-19 patients. Further, the virology lab at the college has so far tested 1,44,000 swab samples for Covid-19 since March 25,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-medical-college-enters-67th-year/articleshow/77322545.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP cabinet min Kamal Rani loses Covid battle||Lucknow: UP's technical education minister and two-time MP Kamal Rani Varun died on Sunday morning after battling with Covid-19 for 15 days at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Kamal Rani is the first minister and third politician in Uttar Pradesh to have died of novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, UP BJP chief Swatanta Dev Singh also tested positive for the virus. He gave this information in a tweet in which he said that he had quarantined himself at his Lucknow home. “The minister died of multiorgan dysfunction at 9.30am. She had been on severe oxygen requirement since the time of admission two weeks ago and was also administered convalescent plasma therapy,” an SGPGIMS statement said. The 62-year-old minister, an MLA from Kanpur’s Ghatampur assembly constituency, had tested positive on July 18. A Dalit leader and postgraduate in social work, she had been a member of Parliament in the 11th and 12th Lok Sabha in 1996 and 1998. Earlier, former deputy mayor of Lucknow Abhay Seth and former minister Ghura Ram died of Covid-19. Overall, six ministers have tested positive so far. "The minister was admitted to SGPGI with fever, cough and breathlessness after testing positive for Covid-19. She also had comorbidities - diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism. She had bilateral pneumonia with high oxygen need at the time of admission and was shifted to ICU on that day itself," said SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman. Tributes poured in from various quarters after the minister's demise. President Ram Nath Kovind said Kamal Rani was respected for serving people at the grassroots. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Kamal Rani played a key role in strengthening BJP in UP. "Saddened by the death of UP minister Kamala Rani Varunji. Her life was devoted to social service and she played a vital role in strengthening BJP in the state. My condolences are with her family and supporters in this hour of grief. Om Shanti!" PM Modi tweeted in Hindi. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet ministers called it an "irreparable loss" for the public and government. The CM also called her a dedicated people's leader. Governor Anandiben Patel and former CM Mayawati also offered condolences to the family. BSP chief Mayawati said with her death, the state and central governments should take UP's rising number of Covid-19 cases seriously. SGPGI's statement on the politician's health said that she had all features of the disease's severity. "She had bilateral pneumonia at admission and was shifted to ICU on the day of admission itself because of high oxygen requirements. Later, she required non-invasive ventilation (NIV) with high oxygen requirements. She was given injection Remdesevir (anti-viral) followed by immunosuppressive drug Tocilizumab due to which she had some improvement in her clinical status for a few days, However, her condition started deteriorating with increasing NIV and oxygen requirements. She was immediately transfused with convalescent plasma and steroid doses were hiked," it said. The institute also took expert advice from renowned pulmonologists -- AIIMS Delhi director Prof Randeep Guleria and PGIMER Chandigarh's Prof Ritesh Agarwal. "However, she had progressive severe disease and was unresponsive to maximal medical therapy. She was put on mechanical ventilator on August 1, but her condition continued to deteriorate with hypotension and multiorgan dysfunction. She succumbed to illness on Sunday," the institute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cabinet-min-kamal-rani-loses-covid-battle/articleshow/77323240.cms||Yusra Husain
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||CISF’s airport team avoid corona with unique measures||Nagpur: The 350-odd personnel of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deployed at Nagpur airport have managed to remain unscathed amid the Covid outbreak even as some personnel of other agencies working here, like the police department, could not keep themselves from getting infected. It’s learnt, successful adoption and execution of measures like ‘one-minute-drill’ and ‘touch-free’ techniques helped CISF to remain Covid-free though some of those who arrived by flights in city later tested positive. An officer of the city police, along with another colleague, who were entrusted with duty of checking flight passenger, too had tested positive. According to a source in CISF, the agency ensured its personnel perfected the ‘one-minute-drill’ in which they would wear PPE kits and follow other precautionary measures within the shortest possible time whenever any suspected or high risk person, with or without symptoms, was required to be monitored and personally attended. “We modified structures of gadgets like hand-held metal detectors which can help us in frisking passengers from a distance. The entire checking process has been made touch-free without compromising with the security,” said the source. As per a reliable source, CISF personnel have been maintaining distance during checking and frisking, without allowing any lapses, under the supervision of the chief airport security officer. The CISF personnel, equipped with face-shields and hand gloves, got luggage sanitized through ultra-violet ray machines before handling them over to passengers with special techniques, thus considerably reducing the risk of contracting the infection. In addition, CISF has introduced compulsory yoga sessions for its staff in the morning and also provided immunity booster medicines. It’s also learnt that senior CISF officials have been personally guiding the personnel on how to avoid the infection and remain mentally strong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cisfs-airport-team-avoid-corona-with-unique-measures/articleshow/77322542.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Capital status brightens realtors’ fortunes in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Enquiries for plots and flats in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh have spiked following the announcement of Visakhapatnam as the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh. Sources in the real estate sector said that government employees and non-resident Indians (NRIs) have started to enquire about plots soon after the three capital bills received the governor’s assent. Fortune Properties managing partner Fahim Mudassar said, “We are now getting calls from the government and NRIs about the plots and flats. Those working in corporate jobs and private sectors have not connected with us yet.” An executive member at the Confederation of Real Estate Developer’s Associations of India (CREDAI), Visakhapatnam, said people working in the private sector are not looking to invest in the real estate sector at present due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Uncertainty among many private employees over layoffs and cost cutting measures by the respective companies are some of the reasons behind the poor response from those working in the private sector,” the CREDAI member told TOI. Another real estate marketer K Srinivasa Rao said earlier people would avail loans to invest in the real estate sector but in view of the pandemic, buyers are hesitant to come forward. Up until February 2019, the real estate sector witnessed a boom, with prices rising between 15 to 30 per cent. With the imposition of the nationwide lockdown from late-March, the fortunes of the sector plummeted and it is only now that signs of recovery are appearing in the city, after the governor approved the bill to establish three capitals for the state. “Demonetisation, sand crisis and now Covid-19. These factors made the real estate market suffer in the last few years. Now, our last hope is the executive capital, which has received the governor’s assent. We hope that this development will help the sector recover,” said Bonthu Narayana, a realtor. Meanwhile, realtors expect a boom in demand for flats on the outskirts of the city and plots between Vizag city and Vizianagaram town. In Vizag city, the average price per square foot ranges between Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000 in Madhurawada and Rushikonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/capital-status-brightens-realtors-fortunes-in-vizag/articleshow/77320335.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 3, 2020||Madurai||Case booked over cattle deaths||MADURAI: The police have booked a case following the sudden death of two cows and a calf in a village near Checkanurani village on Saturday. The cattle owner suspects foul play by neighbours. The animals belonged to S Chinnasamy, 57, from Veerampatti. After grazing, he brought them to the shed and fed them with water on Saturday evening. All the three animals fell down and became unconscious and died soon after. Based on a complaint from Chinnasamy, a case was registered with the Checkanurani police station on the same night, under the IPC section 429 (mischief by killing cattle). According to police, Chinnasamy suspected his neighbour K Mayakkal and her daughter R Thonthiammal of mixing poison in the water. The two families often quarrelled for the last few months as Mayakkal did not like Chinnasamy dumping cow dung near her land. A postmortem was conducted by a veterinary doctors and results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-booked-over-cattle-deaths/articleshow/77322539.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Pharma co’s expenses towards freebies for docs can be claimed as deductions: ITAT||MUMBAI: Tax issues surrounding the ‘nexus’, between pharma companies and doctors, where the latter are sponsored for conferences, at times replete with sightseeing and gala dinners, or expensive gifts, refuse to die down. Judicial precedents, in several cases, have been in favour of pharma companies with the costs relating to such freebies being allowed as business deductions. The Mumbai bench of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) recently passed an order in favour of Medley Pharmaceuticals, an Andheri based company. The crux of the tax issue dealt with re-opening of the assessment for the FY 2011-12, owing to a change of opinion by the succeeding I-T officer. Based on technicalities such as no fresh ground material available on record, the re-opening was quashed by the ITAT. However, the ITAT also went on to analyse the allowability of sales promotion expenses aggregating to Rs 6.2 crore for the pharma company. A break-up showed that Rs 2.4 crore was towards product reminders; conference expenses and travel costs ran into Rs 2.7 crore and additional doctors’ expenses were of Rs 1.1 crore. The ITAT made some pertinent observations regarding the code of conduct issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) and a circular issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). It said that the MCI code of conduct, which debars freebies, is meant to be followed by the medical fraternity alone and does not apply to pharma companies. Amended on December 10, 2009, the code prohibits medical practitioners and their professional associations from taking any gift, travel facility, hospitality, cash or monetary grant from the pharmaceutical and allied health sector industries. The CBDT circular dated August 1, 2012 says that any expense in providing freebies in violation of the Medical Council’s code shall not be allowed as a business deduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-cos-expenses-towards-freebies-for-docs-can-be-claimed-as-deductions-itat/articleshow/77323527.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nashik||Squads to check industry compliance of safety norms||Nashik: With a large number of Covid-19 cases emerging from industries in and around Nashik, the district administration has decided to form five inspection squads with three members each who will carry out a survey on the measures being taken by the companies to prevent the spread of the infection.The move comes after more than 130 employees of a single company in the rural areas of the district recently tested positive for Covid-19. Each squad has been given a seven-point agenda which it has to refer to while checking for the compliance of the industries to the safety protocols mentioned in the Covid-19 health advisory. The important issues that squads would be looking for are whether social distancing is being observed between two employees, what preventive measures are being taken during change of shifts, sanitization facilities provided for the employees, frequency of sanitizing the entire facility, if the vehicles entering the company premises are sanitized, thermal scanning and oxygen level scanning of employees, measures for frequent hand wash, are the visitors to the company coming from the containment zones,etc. The industrial associations have welcomed the move by the administration and have pledged their cooperation. The industrial associations have already forwarded a letter to its members drawing their attention towards the issues that will be checked by the squads during their visits.“We understand that the negligence of a company could lead to problems for neighbouring industries. We have asked all the companies to stick to the preventive measures and comply to the norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19,”said Shashikant Jadhav, president of Nashik Industries and Manufacturers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/squads-to-check-industry-compliance-of-safety-norms/articleshow/77320342.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Inflated bills: MERC issues notice to discom||Nagpur: The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has issued notice to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) asking it to file reply within eight days on a petition filed by BJP leaders Kirit Somaiya and Niranjan Davkhare pertaining to inflated power bills issued during the lockdown period. The petitioners have urged the commission to direct MSEDCL that all the bills of consumers wherein there has been an increase in consumption of units exceeding 25% for the months prior to the lockdown should be re-checked. State government must review the levy of electricity duty on the bills for the lockdown period, they said. In the event any excessive electricity dues are found to have been paid and/or recovered, the same be immediately refunded to the consumers along with interest thereon, said the petitioners. MSEDCL should offer six-month moratorium on payment of all electricity bills for the period of the lockdown, further demanded the petitioners. The BJP leaders have also prayed that all consumers whose average consumption for the past six months did not exceed 100 units should get a complete waiver of bills for the period of lockdown. All consumers whose average consumption for the past six months was between 101 and 300 units (not exceeding 300 units) should get 50% waiver, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inflated-bills-merc-issues-notice-to-discom/articleshow/77322558.cms||Ashish Roy
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No freezers, staff at VIMS mortuary||Visakhapatnam: Even though a building has been allocated to house the mortuary at state Covid-19 hospital Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the mortuary remains non-functional due to lack of adequate freezers and manpower. A majority of critically ill and comorbid Covid-19 patients from the four north-coastal Andhra districts are housed at VIMS. Around 70% of Covid-19 deaths in the district have taken place here and relatives of the deceaseds travel down from other districts to claim the bodies. Authorities at VIMS, however, said the mortuary will start functioning from August 4. Sources said, “Even though four to five deaths are almost daily reported at VIMS as critical Covid-19 patients from Vizag, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari are being treated here, preserving or keeping dead bodies till the relatives arrive from various districts and remote areas has become a big problem. There are no freezers and manpower to transfer the body to the mortuary building.” Special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr P V Sudhakar said, “We need at least six freezers each for KGH and VIMS. There are also two tables at VIMS mortuary for postmortem but autopsies are not taking place and mortuary staff is not available. We have asked the VIMS director to purchase new freezers and make the mortuary operational for storing bodies.” When contacted, VIMS director Dr K Satyavaraprasad said, “So far, a mortuary was not needed for VIMS. Establishing a mortuary is a big procedure. It is not possible to run the mortuary within a short time. Five freezers are working. The mortuary will function from Tuesday.” Meanwhile, a 51-year-old Covid-19 patient J Venkateshwar Rao allegedly escaped from VIMS late on Saturday night and is yet to be traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-freezers-staff-at-vims-mortuary/articleshow/77320351.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Clothing store fined Rs 50,000 for selling torn sherwani to man||HYDERABAD: A district consumer court has directed a designer clothing store in the city to refund Rs 83,000 and pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a consumer for selling him a damaged sherwani. Kishore Rai, the complainant, said in his plea that he had purchased a sherwani and accessories worth Rs 83,000 on November 19, 2019, from Origins, Banjara Hills, for his son-in-law to be worn on the wedding day (December 1, 2019). While getting ready, the bridegroom found that the sherwani was torn near the shoulder. Immediately, the bridegroom’s brother and relatives rushed to another shop and bought a new sherwani for Rs 51,020. Alleging that the family was subjected to extreme embarrassment, humiliation and anxiety because of the negligence and carelessness of the clothing store, the complainant issued a legal notice but received no response. He,therefore, filed a complaint seeking appropriate relief. The respondent, meanwhile, has not contested the allegations despite being served a notice. The bench said that the last-minute purchase of yet another sherwani by the bridegroom could have not only caused additional expenditure but also a disastrous experience on the wedding day which is priceless for the married couple and their families. “Be it the substandard quality of the stitched goods, or tearing of sherwani due to poor tailoring, it goes to show the negligent and careless attitude of the opposite parties causing such disastrous experience to a bride, groom, and the marriage parties on the wedding day,” said the bench. It added that the opposite party is not only liable to refund the amount of the wedding sherwani but also liable to compensate for the loss of reputation, humiliation, and embarrassment suffered by the complainant and his family on the auspicious occasion of his daughter’s wedding. Apart from refund and compensation, Rs 5,000 was awarded towards litigation expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clothing-store-fined-rs-50k-for-selling-torn-sherwani-to-man/articleshow/77322559.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 3, 2020||Trichy||Karur school sends ‘Thirukkural rakhis’ to soldiers along borders||TRICHY: Volunteers from Bharani Park institutions in Karur district sent 13,000 rakhis as a token of love and respect to soldiers guarding the frontiers. Unlike last three years, when students took active part in making rakhis, this year about 90 teachers volunteered to make rachis as students could not be involved because of Covid-19 lockdown. This year was special as they have made ‘Thirukkural Rakhis’ with selected Thirukkural couplets printed on the rakhis along with soldiers’ pictures, said senior principal C Ramasubramanian. This was inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Thirukkural reference in his recent speech to the soldiers in Ladakh, he said. Rakhis were sent to the former member of Rajya Sabha Tarun Vijay, who handed them over to the defence minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on Saturday, which will be dispatched to soldiers on the borders. Even though Raksha Bandhan is not celebrated in Tamil Nadu, Vijay appreciated the gesture by the institutions. “It is believed that Rakhi tied by a sister will protect brother from all harms. Believing that faith, we take this as an opportunity to express our love and support to the selfless soldiers of our country,” said S Sudhadevi, a teacher volunteer. Eco-friendly ‘seed rakhis’ are also a new addition this year, said K Sekar, a teacher volunteer, adding that the seeds in the rakhi will serve a purpose by adding to the green cover when sowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-school-sends-thirukkural-rakhis-to-soldiers-along-borders/articleshow/77323005.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 3, 2020||Shimla||Of 69 new patients in HP, 6 defence personnel||Shimla: Sixty-nine more people, including six defence personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. Solan district topped the list with 27 cases. The others include, 11 from Mandi, 10 from Shimla, eight from Kangra, six from Hamirpur, four from Chamba, two from Bilaspur, and one from Sirmaur. Fifty-seven patients were also discharged after recovery: 23 from Sirmaur, 17 from Solan, seven each from Una and Kangra, two from Shimla, and one from Bilaspur. With the latest figures, the number of cases reported so far in the state stands at 2,703, out of which 1,115 are active, while a total of 1,559 patients have recovered, 12 died and 15 migrated out of Himachal. In Kangra district, four Army men and a Navy personnel, all of whom had returned from various places outside the state, tested positive. AJharkhand native staying at Patti village and a Malahu villager, who had arrived from Chandigarh, have also been confirmed as positive cases. In Mandi district, a 27-year-old defence personnel, a girl, 15, from Samkhetar, and two persons, aged 28 and 35, from Jarol in Janjheli were tested positive for the virus. At present, Solan district has seen maximum 690 positive cases in the state, of which 396 are active cases, 288 recovered and six migrated out of the state. Kangra district recorded second-highest 476 cases, of which 139 are active, 341 recovered, three patients died and two migrated. Hamirpur district has registered 313 Covid-19 cases, of which 31 are active, 279 recovered and three persons died. Sirmaur’s total of positive cases is 346, of which 167 are active, 171 recovered, one died, while seven migrated. In Una, 217 cases surfaced, of which 60 are active, while 157 persons recovered. Mandi recorded 183 cases, of which 134 are active, 46 recovered, while three died. Shimla district saw 178 positive cases, of which 93 are active, 82 recovered and two patients died. Chamba district recorded 113 cases, of which 38 are active, while 74 have recovered. Bilaspur district saw 101 cases, of which 36 are active and 65 have recovered. Kinnaur district registered 45 cases, of which 11 are active, while 34 recovered. Total 37 caseWs surfaced in Kullu district, of which 19 are active, while 18 have recovered. In Lahaul-Spiti district, four cases surfaced and all of them have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/of-69-new-patients-in-hp-6-defence-personnel/articleshow/77322583.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nashik||79 prison inmates test +ve for Covid in Ahmednagar||NASHIK: As many as 79 prisoners in five sub-jails in Ahmednagar district have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days. While 22 inmates are from a sub-jail in Nevasa taluka, 22 more are from Sangamner sub-jail, 19 from Srirampur sub-jail, 13 from Parner sub-jail and two from Rahuri sub-jail. According to authorities of the sub jails, initially, one inmate from each of the prisons underwent Covid-19 tests as they were to be transferred to other sub-jails. It is then that the inmates tested positive for the contagion. “Once they tested postive, authorities of all the five sub-jails conducted rapid antigen tests for all the inmates. A total of 79 jail inmates have tested positive,” said officials. On the instructions of Ahmendnagar district collector Rahul Dwivedi, the administration quickly set up a temporary jail-cum- Covid care centre at Shetkari Bhavan in Rahuri where the inmates who have tested positive are undergoing treatment. This Covid care centre has 307 beds. “All of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. They are being looked after by the district health team and their condition is stable,” said officials. According to authorities of the five sub-jails, after the inmates tested positive, adequate measures have been put in place to ensure that other inmates do not get infected.“It is difficult to observe social distancing in the sub-jails due to lack of space. We are keeping checking the health condition of the inmates,” said a sub-jail official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/79-prison-inmates-test-ve-for-covid-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/77320357.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Congress kept Farooq’s dad in jail for 11 years: BJP||NEW DELHI: Reacting to Rahul Gandhi’s demand for release of former Jammu & Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufi, BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav on Sunday reminded the Congress leader of how Sheikh Abdullah was kept in jail for 11 years by the Congress government. “Sheikh Abdullah was kept in jail for 11 years. Just some history trivia I want Rahul Gandhi to apprise himself of,” Yadav tweeted. People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mufti has been in detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) since J&K’s special status under Article 370 was revoked in August last year and the state was bifurcated into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. Two former chief minsters, Omar and Farooq Abdullah were released recently. In 1953, Sheikh Abdullah, who was considered to be a good friend of the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru, was jailed in connection with the infamous 'Kashmir conspiracy case'. It was alleged that the top Kashmiri leadership under the guidance of Abdullah was trying to promote secession. Abdullah was released in 1964 in what was seen to be a peace deal between the two parties for an agreement on Kashmir. The same year, he visited Pakistan and 11 years later, Abdullah and the then PM Indira Gandhi signed an accord paving the way for him to return to power in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-kept-farooqs-dad-in-jail-for-11-years-bjp/articleshow/77323534.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Drive in govt depts, during events to boost plasma collection||Nagpur: In a bid to prod recovered Covid 19 patients, the Platina therapy project team comprising the 21 medical colleges of state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has approached social and religious organizations beside government departments, where large number of employees were affected, to donate their plasma for off label emergency use and trial purpose. Said to be the world’s largest trail-cum-treatment, the project aims to simultaneously prevent 5,000 fatalities from Covid-19 through off label use and conduct randomized control study on 472 patients using the convascent plasma of recovered persons who were moderate or severe patients. The push has come at a time when it is peak time of the pandemic in Maharashtra where total cases reached 4,31,716 by Sunday evening. Platina project state coordinator Dr Mohammed Faisal told TOI that he has sent request letters to all Ganesh mandals in the state while NGOs, social organizations like Jamaat-e-Islami, and police departments would be approached too. Total 9,566 cops including 988 officers were infected by Covid. Of this, 7,534 have recovered while 1,900 are under treatment. 40 to 50 cops from different places have already donated plasma. The plan is to counsel the recovered patients. Once the patient is convinced, a technician will collect blood sample, and if found fit, the plasma will be collected at designated centres. The project team is assuming that there would be around 5,000 Ganesh mandals and 10 donations from each of them can be achieved on one bag per day basis. The team would be setting up LCD screens to play videos, putting up posters beside making phone calls to prospective donors. The outreach program would continue till December as plasma is being seen as a major component in clinical management of Covid patients. Even after over a month of launching trial-cum-treatment project, the state medical colleges are unable to meet its target of a modest 500 plasma bags. As on Sunday, the project received a total of only 418 bags. Officials and the medical colleges were hoping to get a sizeable donors during the Eid-UL-Azha seeking help of religious heads. But the drive didn’t yield satisfactory result as many recovered Covid patients had some or other disease which made them unfit for donation though they were willing to oblige the request of doctors. From August 4, the state will again give a push to the plasma collection drive and approach each Ganesh manual to send at least one eligible donor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drive-in-govt-depts-during-events-to-boost-plasma-collection/articleshow/77322585.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Security agencies bet big on health safety business to stay afloat||KOLKATA: In a bid to survive in the new-normal, Bengal’s private security industry, which employs close to 7 lakh people in Kolkata, are betting big on health safety to off-set employment losses and keep afloat. The agencies have already started to set up separate sanitization units, provide health safety solutions to clients and even step into bio-medical waste disposal. According to industry sources, the migration to health safety solutions has seen a substantial spike. For example, government establishments — including some who rely only on government security — has been increasing seeking out private firms for sanitization measures. Added to that are factories, even municipalities. “It is not only about private companies running big workplaces,” said an industry insider. “Even private companies, which are insisting on lower security manpower due to reduced office operations, are very eager to put in place the health protocols,” the insider added. A case in point are some Sector V biggies, who have asked their security providers for a 30% slash in physical security, are eager to scale up health safety protocols. Several private banks — among the biggest employers for private security personnel — are also keen to adopt this new normal, sources indicated. Debajit Choudhury, CMD, NIS Management Limited, said: “The nature of the trade is changing. While physical security has taken a hit, we have been witnessing new opportunities in sanitization, thermal scanning even bio-medical waste disposal. Security companies, which were already offering facility management services, are quickly upscaling. Others, too, are following suit.” Choudhury said, “Control access will remain a key physical security measure, but companies have to invest big on technology, including Artificial Intelligence (AI), to reduce proximate security, including frisking and checks.” “Safety is now integral to security. Clients are approaching us for sanitizing and maintaining health protocols. Security Organization are also planning to diversify into sanitization, as that is the need of the hour,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary general, Central Association of Private Security Industry (CAPSI), West Bengal. Ahluwalia, who is also the CMD of Kolkata Response Group added, “We have developed a specialist team, who have been trained in providing safety and sanitization solutions and are using high-tech equipment, including thermal scanners” Shyamal Karmakar, S&IB managing-director, said: “Companies that provide facility management are adapting to these new work roles. Normal security and housekeeping solutions must be integrated in the longer run. We have been setting up sanitizing units and training people on the new health protocols.” CAPSI has already written to the Centre urging them to lessen the the 18% GST component for private security providers to help them offer cheaper health safety and security solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/security-agencies-bet-big-on-health-safety-biz-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/77322592.cms||Saibal Sen
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||2 Covid inmates flee city juvenile home||Lucknow: Two inmates who tested positive for coronavirus at the juvenile home in Para fled on Sunday night. According to police, they were brought at the juvenile home after they were charged with different crimes, including theft. “They were put at the observation hall as per the provision in the law to punish a juvenile offender,” Additional deputy commissioner of police, South, SC Rawat said. He said the incident was reported at around 8.30pm and it is suspected that the boys fled around 8pm. Rawat said both the inmates aged 17. “One of them belonged to Unnao, while another hailed from Chinhat area in Lucknow,” the officer said. The police suspect that they climbed one over the other and one of them reached the exhaust fan. Then they climbed with the help of a ‘rope’. District probation officer Sudhakar Pandey told TOI that there were 152 inmates when the counting was done on Sunday. “We have informed the police and administration accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-covid-inmates-flee-city-juvenile-home/articleshow/77323018.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bareilly||Two friends spar over ‘booze’, stab each other||BAREILLY: Two close friends stabbed each other with knives under influence of alcohol in the ensuing quarrel over alleged liquor in full a public view in Kheri town on Sunday evening. Kheri police station SHO Fateh Singh admitted both to a hospital, where their condition is stated to be critical. “Nirbhay, 26, and his friend Yuvraj, 25, were consuming liquor when a quarrel ensued possibly over liquor and they attacked each other with knives in an inebriated condition. Both sustained multiple stab injuries and their condition is critical due to excessive bleeding. We will record their statements once they are stable,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-friends-spar-over-booze-stab-each-other/articleshow/77320390.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Couple in quarantine kills selves in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: A couple who recovered from Covid-19 and were under home isolation allegedly committed suicide at their residence at Dharmavaram in Anantapur district on Sunday. According to Dharmavaram DSP Ramakanth, the deceased were identified as 42-year-old Phani Raj and his 40-year-old wife Sireesha. Police said the couple had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 25, but had recovered and were discharged a couple of days ago. While in home isolation, they committed suicide by jumping off the third floor of their residential building in the early hours of Sunday. By the time help or police could arrive, both Phani Raj and Sireesha were dead. Preliminary investigations revealed that the couple were facing some financial distress that may have forced them to take the extreme step. Dharmavaram police who shifted the bodies of the deceased for postmortem, have registered a case and are investigating the reasons behind the couple’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/couple-in-quarantine-kills-selves/articleshow/77320385.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 3, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to pool in goods from industries for viable transport||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to pool in goods from various industries making transportation from one place to another viable and efficient for them. The MSRTC has started parcel and transport service recently and is now meeting the industrialists in an attempt to generate market for its new business. Division controller Nitin Maind and the senior officials of the MSRTC recently met the industrialists in Nashik seeking their co-operation in getting state transport service an opportunity to transport their goods securely from one place to another. Adding new dimension to the service, the MSRTC Central Office has decided to pool in the load from various industries on its way from point of origin to the point of destination thus making it viable for all the industries — big or small — to use the MSRTC services. “The MSRTC is conducting an online survey of the industries for which it is circulating the forms among the prospect clients seeking the details of the goods to be transported or parcel with respect to the weight of the consignment, etc.,” a senior MSRTC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-pool-in-goods-from-industries-for-viable-transport/articleshow/77320386.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu governor tests positive for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit, 80, has tested positive for Covid-19 infection. According to an official bulletin issued by Kauvery Hospital, the governor was asymptomatic and clinically stable. “Since his infection was mild, he has been advised home isolation, and a hospital's medical team will monitor him,” the bulletin said. The governor returned to Raj Bhavan on Sunday evening. Governor being treated at pvt hosp in AlwarpetAccording to government sources, Purohit had tested positive along with his aide late on Saturday after 46 staff members of the Raj Bhavan were tested during the day. “The governor’s test results came late on Saturday night,” said a source. As per sources, the state government had suggested to the governor that he may get treated at the Covid-19 facility on the premises of King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Guindy, located close to the Raj Bhavan. However, Purohit’s convoy left for the private hospital in Alwarpet on Sunday morning. On July 29, a Raj Bhavan press release had said the governor went into self-isolation after three more staff tested positive for Covid-19. “Yesterday (Tuesday), the Raj Bhavan medical officer carried out regular health checkup of the governor and found him fit and healthy,” it had said. Purohit chose to be in seven-day selfisolation as advised. A week ago, 84 people including security personnel and fire service staff who were all employed in work related to the main gate, had tested positive at the Raj Bhavan. As a precautionary measure, the entire area of the bhavan, including offices, was fumigated by authorities. Raj Bhavan tours had already been cancelled till August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-governor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77323535.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Nagpur||Inter-state racket busted, banned tobacco worth Rs3L seized||Nagpur: Three persons, including one from Sausar in Madhya Pradesh, were arrested by Kelvad police last week while they were on way to city to deliver banned flavoured tobacco and pan masala worth over Rs3 lakh. The gang was intercepted at Sawali phata following a tip-off. The trio was denied bail and sent to judicial custody. The arrested accused have been identified as Pravin Jhanjhal, Devendra Choubey and Rajesh Turkar. Choubey, from Sausar, was reportedly instrumental in sourcing the banned products from Pandhurna in Madhya Pradesh and delivering it to Turkar. Jhanjhal was driving the vehicle, which has been seized. Turkar was supposed to take the consignment to Dighori. This was the first major action after police got special powers around a fortnight ago to crackdown on racketeers dealing in spurious substances banned in the state. Sources in the police department said the racketeers mislead police by claiming to be heading towards Amravati or Hyderabad, but never reveal the name of the actual receiver. In city, several racketeers based in Jaripatka and Gandhibagh have been stocking the illegal tobacco and pan masala. According to a police source, large quantity of banned flavoured tobacco is being sourced in city to be used as base material for narcotics like MD powder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inter-state-racket-busted-banned-tobacco-worth-rs3l-seized/articleshow/77322606.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 3, 2020||Shimla||Vocal for local: Himachal Pradesh's Kullu says no to Chinese rakhis||MANALI: Rejecting Chinese rakhis this year, thousands of sisters in Kullu district have decided to go for the rakhis made by various NGOs, women groups and specially-abled and orphans children. Since special rakhi markets have not been set up this year to maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic, this gave an opportunity to many to make rakhis at home. Several NGOs, women self-help groups (SHGs) and a large number of children have designed their own rakhis over the past few days and those have found favour with the local populace. While some are selling their rachis in markets, others are providing home delivery facility. Sudarshana Thakur of Radha NGO said the children at her organisation asked her if they could make and sell rakhis, as the country is boycotting Chinese products. “They made a large number of rakhis, which are selling like hot cakes. We sold them not just in Kullu-Manali, but orders were received from other districts as well. Usually, we make and sell pickles and hand-woven products,” she said. Rakhis made by nearly 35 specially-abled children in Nav Chetna NGO have also become very popular in Sarwari region of Kullu. NGO’s president Prabhu said, “We give vocational training on different things to our children. This time they learned rakhi making. Our rakhis got a good response from people.” Even Himachal’s largest weavers’ society Bhuttico is selling desi rakhis through its showrooms spread across the state. The rakhis made of pure wool and other local products are also in good demand. Bhutti Weavers Cooperative Society (Bhuttico) managing director Ramesh Thakur said, “Coronavirus has affected the livelihood of weavers as well. So, they decided to make rakhis. Our weavers have made a large number of rakhis of different designs, which are available in all our showrooms for Rs 10 to 50.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/vocal-for-local-kullu-says-no-to-chinese-rakhis/articleshow/77322608.cms||Suresh Sharma
August 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Amar Singh a flamboyant politician who added glitz to dry politics||LUCKNOW: “One can love me or hate me, but certainly can’t ignore me,” Amar Singh had said while talking to TOI at his Lucknow residence several years ago. That was perhaps the best assessment that people approved of regarding Amar Singh and his role in UP politics. Born in Aligarh and having his roots in Azamgarh, Singh started his political journey as a member of the students’ wing of the Congress party. After his education in Calcutta, he stationed himself in Delhi and came close to Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav. Barely four years after the SP was founded, Singh was nominated to Rajya Sabha. It was actually not his friends across party lines but his contacts in showbiz and corporate world that made Amar Singh different from a typical politician that UP had seen till then. It was Singh’s association with superstar Amitabh Bachchan that saw the actor pitching in for the Samajwadi Party during the elections with his campaign “UP mein hai dum…” Despite his known ‘difference of opinion’ with SP’s Muslim face Azam Khan, Singh went on to be appointed as party’s general secretary. After being sacked from SP in 2010, Amar Singh joined Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal in March 2014. Having lost elections from Fatehpur Sikri, Singh once again reached out to Mulayam to mend fences. In 2016, he was nominated to Rajya Sabha by Mulayam Singh despite resistance from son Akhilesh Yadav, who was then the UP CM, and Azam Khan. According to insiders, Mulayam put his foot down on the issue stating that Amar Singh helped him when the CBI was after him in disproportionate assets case and that it was now time for him to pay back. However, Akhilesh went on to hold Amar Singh responsible for attempting to administer a split in the party by misleading uncle Shivpal Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amar-a-flamboyant-politician-who-added-glitz-to-dry-politics/articleshow/77323025.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Seniors to face heat for corrupt subordinates: Mokshada Patil||Aurangabad: Taking serious cognizance of the action taken by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against policemen in her jurisdiction, Aurangabad superintendent of rural police Mokshada Patil has warned of stringent action against senior police officers if any of their subordinate is found facing corruption charges. An internal communication has been issued by Patil after a senior inspector from Aurangabad rural police was booked on the charges of demanding bribe and later destroying evidence of the same.Terming the ever-increasing number of ACB cases in the limits of Aurangabad rural police as ‘disappointing’ and ‘scandalous’, the communication, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, “Despite issuing strict warnings from time to time during crime meetings, orderly room meetings, darbars, inspections, surprise visits, the number of ACB cases are increasing.”Patil has asked all the police station chiefs to address their immediate subordinates and warn them against demanding or accepting bribe. The police stations heads have also been asked to keep a close watch on the activities of their subordinates and the arrests and investigations carried out by them. The sub-divisional police officers (SPDO) have been asked to regularly reach out to the police stations and brief them accordingly.“SDPOs should act as vigilance officers and initiate appropriate measures for keeping a check on the corrupt practices in their respective jurisdictions,” reads the communication.Henceforth, policemen and officers will face stringent as well as administrative action for their involvement in corrupt practices. “In the event of any such incident in future, the accountabilities of SDPOs as well as police station chiefs would be fixed and they will take action accordingly. Authorities are expected to take measures to ensure that the image of police department does not take a hit in the masses,’ reads the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/seniors-to-face-heat-for-corrupt-subordinates-mokshada-patil/articleshow/77320400.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Phase-2 of vaccine trials to begin, SRM calls for volunteers||CHENNAI: Even as the preliminary results of phase-1 human clinical trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin are awaited, researchers at the SRM Medical College and Research Centre have begun preparations for phase-2 trials expected to begin by this month end. The city institute is one of 12 institutions chosen by ICMR to conduct trials for the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology. According to Dr Melvin George, associate professor of clinical pharmacology at SRM, because of the prevailing global conditions, seamless clinical trials have to be adopted wherein phase-2 trial begins along with the phase 1, without waiting for results like in traditional trials. “We are definitely not rushing. Due norms have to be followed. This happens whenever we are dealing with a pandemic or even an endemic situation, when we strive to bring a drug or vaccine quickly into the market. This is what we call an accelerated approval,” Melvin George told TOI. As part of phase-I trial, to test the vaccine’s safety and ensure it has no side-effects, about 30 people in the age group of 18-55 years were given the first shot of this candidate-vaccine and the results will be available in a month’s time after complete clinical evaluation. For phase-2 trials, the institute will be needing about 100 volunteers and appealed to the public to actively participate in it as an altruistic measure. If the results of phase-2 are convincing, phase-3 trials will require the drug be tested on 5,000-10,000 people. In a normal scenario, phase-2 trials will last for 6-12 months, but researchers are expecting to work at a faster rate due to the prevailing conditions. While these are the existing conditions in the race to find the vaccine, Dr Melvin George said when the vaccine will be introduced in the market can only be speculated. “It is all in the hands of the government. If the efficacy is good, they can release it into the market after phase 2 results itself. If we have to wait for phase 3, it may take a year and a half,” Dr Melvin said adding that, to understand the safety of any drug or vaccine, it has to be exposed to a larger population to identify rare side effects. “To pick up these rare side effects, phase-3 is necessary, but in these situations, since lives and livelihoods are lost, we can accelerate,” Dr Melvin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/phase-2-of-vaccine-trials-to-begin-srm-calls-for-volunteers/articleshow/77321598.cms||Srikkanth D
August 3, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Transport department services go online||SHIMLA: The transport department of Himachal Pradesh has started providing all its services online and one can avail the same by visiting either the department’s website or the nearest Lok Mitra Kendra, said a senior official of the department. According to transport commissioner J M Pathania, a detailed user guide is being prepared for the regular customers of the department, including bus, truck, taxi and auto operators, to educate them on how to avail the services online. Under the new e-Parivahan system, the services are available on its website under various categories, like permits for stage carriage, contract carriage and all India transport permit, issuance of registration certificate and driving and conductor licence, etc. Pathania said under the new arrangement, all services are being made available to the people at their doorsteps. Earlier, people had to visit the offices of registering and licensing authority (RLA) and regional transport officers again and again for their work, but now, all services of the department are available at the click of a button. “Now there is no need for people to visit transport offices or seek favour from officials. This will also ensure elimination of harassment,” he said, adding that six steps — user registration, user login, filling online form, attaching documents, making online fee payment and submission and acknowledgment — have been introduced for the delivery of smart transport services. Pathania said the online facility would also ensure a transparent and time-bound delivery of services following its linkage with the Public Service Guarantee Act. “We have also provided the provision of deemed approval if a service is not provided within the given time limit,” he added. He said the online services on pilot basis were started in Shimla and Kangra districts on July 17 and for 15 days, teething problems would be monitored and plugged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-transport-dept-services-go-online/articleshow/77322614.cms||Anand Bodh
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Cancer patient hangs himself at govt hospital||CHENNAI: A 47-year-old cancer patient undergoing treatment at the cancer ward of the Government Royapettah Hospital hanged himself during the early hours of Sunday. The deceased was identified as Mahesh of Tiruvallur. Police investigations revealed that he got admitted in the hospital a month ago and underwent a surgery last week. On Sunday morning, other occupants of the ward woke up to find Mahesh hanging from the window using a cloth as a noose and alerted the hospital staff. He was declared dead after which police secured the body and moved it for autopsy. A case of suspicious death has been registered. In another incident, a 26-year-old student of a college in Kattankulathur was found dead in his rented accommodation near Guduvanchery on Sunday. The deceased, S Rajasekar hails from Andaman. Investigations revealed that he had asked a classmate to bring him food. When the classmate reached Rajasekar’s accommodation, the room was locked and there was no response from Rajasekar. The classmate and the house owner broke open the front door and found Rajasekar lying unconscious. He was moved to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Guduvanchery police are investigating. In case of suicidal thoughts, call 104 helpline and Sneha (044 2464 0060, 2464 0050).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cancer-patient-hangs-himself-at-govt-hosp/articleshow/77321628.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Man enters school online class, uses expletives in Chennai||CHENNAI: Students of Class IX at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Anna Nagar, were in for a shock when they found an intruder in their online class session last week. The man, who made obscene comments, vanished in a couple of minutes. The Anna Nagar cybercrime cell has formed a team on Saturday to investigate the matter. The complaint was initially lodged by the school principal at the Rajamangalam police station, which was later shifted to the cybercrime unit for a detailed probe. On July 28, when an online teaching session was in progress for Class IX students, a man entered the virtual classroom, made obscene comments without enabling his camera (other users couldn’t see his face) and left within minutes. “The school usually sends ID and passwords to students to log in to the session. We suspect that the intruder, who could be someone known to one of the students, must have had access to the login details and session timing,” said a police officer. Investigators inquired with the school authorities who said none of the students would have been involved. A case has been registered under the provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000, and a probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-enters-school-online-class-uses-expletives/articleshow/77321644.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Delhi||Film producer dupes investors of Rs 6cr, nabbed||New Delhi: A Bollywood movie producer who allegedly cheated more than a hundred people by promising a stake in his next movie production has been arrested by Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW). The producer is suspected to have duped them to the tune of at least Rs 6 crore. Police say that the amount may further go up. The man, Chandrakanth Sharma, had lured the investors with a promise of high returns of more than 70% by making investments in the entertainment sector and other undefined projects under the banner, CineMirchi Productions. Sharma has been remanded to five-day police custody, while his wife is being questioned regarding her role. Joint CP (EOW) OP Mishra said that Sharma and his wife would do extensive publicity campaigns and get their photographs clicked with Bollywood celebrities to attract investors. They have also produced two movies named “The Great Indian Casino and “Lust Wala Love,” which are yet to be released. They lured investors claiming that they had planned to make one international movie every year. After people invested money into the company, Sharma paid them the return once after which the investors stopped hearing from him. Some of the investors were duped after a staffer at AIIMS befriended them and lured them to the scheme laid out by Sharma, the complainants told the cops. “Based on complaints from 88 investors, we registered an FIR under the relevant sections and found that the accused was continuing with the investment procedure. He was even giving life threats to some of the investors,” said Mishra. CineMirchi would promise a return of about 70% on a weekly basis and generated an ID for every investor through which they could invest more cash. An incentive of 5% was given if the investor introduced a new member to the company. When the cops started tracking Sharma, it was found that he has been changing his phone number and location frequently for the past few months. He would issue SIM cards in the name of his aides and travel to faraway places from Delhi to make calls. Sharma was arrested from Chandigarh after a hot pursuit by the cops. Police say the number of investors could go up to nearly a thousand people as most victims have not come forward to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/film-producer-dupes-investors-of-rs-6cr-nabbed/articleshow/77321652.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||3 relatives of Covid patient in Anjuna test positive||Saligao: Three more coronavirus positive cases were reported in Anjuna on Sunday. All of the three positive patients are relatives of a previous positive case in the same village. A woman working at a hotel in Vagator had tested positive, following which, a swab testing drive of all those who came in contact with the woman were collected by the Siolim primary health centre (PHC). The woman’s husband and daughter had also tested positive. Swab samples of around 83 people were collected. Health officer of Siolim PHC Dr Sadhana Shetye said the patients are under home quarantine. Meanwhile another three cases in Aldona PHC — two in Aldona and one in Ucassaim were reported on Saturday. Sources said both the patients from Aldona were employed at the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa while the person from Ucassaim was undergoing treatment at GMC and was shifted to the Covid hospital in Margao after he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-relatives-of-covid-patient-in-anjuna-test-positive/articleshow/77323041.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Free Mehbooba from ‘illegal detention’: Rahul||NEW DELHI: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Sunday demanded the release of former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti from “illegal detention”, saying democracy is damaged when government detains political leaders, illegally. Mufti has been in detention under the stringent Public Safety Act since Article 370 was nullified on August 5 last year, revoking special status to J&K and bifurcating the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. Though many other political leaders in Kashmir have since been freed, Mufti’s detention under PSA was given a three month extension by the government. “India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Last week, Rahul made a similar plea for the release of senior INC leader Saifuddin Soz after the latter’s sensational videos — speaking to the media from behind corcertina wires installed on his bungalows walls — went viral on social media. While the J&K administration has submitted in Supreme Court that Soz is free, the 82-year-old Congress veteran had claimed otherwise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/free-mehbooba-from-illegal-detention-rahul/articleshow/77323540.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Erode||As Covid-19 numbers drop in Chennai, people begin to return||CHENNAI: There is a reverse exodus, from the rest of Tamil Nadu and other states into the city, where the number of active cases is coming down, going by the number of e-pass applications flooding Greater Chennai Corporation. Until August 2, the civic body got 5.8 lakh e-pass applications including 2.9 lakh in July. About 1.9 lakh applications were accepted. Chengalpet recorded the most e-pass applications accepted (7,074) followed by Tiruvallur (5,590). In fact, about 2,500 e-pass applications are filed daily in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. While Chengalpet gets 2,000 applications daily, Tiruvallur gets 300 and Kancheepuram 40. As many as 5,521 people from Cuddalore have applied to return to Chennai, 5,251 from Madurai, 5,085 from Trichy, 4,532 from Coimbatore and 4,148 from Thanjavur. Sathish Ramasamy, who worked in a Chennai media firm, decided to permanently shift to Erode. “But now as business is getting back to normal, we will return when work from home ends,” he said. About 1 lakh applications were accepted from other districts, 13,092 from other states, including 4,305 and 3,393 from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, and 60,806 from air passengers. Opening of businesses and trade is also contributing to the reverse exodus, say industry experts. Lionel Charles, founder and CEO of India Filings, said, people had realized the pandemic won’t go away soon and want to return. “We have about 500 employees of which 400 are from other districts. Now, they are willing to come back and keep asking us if they can get back to office. Many of the clients are also coming to meet us.” Manickam Mahalingam, chairman of ABT Group and Sakthi Group, said, people had become confident about Chennai now. “Even guest workers want to come back. But it will take one or two months for normalcy to set in.” Kumaravel Pandian, corporation deputy commissioner (works), said incoming passes were accepted only in an emergency. “Yes, there is a sudden rise in incoming applications. Those rejected also include multiple applications filed by the same person despite rejection.” (With inputs from Yogesh Kabirdoss)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/as-covid-19-numbers-drop-in-city-people-begin-to-return/articleshow/77326599.cms||Komal Gautham
August 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Rs 11 core loans to backward classes||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (BACKFINCO) has set a target of disbursing loan of over Rs 11.27 crore to 751 beneficiaries. Punjab social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said loans amounting to Rs 61.20 lakh have been disbursed to 38 beneficiaries under various schemes till June. He exhorted the youth to avail loan welfare schemes being run by the state government to find avenues of self-employment. He added that BACKFINCO is running several schemes aimed at providing loans to youth at low-interest rates. According to the minister, education loan has also been arranged for backward classes. Under this scheme, loan at the rate of 4% interest is given for education. The interest rate for girls is 3.5% per annum. Debt is repaid in monthly installments over five years and six months after completion of the course. Provision has also been made to provide loan of up to Rs 20 lakh for studies abroad. Under the direct loan scheme, BACKFINCO provides loan of up to Rs 2 lakh at an interest rate of 6%. This loan can be availed to start ventures like dairy farming (3-5 animals), poultry farming, growing vegetables, honey beekeeping and carpentry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-rs-11-core-loans-to-bc-youth/articleshow/77322643.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||93% of MBA batch at IIM-Ahmedabad at or below 25 years||AHMEDABAD: Of the 390 students for the MBA course of 2020-22 batch at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), 363 are at or below 25 years of age, making it the youngest in past three years. Last year, of 388 students, 345 or 88% were in the same age bracket. On Sunday, the top officials of IIM-A welcomed the incoming batches of MBA and MBA-FABM through an online inaugural from IIM-A campus.  Prof Errol D’Souza, director of IIM-A, said that they would make sure that the students feel the campus experience in online classes as the institute awaits government directives to open academic institutions. Analysis of the incoming students in the flagship MBA course reveals that the batch had one of the lowest non-engineering students’ percentage at 24% compared to 26% in 2019-21 and 33% in 2018-20 batch. In FABM course, the share of engineering students went down from 65% and 63% in past two years to 48% this year. On the other hand, science students consist of 45% of the batch of 47 compared to 37% in the last admission. “The institute believes that diversity has an impact on the heterogeneity of the deep and enduring attributes such as values, attitudes, opinions, and perspectives of students which enhances their creativity and performance in an organizational context,” said Prof D’Souza. Dr Manav Mehta, an MBBS who got admitted in MBA course, said that he chose the course as he was interested in the business and managerial side of healthcare. “The Covid-19 outbreak has shifted global attention to healthcare sector and the industry is expected to grow. Thus, it would be a long-term value to do an MBA that won’t be affected by the coronavirus,” he said. Parul Gupta, a psychology student who made it to MBA, said that the current crisis will present an opportunity for adaptation towards new norms of interaction — it would require understanding the changing needs of consumers and innovating accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/93-of-mba-batch-at-iim-a-at-or-below-25-yrs/articleshow/77322649.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||As Covid-19 numbers drop in Chennai, people begin to return||CHENNAI: There is a reverse exodus, from the rest of Tamil Nadu and other states into the city, where the number of active cases is coming down, going by the number of e-pass applications flooding Greater Chennai Corporation. Until August 2, the civic body got 5.8 lakh e-pass applications including 2.9 lakh in July. About 1.9 lakh applications were accepted. Chengalpet recorded the most e-pass applications accepted (7,074) followed by Tiruvallur (5,590). In fact, about 2,500 e-pass applications are filed daily in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. While Chengalpet gets 2,000 applications daily, Tiruvallur gets 300 and Kancheepuram 40. As many as 5,521 people from Cuddalore have applied to return to Chennai, 5,251 from Madurai, 5,085 from Trichy, 4,532 from Coimbatore and 4,148 from Thanjavur. Sathish Ramasamy, who worked in a Chennai media firm, decided to permanently shift to Erode. “But now as business is getting back to normal, we will return when work from home ends,” he said. About 1 lakh applications were accepted from other districts, 13,092 from other states, including 4,305 and 3,393 from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, and 60,806 from air passengers. Opening of businesses and trade is also contributing to the reverse exodus, say industry experts. Lionel Charles, founder and CEO of India Filings, said, people had realized the pandemic won’t go away soon and want to return. “We have about 500 employees of which 400 are from other districts. Now, they are willing to come back and keep asking us if they can get back to office. Many of the clients are also coming to meet us.” Manickam Mahalingam, chairman of ABT Group and Sakthi Group, said, people had become confident about Chennai now. “Even guest workers want to come back. But it will take one or two months for normalcy to set in.” Kumaravel Pandian, corporation deputy commissioner (works), said incoming passes were accepted only in an emergency. “Yes, there is a sudden rise in incoming applications. Those rejected also include multiple applications filed by the same person despite rejection.” (With inputs from Yogesh Kabirdoss)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-covid-19-numbers-drop-in-city-people-begin-to-return/articleshow/77321653.cms||Komal Gautham
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Sindri’s power woes continue||SINDRI: Although the Jharkhand Bidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) claims to have taken several steps to strengthen power supply in Jharkhand, nearly 6,000 consumers in Sindri township have been left in the lurch. Frequent power cuts due to cable failures results in the township remaining in darkness from 12 to 24 hours almost every alternate day. JBVNL, earlier known as JSEB, took over the power supply system from the now closed Sindri fertiliser factory in 2003. Even at that time, while the fertiliser factory management used to supply power in the township, JSEB had its own private consumers both in and out of the town. Problems arose when the state power cradle started shifting its load on the weathered 60-year-old power supply system of the town. The old underground cables and circuit breakers started bursting under the increased load and instead of replacing the faulty cables and breakers, the JSEB authorities kept bypassing them, bringing the situation to the present condition where even repairing the old cables has become difficult. The indifferent attitude of JBVNL can be gauged from the fact that it has not been even able to open a maintenance office in the township in the last 17 years. “Earlier, it was decided that the fertiliser factory management would take care of the power system inside the plant premises and JSEB would take care of the system outside the plant,” said Deepak Kumar, the secretary of Sindri Chamber of Commerce and Industries. Kumar added, “Now, when the HURL is setting up a new fertiliser unit in the plant premises, it should take care of the power supply system.” When contacted, HURL general manager S K Sinha said they are equally disturbed by the frequent power cuts. “HURL deposited Rs 7 crores with JBVNL on July 31, 2018 for shifting the power cables from inside the plant premises to outside the plant. However, the work has not been completed yet,” Sinha added. He further said, “Last week, we even provided them with a new cable for replacement of the worn-out cable but the state power body is not providing the required man power. We have complained to the Dhanbad DC (Uma Shankar Singh) in this regard and she convened a meeting with HURL and JBVNL on Friday evening to resolve the matter.” The meeting was going on till the time this report was filed. Upon contact, JBVNL area general manager Paritosh Kumar said that he was looking into the matter and the issue will be resolved shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sindris-power-woes-continue/articleshow/77322931.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand 4th most dangerous state for Christians, claims report||RANCHI: With 21 cases of hate crimes and a murder, Jharkhand is rated as the fourth most “dangerous” state in India for Christians after Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh, a half-yearly report by Persecution Relief, a nationwide missionary organisation based at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and working for Christian rights, noted. BJP said the report seemed to be lopsided and demanded that similar studies be conducted on “forceful conversions” by missionary groups. Ruling Congress said the Jharkhand government does not differentiate people based on their religions and persecutions, if any, are triggered by trouble mongers. The report claimed that 293 cases of crimes against Christians have taken place nationally in the first half of 2020 (January-June) despite a nationwide lockdown since March 25, which is a staggering 40.87% hike compared to 208 incidents in 2019. Of the total incidents in Jharkhand so far, 14 were reported during April (1), May (5) and June (8) alone. January saw four cases, two in February and March had one, added the report, which was prepared based on media reports as well as independent studies by the group. Barring 2019, Jharkhand was also among the top 10 states with crimes against missionaries since 2016. In 2016, it registered 19 instances, 12 in 2017 and seven in 2018. Christian missionaries were at loggerhead during the erstwhile BJP rule between 2014-19 after the Raghubar Das government introduced the Freedom of Religion Act in 2017 (anti-conversion law) to prevent the alleged conversion attempts by missionaries targeting poor tribals. Even the change of guard in Jharkhand after the formation of the Mahagathbandhan government comprising JMM-Congress-RJD too didn’t seem to have improved the situation for Christians in Jharkhand. While the report doesn’t directly criticise the ruling dispensation, the instances of hate crimes indicate this. On the murder in Jharkhand, the report states that 27-year-old Kande Mudu was killed in Khunti last month by a group of religious fanatics who were armed with weapons in a village named Bari. The miscreants broke into his home, attacked him and slit his throat. “He and his family had accepted Christianity four years ago and had been harassed by locals ever since. Bindu Mudu, his wife and his two daughters fled the village for fear of being attacked and their whereabouts are unknown. No arrests have been made so far,” claimed the report. It added that two young missionaries, who were a part of the youth missionary movement for over eight years, were beaten up by migrant workers in Belgaria in Dhanbad. Similarly, in Latehar, the house of a Christian family was found ransacked in Hadgadwa village. Shibu Thomas, founder of Persecution Relief, in a statement said that the purpose of highlighting such reports is to wake up governments concerned to prevent religious intolerance. “It is growing to peaks of new inhumane attitudes now,” he observed. Reacting to the report, BJP’s Pratul Shahdeo maintained that it seems lopsided and sought similar studies of forceful conversions being done by missionary outfits. “They will never talk about how forceful conversions they often resort to or will not talk about the massacre and violence against non-Christian tribals like the one which took place in Burugulikera in West Singbhum in January,” he said. Recalling a statement by former archbishop Felix Toppo after the Hemant Soren government came to power, he said, “Now, enjoy the Christmas gift.” Toppo had termed the victory as a Christmas gift. The ruling dispensation, however, put the blame on some trouble mongers and defended the state government of being sensitive towards all religions. “Unlike the previous regime, the current government doesn’t differentiate people on the basis of religion and is equally sensitive towards all. Whenever criminal acts have come to the fore, the state police have swung into action against the culprits,” said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-4th-most-dangerous-state-for-christians-claims-report/articleshow/77322925.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||New batch of IIM-Ranchi students inducted||RANCHI: A two-day online workshop on principles of hard work, honesty, humility and inspiring speeches from academicians marked the induction of the new 2020-22 batch of students at the Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi (IIM-R). On Sunday, IIM-R director professor Shailendra Singh addressed the students on the last day of the workshop orgainsed through Google Meet. He urged to make the best use of what the institute has to offer and respect its pride and sanctity in their future endeavours. The workshop, which began on Saturday, also witnessed a creative session organized by dance/movement therapy practitioner Dhara Mehra and Froggy Feet — the dance group of IIMR. They trained the students on creative body movements and storytelling through facial expressions. On the concluding day, CEO of Trariti Consulting Group, Anup Majumdar, spoke on importance of networking and all that they should to learn and get from their MBA journey. An emotional video clip from the alumni fraternity of IIMR was also played. In an interactive session, professor Gaurav Marathe portrayed the life at IIMR drawing from his own experience. Another session, where the students were introduced to activities based on IIMR principles of hard work, honesty and humility was held. A session on basic and quick stress-relieving exercises concluded the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-batch-of-iim-r-students-inducted/articleshow/77322926.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Gomia MLA among 403 new infections, 3 more deaths in state||Ranchi: Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto was among the 403 new Covid-19 infections Jharkhand recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the state's cumulative caseload to 12,559 on Sunday. Three deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours while as many as 169 patients were also discharged. The number of recoveries has now reached 4,884. In East Singhbhum, a 65-year-old woman from Jamshedpur’s Bishtupur and a 45-year-old man from Golmuri succumbed to the deadly virus at the Tata Main Hospital. The deceased man was an employee of Tata Steel. Both had multiple ailments. “Another death was reported in Dhanbad, taking the death toll to 118 statewide,” a health department official in Ranchi said. In Ranchi, Ajsu Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto announced on Twitter that he has tested positive. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Ormanjhi late in the night. Party sources said Mahto contracted the infection from his personal assistant, who tested positive recently. Mahto became the fourth legislator in Jharkhand to contract the infection after state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur, Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and Ranchi MLA CP Singh. The office of chief minister Hemant Soren also reported 17 new infections on Sunday, throwing the district health machinery into a tizzy. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said contact tracing of the infected staff, including security personnel, aides of bureaucrats and others, are being done. The chauffeur of Soren’s wife Kalpana had also tested positive along with two others last week. In all, 8,885 samples were tested on Sunday of which 123 samples from Ranchi tested positive, the highest on Sunday, followed by Koderma (56) and East Singhbhum (48). Simdega reported 31 new infections followed by Giridih (20), Seraikela-Kharsawan (19), Latehar (16) and Hazaribag (11). Bokaro reported nine cases while Dhanbad reported eight. In Dhanbad, a senior official of the Dhanbad Railway Division of East Central Railways tested positive for the virus. The state’s weekly growth rate on Sunday stood at 5.29%, higher than the national average of 3.57%. The state’s recovery rate at present is 34.28%, far lower than the national average of 64.43%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gomia-mla-among-403-new-infections-3-more-deaths-in-state/articleshow/77322920.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 3, 2020||Goa||Strictures passed against police for failing to prove gambling case||Panaji: A local court at Mapusa passed strictures against police for its failure to prove a gambling case and acquitted a 27-year-old resident of Moira charged for committing the offence at Anjuna beach in 2018. The judicial magistrate first class court exonerated accused Savio Fernandes after it found that the prosecution “neither proved game nor gambling” and failed to explain the activity he carried out. “…the prosecution has not explained as to what is the ‘Lal Kala’ gambling activity, how it is performed, who controls the activity, how winner is declared, mode of declaring winner, who declares the winner and who pays money to the winner. Therefore, the prosecution has neither proved game nor gambling,” judge Anuradha Andrade stated. The court also found that the prosecution didn’t identify persons with whom the accused allegedly played ‘Lal Kala’ gambling activity and observed that the investigating officer didn’t take pains in arresting other persons involved in the gambling activity. “In the instant case, there is no corroboration of the case through independent witness,” the court further stated, adding that the prosecution’s case was not convincing. The prosecution stated that the police while patrolling Anjuna area in September 2018 caught the man conducting gambling activities known as ‘Lal Kala’ in an open public place. The police seized Rs 700 from him and other gambling articles. The investigating officer deposed that the person was dribbling strikers and people were betting on the strikers. He stated that he conducted the raid with two panch witnesses and the person who was dribbling the striker and accepting bets was caught red handed, but the people betting escaped. He was charged under Section 11(2) (a) of the Goa Daman and Diu Public Gambling Act, 1976.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strictures-passed-against-police-for-failing-to-prove-gambling-case/articleshow/77322659.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Across road from J Jayalalithaa’s house in Poes Garden, V K Sasikala builds her own||CHENNAI: While the Tamil Nadu government is preparing to turn former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence Veda Nilayam into a memorial, her long-time housemate V K Sasikala is building her own house across the road. Ousted from the AIADMK by her friend’s foot soldiers, Sasikala is expected to be released from prison soon after serving term in the disproportionate assets case. “We are building a house, but the progress is slow because of the pandemic,” a family member told TOI, seeking anonymity. While Veda Nilayam (36/81), a three-storied building, is spread across 24,000sqft, Sasikala’s abode under construction is expected to be bigger. The plot (95/58) is registered in the name of M/s Sriharichandana Estates Pvt Ltd, represented by its director K Karthikeyan. The plan is for the proposed construction of ground floor plus two floors, the same as Veda Nilayam, but with “two dwelling units of residential building”. CMDA approved the building plan a year ago, during the run-up to the 2019 general elections. “The plot is registered in the name of a company,” said a CMDA source. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who revolted against Sasikala before merging his faction with that of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, holds the housing portfolio. He is also the CMDA chairman. Jaya’s guards used to park vehicles at spotWhen Jayalalithaa was the chief minister, the plot across Veda Nilayam was being used by her black cat commandos to park their vehicles. Journalists too used to hang around here while waiting for Jayalalithaa to come out of her residence. A relative of Sasikala said she has not been sharing her plans with anyone. “She was betrayed in politics. Now, she does not trust anyone,” said the family member. EPS, the man she chose to head the party and the government when she was convicted in the assets disproportionate case, ousted her from the AIADMK. He could well be the CM candidate for the party in the 2021 assembly election. As for her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, now heading the AMMK, sources said differences have cropped up between him and his aunt. Sasikala is likely to strike out on her own from a new address in Poes Garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-across-road-from-j-jayalalithaas-house-in-poes-garden-v-k-sasikala-builds-her-own/articleshow/77323546.cms||Jaya Menon
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai to get light rain for two more days||CHENNAI: The evening rain that lashed different parts of the city on Sunday are likely to repeat as the met department has forecast light rain in some areas for the next two days. The city received around 2.8mm till late at night. The rain which began as a drizzle in western and southern parts of the city around 7pm strengthened and spread all over the city by 10pm. The central parts and suburban areas received the most amount of rain. A met department official said Meenambakkam and Nungambakkam recorded good rain. Live weather monitoring websites showed dense clouds moving over Chennai from the north in the evening and moving towards the Bay of Bengal by late night. IMD nowcast showed that it was raining less than 5mm at Nungambakkam at 10pm. A forecast by IMD for 48 hours said: "The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperature will be around 34°C and 27°C respectively." The impact of southwest monsoon and the wind convergence could be the reason for the heavy spell of rain in the city on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-to-get-light-rain-for-two-more-days/articleshow/77323549.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Cops raid gambling spots at Verna & Honda, arrest 6, seize Rs 2L cash||Panaji: In two gambling related raids, officials of Goa Police busted two spots at Verna and Honda. Police said they have recovered cash and also made arrests. A gambling den in Honda was raided and six persons were held, while cash worth Rs2lakh was seized. Superintendent of police (SP), crime branch Shobhit Saxena said, “At around 6am, the crime branch team led by PI Dattaguru Sawant conducted a raid at a gambling den in Honda, Valpoi where card gambling locally known as, ‘andar bahar’ was being played.” In the other case, on late Saturday night Verna police headed by PI Mohan Gaude raided a house at Marad, Verna and arrested Cirillo Fernandes, the owner of the house and ten others for gambling. Cards and other articles were seized by police along with cash Rs41,800. The accused were later released on bail. The case is being investigated by the Verna police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-raid-gambling-spots-at-verna-honda-arrest-6-seize-rs-2l-cash/articleshow/77322677.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Will complete stalled Rs 5.6cr play parks soon: Isidore||Poinguinim: Sports director Shashank Tripathi, department officers and engineers, along with deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes visited two play grounds, at Devbhag and Shristhal in Canacona. After inspecting the two grounds, Tripathi said that the work on the two under-construction playgrounds in Canacona will be completed in a few months. Bhatpal locals said that work on the Rs 1.6 crore Shristhal multipurpose playground was stalled even though it was inaugurated seven years ago during the tenure of former sports minister and Canacona MLA Ramesh Tawadkar. Officials said that is expected to be ready by January-February 2021, Tripathi said that finishing touches are being given to the Rs 4 crore Devbhag multipurpose ground and once the pending work is done, it will be thrown open soon. Ilfon Fernandes, a local who was present at the inspection, told TOI, “During the seven years even half of the work couldn’t be completed, how will it be completed within another six months?” Sanjam Naik from Bhatpal said, “What is surprising is that the taluka sports organizer’s office is situated at this ground, still things didn’t get pushed.” Villagers also demanded a proper drainage system around both the grounds and an assurance that they will get access to use the grounds. Sarpanch Ganesh Gaonkar, panch members and and a larger number of villagers were present at the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-complete-stalled-rs-5-6cr-play-parks-soon-isidore/articleshow/77322717.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Opt for basic infrastructure over lavish projects: GITP||Panaji: Instead of allocating funds for extravagant and unnecessary infrastructure, the state government must exercise restraint and spend taxpayer’s money in a judicious manner, Goa IT Professionals (GITP) said on Saturday. GITP called on the state government to fix its priorities and focus on basic infrastructure which can aid entrepreneurs and other learning systems. “Hard earned money of citizens, paid as taxes, cannot be washed away for luxuries, extravaganza, miscellaneous and non-priority infrastructure,” GITP president Gurudev Naik said. GITP has urged the government to improve connectivity in the state and set up the long overdue single-window system for investment so that jobs are created in Goa and people are able to earn a respectable living. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, entrepreneurs and businesses are reeling under extreme pressure and are struggling to survive. Lack of basic infrastructure like connectivity and power makes matters worse for technology-dependent businesses and online education models,” GITP said. “In the current troubled circumstances, while every government in the world is exercising restraint on expenditure, it is disheartening to see crores of rupees being earmarked for projects such as facelift of the assembly, construction of memorials, Raj Bhavan, convention centres, panchayat ghars, etc,” Naik said. Such infrastructure projects, Naik said, can’t be the priorities during a pandemic. “While Goa continues to rank behind in the Ease of Doing Business rankings due to the lack of a single-window system, industries are either closing down or retrenching staff. Goa’s tourism sector and allied sectors have taken a big hit,” he added. “In this backdrop, the least that can be expected from the government is judicious spending of the exchequer’s money by setting the priorities right,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opt-for-basic-infrastructure-over-lavish-projects-gitp/articleshow/77322725.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||GTA questions govt’s move on new startup policy||Panaji: Expressing surprise over the state government’s move to come out with a new startup policy, Goa Technology Association (GTA) on Sunday said some startups are yet to benefit out of the existing policy, this while the Goa IT Policy itself has not been fully implemented. The association’s president, Mangirish Salelkar, suggested that the government continue with the existing policies which were drafted along with inputs from former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. “GTA has not yet been invited to be part of any drafting committee,” Salelkar said. “We need to understand the need to revamp the policy.” Further, Salelkar asked the IT department to utilise funds earmarked for the IT parks to sustain startups and IT companies which have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent economic crisis. GTA members said that communication and productivity have taken a hit due to poor last mile internet connectivity. They said that despite raising these issues with the government, telecom companies and internet service providers, the problems persist. Salelkar pointed out that the industry had sought support from the chief minister and minister for IT, Jennifer Monserrate, but despite assurances, nothing had changed on ground. “We have also had a video conference with the IT minister and director of IT, wherein we put forward our issues and presented suggestions for the industry’s revival. They promised to get back to us on it in two or three days, but we haven’t heard from them for the last two to three months,” he said. Salelkar acknowledged the role of IT director Ankita Anand in helping the industry with travel passes during Lockdown 1.0. The pandemic itself has forced IT companies and startups to re-evaluate their business plans. “There have been pay cuts, job losses and deferred payments from clients. This has affected our members,” Salelkar said, urging the government to take GTA into confidence while taking policy decisions. “Instead of approving crores to design consultants for project consultation of the IT park, if even 10% of that amount was to be disbursed to existing IT or startup companies, and to improve the infrastructure and last mile internet connectivity, we would have been in a position to create so many jobs,” Salelkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gta-questions-govts-move-on-new-startup-policy/articleshow/77322728.cms||---
August 3, 2020||World||UK to mint Gandhi coin, but not all PIOs happy with choice||LONDON: The Royal Mint is working on a proposal for a new coin commemorating Mahatma Gandhi as the first ethnic minority face to feature on British currency amid criticism by some prominent PIOs, who argue that a figure intrinsically connected to UK politics and society would have been a more appropriate choice. A spokesperson for The Royal Mint told TOI, "We are working with the Chancellor (Rishi Sunak) and the Royal Mint Advisory Committee (RMAC) to develop a proposal...It is too early to reveal further specific details about the coin as we are still in the initial stages of discussions." The RMAC is an independent committee of experts that recommends themes and designs of coins to the Chancellor, in his role as Master of the Mint. Her Majesty's Treasury confirmed that Mahatma Gandhi would be the face of the coin. "The Chancellor is keen that our coinage commemorates the work of the many previous generations who have served this nation and those nations that form the Commonwealth," a treasury source said. Finance minister Sunak, who is Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy's son-in-law, had written to The Royal Mint on Saturday, urging it to consider celebrating the achievements of someone from the BAME (Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic) community on UK coinage. He pointed out that "for generations, ethnic minority groups have fought and died for this country". Sunak did not specifically mention Gandhi. The letter was in response to a communication from Zehra Zaidi, who runs the ‘We Too Built Britain’ campaign, seeking his "active support" for new coins and bank notes to reflect "service to the nation" by BAME individuals both in military conflict and on the home front. Zaidi, a descendant of Sayyid Bashir Hussain Zaidi, a member of India's first Lok Sabha, on Sunday distanced herself from the Gandhi coin, saying he was not on the proposed list of names she had sent to Sunak. The list included Khudadad Khan, the first British Indian soldier awarded the Victoria Cross, and Muslim British-Indian WWII spy Noor Inayat Khan. "We never pushed Gandhi," she said. The Indian high commission in the UK welcomed the decision, though. "Gandhi has been a symbol of equality and humanity for the whole world. His message of non-violence is more relevant today than ever," an official said. Sudhakar Goud, spokesperson for the Indian Overseas Congress in UK, said, "Gandhi fought for justice and freedom and so he is ideal for this.". Kamal Dhaliwal, president of the IOC (UK), said: "This is a proud moment for us." But London-based historian Dr Zareer Masani, author of Indira Gandhi’s biography, had a contrasting view. "I thought the demand was for an outstanding British person of colour to be on our currency, not an Indian nationalist hero. The person who qualifies more than any other is Cornelia Sorabji. To select Gandhi instead is a cop out." Lord Meghnad Desai, chairman of the Gandhi Memorial Statue Trust, said he felt Dadabhai Naoroji would have been a better choice as he was "more connected with British political life, being the first Indian to enter British Parliament". Labour MP Preet Gill said, "We already have a statue of Gandhi. There are lots of women not acknowledged like suffragette Sophia Duleep Singh. This is not Rishi Sunak’s campaign, it has to be a community campaign."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-to-mint-gandhi-coin-but-not-all-pios-happy-with-choice/articleshow/77323555.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 3, 2020||Goa||PPP projects: 90 apply for posts of consultants||Panaji: Ninety young professionals have applied to work as consultants on public-private-partnership (PPP) projects in the state. A senior officer said that most of the applicants didn’t meet the qualifying criteria. “We will hire consultants as and when required,” the senior officer said. Based on the economic revival committee’s recommendation, the state government decided to empanel young professionals as consultants for PPP projects in Goa. Senior officer said that the committee has recommended that priority should be given to increase the infrastructure in the state through PPP mode. After this chief minister Pramod Sawant revived the defunct PPP cell and appointed Suresh Shanbhogue as its new director. Through the PPP cell, the government intends to take up major infrastructure projects in the state for which it wants to engage a panel of young professionals to work as consultants. The PPP cell under the finance department had said that candidates interested in getting empanelled should be post graduate or equivalent in any discipline having experience of working on PPP projects with expertise in preparation of request for quotation, request for proposal , tender documents and related aspects of PPP projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ppp-projects-90-apply-for-posts-of-consultants/articleshow/77322734.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Sugar factory workers to get short extension||Ponda: State government has decided to extend the tenure of contractual workers of Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana, Dharbandora. An order in this regard will be issued on Monday, said public works department minister Deepak Pauskar. Eighty-six out of the 93 contractual workmen staged an agitation at the factory gate on Saturday seeking extension of their term. With no hope of the factory resuming operations this crushing season, the workers were afraid that their jobs were on the line. Local MLA Pauskar approached the workmen and discussed the issue.  In his capacity as the cabinet minister, Pauskar assured them of extending their contractual term either by two months or till proper arrangements are made. Pauskar said the issue arose as the staff members failed to send workmen’s extension proposals to the Registrar of Cooperative Societies. Authorities were reluctant to send the proposals of 7 workmen out of the 95 serving the facility, as the laboratory where they were working has been shut. Two of the workmen render their services at the petrol pump near the factory and get compensated. Puti Gaonkar, workers’ union leader said these workmen were in service of the factory for over a decade and recently, the cooperation minister had assured them of absorbing them elsewhere in the event of factory operations come to a halt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugar-factory-workers-to-get-short-extension/articleshow/77322739.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||31 Newton AAP DBL Kankavli||Panaji: Expressing alarm over the collapse of an underconstruction flyover in Kankavli,), the Aam Aadmi Party on friday called for a complete audit of the construction process. DBL is constructing the new cable-stayed bridge over river Zuari. “We had been persistently raising the issue of shoddy work on the Zuari bridge in Goa that was playing with the lives of the people,” said AAP member Sidharth Karapurkar. “We demand a complete audit of the quality control exercised by the company, as the company is known to be close to the BJP and may try a cover up.” Dilip Buildcon is constructing the 39km stretch of the Mumbai-Goa highway from Kalmath to Zarap at a cost of Rs 914 crores. Close to 90% of the stretch has been completed with just the flyover left, show documents with NHAI. Locals have objected to the manner in which the work has been done and have called for a structural audit of the entire stretch. AAP pointed out that around 12 months earlier, scaffolding erected for the Zuari bridge had collapsed on the Verna side. “We had even said that inaction on the part of the government has made us believe that Dilip Buildcon was the son in law of the government,” said Karapurkar. AAP said that the Kankavli flyover collapsed due to substandard work and a similar incident could occur with the Zuari bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/31-newton-aap-dbl-kankavli/articleshow/77322772.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||State braces for heavy rainfall till Aug 5||Panaji: Rainfall activity is expected to intensify further in the next few day, the India meteorological department has forecast on Sunday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall will continue till August 5. “Red alert warning is not issued as of now, as the regions of higher impact is slightly north of Goa. Still, the possibility of extremely heavy rainfall is valid over Goa also,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The IMD in its previous warnings had forecast an increase in rainfall activity over Goa during the first week of August. TOI had reported the same, last week. The possible impact of the heavy rain showers could be short-term waterlogging, flooding of susceptible informal settlements, low-lying areas, urban areas. Also, short-term disruption to municipal services like water, electricity, etc. Due to strong winds, weak trees may get uprooted and there could be instances of localised power interruptions. The IMD has also warned that, if the heavy showers prolongs, it may lead to a possibility of mudslides and rock falls in vulnerable areas. Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea until August 6 as squally weather will prevail along the coast of Goa with speeds reaching 45-55kmph. After August 6 however, the situation is expected to normalise with the intensity of the rainfall decreasing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-braces-for-heavy-rainfall-till-aug-5/articleshow/77322787.cms||---
August 3, 2020||India||Valley may get rail link by Dec 2022, all-weather road likely by next year||NEW DELHI: The Centre has set December 2022 as the deadline for rail connectivity to Kashmir and all-weather road connectivity to the Valley next year. Similarly, to improve road connectivity to villages in this newly created Union Territory, 5,300 kms of rural roads would be built during the current financial year. Sources said 4,600 km of roads under PM Gram Sadak Yojna will be built in Jammu province, the rest 700 km will be constructed in Kashmir. The railway ministry had recently claimed that the world’s highest railway bridge over river Chenab in J&K being built at a height of 359 metres from the river bed level will be ready by December 2021. This will be higher than the Qutub Minar and Eiffel Tower. The maximum designed wind speed for the bridge is 266 kmph, a document said. The railway ministry has commissioned the Udhmapur-Katra, Banihal-Quazigund and Quazigund-Baramulla sections with a combined length of 161 km. “The last remaining section, the 111 km Katra-Banihal is under construction. It is targeted for completion in December 2022,” an official said. The government claimed that expenditure on various infrastructure projects, which was 27% of the sanctioned cost in June 2018, has shot up to 54% in July 2020. It said the number of completed projects and substantially completed projects has shot up from seven in June 2018 to 17 in July 2020. Officials said the Semi Ring Road for Jammu will also be completed next year. All land acquisition and related hurdles have been removed and 30% of the work has been completed. Similarly, the progress of Quazigund-Banihal tunnel is around 86% and it is scheduled for completion next year. Officials said works on major roads—Jammu–Akhnoor Road, Chenani-Sudhmahadev road— have been accelerated. The government has also prepared the detailed project reports of Light Rail Transit System for Jammu and Srinagar at Rs 10,599 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/valley-may-get-rail-link-by-dec-2022-all-weather-road-likely-by-next-year/articleshow/77323561.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 3, 2020||Goa||Several paddy fields inS Goa under pest control||Margao: Several paddy fields in South Goa, particularly Salcete, have been infested with certain types of pests causing damage to farmers, prompting the Salcete zonal agriculture office to issue an advisory to paddy farmers. “The bountiful rainfall the state has received until now has been favourable for paddy, at least during the initial growth stages. However, high humidity levels have also created conducive conditions for attack of pests like Rice Caseworm and Rice leaf folder,” zonal agriculture office, Margao, Shariff Furtado, told TOI. Assistant agriculture officer Jovita Sequeira who inspected the pest-infested paddy fields across Salcete said that most of the damage was witnessed in areas of Curtorim, Sao Jose de Areal, Nuvem and Verna. Sequeira said adequate pest control measures as advised by the agriculture officers would help in controlling the damage to a great extent. The agriculture officers have advised paddy farmers to look out for signs that could be indicative of the crop being infested by pests. If any such signs are observed, the farmers have been asked to take adequate preventive or curative measures, as the case may be, to prevent or avoid further damage. ++++++++++++For infographics ++++++++++++++++++ Graphic header: Bugging The Agriculturists Pest name: Rice case worm (Nymphula depunctalis) To identify caseworm damage, check for: · Caterpillars feed on green tissues of the leaves and they become whitish papery · Tubular cases around the tillers by cutting the apical portion of leaves · Floating of tubular cases on the water · Cutting off leaf tips to make leaf cases Identification of insect pest: Egg: Individual egg is circular, flattened, and measures 0.5 mm in diameter. It is light yellow and has a smooth surface. Mature eggs are darker and develop two purplish dots. Larva: Pale translucent green with orange head. It has filamentous gills on the sides of the body. The larvae are found hanging from the leaf and measures upto 15mm long. Pupa: The pupa is cream in color and about 5.5 mm long. Mature pupa is silvery white. Adult: Moth is small, delicate white with pale brown wavy markings. The adult moth is about 5 mm long. It is bright white with light brown and black spots. Life cycle : · Female lays about 150 tiny eggs on leaves and leave sheath in rows and batches which hatch in about a week · Young larvae feed by scrapping the leaves surface. The larva makes a cylindrical, tubular case out of a portion of the leaf cut and remains inside it, moving with the case on the leaves and becomes fully grown in about 20 days reaching a length of 10-12 mm. · The caterpillars undergo six instars. Larger cases are made by the succeeding larval instars. The larval stage pupates inside the last case. Before pupation the case is attached to the leaf sheath above the water level and it’s both ends are plugged. · The pupal period lasts for about a week, after which it is converted into an adult insect. The life cycle is completed in about 35-40 days. Adult stage of the pest which is not directly harmful but it lays eggs and on hatching the worms cause actual damage. Management: Use of correct fertilizer application Plant early and use wider spacing (30 × 20 cm) Drain the field Transplant older seedlings Mix 250 ml of kerosene to the standing water Dislodge the cases by passing a rope and drain water. Collect the cases and destroy In case the infestation of the paddy crop has crossed the economic threshold level which will cause economic loss only then farmer is advised to undertake spraying operations described below All farmers especially of Salcete and Mormugao talukas are advised to have preventive spray of Biopesticide Azadirachtin @ 50ml per 10 lts of water If already infestation is witnessed then farmers are advised to take curative measures like spraying Chlorpyriphos @ 25 ml per 10 lt of water. After 20 days, the farmer have to repeat spray with 15 ml Imidiacloprid per 10 lt of water to avoid resurgence and development of resistance of spray to insects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/several-paddy-fields-ins-goa-under-pest-control/articleshow/77322796.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Andamans student found dead in Chennai||CHENNAI: A 26-year-old pharmacy student was found dead at his house in Guduvanchery on Sunday. Police said S Rajasekar from the Andamans was a second-year MPharm student of a private medical college and was staying alone at a house at Thailavaram near Guduvanchery. The incident came to light when his friend came looking for the man. With Rajasekar not answering repeated phone calls, his friend broke open the door which was locked from the inside. Rajasekar was found unconscious and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. A case of suspicious death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/andamans-student-found-dead-in-chennai/articleshow/77323565.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||40% of dementia cases linked to lifestyle, potentially preventable: International study||Experts have found that by reducing risk factors one can delay, even altogether prevent, the onset of dimentia by 40%. A recent study has expanded the number of known risk factors by three to include head injuries in mid-life, excessive alcohol consumption in mid-life, and exposure to air pollution in later life. “The evidence that dementia can be prevented or delayed by as much as 40% comes as a ray of hope,” said Dr Amit Dias, department of preventive and social medicine at the Goa Medical College, one of the 28 world-leading dementia experts on the Lancet Commission’s ‘Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2020 report’. Professor Gill Livingston from the University College London (UCL) was the lead author of the report. The report is an update on the 2017 Lancet Commission report that had listed blood pressure, poor early education, smoking, sedentary lifestyle, loss of hearing, diabetes, obesity, depression and even inadequate levels of social contact as the nine modifiable risk factors which contribute to 34% of all dementia cases. Combined, the three new risk factors are associated with 6% of all cases with head injuries in mid-life accounting for 3% of the cases, excessive alcohol consumption in mid-life 1%, and 2% exposure to air pollution in later life. The 12 risk factors identified in the report are estimated to affect 40% of people with dementia and hold special implications for low and middle income countries like India, Dr Dias said. “This understanding can help us deal with the rising tide of dementia in India by focusing on preventive strategies,” he said. Dementia is the umbrella term for a group of progressive, degenerative brain syndromes that result in memory loss, difficulty in thinking behaviour and emotion. There are an estimated 4 million people with dementia in India, approximately 5,000 of whom are in Goa and 50 million worldwide. “What is worse in India is that due to stigma and lack of awareness more than 90% of the people do not even get a diagnosis and grapple with the condition in confusion and this adversely affects the life of the person with dementia as well as the caregivers,” Dr Dias said. Experts in the field of dementia study repeatedly advocate the importance of prevention as the condition holds huge emotional and financial repercussions for the individual and family. According to the Alzheimer’s disease international, UK, global costs for dementia are estimated to about US $ 1 trillion. The Lancet Commission study showed that one must adopt a brain-friendly lifestyle to prevent dementia in late life and this includes limiting drinking as much as possible. Consumption of more than 21 units a week is a risk for developing dementia. If at all one needs to drink, it should be restricted to 14 units per week. “This translates to around six pints of average beer or 10 small glasses of low strength red wine in a week. Consumption above this also causes severe brain damage besides leading to dementia,” said Dr Dias, the only one from India on the Lancet commission. As India goes through a demographic transition, conditions such as dementia will rise further, said Dr Dias, while pressing for policy-makers and the community at large to take active measures to prevent the condition. “Our society and lifestyle is rapidly changing, resulting in an increase in non-communicable diseases. Adopting a healthy lifestyle and controlling the risk factors to prevent dementia has far-reaching benefits,” he said. Unanimous in its verdict that it is never too early or late to modify one’s lifestyle to prevent dementia, the study team pointed to already reducing incidences of age-related dementia in many countries . “Even the possibility of delaying the onset of dementia by a few years can have a great impact on the quality of life and cost of care for the family. There is a huge difference if someone develops dementia at the age of 60 as compared to the age of 80 years,” Dr Dias said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/40-of-dementia-cases-linked-to-lifestyle-potentially-preventable-international-study/articleshow/77322807.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid delays second airport, plan to engage consultant postponed||CHENNAI: The pandemic and the lockdown has hit plans to build a second airport for Chennai. The decision to appoint a consultant for the airport proposed to be established at Parandur in Kancheepuram district has been postponed because of the spread of Covid-19. The state government had fixed a pre-bid meeting for bidders in mid-March but it has been postponed and a revised date is yet to be announced. The state-owned Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (Tidco), the nodal agency for developing the new airport, has announced that the date of pre-bid meeting for consultancy services would be notified in "due course". Pre-bid meeting is meant for firms who are interested to bid for being a consultant for the project, they seek clarifications and suggestions ahead of the selection process. A tender for request for proposal (RFP) for appointing a consultant to study various issues including preparation of techno-economic feasibility report was floated in February. "Selection of a consultant will take some more time," a senior Tidco official told TOI. The consultant must prepare a plan for the airport such as number and length of runways, taxiways, hangars, modes of surface transport including high speed rail or metro rail, besides accommodation requirements for transit passengers at the airport. There are two views regarding the project - keep the ground work and paper work completed for work to begin at short notice, or postpone the project till the situation improves. "The process will have to be slowed down as no one will be ready to invest in the new airport because of the current situation. The studies done now will go to waste after 10 years. The city airport is handling only 50 to 60 flights per day. It looks like it may take almost mid next year for the passenger traffic to reach the pre-shutdown level of growth" said an official of Airports Authority of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-covid-delays-second-airport-plan-to-engage-consultant-postponed/articleshow/77323569.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 3, 2020||Goa||Whose idea was new Raj Bhavan in Goa: Congress||PANAJI: A day after governor Satya Pal Malik criticised the government’s plan to build a new Raj Bhavan, Congress questioned whether the directions to build a new Raj Bhavan came from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah or a private businessman. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also demanded that the file notings for the new Raj Bhavan proposal should be put in public domain. “The governor must instruct the chief minister to inform the people of Goa who first floated the idea of constructing a new Raj Bhavan,” Chodankar said. Congress also said the state government has asked PWD to design deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s bungalow. “The governor must call all the files pertaining to various projects pertaining to such wasteful capital expenditure and red flag them immediately,” he said. The party wondered whether the economic revival committee had cleared the proposal for a new Raj Bhavan after the outbreak of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/whose-idea-was-new-raj-bhavan-cong/articleshow/77322810.cms||---
August 3, 2020||World||US reels as July cases hit new record||The US recorded more than 1.9 million new infections in July, nearly 42% of the over 4.5 million cases reported nationwide since the pandemic began and more than double the number documented in any other month, according to data compiled by New York Times. The previous monthly high came in April, when more than 880,000 new cases were recorded. White House coronavirus task force leader Dr Deborah Birx said on Sunday that the infections in mark a “new phase” for the pandemic as she doubled down on calls to wear face masks and observe social distancing measures. Birx, speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union”, said “What we are seeing today is different from March and April. It is extraordinarily widespread.” The virus is picking up dangerous speed in much of the Midwest — and in states from Mississippi to Florida to California that thought they had already seen the worst of it. Across the country, deaths from the virus continued to rise. At the start of July, the average death toll was about 500 per day. Over the last week, it has averaged more than 1,000 daily, with many of those concentrated in Sun Belt states. Across the world, the situation is equally grim. In Australia, the country’s second-most populous state of Victoria declared a state of disaster on Sunday and imposed a nightly curfew for the capital Melbourne as part of its harshest movement restrictions to date afterreporting 671 infections, one of its highest, and seven deaths. Japan recorded 1,540 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, the country’s ministry of health announced on Sunday. Of the 1,540 new cases in the country, 472 were recorded in Tokyo. In Europe, coronavirus outbreaks at mink farms in Spain and the Netherlands have scientists digging into how the animals got infected and if they can spread it to people. In the meantime, authorities have killed more than 1 million minks at breeding farms in both countries as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-reels-as-july-cases-hit-new-record/articleshow/77323574.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Kala Academy theatre college to conduct online entrance test today||PANAJI: A total of 30 students will answer the entrance test to enrol into the first year course at Goa’s only theatre college, the Kala Academy (KA) College of Theatre, on Monday. The written test and viva, both have been moved online owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The cutoff date to apply for admissions was July 26 and the list of applicants’ was shared by the directorate of higher education (DHE) with KA. The KA will prepare the merit list of the selected students for the academic year 2020-21 after the entrance test. “In the DHE’s common admission test, there are a very few colleges that have to conduct an online test. Others do the selection directly based on the results of class 12,” principal of the theatre college Ramrao Wagh said. Vivas of the final semester of some of the courses at the Goa university have also been conducted online. This experience helped Wagh, who is also a professor at the Goa University’s MCA department, to put together a system to conduct the online entrance test. The exam is being conducted from 10am to 11am. The online question paper will be shared in Google forms format at 10am sharp. Soon after, the oral viva interview will take place on Google meet. In addition to this, a second round of admissions may be opened if there are more applicants that wish to enrol for the course, Wagh said. This will be based on the number of seats available after the merit list is prepared. The KA is also in talks with the government to move the theatre college to the old PWD premises near Rua de Ourem creek. “The chief minister said that he would speak to the principal chief engineer of the PWD. We need the premises quickly since we need to prepare the academic set up at the premises.” Wagh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ka-theatre-college-to-conduct-online-entrance-test-today/articleshow/77322820.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa says he’s infected, in Manipal Hospital||BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa late Sunday night tweeted he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to Manipal Hospitals on the advice of doctors as a precautionary measure. Sources in the CM’s office said that the 77-year-old leader’s results came positive as part of the once-in-seven-days tests conducted by the health department. Three of his colleagues — CT Ravi, Anand Singh and BC Patil — recently tested positive. He is the second CM, after his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to be infected with the coronavirus. I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommenda… https://t.co/dVVsuhUmcN— B.S. Yediyurappa (@BSYBJP) 1596391233000Yediyurappa tweeted at 11.30pm: “I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise selfquarantine.” Sources said the CM recently met governor Vajubhai Vala and the latter is likely to undergo tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-says-hes-infected-in-manipal-hospital/articleshow/77323572.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Miramar theft case: Accused pleads guilty||Panaji: A local court at Panaji sentenced a 29-year-old accused from Taleigao to one month’s imprisonment for a theft committed in March after he pleaded guilty. But the court released the accused as he was in custody since March 11 and has completed the sentence. The accused pleaded guilty to breaking the rear window of a car, near Science Centre, Miramar, and stealing a purse with a pan card, wrist watch, gold earrings and Rs 21,000 in cash, all worth Rs 31,000. Despite informing the accused about the consequences of pleading guilty, he voluntarily stated he wanted to plead guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/miramar-theft-case-accused-pleads-guilty/articleshow/77322832.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Teachers to return to work today||Panaji: Many of the close to 12,000 school teachers from the primary to the higher secondary level are set to return to work today, as there has been no circular from the state government on continuing the work from home arrangement for teachers. On July 25, after much persuasion by teachers, the state government finally complied with the Centre’s directives. The DoE issued a circular allowing teaching and non-teaching staff in Goa’s schools to work from home upto July 31. However, August 1 was declared a public holiday due to Eid and this was followed by a Sunday. On Monday, the teachers will be forced to return to work. As Covid-19 cases are rising in Goa, there is panic among teachers. “Central government orders ask to keep schools and colleges closed till August 31, but Goa government is not following these norms,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-to-return-to-work-today/articleshow/77322825.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Men account for 65% of Mumbai’s 6,000+ Covid deaths, CFR high at 6.1%: BMC||MUMBAI: In an analysis of 6,297 Covid deaths in the city, men were found to have a higher case fatality rate (CFR) of 6.1% than women’s 5.3%. Mumbai’s overall CFR—the percentage of coronavirus deaths to number of patients who have tested positive—is 5.8%, still much higher than the state and country averages. Of the city deaths, 65% were in men even though they accounted for 62% of cases while women accounted for 35% of the deaths despite contributing to 38% of cases. The gender disparity seen in the city though is consistent with the trend seen nationally and globally. At the state level too, 65% of the deaths are in men and 35% in women. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that recent findings, where more women were seen with antibodies than men, got them thinking. Gender disparity in infections max in 31-70 age groupWe relooked at the deaths to understand the gender disparity. The antibody study did show us that more women were exposed and developed antibodies. We will look at it more closely and see if there is a correlation. There is also growing medical evidence about hormones protecting women, but only studies can establish that,” he said. The BMC’s sero surveillance in three wards had showed that 59.3% of the total 2,297 women surveyed had antibodies. In contrast, 53.2% of the 1,937 men surveyed had antibodies. A look at infections show that a nearly equal percentage of girls (46%) and boys (54%) are affected in the age group of 10 years and under in the city. The share more or less remains the same till the age-group of 11-20 years. However, the gender gap in infections is the highest in the age groups of 31 years to 70 years, where the share of men go up to 65-69%. Endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi, also a member of the state task force, said that globally studies are being conducted to understand how oestrogen helps pre-menopausal women and whether it can become an armour against Covid. “There is evidence now that shows that the testes may act as a reservoir for the SARS-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19). The virus needs a receptor to enter human tissue. The angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been found to be particularly high in the testes. In simpler terms, it is believed that it plays a role in aggravating the disease in men. Oestrogen, on the other hand, downregulates it and probably prevents a critical turn in women,” said Dr Joshi. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said that the mystery of why a lesser proportion of women than men get infected or die has not yet been solved. “It could be a combination of gender, immunity and genetic predisposition that protects women. The answers are not clear,” he said. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh cautions that till it is known what protects women, they shouldn't drop their guard. “Women with comorbidities probably have the same risk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/men-account-for-65-of-mumbais-6000-covid-deaths-cfr-high-at-6-1-bmc/articleshow/77323567.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 3, 2020||Goa||Former speaker, 2-time MLA Anant Shet passes away after brief illness||BICHOLIM: Family sources said that Shet was admitted to the GMC on Friday following problems caused by acidity and that his condition worsened. He had been admitted to the GMC earlier on July 25 after he sustained injuries in a fall, but was discharged within four days. The two-time Mayem MLA expired around 3am, family sources said. The final rites were performed on Sunday by his son. Shet was accorded the guard of honour as per administrative protocol. He is survived by his wife Anuradha, son Amarish, daughter Akshata. Shet who represented the Mayem constituency from 2007 to 2017, saw his political career rise from panch member to speaker. He was a zilla panchayant member in 2007 when he won the Mayem seat on the BJP ticket for the first time. He won it again in 2012 and was appointed as deputy speaker and thereafter as speaker on January 12, 2016. During his tenure as Mayem MLA he was instrumental in bringing different development schemes to the people. He also fought for the rights of custodians of evacuee property in Mayem. Apart from being a politician, Shet was a fine artist with a diploma in fine arts. Governor Satya Pal Malik, chief minister Pramod Sawant and politicians cutting across party lines paid Shet rich tributes. “Shocked and deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former speaker of Goa legislative assembly and senior BJP leader Shri Anant Shet. A grassroot leader and very humble and down to earth person. His contribution towards the state and service to the people will always be remembered,” Sawant tweeted. Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat and AAP convenor Elvis Gomes were among those who also also expressed their condolence to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-speaker-2-time-mla-anant-shet-passes-away-after-brief-illness/articleshow/77322839.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Education dept takes stock of student, teacher numbers||PANAJI: Schools are yet to reopen for the new academic year 2020-21, but the directorate of education (DoE), to take stock of the situation, has asked aided schools to provide all details of its student and teacher numbers for the year. The DoE said that ‘due to some discrepancies’ the grant-in-aid institutions are being asked to provide the ‘correct information’ by August 7. The DoE said that any changes in enrolment figures can be updated later. Many schools may not be able to get the correct picture of its student numbers as several migrant families have left the state due to the pandemic. “The staff recruited on regular basis should be correctly shown and the NOCs over the last three academic years, recruitment done during the three years, the proposed recruitment should be invariably shown, so as to take into consideration the existing staff position in the school,” the DoE told aided schools. All management should submit information about surplus staff and any irregularities in this regard will be viewed seriously, schools have been told. In June, the DoE had asked its taluka-level education inspectors to take count of students in government schools within their jurisdiction. These schools are feeling the most impact of thousands of migrant families leaving the state. For many schools it is already proving to be a challenge to gauge the enrolment for the new academic session. Many migrant families are not responding to calls from schools or their phone numbers are now not contactable. For schools located inside containment zones, the process of assessing student numbers will be delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/education-dept-takes-stock-of-student-teacher-numbers/articleshow/77322846.cms||---
August 3, 2020||World||Microsoft to continue talks to buy TikTok from ByteDance||Microsoft Corp said on Sunday that it would continue discussions to acquire popular short-video app TikTok from Chinese internet giant ByteDance, and that it was aiming to conclude the negotiations by September 15. The company made the statement following a conversation between is CEO Satya Nadella and US President Donald Trump. It said it would ensure that all private data of TikTok's American users is transferred to and remains in the United States. "Microsoft fully appreciates the importance of addressing the President's concerns. It is committed to acquiring TikTok subject to a complete security review and providing proper economic benefits to the United States, including the United States Treasury," Microsoft said in a statement. The company added that there was no certainty a deal would be reached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/microsoft-to-continue-talks-to-buy-tiktok-from-bytedance/articleshow/77323579.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Goa||Midday meals: 6 self-help groups get warning, 1 fined||PANAJI: During the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20, the state government received seven complaints from schools against women’s self-help groups (SHG) serving midday meals. While all seven groups were issued warning letters or show-cause notices over poor quality meals, one group was also fined Rs 4,000, data tabled last week during the state assembly session shows. The data states that during 2018-19, a complaint was received from Janata High School, Mapusa, that 42 students complained of stomach pain and vomiting sensation after consuming the midday meals supplied by Shree Ram SHG, Colvale. A fine of Rs 4,000 was imposed on this self-help group, the state government has stated. A warning letter was issued to the Aquem Baixo SHG after a bug was found in the bread supplied as part of the midday meal at the Government Primary School No. II at Khareband. In that same academic year, Holy Cross High School, Bastora, informed authorities that a beetle was found in the midday meal served there. “Inspection of midday meals was conducted, samples collected and a warning letter and show-cause notice issued for not complying with midday meal norms,” it was stated in the data submitted in the assembly. During 2019-20, an insect was found in a midday meal served at the Smt Sunandabai Bandodkar Prathamik Vidhyalaya, Salvador do Mundo by the Snehamayi SHG, Carona. A warning letter was issued to the supplier. In Goa, 103 SHGs or Mahila Mandals have been engaged to supply midday meals to schools. Goa is able to extend the scheme to nearly all of its around 87,000 students at the primary level and 58,000 at upper primary level. Nationally, Goa is considered one of the best in implementation of the midday meal scheme. The state government spends more than its mandatory share per child per meal than that required by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/midday-meals-6-self-help-groups-get-warning-1-fined/articleshow/77322852.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 3, 2020||Goa||Sceptical about govt’s plans for industry, say entrepreneurs||Panaji: The state government continues to ignore Goa’s industrial sector even though, after the closure of mining and tourism, the economy depends on the manufacturing sector to survive, said entrepreneurs at the annual general meeting of the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA). GSIA, which held a virtual AGM, said that despite the efforts of all industry bodies the state government ignored requests not to enhance compensation under the Industrial Disputes Act. “Some of the members were sceptical of the government’s intentions,” GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said. “In spite of the fact that the economy of the state now largely depends on the industrial sector, the government gives scant attention to the industries.” Kochkar also informed industrialists that with Covid-19 cases rising in Goa, entrepreneurs will have to learn to live with the pandemic. “Industries must ensure that all the guidelines of the government and the standard operating procedures circulated by GSIA should be meticulously followed. Any concealment of positive cases will adversely affect the other workers, their families, and will also affect industrial activity,” Kochkar said. A 100-bed hospital has been set up using contribution from the Verna Industries Association and individual units at the Verna industrial estate, a swab collection centre has been set up and a RT-PCR Covid-19 testing machine has been donated to the state district hospital at Margao, Kochkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sceptical-about-govts-plans-for-industry-say-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77322855.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Victoria Hospital doctor on Covid duty molests patient||BENGALURU: A doctor from Trauma Care Centre, a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, allegedly sexually harassed a Covid-19 patient on the night of July 25. Following a complaint by the hospital on July 30, VV Puram police have filed a sexual harassment case against the unidentified doctor. Sources said the woman alleged that the doctor misbehaved with her by touching her inappropriately around 10pm that day. The incident came to light after the woman informed her experience to Dr Asima Banu, Covid ward’s nodal officer at Trauma Care Centre. Hospital to give details after probeBanu brought the matter to the hospital administration's notice. “Dr S Balaji Pai, a special officer, Trauma Care Centre, Victoria Hospital, filed a complaint about the incident. We have registered a case of sexual harassment against the unidentified doctor,” a police officer said. According to police, the hospital administration has not provided sufficient details about the incident and the suspect. “They told us an internal inquiry is on and they will provide us details in a few days,” a police officer said. While Dr Pai said he is not authorised to speak in the matter, Dr Ramesh Krishna K, medical superintendent of Victoria Hospital, said they have formed a committee to inquire into the allegation. “The committee may submit its report within a day or two,” Krishna said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-victoria-hospital-doctor-on-covid-duty-molests-patient/articleshow/77323580.cms||Santosh kumar.B
August 3, 2020||World||Trump to give TikTok's Chinese owner 45 days to reach deal to sell: Sources||President Donald Trump has agreed to give China's ByteDance 45 days to negotiate a sale of popular short-video app TikTok to Microsoft Corp, two people familiar with the matter said on Sunday. US officials have said TikTok under its Chinese parent poses a national risk because of the personal data it handles. Trump said on Friday he was planning to ban TikTok in the United States after dismissing the idea of a sale to Microsoft. But following a discussion between Trump and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, the Redwood, Washington-based company said in a statement that it would continue negotiations to acquire TikTok from ByteDance, and that it aimed to reach a deal by September 15. It was not immediately clear what changed Trump's mind. Several prominent Republican lawmakers put out statements in the last two days urging him to back a sale of TikTok to Microsoft. The negotiations between ByteDance and Microsoft will be overseen by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a US government panel that has the right to block any agreement, according to the sources, who requested anonymity ahead of a White House announcement. "Microsoft fully appreciates the importance of addressing the President's concerns. It is committed to acquiring TikTok subject to a complete security review and providing proper economic benefits to the United States, including the United States Treasury," Microsoft said in a statement. ByteDance and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Under the proposed deal, Microsoft said it would take over TikTok's operations in the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. It said it would ensure that all private data of TikTok's American users is transferred to and remains in the United States. Microsoft may invite other American investors to acquire minority stakes in TikTok, the company added. About 70% of ByteDance investors come from the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-to-give-tiktoks-chinese-owner-45-days-to-reach-deal-to-sell-sources/articleshow/77323607.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||70% Covid centres in Mumbai shut as cases down in slums||MUMBAI: Four months after BMC’s orders for requisitioning rooms in private buildings, lodges and hotels in Mumbai for setting up Covid care centres (CCCs), the civic body has returned almost 70% of them. The structures included sports complexes, marriage halls, hostels, and dormitories in possession of private parties that were lying vacant due to the lockdown. On April 1, the then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi said it had been found that many high- and low-risk contacts of patients in particular buildings and localities lived in small homes and used common sanitation facilities, thereby being vulnerable to infection. Hence, they needed to be shifted to CCCs to avoid viral spread. Last week, civic chief IS Chahal pointed out that 80% of new cases are from non-slum buildings. ‘No need felt for keeping many CCCs operational’A senior official from the civic public health department said the facilities were needed a few months ago when there was a huge number of Covid-19 cases especially from slums. “It was impossible to ask those living in Mumbai's dense slums to isolate themselves in their homes and therefore they had to be quarantined in these facilities to break the viral chain. Following a decline in cases from slums, no need was felt for keeping these CCCs operational anymore,” he said. Civic wards which had the maximum number of CCC-1s are E (Byculla) with 21 (19 discontinued) and G North Dharavi) with 19 (11 discontinued).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/70-covid-centres-in-mumbai-shut-as-cases-down-in-slums/articleshow/77323586.cms||Richa Pinto
August 3, 2020||India||Nepal stakes claim over no-man’s land||PITHORAGARH: The mayor of Bhimdutt nagar palika in Kanchanpur district of Nepal has claimed that a patch of no-man’s land near the India-Nepal border in Champawat district of Kumaon is actually Nepalese territory. The mayor, Surendra Bisht, also alleged that the area which adjoins the Brahmdev area in Nepal has “for years been administered by the community forest committee (van samiti) of our nagar palika.” He further added that the nagar palika had put up wooden fencing in the area years ago which has recently been replaced as it had become old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-stakes-claim-over-no-mans-land/articleshow/77323616.cms||Prem Punetha
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai to get third Miyawaki forest, in Mugalivakkam||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has started work on developing a third Miyawaki forest in the city, in Alandur zone. Miyawaki method is a Japanese technique of growing different varieties of trees in a small patch of land using organic manure. Already two such forests have been created on small patches of land. The first one is besides the Kotturpuram MRTS station, falling in Adyar (zone 13). The second one is in Rayala Nagar in Valasaravakkam. While the one in Adyar has 2,000 saplings of 40 species of trees on around 20,000 square feet of land, the one in Valasaravakkam has more than 700 saplings of 45 different species on a 6,000 square-foot land. The one in Alandur zone will come up in Blooming Garden Road in ward 156 (Mugalivakkam) on a similar sized plot. There will be 2000 saplings in 35 cents of land. The trees are likely to create a dense foliage within two years. Regional deputy commissioner (south) Alby John visited the spot on Saturday and also planted a sapling. "Though the land was identified and we had prepared to plant it in early March, Covid-19 delayed the plans. However, after a good spell of rains, we decided to start the plantation and finish it in a week," Alby John said. In the Miyawaki scheme, trees are grown with a gap of 1 metre. Traditional tree varieties like Poongan, Peepal and Neem trees would be planted on this. Fruit-bearing trees would also be part of the forest, which would form a canopy. The Miyawaki system uses organic manure and soil for growing trees. In the process, soil would be dug up to four feet to plant the trees. Wet waste (converted to manure), coir, cow dung and other similar material is used as an organic manure. According to GCC's calculations, the 2,000 trees in Kotturpuram would consume 11.7 tonnes of carbon dioxide and give out four tonnes of oxygen in the first year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-to-get-third-miyawaki-forest-in-mugalivakkam/articleshow/77323620.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Chinese car maker’s bid for govt EV tender faces hurdle||NEW DELHI: Energy Efficiency Services (EESL), the government’s electric vehicles procurement arm, has said that MG Motor, a subsidiary of China’s Shanghai Automotive (SAIC), will stand disqualified for their upcoming e-vehicles tender in the absence of an official clearance by a panel comprising officials from the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), and home and external affairs ministries. EESL MD Saurabh Kumar said the company has floated a new tender for 250 electric cars, and the Chinese company, which sells ‘ZS’ e-vehicle, has to fulfil the criteria to participate. The tender closes on Friday. “There is a specific requirement recently spelt out by the government that any company which has an ownership from China has to follow a registration process. They need a clearance from the DPIIT. This is part of the tender process,” Kumar told TOI. “If they don’t have it, they will stand disqualified, simple.” EESL’s condition comes as the government has stipulated strict conditions for investment and tender participation from Chinese companies over the past few months after the escalation of tensions between the two countries. As the diplomatic relations worsened, the Maharashtra government had in late June put on hold investment proposals worth Rs 5,000 crore by Chinese companies, including by carmaker Great Wall Motor. Before tensions at the border escalated, EESL had bought a few units of the MG ZS SUV as part of the company’s policy to test new e-vehicles that are introduced into the market, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-car-makers-bid-for-govt-ev-tender-faces-hurdle/articleshow/77323623.cms||Pankaj Doval
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||HSL mishap: Initial probe finds negligence as cause||VISAKHAPATNAM: Preliminary investigation into the mishap at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) on Saturday, where a 70 tonne jetty crane collapsed and crushed 10 people to death, has revealed negligence as cause of the accident. Police have registered a case under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) against HSL, Anupam Industries and Green Fields Corporation. The massive iron structure crashed to the ground after the crane’s cabin and base snapped during a load trial run killing 10 people. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Harbour sub-division, T Mohan Rao said that the death toll in the crane mishap was initially pegged as 11 on Saturday, however, the death toll could actually be 10. “On Saturday, 10 bodies were recovered from the accident spot including half of a body. The other half of the body is still stuck under debris. As per our investigation, the death toll in the incident is 10. We have to match the bodies once the debris is cleared,” he added. HSL authorities have informed the police that HSL had placed a work order for supply, installation and commissioning of a 70-tonne capacity level Luffing Crane in May 2009 at a cost of Rs 17.75 crore. Gujarat-based Anupam Industries Ltd— an overhead crane maker— supplied the crane and completed installation in August 2017 and commenced the commissioning process. During commissioning, HSL authorities observed some technical deficiencies in the crane. Subsequently, HSL requested the vendor to fix the defects and undertake load trials, which was part of the scope of work. However, since August 12,2017, Anupam Industries did not attend to the work and the technical deficiencies in the crane remained unattended. Since load trials of the crane had not been completed, HSL did not use it and sent the vendor a performance notice. Despite the notice, Anupam Industries did not complete the work. Subsequently in October 2019, HSL outsourced the work to Visakhapatnam-based Green Fields Corporation which was supposed to finish the commissioning process and conduct load trials. Green Fields Corporation carried out the balance work and the liquidation of defects and commenced load testing of the crane. On August 1, when load testing was underway, the crane collapsed and fell on the north side of slipway 4 on the crane track. Speaking to TOI, K Durga Prasad, inspector of Malkapuram police station, said that preliminary investigation has shown negligence as cause of the major mishap. “We have registered a case against Anupam Industries, Green Fields Corporation and some HSL officials under Section 304A,” he said. Meanwhile, HSL has constituted an internal committee headed by the director of operations. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand has constituted an independent committee comprising heads of departments of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering departments of Andhra University Engineering College to probe the cause of the mishap. The committees will probe whether any human negligence caused the fatal mishap. Based on the reports filed by these committees, police will initiate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hsl-mishap-initial-probe-finds-negligence-as-cause/articleshow/77320189.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Once considered 'lung space', Raj Bhavan is now a Covid hotspot||CHENNAI: Raj Bhavan, a rare urban lung space in Chennai, has become a Covid hotspot with 88 staff, and now governor Banwarilal Purohit, testing positive for the virus. The 600-odd staff, including officials, security personnel, gardeners, sweepers, and dependents in the residential quarters, are in a state of panic. The Raj Bhavan campus is spread across 156 acre. "No one knows who the primary source is. It is a mystery," said a senior official in Raj Bhavan. A battalion of CRPF is stationed inside the campus for round-the-clock security. The first set of positive cases emerged from them, after some of them turned symptomatic 10 days ago. Health teams were roped in and testing was carried out among 147 people, and 84, including security and fire service staff, tested positive and were hospitalized in government-run Covid facilities in the city. Along with Tamil Nadu police posted at the entrance, the CRPF personnel take turns and work in shifts. They keep every nook and corner of the campus under surveillance -- from the main gate to staff gate, from Velachery gate to the forest area. "The governor takes a stroll in the morning," said a staff member. A canteen meant for CRPF is popular in the premises, and a staff from the public relation office in Raj Bhavan, who visited the canteen last week, is now undergoing treatment in a Covid facility in the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine. Days later, a senior public relations officer tested positive and was hospitalized, sources said. There is regular Covid screening of people and vehicles at the staff gate. There is regular supply of vegetables, fruits and groceries through government agencies. A ration-shop is run to provide all necessary commodities, and there is an ATM and post office in the campus. Last week, three more members tested positive among 38 staff members, including a secretary to the governor. The testing continued for another set of 46 employees on Saturday afternoon. This time, the governor and his aide tested positive. After further tests at a private hospital on Sunday, Purohit returned home in the evening. "The governor's office is a stickler for Covid protocol. They strictly followed the protocol. The number is testimony to effective tracing of contacts," said an official. The special tours for tourists in Raj Bhavan have been cancelled till August 31, while 'At Home' event on August 15 in the premises is likely to be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-once-considered-lung-space-raj-bhavan-is-now-a-covid-hotspot/articleshow/77323626.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||HSL crane collapse: Rs 50 lakh compensation for kin of deceased||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) on Sunday announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh each for families of the people who died after a massive crane collapsed in HSL’s premises on Saturday. Ten people died in the accident.  ACP T Mohan Rao said that post mortems are still being carried out and five bodies have been handed over to kin so far. State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao visited HSL and interacted with the management, workers, trade union activists and family members of the deceased. He said that the HSL management has agreed to pay Rs 50 lakh each as ex-gratia to the victims’ families. Rear Admiral (retired) LV Sarat Babu, chairman and managing director of HSL said that employment will be provided to eligible family members of the deceased on the basis of educational qualification. However, trade union activists and family members of the deceased demanded that HSL announce Rs 1 crore as ex-gratia. CITU activists alleged that safety workload procedures were not being followed at HSL and a majority of cranes are decades old. They demanded that the HSL management procure new cranes and comply with safety norms so that such accidents don’t recur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-50l-compensation-for-kin-of-deceased/articleshow/77320200.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 3, 2020||Business||Indian parts makers gain as auto cos look outside China||CHENNAI: As global OEMs look for alternative sourcing to China, the Indian auto component supply chain has begun reaping early gains with parts makers saying that Japanese, South Korean and European companies started a ‘China + 1’ policy discreetly a couple of years ago. Amid the pandemic and the US-China spat, this process has now become “less discreet and more rushed”. Already Indian auto component companies are getting orders and feelers from global OEMs. “They are willing to offer bigger advance, help with setting up local plants in Europe as well as accept a slightly higher cost than China as long as the sub-parts are all made-in-India,” said Jayant Davar, co-chairman & MD of Sandhar Technologies, which started building a plant in Romania after the lockdown that will go into operation in 2 months. Others including Minda Group and Motherson Group are also handling renewed interest and orders from OEMs and tier-1 suppliers, looking to widen their sourcing base. “We did Rs 400 crore in exports last year and in FY21 too we should do as much despite 2 months of lockdown. Already we are investing around Rs 60 crore in a new business line for a turbo charger company BorgWarner,” said Ashok Minda, chairman & group CEO, Minda Corporation. Auto component makers say this first trickle of global orders will improve once the new launch developments come in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-parts-makers-gain-as-auto-cos-look-outside-china/articleshow/77323630.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||New board to govern AMRDA, chairperson yet to be named||Amaravati: The state government has notified the constitution of Amaravati Metro Region Development Authority (AMRDA) after governor Biswabhushan Harichandan endorsed the repeal of CRDA Act. The government also formed a new board for AMRDA which will manage assets and liabilities of the erstwhile CRDA. The government has, however, not named the chairperson of the newly-constituted board. While the chief minister was the CRDA chairperson, minister for municipal and urban development had held the position of vice-chairman. Sources said that the government might not name the CM as head of AMRDA as it is no more a prestigious organization like CRDA. It is being speculated that the government might appoint a legislator as chairperson of AMRDA with cabinet rank status. In the given situation, the CM is likely to head Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority (VMRDA) as the focus of the state government will shift to Vizag after relocation of the executive capital city. The government has not renewed the term of Dronamraju Srinivas as chairman of VMRDA. He has held the position only for one year. “As per the Section 3 (b) of the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act, 2020, the areas within the jurisdiction of AP Capital Region under the Principal Act (AP CRDA Act 2014-Act 11 of 2014), shall be deemed to be the area of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority,” said the government in the GO to notify AMRDA. The municipal administration department secretary has been made AMRDA deputy chairman while several officials including principal secretary of finance, district collectors of Krishna and Guntur, superintending engineers of R and B department in Krishna and Guntur, SE of CPDCL, director of town and country planning were made members. Erstwhile CRDA commissioner Lakshminarasimham has been made AMRDA commissioner through a separate GO. A member from environment department and experts of national or international repute who possess knowledge in urban governance, urban planning, conservation, environment and transportation would also be appointed as members of the governing council at a later date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-board-to-govern-amrda-chairperson-yet-to-be-named/articleshow/77320208.cms||Samdani MN
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Amaravati MLAs should resign: PK||Vijayawada: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan has demanded that YSRC legislators of the Amaravati capital region to resign and join the protests by Amaravati farmers. He chaired a political affairs committee meeting of the party on Sunday.Pawan alleged that both YSRC and TDP are trying to benefit by creating regional disparities in the state. “Farmers gave their lands trusting the government. But the TDP deceived them. YSRC brought in three capitals owing to personal rivalry,” Kalyan said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amaravati-mlas-should-resign-pk/articleshow/77320215.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Child trafficking case: Another Visakhapatnam hospital under scanner||VISAKHAPATNAM: Investigation into the child trafficking case linked to Universal Srusti Hospital has taken a twist in course of the weekend. Police now suspect a link between the accused and Padmaja Hospital at Seethammadhara. Police and medical teams searched the hospital on Saturday night and seized some documents. A week ago, MR Peta police arrested six people including Dr P Namrata, managing director of Universal Srusti Hospital and Dr Tirmala, an employee of the hospital, for allegedly selling off a baby to a Kolkata-based couple. In course of investigation, police have found that the group may have been involved in five other child trafficking cases. Searches were carried out at Universal Srusti Fertility and Research Centre on July 26 and documents were seized. The investigation revealed that Universal Srusti Hospital has performed a total of 56 deliveries till date and referred some deliveries to Padmaja Hospital in Seethammadhara, thereby linking the hospital to the case. Police have observed that the management of Padmaja Hospital has not maintained proper records. Speaking to TOI, DCP Aishwarya Rastogi said that the child trafficking case will require a wide investigation. “We are investigating the case in multiple aspects to ascertain the number of babies sold. We will examine the seized documents and look into the alleged role of other hospitals in the case,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/child-trafficking-case-another-vizag-hospital-under-scanner/articleshow/77320227.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 3, 2020||Business||Tea Board ops rejig likely as Centre may repeal ‘obsolete’ Tea Act of ’53||Kolkata: The future of The Tea Board of India, the city-based iconic headquarters of the tea industry regulator, may soon come under question as the Centre has included The Tea Act, 1953, in the list of “obsolete and redundant laws which have lost their significance” with a view to repeal them. The Tea Act, 1953 (No. 29 of 1953) was enacted by setting up the Tea Board. Sources close to the development told TOI that following the revocation of the Tea Act and other such Acts, all agricultural industry boards such as tea, rubber, coffee and spices may come under a single umbrella of an agri-products exports promotion council governed by the Union commerce ministry. The Centre is reviewing some of these “archaic and irrelevant” legislations and has asked for comments from respective government-run regulatory boards. In a July 7 letter to the Tea Board deputy chairman in Kolkata, the plantation division of the commerce ministry has sought his comments on the issue immediately. The executive director of the Rubber Board at Kottayam has also received a letter on the possible repealing of The Rubber Act, 1947. Reeta Vasistha, additional secretary at the Union ministry of law and justice, had issued a note in June saying that “…one more Repealing and Amending Act would be tabled in the next session of the Parliament”. According to the current Tea Board chairman, the regulator could still serve as an export and domestic demand promotion council even if the Tea Act is repealed. P K Bezbaruah, the first non-IAS and non-executive chairman of the Board, told TOI: “Tea Board has not been able to satisfy the expectations of its stakeholders for the last two years or so. Deficiencies such as pending subsidies to gardens, unsatisfied small tea growers (STG) due to the paltry aid, malfunction of pan-India e-auction system, phasing out of overseas promotion and little effort for domestic tea campaign have been blamed on ‘lack of funds’ by the board functionaries. So, either the Board should be given an adequate budgetary support, or its role should be reimagined.” Welcoming the possible change, a tea industry veteran explained that tea accounted for 40% of India’s exports in 1953 while it forms just 0.4% of the same today. “The sector is a mix of agriculture and industry. There may be better ways of handling this dichotomy than to govern it through an archaic piece of legislation,” he said. “Personally speaking, the Tea Board could gradually metamorphose into a structure in which the agriculture part could be led by the ministry of agriculture, the consumer safety and quality by FSSAI, the internal demand and export aspects by a government-aided trade body such as EEPC,” added Bezbaruah, who is serving his second tenure as the chairman. Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA) chairman Anshuman Kanoria, too, feels that the Tea Act indeed has become obsolete. “In the last few decades, the attention has moved to the back end and without any budgetary support, export and generic promotion has been a casualty,” he said. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of STG body Cista, said, “If the Act is repealed, we will only seek a better, helpful and beneficial environment for the STGs, who produce over 50% of tea in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tea-board-ops-rejig-likely-as-centre-may-repeal-obsolete-tea-act-of-53/articleshow/77321417.cms||Sovon Manna
August 3, 2020||Vijayawada||BEE to study energy efficiency measures||Vijayawada: The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has selected Andhra Pradesh to conduct a study on energy efficiency measures in refractory industries. Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) making refractories in East and West Godavari districts have been chosen for the study. The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) will take up a detailed study in the refractory clusters. Detailed energy audits will be conducted by TERI by closely interacting with stakeholders, manufacturers and industry associations. This will help assess the areas of improvement for energy savings and to identify the scope for introducing latest technologies. TERI will bench mark the energy consumption in refractory clusters and help them introduce advanced global technologies in energy efficiency that are cost-effective and will help save energy. Director of BEE, Miling Deore, said in a webinar conducted with energy department officials on Sunday that they are going to conduct an energy audit in refractory clusters in two districts of Andhra Pradesh and one district in Jharkhand. The findings of the study will be utilised to develop a roadmap for making refractory sector energy efficient and environment-friendly, he said. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli thanked BEE and TERI for undertaking study in Andhra Pradesh. He assured all cooperation from the state government, which is keen on making cost-effective power available to its consumers. He urged BEE and TERI to focus on implementing new cutting-edge technologies as a way forward. He requested for recommendations in the form of suitable business models for wider adoption in MSME sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bee-to-study-energy-efficiency-measures/articleshow/77320237.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Chennai||98 more deaths take Covid toll in Tamil Nadu to 4,132||CHENNAI: For the fourth day in a row, Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 death toll hovered around the 100-mark. The 98 deaths on Sunday took the cumulative toll to 4,132. The state also had 5,875 fresh cases, taking active cases to 56,998. Of the active cases, 38% were in Chennai (12,190) and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu (2,817), Kancheepuram (3,439) and Thiruvallur (3,430). These districts together had 2,198 new cases on Sunday. Chennai alone had 1,065 new cases. A total of 34 deaths were reported in these districts and this included a 23-year-old from Chennai with chronic kidney disease. Eight people who died had no comorbidities. Fresh cases dipped marginally in western Tamil Nadu, showing signs of the spread stabilising. The eight districts including Coimbatore cumulatively had 481 new cases on Sunday down from 700 or 600 cases reported every day last week. The number of active cases too did not record any surge as it hovered around 4,500 for the past several days. The significant drop came from the two high incidence districts of Coimbatore and Salem. While Coimbatore had 167 cases as against 238 reported on Saturday, Salem recorded 134 cases. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said there were no clusters and these cases were spread across the districts. If the present trend continues, we may be able to bring down the spread to a large extent in the next ten days," he said. Trichy region reported 541 new cases and two deaths. In southern districts, the number of new cases continued to be less than 1,800 for more than one week, with 1774 new cases being reported on Sunday. Thirty seven deaths on Sunday took the toll in the southern districts to 759. Virudhunagar with 337 had the most fresh cases in the south. The district authorities said they were testing 900 samples a day now. Theni, the other southern district to have recorded more than 300 cases (including 23 children) on Sunday, conducted only 235 tests. Madurai recorded 178 new cases and 67 of them had ILI/SARI and many of them were also detected through the fever clinics being conducted in the district, which tests 4,000 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/98-more-deaths-take-covid-toll-in-tamil-nadu-to-4132/articleshow/77323635.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Salem||98 more deaths take Covid toll in Tamil Nadu to 4,132||CHENNAI: For the fourth day in a row, Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 death toll hovered around the 100-mark. The 98 deaths on Sunday took the cumulative toll to 4,132. The state also had 5,875 fresh cases, taking active cases to 56,998. Of the active cases, 38% were in Chennai (12,190) and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu (2,817), Kancheepuram (3,439) and Thiruvallur (3,430). These districts together had 2,198 new cases on Sunday. Chennai alone had 1,065 new cases. A total of 34 deaths were reported in these districts and this included a 23-year-old from Chennai with chronic kidney disease. Eight people who died had no comorbidities. Fresh cases dipped marginally in western Tamil Nadu, showing signs of the spread stabilising. The eight districts including Coimbatore cumulatively had 481 new cases on Sunday down from 700 or 600 cases reported every day last week. The number of active cases too did not record any surge as it hovered around 4,500 for the past several days. The significant drop came from the two high incidence districts of Coimbatore and Salem. While Coimbatore had 167 cases as against 238 reported on Saturday, Salem recorded 134 cases. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said there were no clusters and these cases were spread across the districts. If the present trend continues, we may be able to bring down the spread to a large extent in the next ten days," he said. Trichy region reported 541 new cases and two deaths. In southern districts, the number of new cases continued to be less than 1,800 for more than one week, with 1774 new cases being reported on Sunday. Thirty seven deaths on Sunday took the toll in the southern districts to 759. Virudhunagar with 337 had the most fresh cases in the south. The district authorities said they were testing 900 samples a day now. Theni, the other southern district to have recorded more than 300 cases (including 23 children) on Sunday, conducted only 235 tests. Madurai recorded 178 new cases and 67 of them had ILI/SARI and many of them were also detected through the fever clinics being conducted in the district, which tests 4,000 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/98-more-deaths-take-covid-toll-in-tamil-nadu-to-4132/articleshow/77326609.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Flipkart may consolidate Walmart’s wholesale operations||NEW DELHI: E-commerce giant Flipkart, which recently took over its US parent Walmart’s wholesale business in India, is exploring ways to consolidate its operations and this could include shutting down unviable “Best Price” stores or turning some of them into full-fledged warehouses with a greater focus on their e-commerce operations, sources said. The Bengaluru-headquartered company, in which Walmart bought 77% stake for $16 billion in 2018, is also in the process of relinquishing the space in Gurgaon used as headquarters by Walmart India, which runs 28 Best Price stores across India, with plans to relocate its employees to Bengaluru. “Employees of the Walmart India team will transition to Flipkart Wholesale in January 2021. As part of the integration, we will be moving our operations to Bengaluru in the next fiscal. We will provide our employees with the necessary support to make this move,” a Flipkart Group spokesperson said. “The Best Price cash and carry business will continue to serve its 1.5 million+ members via its omni-channel network of 28 stores and B2B e-commerce operations. Our new store in Tirupati will open to serve members later this year and we will continue to evaluate opportunities for store openings,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-may-consolidate-walmarts-wholesale-ops/articleshow/77323636.cms||John Sarkar
August 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Birthday outing: Two teenagers drown at sea in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Two youngsters drowned at sea near the Naval Coastal Battery area on Saturday night. The deceased were identified as Ch Rohit (14) and G Vardhan (16), both were residents of the Gnanapuram area. A group of eight youngsters had gone to the beach to celebrate the birthday of one of them. After they entered the waters, two of them got caught in a current, which sucked them deeper into the sea. Seeing the plight of the two, the remaining friends raised an alarm. Although locals tried to rescue the youngsters, their efforts proved futile. The police, who were called in, immediately launched a search and rescue operation but the bodies could not be recovered before Sunday. The police have registered a case and shifted the bodies to a hospital for post mortem. The parents of the deceased said that their children had not informed them about their outing. Police have appealed to youngsters to not venture into the sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bday-outing-2-teenagers-drown-at-sea/articleshow/77320256.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Business||Lithium ion cells, PCBs may get local manufacturing sops||NEW DELHI: After mobiles and basic & bulk drug manufacturing, the government is looking at incentive schemes for other sectors such as lithium ion batteries and printed circuit boards (PCBs). While the commerce and industry ministry is working on a plan to support the domestic production of several items, sources said the finance ministry is not in favour of offering the performance-linked incentives (PLIs) to products such as air-conditioners, furniture and segments of the textiles industry that several government agencies and industry bodies are demanding. Tightening the flow of funds, North Block has indicated that savings from the Merchandise Exports of India Scheme (MEIS), where it has capped the outgo at Rs 9,000 crore during April-December, can be used for incentivising domestic production of goods, which are currently being imported and widening the trade deficit. The outgo on MEIS was estimated at Rs 43,000 crore last year. The commerce and industry ministry has already put in place a blueprint for over a dozen industry groups, while starting work with industry captains on adding another eight sectors, including TV sets, CCTV equipment, set-top boxes, electric vehicle components, medical devices, sports & gym goods and lithium ion batteries. “The idea is to focus on goods that are high technology and require value addition, instead of things like furniture which is run of the mill,” said a senior finance ministry officer. Incidentally, the finance ministry had opposed the performance-linked incentive scheme for mobile phones, questioning the need for an expenditure of around Rs 40,000 crore. It finally went through after the ministry of electronics and IT and NITI Aayog explained that the sops would create jobs and generate revenue in future. The proposals, put together, require large investment. For instance, to make India a large base of AC manufacturing, an investment of around Rs 1 lakh crore is required. Another officer said that the government recognises that there is a need to provide support to encourage domestic manufacturing, especially when imports from countries such as China were being discouraged. But the idea is to prioritise expenditure. Some of the initiatives, such as setting up of a footwear park, are being pursued by the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lithium-ion-cells-pcbs-may-get-local-manufacturing-sops/articleshow/77323643.cms||Sidhartha
August 3, 2020||Mumbai||Locked-down home chefs in Mumbai turn idle time into swelling business||MUMBAI: When the Covid-19 lockdown was first announced in March, yeast ran out of stock in supermarkets and social media was flooded with beautifully plated chicken tandoori and banana bread, as everyone unleashed their inner ‘Masterchef ’. While the trend did not keep up with the multiple extensions to the lockdown, several Mumbaikars turned it into business to compliment income in in a time when jobs were being lost, or to fulfil a lifelong dream. “With the lockdown, I had a lot of time at hand and business has been slow. Spending hours in my kitchen helped me deal with the anxiety the pandemic brought. I baked for friends and that’s when some of them suggested I try it out professionally. But, there are already a lot of home bakers so I wanted to make something that isn’t easily available in the city,” said Abhishek Thukral, a publicist who recently started selling his home-baked goodies as the “Whimsical Baker” on Instagram and Facebook. On his menu are Lemon Ricotta Cake and Torta Caprese (flourless chocolate cake), among other things. With hopes that the comfort and safety of a home-cooked meal might be preferred over commercial kitchens, the newbie chefs are learning about inventory, logistics and pricing. Bandra residents and motherdaughter duo Sabina Manekia (52) and Imaan Surve (23) started dishing out kebabs and kormas through their brand, MamaaMiya from their home kitchen in Bandra. “My mom is a fashion designer and business was on a standstill during the lockdown, she was bored of doing nothing. She loves to cook and feed people and there was no better time to turn that into an opportunity. While mom cooks, I source ingredients, manage orders and coordinate deliveries,” said Surve who also is a media professional. MamaaMiya takes orders during the week and delivers through third party applications on weekends. For Hema Nakwe, kickstarting Hema’s Veg Rasoi in July from her Matunga (E) home with her husband Prashant, was both the realisation of a long-cherished dream as well as a necessity fuelled by pandemic-related job loss. Nakwe reminisced that the passion emerged when she was a four-year-old, helping her mother with minor tasks in the kitchen. The couple sets a weekly menu and the thalis usually comprise chapatis, a rice preparation, sabzis, pickle and the occasional appetizer or sweet. Papads are sourced from a local women’s entrepreneurial initiative. “We source the ingredients ourselves and I make my own masalas. Due to the lockdown, certain items have become more expensive but we ensure that it is not reflected in the price of the thali,” she said. For now, patrons pick up their orders from the couple’s home. Existing home dining experiences are also reorganising themselves to home deliveries. Authenticook, which used to provide a home dining experience through 150 home cooks across the city, has now started providing takeaway meals through the same chefs. Co-founder Ameya Deshpande said it was a natural progression from the lockdown perspective. “The thing to consider here is that what the home chef prepares for you as a consumer is also what they eat—unlike in a restaurant. This is what makes people a little more comfortable with home kitchens,” Deshpande said. Another key aspect was the fact that home cooks provide much more variety. Deshpande said that Authenticook does 50 odd regional and community based cuisines in Mumbai itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/locked-down-home-chefs-in-mumbai-turn-idle-time-into-swelling-business/articleshow/77323646.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: In Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada, returnees account for less than 10% cases||MANGALURU: People returning to their homes from abroad have been largely blamed for the spurt in cases in Dakshina Kannada district, but it is an ill-founded assumption. Data which TOI has accessed shows international travellers account for fewer than 10% of the district’s Covid-19 tally of 6,010 cases. Moreover, the sharp slide in the number of flights being operated under Vande Bharat Mission has resulted in a corresponding decline in the number of people returning home from abroad. As on July 29, as many as 6,811 passengers returned to Dakshina Kannada, mostly from Gulf countries. But only 478 of them tested positive. Dakshina Kannada district health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that, on average, until the end of June, nearly 25 passengers arriving by the Vande Bharat flights in Mangaluru tested positive. “But this number gradually decreased to single digits after June. Also, not even a single traveller has died in the district so far,” Dr Bairy said. The DHO said that most returnees were taking utmost precautionary measures and were also being subjected to tests prior to their departure. “The passengers returning home now are much more aware than their counterparts who arrived in the first and second phases in the immediate aftermath of the launch of the Vande Bharat Mission flights,” Dr Bairy added. Another official in the health department said that not a single passenger on board two flights that landed at the Mangaluru International Airport had tested positive for novel coronavirus. However, he was quick to add that this was not to be read as an indicator for a decline in the number of cases in the countries that the expatriates were returning from. He also added to the ordeal that officials at the airport had to endure each time the flights landed, from dealing with unruly passengers to ensuring the safety of pregnant women, children and elderly citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-in-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-returnees-account-for-less-than-10-cases/articleshow/77323649.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Doctor’s call final in Covid patient’s admission, release||KOLKATA: Whether a Covid patient needs admission in a private-sector hospital or not will henceforth depend only on the decision of the examining doctor, without “any extraneous consideration or recommendation”. Similarly, a Covid patient will have to move out of a hospital if the treating doctor feels so; the patient can, at most, insist on going to a safe house but will not be able to occupy a hospital bed under any circumstance once the doctor has given a verdict. The two directives are a part of several important orders issued by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that aim to free up private-sector hospital beds for Covid patients who need emergency treatment. The commission is a quasi-judicial body, and its advisories are binding on private establishments. With private hospitals running short of Covid beds, patients often have to wait to get admitted or hop from one hospital to another. Every day, a large number of patients are kept waiting either in the emergency or the triage area of various hospitals. “If the number of waiting patients is more than the number of vacant beds, the doctor on duty would examine each patient and allot beds to the most deserving ones ignoring any extraneous considerations or recommendations. The decision of the doctor on duty will be final and binding upon all,” said an advisory from the commission. According to the advisory, the procedure will be the same for shifting a patient from the general bed to ICU or ITU. “We have received the advisory; this will help streamline admissions to an extent and free up hospital beds. Some patients refuse to be discharged even after they are fit, more due to social concerns than anything else,” said Sudipto Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. Even as the discharge guidelines have changed long back and a clinically fit patient can now be sent home even without testing negative, there are still instances where patients refused to go home without a confirmatory negative report.  “We cannot throw out a patient if he/she refuses to go home despite doctor’s advice. Though the number of such patients is on the decline, even a single bed occupied by them is precious, due to the crisis. Therefore, this latest advisory will help us,” said an administrator of a hospital off EM Bypass. An official at another private hospital said a team from the health department had earlier come across two such clinically fit patients. “In fact, we were accused of not discharging the two, whereas the duo had simply refused to leave, saying they did not have proper home isolation facilities,” said a source in the hospital. WBCERC chairperson Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee has circulated the advisories through a WhatsApp group that includes hospital administrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctors-call-final-in-covid-patients-admission-release/articleshow/77323028.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Durga Puja pandals to remain off limits for revellers this year||Ranchi: With cases of Covid-19 growing in Ranchi, the city’s prominent Durga Puja committees on Sunday unanimously agreed to keep the revelry low this year. Their pandals would be smaller in size and remain closed for public to avoid transmission the virus. Till Sunday morning, the district recorded 2,262 cases (highest in the state) of which 1,702 are active and 25 died of the virus. The Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), the umbrella body of around 250 organisers of the state capital, also agreed upon a slew of measures with an aim to host a low-key celebration this year. Munchun Rai, president of Ranchi Railway Station Durga Puja Committee, said, “It was agreed that no committee will allow visitors inside the pandals. However, keeping with the tradition, only priests will carry out the rituals. The pandals will not be extravagant this year and will be just enough to carry out the rituals.” Ashok Purohit, the president of RDDPC and chairman of Rajasthan Mitra Mandal Puja committee, said it was agreed that no pandal will be built and no idols above three feet will be worshipped. “The decision has been taken to avoid physical contact during immersion. Bigger idols need more hands for immersion,” Purohit said. Many prominent puja committees, which also organise fairs alongside their pandals to draw crowd, will refrain from doing so this year. “No vendors, rides and other makeshift shops will be allowed around the pandal premises. While visitors will not be allowed, revellers will not be allowed to offering pushpanjali,” Purohit said. While revellers will be barred, most of the city’s puja committees will take the online route. “Virtual tour of pandals and aarti will be arranged so that revellers can sit at home and be a part of the rituals,” a member of the Bakri Bazaar puja committee said. Purohit said RDDPC will formally intimate about their resolution to the district administration and the chief minister’s office soon. “A review of the situation will be done in September,” he added. This year, Durga Puja begins on October 22. As per estimates of RDDPC, the 250-odd puja committees spend around Rs 25 crore on an average every year for building their theme-based pandals, deities, lightings, decorations and other paraphernalia. Thousands of workmen from Jharkhand and neighbouring states work for weeks on these structures. During the five-day festivities, the fairs and other entertainment activities provide source of incomes for approximately 4,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/durga-puja-pandals-to-remain-off-limits-for-revellers-this-year/articleshow/77321855.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Pvt hosps cannot refuse patients with Covid symptoms: Dist admin||Ranchi: No private hospital in the city should refuse suspected Covid-19 patients and must make arrangements to treat them in isolation, the district administration said on Sunday, hinting that strict action might follow in case of non-compliance. The administration made the appeal to the private hospitals during a meeting to discuss means and ways to check the rising number of cases in the city. Seeking cooperation of the private hospitals to fight the growing number of infections and shortage of beds in government facilities, DC Chhavi Ranjan said, “Patients with various complaints go to private hospitals. If any of the patients showed Covid symptoms, the hospitals must not refuse admission to them but start treatment by following ICMR protocols. It is advised to get the patients tested but treatment should begin immediately.” The DC also hinted that the administration would be forced to take strict action if there is a complaint against any private hospital for refusing to treat patients on suspicion of Covid-19 infection. During the meeting, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association agreed to extend full cooperation to the administration. President of the association, Dr Jogesh Gambhir, said, “Though it is difficult to maintain complete isolation in every nursing home, we have assured to work to the best of our capabilities.” Ranjan said the private healthcare facilities are allowed to charge fees from the patients and can discharge those who are unable to afford the cost but only after informing the district authorities so that they can be shifted to government facilities. Gambhir said incident commanders would take a call in such cases. As of date, there are around 90 private nursing homes in the capital with nearly 15 of them having proper facilities to treat Covid patients. Representatives of the association suggested that the sadar hospital should be used to treat asymptomatic patients. “Even if all private facilities are taken into consideration, hardly 150-200 additional beds could be added . However, sadar hospital, which is centrally located and has 500 beds can be turned into a dedicated Covid care centre,” Gambhir added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-hosps-cannot-refuse-patients-with-covid-symptoms-dist-admin/articleshow/77321700.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||In touch with Shah, MPs from Bengal self-isolate||Kolkata: At least two BJP lawmakers from West Bengal, who were to attend the Ram temple “bhumi pujan” in Ayodhya on August 5, dropped the plan after Union home minister Amit Shah tested Covid-19 positive. A few more MPs from the state, who had met Shah over the past few days, decided to go into isolation. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar had gone into self-quarantine on returning from New Delhi after meeting Shah on July 20. Dhankhar had tested negative for Covid-19 on July 24. “Result Covid Negative. In good sound health,” he tweeted on Sunday. Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta and Union ministers Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri had met Shah on July 20 and sought his intervention in the Chopra incident that had sparked unrest in the area. “I will stay in isolation. But my meetings and seminars on the virtual platforms will continue,” Dasgupta said. Supriyo, who met Shah also a day back, too has gone into isolation. “I am advised by my doctors to confine myself away from my family members for the next few days. A test will be done soon,” he tweeted. Chaudhuri said “we met Amitji around 13 days back. It seems I will however keep myself confined to my house for the next few days”. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who was part of the delegation that met Shah regarding the Chopra incident, said he would go for a test on Monday. “I had a meeting scheduled with Amitji on Tuesday. That is postponed now.” MPs Saumitra Khan and Nisith Pramanik had met Shah a few days back and submitted a memorandum on the Covid-19 situation in Bengal. “Amitji has mild Covid-19, and we are following the health ministry protocol and putting ourselves in isolation. I will go for the swab test tomorrow and wait for the result,” said Pramanik, the Cooch Behar MP, who is in New Delhi now. He was scheduled to leave for Ayodhya on Monday to attend the ground-breaking ceremony. Khan too dropped his Ayodhya plan. “Even if I have not tested positive in the first test, I cannot take chances as a lot of people will be attending the ceremony. It is a question of their safety as well,” he said. Khan called up his associates and cancelled all programmes for the next one week. “I have been moving from one district to another in the past few months. I come in touch with many during the day, but I try to maintain hygiene and social distance,” the MP said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted to wish Shah a speedy recovery immediately after the home minister revealed he had tested Covid-positive. “Wishing him speedy recovery. My prayers are with him and his family,” she wrote on Twitter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-touch-with-shah-mps-from-bengal-self-isolate/articleshow/77322857.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Miscreant targets Adhir’s residence in Behrampore||Behrampore: Glass shards were found scattered on the first floor of Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury’s Gorabazar residence in Behrampore on Saturday night, prompting police to start an inquiry. CCTV footage from the house showed a kurta-clad youth walking close to Chowdhury Villa amid showers at 11.40 pm. Police suspect the youth had hurled a “brass bell” at the house, breaking the window panes. Congress MLA from Behrampore Manoj Chakraborty handed over the CCTV clips to the police. “The incident doesn’t speak well of the law and order situation. We want police to identify the culprit,” Chakraborty said. But Congress didn’t accuse any party of having a hand in the “attack”. Behrampore Town Congress has called a protest rally on Monday demanding immediate arrest of the culprit. According to locals, Chowdhury stopped staying at this house four years ago following the demise of his wife Arpita. Security guards and a domestic help now stay there while the Congress leader has shifted to his new residence at Cossimbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/miscreant-targets-adhirs-residence-in-behrampore/articleshow/77322689.cms||Sukumar Mahato
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Tiger kills fisherman in Sunderbans||Kolkata: In yet another case of tiger attack, the second in five days, a fisherman was killed in the Sunderbans on Sunday. Though a purported video of villagers retrieving the body started doing the rounds on social media, the forest department didn’t confirm if the video had any link with Sunday’s incident. The villager was identified as Sushanta alias Ranga Mondal (44), a resident of Lahiripur. He had gone to catch crabs in Jhila-3 forest when the incident took place around nine in the morning. “Yes, we have heard about the incident. Fishing is prohibited in the area,” said Tapas Das, field director of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Locals said the body was retrieved at least an hour later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tiger-kills-fisherman-in-sunderbans/articleshow/77322872.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Plasma therapy trial at Beliaghata ID Hospital shows ‘promising’ results||KOLKATA: The randomised controlled trial (RCT) on plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 patients in Bengal has thrown up encouraging results. According to an interim report on the trial taking place at the Beliaghata ID Hospital, patients who received plasma had better treatment outcomes than those who did not. While researchers cautioned against drawing conclusions from this provisional report, they remained hopeful. “Going by the initial report of the RCT, the outcome of the plasma therapy appears promising,” said public health specialist Abhijit Chowdhury, a senior doctor who’s the head of hepatology at SSKM Hospital’s School of Digestive and Liver Diseases, who’s also on the state government’s panel of experts on Covid. The provisional report — on the basis of the treatment outcomes on 10 patients who received plasma therapy — has been submitted to the West Bengal Health department as well as the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR). Dipyaman Ganguly, the trial’s principal investigator, said the progress of these 10 patients was carefully matched against those who received standard therapy (the control group). “There was a discernibly better outcome, compared to standard therapy given to the control group. Even as the result so far has been encouraging, this report is based on 10 plasma transfusions, so the data is very preliminary. The final assessment will be done only after we achieve 40 transfusions,” said Ganguly, an associate professor at the Translational Research Unit of Excellence of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. “The trial is certainly helping a cluster of patients, while some patients are not responding to plasma therapy,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray, an assistant professor at the School of Tropical Medicine Kolkata, who’s a clinical investigator in the trial, and a member of the core Covid team at the ID Hospital. “As the trial progresses, we will be studying the immunological parameters of both categories of patients to analyse why it worked in some patients and why it did not in others.” Ray said that finding the reasons — why some patients are responding to the treatment, while others are not — and correlating it with immunological parameters could play a key role in framing policy guidelines on plasma therapy. “If we can zero in on the cluster of patients who are responding well to the treatment, it could be helpful in guidelines regarding the category of patients who could benefit from the therapy,” he said. The clinical trial on passive immunization using convalescent plasma is a joint initiative of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research and the West Bengal government. Fully funded and supported by CSIR, the trial is taking place in the Covid ward of the ID Hospital. Unlike other clinical therapy trials elsewhere in the country, which are on mildly affected patients, the trial in Kolkata is on adult patients who have both mild and moderate ARDS (acute respiratory disease syndrome). Patients who have received the therapy include those with co-morbidities like aplastic anaemia and kidney failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plasma-therapy-trial-at-beliaghata-id-hosp-shows-promising-results/articleshow/77323035.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Six die in under-construction septic tank in Deoghar||DUMKA: Six people, including two labourers, died on Sunday after inhaling toxic gases in an under-construction septic tank at Devipur market area in Deoghar district. Among the deceased are Lilu Murmu (27) and Govind Majhi (50), engaged to construct the tank by Brajesh Chandra Burnwal (50), who also died in the incident. The three others have been identified as Bablu Manjhi (30) and Lalu Manjhi (27), both sons of Brajesh, and his brother M C Burnwal (45). The incident took place when Lilu went inside the 12-feet-deep tank to remove some materials. When he did not respond, Govind entered the tank to check on him but did not come out too. Thereafter, the four others went inside the tank one after another and died inside. Deoghar deputy commissioner Kameshwar Prasad Singh said, “All died of the toxic gas from the septic tank when they entered inside one after another.” An excavator was later arranged to remove the bodies of the victims from the tank. SP Piyush Pandey said, “All six victims were taken to the Deoghar sadar hospital where they were declared brought dead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/six-die-in-under-construction-septic-tank-in-deoghar/articleshow/77451682.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Train guard’s body found in Ajay river||Burdwan: The guard of a goods train carrying petrol reportedly fell down between Bolpur and Bhedia stations and his body was found in the Ajay river on Sunday. He has been identified as Debiprasad Ganguli (52), a resident of Rampurhat. Railway officials suspect Ganguli might have suffered a cardiac arrest after falling down from the train, which had started its journey from Rampurhat station around 5.30am on Sunday. When the train reached Bhedia around 6.50 am, the driver found that the guard was missing and he started a search for him. Meanwhile, the guard of another goods train coming from the opposite direction saw Ganguli’s body half-submerged in the river. Cops from Ausgram police station in East Burdwan reached the spot and sent the body to Burdwan Medical College for a postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/train-guards-body-found-in-ajay-river/articleshow/77322731.cms||Mohammad Asif
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool worker dead as violence rocks districts||Bishnupur/ Basanti/Ghatal: Clashes between Trinamool and BJP workers continued unabated while infighting also came to the fore as violence broke out in several districts leaving a TMC worker dead and nearly 10 workers from both parties injured. Babar Ali Sheikh (49), the former panchayat pradhan at Baliara in Bishnupur, was watching television at his residence on Saturday night when a group of miscreants entered the village and ransacked the TMC party office. Babar tried to take shelter at neighbour Haji Saheb’s house when they started hurling bombs at his residence, but could not escape. Babar was taken to Bishnupur sub-divisional hospital, where he was declared dead. His family members on Sunday lodged a complaint against Rahim Mondal, husband of Uliara panchayat pradhan Taslima Khatun. The Bishnupur police rounded up five persons. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, TMC’s Bishnupur block president, said, “Babar protested illegal activities of the panchayat. So he was targeted. We have informed CM Mamata Banerjee about the incident.” In South 24 Parganas, clashes broke out between two TMC factions, leaving at least eight injured. Two of them are critical. “There may be differences of opinion among groups. We are trying to pacify them,” TMC leader Manturam Pakhira said.  In Midnapore, BJP supporters and TMC workers clashed leaving a few injured. “It was a family dispute and BJP workers intervened,” said Shankar Dalui, Ghatal MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-worker-dead-as-violence-rocks-districts/articleshow/77322724.cms||Falguni Banerjee
August 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Homemade rakhis, handmade gifts and virtual rituals: Siblings find creative ways to celebrate Raksha Bandhan||Festivals are usually the time when we get together with our loved ones to meet, greet, relive old memories and create new ones. But the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way we celebrate festivals. With social distancing measures, lockdown rules and travel restrictions still in place, people have had to come up with innovative ideas to celebrate Raksha Bandhan this year. Rakhis made at home are safe and a fun family activity For many sisters, the hunt for the perfect rakhi begins weeks before Raksha Bandhan. Sushmita Goud, an engineering student in Narsingi says, “Every year, I send a rakhi to my brother who works in Bengaluru after searching for the perfect rakhi for days on end. This time,I decided to make a rakhi myself. Since my college is closed, I had ample time to watch DIY videos and I made a pearl rakhi. I just hope my brother doesn’t lose it like he does every year.”  Parents are also encouraging their little ones to create rakhis at home as it is risky to step out at this time. Latha Sen from Gachibowli says, “To keep my kids engaged during the lockdown, I have been teaching them how to make vases, toys etc. with clay. For Raksha Bandhan, I asked my five-year-old daughter to make a rakhi for her brother with clay. She made the rakhi and I coloured it. As brothers are supposed to give a gift to their sisters on Raksha Bandhan, my son made a flower vase for his sister.” Celebrating the festival virtually With many siblings stuck in different cities or continents, Raksha Bandhan celebrations will take place on video calls. Magunta Vandana, an IT employee in Hydernagar says, “My brother, who works in Kakinada, always comes home for Raksha Bandhan but since itis a containment zone now, it is impossible for him to travel. So I decided to celebrate the festival over video call. I will show him the rakhi on screen and ask him to eat a piece of chocolate or sweet if he has any at his place. Once things get better, I’ll make sure to collect my gift from him.”  Most brothers are also excited thinking about what’s in store for them this Raksha Bandhan. Saket Sinha from Ranchi who stays in Resham Bagh says, “My sister recently informed me that she was unable to send the rakhi so I told her that I won’t be getting any gifts for her. But she is not the one to give up so easily. She came up with a plan to celebrate Raksha Bandhan virtually and I am excited to see how it pans out. Seems like you can never escape buying gifts for your sister, even in the middle of a pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homemade-rakhis-handmade-gifts-and-virtual-rituals-siblings-find-creative-ways-to-celebrate-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/77321351.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Despite admin appeal, sporting activities continue unabated in Steel City||Jamshedpur: Despite the district administration repeatedly requesting the sports enthusiasts not to organise any sporting activities in view of the pandemic, such activities continue in Steel City unabated. In the past week, the administration took to task a bunch of sports enthusiasts in three localities — in Golmuri, Mango and Telco — for playing outdoors and that too without wearing masks and for not maintaining social distancing norms. “Cases against will be lodged against the aforementioned Covid violators under the DM Act if the offence is repeated,” said Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee special officer Krishna Kumar. On July 24, the incident commanders of JNAC issued notices to seven boys for playing football at Masjid ground in Golmuri without masks. JNAC has demanded an explanation from them for violating the safety norms. The second incident took place on July 26 in Mango where the cops reprimanded the boys for playing football in Gandhi maidan. They were let off with a warning not to play till the social distancing norms are in place. In the Telco incident, the JNAC officials issued notices to seven boys for playing volleyball. A retired Tata Steel sports administrator said on anonymity that parents are sending their children to the sports fields to play, without even taking into account the virus threat. “The colony areas in the city are abuzz with sporting activities,” the former athlete added. The Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA), which regularly conducts football tournaments in the city, said that it would appeal to the football enthusiasts, in particular, to refrain from organising or participating any sporting events now. “On Monday, we will issue a public appeal to the sportspersons and the sports bodies,” said JSA functionary Mohamed Zubair Alam. In the wake of a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases where 1,358 people were infected (till Sunday morning), the police and municipal officials are working in coordination to conduct surprise inspections in sports grounds to take action against the rule violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/despite-admin-appeal-sporting-activities-continue-unabated-in-steel-city/articleshow/77321648.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Two Covid prisoners escape during treatment in Pakur||Dumka: Three Covid-positive prisoners undergoing treatment for the disease in Pakur district escaped on Saturday night. One of the trio, who broke his leg while escaping from the fifth floor of the Covid care centre, was nabbed and efforts were on to arrest the remaining two, police said on Sunday. Pakur DC Kuldeep Chaudhary told TOI that the three prisoners were inmates of Pakur district jail and were being given treatment at a separate Covid care centre set up at a multi-storey market complex cum marriage hall located in front of the town police station of the district headquarters. He said, “All three escaped after they managed to break the iron bars of the washroom window. Using bedsheets and towels to latch on to an adjacent tree, they climbed down. One of the prisoners got his legs fractured when he jumped down from the tree. He was arrested.” Chaudhary added, “An FIR will be filed against the prisoners, including the one who was arrested, under relevant sections.” The trio was shifted to the Covid care centre after they were found positive during random tests. Addressing a press conference, Pakur SP Mani Lal Mandal said action would be initiated against all 13 policemen, including three officers of JAP who were assigned the duty to guard the prisoners, for dereliction of duty. Mandal said all border checkpoints of the district were sealed immediately after their escape. The incident has triggered panic in Pakur town and residents feared that the two absconding prisoners might spread the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-covid-prisoners-escape-during-treatment-in-pakur/articleshow/77321801.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 3, 2020||Ranchi||Koderma doc with no spleen beats Covid||Koderma: A 47-year-old government doctor in Koderma, whose immune system was compromised following the removal of his spleen in 2006, defeated Covid-19 on Saturday. On Sunday, Dr R Kumar, the deputy superintendent aat sadar hospital, said, “With the removal of the patient’s spleen, which filters the blood stream and helps the body fight infections, his immune system was weak. However, despite that, he recovered and it comes as a great relief for the doctors and the healthcare workers.” The said doctor, a dentist at sadar hospital and the nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, tested positive for coronavirus a day after he returned to Koderma from Bihar on July 20. The visibly relieved doctor said, “Given my poor immune system, I was extremely worried when I came to know that I have coronavirus. However, with the help of doctors and other healthcare staff, I could recover completely.” Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said, “His recovery is an example of how dedicated our healthcare workers are and how they are working round-the-clock to cure the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/koderma-doc-with-no-spleen-beats-covid/articleshow/77321883.cms||---
August 3, 2020||Kolkata||Tragedy strikes family of Vizag crane crash victim||Kharagpur: Twin tragedies struck the Rao family of Kharagpur over the last couple of days after three persons rushing to Visakhapatnam for the last rites of one of those killed in a crane collapse at Hindustan Shipyard Ltd (HSL) on Saturday morning died in a road accident on National Highway 16 in Srikakulam district of coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. One of the women killed has left behind two-and-a-half-year-old twins at her home in Kharagpur. Bhaskar Rao, a technician, was among the 11 killed in the crane collapse at HSL. On receiving news of the accident, his in-laws, residents of the New Settlement Area in Kharagpur's Ward 18, hired an SUV and started for Visakhapatnam around midnight on Sunday to attend Rao’s last rites. The SUV apparently rammed into the back of a truck at Jalantrakota at high speed a few hours later. Among those killed were Rao’s mother-in-law K Nagmani Rao (50), his younger brother-in-law’s wife L Lavanya Rao (22) and the driver of the SUV R Dwarkanath (25). Those injured include Rao’s younger brother-in-law, his wife and younger brother-in-law (Lavanya’s husband). Lavanya’s twins are in Kharagpur with relatives. According to Pooja Naidu, former councillor of Kharagpur, arrangements have been made to get the bodies back home. “I spoke to Lavanya around midnight as they were leaving Kharagpur. Everything was fine. We were shattered on receiving news of the accident thereafter,” said Chandrakala, a relative of Lavanya. The injured are receiving treatment at the government hospital in Srikakulam, where doctors said that their condition was critical. “My son was an experienced driver. He would regularly travel to Odisha and Andhra Pradesh on work. I don’t know how this could have happened,” driver Dwarkanath’s mother, R Latha, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tragedy-strikes-family-of-vizag-crane-crash-victim/articleshow/77322866.cms||Sujoy Khanra
