August 4, 2020||Chennai||Tracing Chennai’s architectural marvels, one sketch at a time||Ever since the pandemic took over the world, most of us seem to have coped by seeking comfort in nostalgia — for a life once lived and the places once visited. Chennai-based architect Sunil Raghavendher decided to use this very pattern to steer people’s attention to the city’s heritage structures, through an illustration project on Instagram. Titled Namma Chennai Icons, Sunil’s illustrations trace a few celebrated locales (like Lighthouse, Chennai Central Station, Thousand Lights Mosque), along with a few forgotten ones (20th-century furniture shop Curzons & Co and one of the oldest watch and clock showrooms, P ORR & Sons). The idea was to not just focus on icons with heritage value or architectural finesse, but also places that have a story to narrate, Sunil explains. “These are all places that can be associated with the city and its people. A few of these places are forgotten and are not in great form either. For instance, the furniture shop was a huge deal back in the day. The footfalls at such spots have considerably reduced over the years. With the pandemic forcing us to stay indoors, I realised this was a good time to instigate a small tinge of nostalgia in people,” says Sunil, adding, “Up until a couple of years ago, my parents had this tradition of buying watches only from the showroom. But soon, I turned them on to online shopping because I thought that was easier. I later realised the mistake I had made. These places have so much value, but our fast-paced lifestyle often makes us forget that.” Sunil wanted the illustrations to carry a sense of minimalism and uniformity. “I could have probably done something that looked very realistic. But I wanted to give a colourful spin to the icons. Where the structure is considered, I made the buildings seem minimalist in terms of orientation and ornamentation. This way, curiosity is piqued and people would want to visit these places soon,” he explains. Colours, too, were used to convey each icon’s mood. “For instance, Lighthouse brings images of the beach to mind, while the Madras Literary Society brings about a silent vibe.” The illustrations are rich in art and history, and it was important to pack every post with stories and experiences, he notes. “Books on old Madras and blogs by heritage conservationists helped me document these places better,” says Sunil, who has finished around 14 such illustrations since June. And the road to the end is still far ahead, he beams. “I would want this to continue until I have documented most of these icons graphically,” he says. The Armenian Church, Kapaleeshwarar Temple and St Thomas Church are a few icons on his palette now. As for his next project, the architect wants to focus on the different types of doorways in the city. “A few houses have hand imprints on the wall, while a few have mirrors and neem. All of these small details have so many cultural associations and stories to tell,” he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tracing-chennais-architectural-marvels-one-sketch-at-a-time/articleshow/77337515.cms||Sruthi Raman
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipurites gorging on fusion mithais, healthy cookies this Raksha Bandhan||To make Raksha Bandhan celebrations special, city's bakeries and sweet shops are offering a range of innovative mithais, fusion desserts and healthy gift hampers while following all the safety measures. For Raksha Bandhan city eatries are offering a wide range of innovative cakes with fusion flavours Mafix Cakes and Bakes has introduced an array of fusion cakes with traditional mithai flavours. Abhinav Thukral, the owner, says, “There are loads of variety when it comes to Indian desserts, but we need to keep reinventing flavours keeping the new age client in mind. So to give a contemporary flavour to a typical Indian mithai, we have introduced a wide variety of fusion cakes like Rasmalai Cake, Gulabjamun Cake, Thandai Cake and Motichoor Cake. Also available are eggless cookies, brownie cookies and other gift hampers for Raksha Bandhan.” OTH at C-Scheme is offering gift hampers with the perfect blend of sweet and savoury products. Dushyant Singh, the owner, says, “It includes multigrain bread, brownie, walnut tart, basil pesto sauce and pizza sauce jars. These have a good shelf-life of eight to 10 days, so these gift hampers make for a great gifting option.” For the health-conscious Jaipurites, several eateries in the city have introduced festive snacks, which are high in vitamins and fibres. Vishal Jalani of Brown Sugar says, “We have gift hampers that include healthy snacks like oats cookies, buckwheat cookies, wheat and jaggery cakes.” Rinku Joshi, the owner of Mamu’s Infusion in C-Scheme, adds, “We have a wide array of food items to choose from, including masala garlic loaf, lavash, soup sticks, cookies and cakes. And people are buying in bulk these give to their siblings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurites-gorging-on-fusion-mithais-healthy-cookies-this-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/77337428.cms||Richa Shukla
August 4, 2020||Goa||Celebrate foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple like Diwali, says Goa BJP chief||PANAJI: Ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday said that the occasion should be celebrated like Diwali. He said that the temples in the state should be lighted up. “During the foundation stone ceremony, the temples where Ram Shila Pujan took place should perform aarti and burst crackers,” Tanavade told reporters. Party workers have been told to light up their houses and also light traditional lamps if possible, he said. Tanavade said that banners of foundation stone ceremony that would be put up across the state, but it would not bear party symbol or flag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/celebrate-foundation-laying-ceremony-of-ram-temple-like-diwali-says-goa-bjp-chief/articleshow/77338410.cms||Murari Shetye
August 4, 2020||World||US will ban Tiktok on September 15 unless an American company buys it, says Trump||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Monday said the popular Chinese app, TikTok, would be banned in the country beginning September 15, unless it is bought by an American company and asserted that a substantial amount of the buyout deal should go to the treasury. Technology giant Microsoft is in talks with TikTok's parent company ByteDance to buy its US operation. However, the president is in favour of a complete 100 per cent purchase and not the 30 per cent as reportedly being negotiated now. Trump confirmed to reporters that he spoke to Microsoft's India-born CEO Satya Nadella on the issue. "We had a great conversation. He (Nadella) called me to see how I felt about it. I said, look, it can't be controlled for security reasons by China...(its) too big, too invasive. It can't be...I don't mind whether it's Microsoft or somebody else, a big company...American company buys it. It's probably easier to buy the whole thing rather than to buy 30 per cent of it," Trump told reporters in the Cabinet Room of the White House. "I said how do you do 30 per cent? Who's going to get the name. The name is hot. The brand is hot. Who's going to get the name and who is going to get that when it's owned by two different companies. So, my personal opinion was, you probably better off buying the whole thing rather than buying 30 per cent of it. I think buying 30 per cent is complicated and I suggested that he can go ahead. He can try," he said. Trump said he has "set a date at around September 15 at which point it (TikTok) is going to be out of business in the United States". However, he said, "If somebody, whether it's Microsoft or somebody else buys it. That would be interesting, I did say that if you buy it, whatever the price is that goes to whoever owns it." Trump said there would have to be a substantial payment to the US government as part of the deal. “A very substantial portion of that price is going to have to come into the treasury of the US because we're making it possible for this deal to happen. Right now, they don't have any rights unless we give it to them. So, we're going to give them the rights that has to come into. It has to come into this country. It's a little bit like the landlord tenant. Without a lease, the tenant has nothing. So they pay what's called key money or they pay something,” he said. Trump said TikTok is a great asset "but it's not a great asset in the US unless they have the approval of" the American government. "So it'll close down on September 15 unless Microsoft or somebody else is able to buy it and work out a deal. An appropriate deal. And the Treasury gets a lot of money, a lot of them," he said. Meanwhile, Redmond-headquartered Microsoft, in a statement on Sunday, said following a conversation between Nadella and Trump, it is prepared to continue discussions to explore a purchase of TikTok in the US. “Microsoft fully appreciates the importance of addressing the President's concerns. It is committed to acquiring TikTok subject to a complete security review and providing proper economic benefits to the United States, including the United States Treasury,” the statement said. Microsoft will move quickly to pursue discussions with TikTok's parent company ByteDance in a matter of weeks and will complete these discussions in any event by September 15, it said. Trump last week threatened to ban the popular video-sharing app in the US after concerns were raised that it could be a national security risk. Microsoft said the discussions with TikTok's parent firm ByteDance will build upon a notification made by Microsoft and ByteDance to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). Microsoft added that "in any event" it would finish talking with ByteDance no later than September 15. The two companies have provided notice of their intent to explore a preliminary proposal that would involve a purchase of the TikTok service in the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, and would result in Microsoft owning and operating TikTok in these markets. Microsoft may also invite other American investors to participate on a minority basis in this purchase. The company said among other measures, Microsoft would ensure that all private data of TikTok's American users is transferred to and remains in the US. US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Sunday said TikTok cannot stay in the current format in the US as it "risks sending back information on 100 million Americans". Mnuchin said he has spoken to several top American lawmakers and all agree that "there has to be a change". In recent weeks, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has accused TikTok of collecting personal information of Americans. TikTok has previously stressed that its US user data is already stored on US-based servers and backed up in Singapore, and is therefore not subject to Chinese law as some US officials have feared. Watch Trump agrees to give TikTok's Chinese owner 45 days to negotiate a sale with Microsoft Corp||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-will-ban-tiktok-on-sept-15-unless-an-american-company-buys-it-says-trump/articleshow/77338623.cms||---
August 4, 2020||India||In Goa, it’s not just sailors who’ve changed course to stay afloat||Succoro Fernandes is still surrounded by fish. Only now, the fish are dead and he’s not at sea. For five years, Fernandes worked as a storekeeper on a cruise liner. It was a good job that took the 36-year-old around the world and paid well. Then, the pandemic cast a shadow over the cruise industry. Outbreaks on ships, such as the Diamond Princess, spooked clients and governments. Fernandes has been beached ever since. Now his day starts at 3am with tea. He then rides his bike to the wholesale fish market in Margao, 40 minutes away, buys fresh fish and starts his rounds of nearby villages to sell it. By 11am, he is done. Most days, he makes Rs 600-700 — enough to pay his bills, but nothing like his seafaring days. “If I don’t do this, how will I feed my family?” says Fernandes. Across the state, 25,000 other out-of-work seafarers are also coming to terms with their new life. Some have started makeshift chicken stalls and takeaways in local markets, others are trying their luck at river fishing. If there’s a vacancy for a driver’s job, they are the first with their applications. Fraizer Fernandes has used his experience as a bartender with P&O cruises to start a party and wedding planning business. And he is not alone. “Who knows the nitty-gritty of sanitisation better than a cruise ship worker?” he says. “A lot of boys want to do something else. They have EMIs to pay and need money for their daily expenses,” says Frank Viegas, president of the Goa Seamen Association of India, adding that they are thinking of providing skill development and entrepreneurship training to members. But it’s not just the sailors who have had to change course in this crisis. Drug peddlers, who sold to tourists, and the many punters involved in ‘matka’ gambling — a low-stakes lottery with a daily turnover of Rs 10-12 crore — have all ‘reformed’ for now. From selling face masks to washing cars, they are game for any odd job. Some bookies are selling fruit, vegetables and eggs in their old haunts to make ends meet. “During the lockdown, there was neither money nor drugs. Those who earned through hard work lost their jobs when tourism stopped. It was a difficult time for everyone,” says Dr Ravindra Patil, medical officer at Mapusa district hospital’s Drug Treatment Centre (DTC). The good times are yet to return but at least one matka punter is pleased with his new ‘clean’ work. “The cops have not harassed me ever since I turned over a new leaf,” he says. This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-goa-its-not-just-sailors-whove-changed-course-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/77336892.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 4, 2020||India||CJI not same as SC, says defiant Prashant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Standing firm on his two tweets criticising the CJI and his four predecessors which led to initiation of contempt proceedings against him, activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan defiantly detailed why he believes the Supreme Court has capitulated before the excesses of a majoritarian government in the last six years. In response to a two-page suo motu contempt notice from the SC, Bhushan filed a 132-page affidavit detailing numerous cases, the overwhelming majority of which were represented by him, where, he alleged, the SC failed to act by "abdicating its duty to protect basic constitutional values, fundamental rights of citizens and the rule of law". Citing the views of former judges Madan B Lokur and A P Shah, Bhushan defended his tweets as a bona fide expression of his views on developments over the last six years. He then went on to assert, "It cannot constitute contempt." He said if the SC deemed his tweets as contempt, then "it would stifle free speech and would constitute an unreasonable restriction on Article 19(1)(a) (right to free speech) of the Constitution". He said the CJI was not the Supreme Court and "raising of issues of concern regarding the manner in which a CJI conducts himself... or raising issues of grave concern regarding the manner in which four CJIs have used, or failed to use, their powers as 'master of roster' to allow the spread of authoritarianism, majoritarianism, stifling of dissent, widespread political incarceration and so on, cannot and does not amount to 'scandalising or lowering of the authority’ of the court". Bhushan regretted the part of his comment on the CJI sitting astride a motorcycle, linked to a BJP leader, when it was parked. However, he reiterated his criticism about keeping courts closed during the lockdown to deprive the needy of their right to access to justice and the incongruity of the CJI sitting on a motorbike without a mask with several people around. The activist-lawyer used the affidavit to outline how an elected majority should function in a democracy by respecting minority rights. "In the last six years, majority rule has become majoritarian rule and electoral democracy has degenerated into electoral authoritarianism," he said. "Minority rights are essential to any political system that calls itself democratic. Over the last six years, however, the constitutional rights of religious minorities have been systematically eroded, reducing them, especially Muslims, to the de facto status of second-rate citizens," he added. Bhushan said the SC had turned a deaf ear to the serious assault on Jamia Millia Islamia and JNU and remained a mute spectator when Muslims were systematically attacked, assaulted and murdered in the northeast Delhi riots. Targeting BJP, he said, "False information or fake news which is designed to generate hate, against Muslims in particular, is being generated and spread on a mammoth scale by the social media organisation affiliated with BJP and its assorted lapdog media." "During the term period of the last four CJIs, the country has seen abdication by the SC of its constitutional duty to protect basic constitutional values, fundamental rights of citizens and the rule of law... The court surrendered and tyranny and majoritarianism gained a deep foothold in the country. The SC has not been able to stand up as a check on the excesses of the government." Bhushan said the SC has adopted a deferential approach to the government, which was stark during the lockdown. "It just deferred to the government's wisdom without even seriously examining the violations of the rights of these people (migrant workers), leading to their destitution, starvation and forcing them to walk back home, sometimes thousands of kilometres," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cji-not-same-as-sc-says-defiant-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77339800.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 4, 2020||India||Forensic auditor will examine Sushant’s a/cs: Mumbai top cop||MUMBAI: The city police will seek the help of a forensic auditor to examine the financial transactions of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34) who was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. Police commissioner Param Bir Singh told TOI, “We will appoint a forensic auditor to verify all transactions from Sushant’s account. As of now, the probe does not indicate any fraudulent transfer to Rhea or her family members.” The commissioner said Sushant had Rs 18 crore in his bank account till last year, but he had incurred various expenses. “Sushant’s account shows a balance of Rs 4.5 crore which includes some fixed deposits. His CA’s statement has been recorded and we haven’t found any misappropriation of funds,” Singh said. A police source said they had found out through Sushant’s lawyer that he had paid Rs 2.5 crore GST and donated approximately Rs 3 crore for flood relief in Assam and Kerala. Read AlsoSushant Singh Rajput's death case: All courtesies befitting to an IPS officer extended to Bihar cop, says Maharashtra PoliceThe Maharashtra Police issued a statement on Monday which said they had issued all courtesies befitting an IPS officer to Bihar police SP Vinay Tiwari who is in Mumbai for probing the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Singh said the statements of 56 people have been recorded. On allegations about a party at Sushant’s flat, he said, “We have obtained CCTV footage of June 13 and 14 from Sushant’s building, but we did not get any evidence of a party. Also, no politician’s name has come up in the probe so far.” Bandra police have questioned Rhea twice to know why she left Sushant’s flat on June 8. “Rhea has said she left because she was stressed. Sushant’s sister, who was with him after Rhea moved out, also left on June 13,” an officer said. Read AlsoPolitical lines get blurred as Bihar lawmakers demand CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's deathThe demand for a CBI inquiry into the death of Patna-born actor Sushant Singh Rajput resonated in the Bihar legislature Monday, eliciting support from lawmakers cutting across party lines. The demand was first raised by Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, a BJP MLA and Sushant's cousin when members wereThe officer said Rhea, in her statement, has also said she had some disputes with Sushant’s family. “She has spoken about his mental illness and shared the doctors’ prescription. Rhea has said Sushant had not been keeping well since they returned from their Europe trip in October 2019.” The commissioner said the statements of Sushant’s father, three sisters and brother-in-law O P Singh (who holds the additional director general rank) were recorded on June 16. At that time, they neither raised suspicion nor complained about any lapse in the probe. “They met the joint commissioner of police later in June too, but did not show any interest in lodging an FIR. Later, we repeatedly followed up for re-recording their statements, but they kept giving excuses,” he said. Mumbai police spokesperson, DCP Shahaji Umap, said O P Singh had sent WhatsApp messages to then DCP (Zone IX) asking him to look into the matter. “The then DCP asked him to file a written complaint which is mandatory for any inquiry or action. However, O P Singh wanted this to be resolved informally, which he was told was not possible,” said Umap. In a video statement released on Monday, Sushant’s father K K Singh has said the family had given a written complaint to the Bandra police on February 25 alerting them about a threat to Sushant’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forensic-auditor-will-examine-sushants-a/cs-mumbai-top-cop/articleshow/77340280.cms||V Narayan
August 4, 2020||Business||Tata Motors to drive in foreign partner in India passenger car biz||MUMBAI: Tata Motors has set the ball rolling to induct a foreign strategic partner in its India passenger vehicle business by transferring the unit to a wholly-owned subsidiary for Rs 9,417 crore. The flagship of the Tata Group is in talks with multiple automakers, among them European and East Asian, to sell up to 49% stake in its India passenger vehicle business, which accounted for 4% (Rs 10,297 crore) of its turnover in fiscal 2020. The move to bring in a strategic partner in the India car business comes 12 years after Tata Motors acquired Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) from Ford for $2.3 billion. The deal catapulted the Indian company into the club of the largest automotive players in the world. “The India passenger car business is something that we want to run and hence, we will not hand over majority control of the unit,” said a top official of Tata Motors. The company has held talks with various Chinese players, including Geely, Changan, and Chery, which is a 50% partner in JLR’s China venture. The deteriorating relations between India and China has impacted deal-making, said a source close to the developments. Tata Motors has also been in conversation with a few others, including France’s PSA Group. But with PSA merging with Fiat Chrysler, things have slowed, sources said. Fiat Chrysler already has a manufacturing JV with Tata Motors in India. PSA, on the other hand, is making a re-entry into India with plans to launch its Citroen brand next year. The subsidiary, TML Business Analytics Services—to be renamed Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles—will issue fresh shares to Tata Motors towards the Rs 9,417-crore payment. Once the India passenger car business is separated, Tata Motors will be left with the commercial vehicle business and investments in JLR and other subsidiaries. Tata Motors, which started as Telco in September 1945 with the manufacturing of boilers and locomotives, ventured into commercial vehicles in 1954 and, after more than three decades, got into making passenger cars. A couple of years ago, Tata Motors and Volkswagen explored an alliance to develop an economy car, but it didn’t materialise. Whoever comes into TML Business Analytics is expected to bring a fresh lease of life to the loss-making passenger car business that also houses the e-vehicle unit. “Partnership is the future of our passenger vehicle business,” said the Tata Motors official quoted earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-motors-to-drive-in-foreign-partner-in-passenger-vehicle-biz/articleshow/77340337.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 4, 2020||India||Litigant Ansari: Ram’s will that I attend bhoomi pujan||AYODHYA: Iqbal Ansari, one of the seven litigants from the Muslim side in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, has been invited for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple at Ayodhya which would be performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has also invited social worker Mohammad Shareef, 82, who was awarded Padma Shree this year for performing last rites of more than 25,000 unclaimed bodies over a three-decade span. Ansari, 69, confirmed that he has received the invite. Showing the Trust’s invitation card to TOI, Ansari said: "I will attend the ceremony. The dispute over the land is now over after the court's verdict.” He said he would gift a 'Ramnami' (sacred stole) and a copy of Ramcharitmanas to the PM when he meets him at the ‘bhoomi pujan’. Ansari’s father Hashim was the first litigant from the Muslim side in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case. After Hashim died at 95 in 2016, his son was included as a litigant in the case at the Supreme Court. Ansari hoped that the construction of the temple would change the fate of Ayodhya. “I respect sadhus and sants. I am happy to have received the invitation for the ceremony. I think it is Lord Ram's will that I attend it.” When asked what he would have done had the court decided the case in his favour, Ansari said he had wanted a school and a hospital to be built on the disputed land. Mohammad Shareef, popularly known as Shareef Chacha, may not be able to attend the ceremony because of his old age. His grandson Shabbir said, “We have received the invite, but my grandfather can’t walk or even speak. We are not sure whether he can go for ‘bhoomi pujan’.” Trust general secretary Champat Rai told TOI that invitations have been sent out to 145 people, including 135 saints of 36 religious orders of India. Watch Babri litigant Iqbal Ansari to attend Bhoomi Pujan, calls it 'Ram's will'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/litigant-ansari-rams-will-that-i-attend-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77340567.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 4, 2020||Patna||NEP will pave way for social, academic equality, says CUSB VC||PATNA: Days after the Centre came up with the National Education Policy (NEP-2020), Gaya- based Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Monday organized a national webinar on ‘NEP 2020: Features and Prospects’. Altogether 2055 participants registered themselves for the webinar from different states as well as other countries like Hong Kong. The webinar was chaired by CUSB VC Prof H C S Rathore, while the keynote speaker was Prof Chand Kiran Saluja, academic director, Sanskrit Promotion Foundation, New Delhi. Delivering the presidential address, CUSB VC Prof Rathore said that NEP 2020 signals the an end of the ‘Macaulian Era’. “It’s a visionary policy for our nation building and golden future of education. This policy will pave the way for social and academic equality, value orientation and independent society,” he said. He added that the role of teachers for development of the nation has been well recognized by this new education policy. “It is the first policy which is optimally utilizing all the existing resources as clustering of colleges, multi-disciplinary education, new one regulatory authoring and promotion of mother tongue,” the VC said. Other speakers in the webinar included Prof CPS Chauhan, former head of the department of education, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Prof Arvind Kumar Jha, head and dean, School of Education, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, and Prof Rekha Agrawal, former head and dean, School of Education among others. The webinar started with the keynote address of renowned educationist Prof Chand Kiran Saluja, who put forward the main philosophy behind the NEP-2020. He said that the process of making this policy is based on democratic values of our nation. After Prof Saluja’s address, Prof Arvind Kumar Jha expressed his views on the features of higher education mentioned in NEP-2020. He welcomed the approach of this policy to associate different skills to cognitive skills at different level of learning. Prof Rekha Agrawal also addressed the audience and welcomed the various recommendations of the New Education Policy as flexible exam pattern, universalization of early childhood care education and integration of curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular curriculum. CUSB public relation officer (PRO) Md Mudassir Alam said the new education policy came almost after three decades (34 years) of the last education policy (NPE1986). Hence the webinar was organized with a view to getting a keen insight of its various aspects, changes and recommendations for the education system of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nep-will-pave-way-for-social-academic-equality-says-cusb-vc/articleshow/77337272.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Muted Rakshabandhan amid virus fears||PATNA: Rakshabandhan celebrations on Monday were a low-key affair amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Due to a spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the city, many Patnaites avoided huge gatherings and followed social distancing norms. Kankarbagh resident Pramila Devi, who had been visiting her brother’s house in Anisabad on Rakshabandhan for the last 20 years, celebrated the festival over a video call this year. She told this newspaper, “My parents, who live with my brother, are senior citizens with comorbidities. Hence, they are at a higher risk of getting infected.” Many sisters sent rakhis and gifts to their brothers through post. However, a lot of them did not receive anything due to manpower shortage. “I had couriered a rakhi to my brother two weeks ago, but he is yet to receive it. This is for the first time that my rakhi has not reached him in time,” rued Ankita, a Boring Road resident. Others chose the online shopping route. Apurva, a resident of Phulwarisharif, said, “This time I bought a rakhi from an e-commerce website for my brother in Bengaluru. Since delivery slots were not available, I had to place the order last month.” Rakshabandhan is not only synonymous with family gatherings, but also feasting. Shops witness a rise in sale of sweets, chocolates and desserts. However, very few customers visited confectioneries this year. The owner of a bakery in Police Colony said, “The footfalls were poor this year. Only a handful of people visited my shop.” Surprisingly, online food delivery apps witnessed a surge in demand. “I have already delivered four parcels so far. Festivals are a good time to make some extra money in an otherwise dull business,” a delivery boy claimed. PATCH CM ties rakhis Chief minister Nitish Kumar tied rakhis around trees at Rajdhani Vatika to promote environmental awareness among people on Monday. He also planted a sapling in the park on the occasion of Bihar Vriksh Surkasha Diwas that is observed by the state government on Rakshabandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muted-rakshabandhan-amid-virus-fears/articleshow/77336595.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Ram temple ‘bhumi pujan’: Trust, RSS extend invitations to Akal Takht jathedar||Amritsar: Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust has extended invitation to the acting jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, to attend the August 5 ‘bhumi pujan’ of the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya. Rashtriya Sikh Sangat (RSS), an affiliate of RSS, has extended a separate invitation to the jathedar to attend the bhog of Akhand Path being held in Gurdwara Braham Kund Sahib in Ayodhya on the same day. Talking to TOI on Monday, RSS chief Gurcharan Singh Gill informed that trust general secretary Champat Rai had extended the invitation for the ceremony during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi would lay the foundation stone of the temple . RSS has extended another invitation to the jathedar to attend the bhog of Akhand Path which was being recited to express gratitude to the almighty for the construction of Ram mandir, said Gill. The invitation was delivered by RSS Punjab spokesperson Sandeep Singh. The invitation was given at Akal Takht secretariat in the absence of acting jathedar. Sandeep said RSS would also collect water from five ‘sarovars’ and take it to Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-trust-rss-extend-invitations-to-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/77339367.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Sikhs should stay away from Ayodhya temple ceremony’||Jalandhar: Sarbat-Khalsa appointed parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht, Dhian Singh Mand has said that Sikhs should not participate in the August 5 foundation laying ceremony of the temple at Ayodhya. “We have equal respect for both Hindus and Muslims and if required we shall work for a compromise between both the communities,” he said in a statement on Monday. “Several lives have been lost in this dispute and Sikhs respect all religions. Sikhs have been sacrificing their lives for others but they won’t become a party in such dispute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikhs-should-stay-away-from-ayodhya-temple-ceremony/articleshow/77339370.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Covid tally nears 60,000 in Bihar, toll up to 336||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 59,567 on Monday with 2,297 more people testing positive for the virus. Patna district, where 293 people were tested positive on Monday, alone accounts for over 10,000 cases in the state. With 14 official deaths on Monday, Covid toll in the state has reached 336. The victims included two people from Patna – one from Rajapur Pul and another from Kankarbagh. Altogether 38,508 people have so far recovered in the state and active cases stood at 20,721 on Monday. Number of tests has more than doubled in the state in the last few days. As per the health department, 36,524 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Positivity rate in the state came down to 6.28% on Monday. On July 27, when 14,236 samples were tested, the state had registered 2,192 new Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate then was 15.39%. According to the health department, four deaths each were reported from Patna and Nalanda on Monday, taking the toll in these districts to 49 and 20, respectively. Munger reported two deaths and Gaya, Lakhisarai, Samastipur and Vaishali districts one death each on Monday. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), two Covid patients, including a 50-year-old woman from Rajapur Pul, died on Monday. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the woman was admitted to the hospital on August 1 and died of cardiac arrest. Another deceased was a 50-year-old man from Bara under Naubatpur police station. He too died of cardiac arrest. Five deaths were officially registered at AIIMS-Patna in the last 24 hours, the hospital’s Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. The victims included CPI’s state secretary Satya Narain Singh (77), who died on Sunday. The other victims were a 74-year-old man from Kankarbagh, a 43-year-old man from Dulhin Bazar in Patna, a 63-year-old man from Gaya and a 77-year-old man from Bhojpur. As per the health department, 293 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Patna on Monday, taking the tally to 10,117. However, with 6421 recoveries and 49 deaths, active cases in the district stood at 347. Other districts which reported large number of Covid-19 cases on Monday included Katihar (137), Begusarai (130), Vaishali (115), East Champaran (96), Madhubani (95), Gaya (91) and Saharsa (90).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-nears-60k-in-state-toll-up-to-336/articleshow/77336543.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nine test Covid-19 positive after attending ‘shradh karma’||BETTIAH: In what may be feared to be an instance of a lesson not learnt from the recent case of over 100 persons testing positive after attending a wedding at Vikram in Patna district in which the groom died of Covid, nine people have tested positive so far after attending a ‘shradh karma’ on Friday at Parsa village in West Champaran. “We tested 108 samples today,” Dr Abdul Salam, head of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Majhaulia told this newspaper on Monday. “Nine more people from this village were found positive during the weekend,” he added. Sources said that a large congregation had participated in a shraddh at Parsa’s Rai Tola on Friday. These reportedly included a large number of invitees from villages other than Parsa. “ So far, we have been receiving samples from the village itself,” Salam further told TOI. It could not, however, be ascertained if contact tracing had been initiated to find out attendees from among the bereaved family’s list of invitees and the catering and cooking staff. After a few people showed symptoms and were tested on Saturday, three were found positive. These included the deceased’s grandson, sources told TOI. On Sunday, 50 more people from the vicinity of the deceased’s house were tested. Another four were found positive. A medical team from the Majhaulia PHC reached the village and collected over 110 samples on Monday. The detection of these nine Covid positive cases shows nonchalant disregard of government guidelines that prohibit a gathering of more than 50 persons at feasts. “Anyone organizing a party or feast has to inform the local police station with a declaration regarding the number of people participating,” Bettiah SDM Vidya Nand Paswan told TOI. “We had no information of this shradh at Parsa village,” Majhaulia police station SHO Krishna Murari Gupta said. “Even the local chowkidar did not furnish any information about such a large gathering,” he added. With altogether 37 fresh cases being detected in West Champaran, the tally of people testing has reached 1,559 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-test-covid-positive-after-attending-shradh-karma/articleshow/77336638.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
August 4, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s MLA cousin fronts CBI probe demand||PATNA: The demand for a CBI probe into the death of film actor, Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR), echoed in the daylong monsoon session of the state assembly on Monday. Alleging that Sushant was “murdered” and the Mumbai police were not conducting a fair investigation, BJP MLA from Chhatapur and SSR’s cousin, Neeraj Singh Babloo, urged the state government to hand over the matter to the CBI. Leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said the RJD was the first political party to have made a demand for a CBI probe into the actor’s death. “Soon after visiting Sushant’s father at his Rajiv Nagar residence, I wrote a letter to the CBI for taking up the case. I also requested chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar to name the upcoming film city at Rajgir after SSR. I once again demand that the CM should announce in this House that the film city would be named after Sushant,” Tejashwi said while turning towards Nitish. The CM and his deputy, Sushil Kumar Modi, were present in the assembly when Babloo and Tejashwi raised the issue. However, none of them made any statement on the demand. Moreover, not a single MLA from the ruling JD (U) and the BJP spoke in favour of Babloo’s demand. Instead, legislators of the Congress, which is an alliance partner in the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra, supported him. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and former Speaker, Sadanand Singh, said the assembly should pass a unanimous resolution, seeking a CBI probe into the death of the Patna-born actor. Other Congress MLAs like Awadhesh Kumar Singh (Wazirganj constituency), Bhawna Jha (Bennipatti) and Amit Kumar (Riga) also spoke in favour of Babloo’s demand. Babloo’s wife, Nutan Singh, who is a Lok Janshakti Party MLC, raised the issue in the legislative council and pressed for a CBI probe into the actor’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-mla-cousin-fronts-cbi-probe-demand/articleshow/77336696.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Business||Razorpay eyes over $600m valuation||BENGALURU: Payments startup Razorpay is in talks to raise new capital at a valuation of over $600 million, a jump of over 50% since its previous fund-raise a year ago as digital payments remain one of the few sectors seeing growth accelerated by the coronavirus pandemic. Marquee venture capital investor Sequoia Capital India, its existing investor, has held talks to co-lead the new fund-raise, estimated to be $60-80 million in size, three people aware of the discussions said. An alumnus of the famed Silicon Valley accelerator Y Combinator, the Bengaluru-based startup is in talks to induct new investors from the US and southeast Asia as its business volumes have surpassed pre-Covid-19 levels due to surge in e-transactions. “Most of the fund-raise would be from existing investors, while they are exploring talks with two new investors. Sequoia has offered to at least co-lead the round depending on if new investors join the fund-raise,” a person aware of the matter said. The new capital-raise, if executed, is being done to scale up Razorpay’s non-payments gateway business, another person aware of the matter said. This includes lending and its neo-banking platform Razorpay X, which, according to the company, has on-boarded over 5,000 businesses. It is aiming to on-board 10,000 customers by 2021. “The non-payment gateway business now contributes about 30% of total business. While recovery has been fast in digital payments, segments like e-commerce, grocery have seen 150% growth since lockdown started,” this person added. When contacted, Razorpay co-founder and CEO Harshil Mathur and Sequoia Capital India declined to comment on the matter. According to a recent report from Razorpay, from March 24 to July 2, utility payments via Razorpay grew by 163%. Overall, the company’s transaction volumes now are 20-25% higher compared to pre-Covid-19. Started as a payments gateway in 2014, the company has diversified into multiple new businesses with an aim to provide full-stack services to its merchants. Sequoia, which raised its new fund of $1.3 billion last month for investments in India and Southeast Asia, has made several investments in the payments space, including point-of-sales machine maker Pine Labs and MobiKwik, which also operates a payment gateway. Besides that, it has also been an investor in Citrus, acquired by Naspers-owned PayU and Prizm Payments, bought by Hitachi. Prior to this, Razorpay has raised over $106 million from investors — including US-based fintech-focused investor Ribbit Capital and Tiger Global. In total, it has around 1 million merchants who use its payments gateway and, in some cases, the neo-banking platform. They include BookMyShow, CureFit, Cred and Zomato.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/razorpay-eyes-over-600m-valuation/articleshow/77338710.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Keep vulnerability in mind, care more, doctors urge elderly||CHENNAI: Until recently, most public health officials warned older adults to simply stay at home to beat Covid-19. Now, with the city slowly reopening, things are getting more complicated for senior citizens. Geriatricians say while following golden pandemic rules — social distance, mask and hygiene — the elderly must maintain a healthy diet and exercise. “This can have mental and emotional benefits. Morning walks on the terrace, yoga and breathing exercises can help,” said senior geriatrician Dr V S Natarajan. Doctors also insist that elders keep their blood sugars and hypertension under control. “Not skipping medicines is one way. It is also important for caregivers to keep doctors informed about symptoms the elderly experience,” he said. Amidst the ongoing pandemic, one thing that is irrefutable is that the highest rate of fatalities is among the elderly. While there is no evidence that shows increased risk of Covid-19 for people above 60 years compared to younger adults, medical records across hospitals show that when people over 60 are infected, they are more likely to have severe and life-threatening symptoms. Health department statistics show that nearly 60% of the deaths were among the elderly. “Older people with underlying medical conditions are at particularly high risk,” said senior liver transplant surgeon Dr Mohammed Rela, who heads Dr Rela Institute of Medical Sciences. “People above the age of 60 walking in with breathlessness invariably have complications and require intensive care,” he said. Recently, a 70-year-old man, with chest congestion, and his 45-year-old daughter, with more severe symptoms, were admitted to Stanley Medical College Hospital. In a couple of days, the oxygen requirement for the woman dropped, but the father required high pressure (non-invasive) ventilation. While the woman has been discharged, the father is still in intensive care. Intensivists say seniors fare poorly in intensive care units. “Most of the time, they don’t eat well or co-operate much when they don’t see their kin. They also give up on the fight quickly,” said a senior intensivist at the Stanley Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/keep-vulnerability-in-mind-care-more-docs-urge-elderly/articleshow/77338162.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Business||Biyani’s personal debt final item in $3bn RIL-Future deal||BENGALURU: Negotiations over resolving the personal debt of Kishore Biyani, amounting to about Rs 2,000 crore, is one of the final key items as the deal between Reliance Industries (RIL) and Future Group reaches its final leg, said two sources familiar with the development. The enterprise value of the retail assets expected to be acquired by RIL stands at around $3 billion, or Rs 22,700 crore, including the debt to be assumed, said sources. The Mukesh Ambani-led RIL is also likely to acquire up to a 10-15% minority stake in the group’s fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) business Future Consumer, said these sources. “While the deal was expected to close last week, issues over the personal debt at promoter holding companies like Future Corporate Resources have to be resolved as the retail business is the main asset (supporting pledged shares),” said one of the sources briefed on the matter. Nearly the entire 46% stake held by Biyani and his family in Future Lifestyle is pledged, and about 75% of the 42% stake in Future Retail is also encumbered. The multi-tiered transaction will first involve consolidation of the various Future Group assets under multiple entities like Future Retail and Future Lifestyle Fashions, and then a sale to Reliance. Earlier, a stock transaction was being explored, but the deal is now expected to be a cash transaction, said the sources. Emailed queries to both RIL and Future Group did not elicit a response till the time of going to press. TOI had reported on June 30 that Reliance is nearing a deal to acquire the consolidated retail assets of Future Group. The discussions come as Fitch downgraded Future Retail’s long-term issuer default rating to C after a missed payment of semi-annual interest on bonds last month. Two Future Group units also missed their payments to Franklin Templeton funds, which are winding up. Known as the retail king, Biyani has been looking at options, including stake sales in retail units as well as the insurance joint venture Future Generali. In April, Biyani had got an injunction against UBS and IDBI Trusteeship from selling his pledged shares. According to rating agency ICRA, debt for listed companies of Future Group increased to Rs 12,778 crore as on September 30, 2019 from Rs 10,951 crore as on March 31, 2019. “A deal may close in a week or 10 days if the issues get resolved,” said the second source familiar with the matter. A potential Future-Reliance combine will consolidate Ambani’s presence as India’s largest retailer and comes as Reliance Retail is looking to bring in strategic and financial investors, which the company had announced at its AGM last month. This, after the record $20-billion fund-raise by Reliance’s telecom unit Jio. The move to consolidate physical store operations comes even as Reliance has stepped up focus on its e-commerce initiative JioMart, where it has entered into a commercial agreement with messaging app WhatsApp to reach consumers. Last week, Reliance said that JioMart has reached a peak of 400,000 orders a day already, and claimed it is the largest online grocer in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biyanis-personal-debt-final-item-in-3bn-ril-future-deal/articleshow/77338405.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 4, 2020||Patna||I chose not to confront BMC officials, says quarantined SP Vinay Tiwari||PATNA: Patna SP (central) Vinay Tiwari, who was quarantined by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials in the Maharashtra capital late on Sunday night, told TOI over phone that he was allowed to leave the Mumbai airport after temperature check at 4pm. Tiwari, who is in Mumbai to probe actor Sushant Singh suicide case, said he joined the Patna police team there at 6pm for carrying out investigations. “I told BMC officials that an IPS officer on official duty cannot be quarantined in this manner. However, they cited order of their senior authorities for the action. I immediately brought the matter to the notice of my seniors in Patna,” Tiwari added. Tiwari said being a government officer, he chose not to argue with the BMC officials who were only acting on the order of their seniors. “I finally allowed them to stamp me with ‘home quarantined’ tag around 11.45pm,” he added. Meanwhile, Bihar DGP Gupteswar Pandey said the BMC’s act would hamper investigations being carried out by the Patna police team into Sushant’s suicide case. The DGP said Mumbai police had also wanted to know the location of the four-member team of Patna police stationed there since July 27. “They had contacted Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma who didn’t share the team’s location after Tiwari was quarantined,” the DGP said. The DGP, however, refused to comment on the issue of Patna police’s jurisdiction as far as probe into Sushant case is concerned. “The matter is pending with Supreme Court. Any call on the issue of jurisdiction will be taken by the apex court,” he added. Meanwhile, a senior Bihar IPS officer told TOI on the condition of anonymity that the four-member Patna police team didn’t leave their location in Mumbai on Monday. “There are chances that they may also be quarantined,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-chose-not-to-confront-bmc-officials-says-quarantined-sp/articleshow/77336732.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Fewer Covid-19 patients on ventilators in city: NMC||NASHIK: The number of critical patients needing ventilator support is steadily decreasing even as new cases are still on the rise in the city, senior officials of the NMC’s health department said on Monday. “At present, only about 2.5% of the total positive patients are on ventilators as against May, June and early July, when the number hovered around 3.5% to 4%,” said the officials. “It’s a welcome change which indicates that the number of severe critical Covid-19 patients is coming down in the city,” said the officials. Of the total number of 10,296 positive cases till Sunday, 2,415 are active while there are about 150 ventilators at the disposal of NMC to treat critical patients. A total of 295 have succumbed to the infection so far. “The NMC’s move to ramp up tests to detect and treat positive patients has helped significantly in bringing down the number of critical patients. Hence there are fewer patients on ventilators,” said the officials. The officials added that antigen-based tests have proved to be a boon for identifying people with Covid-19 infection quickly. Currently, the NMC is conducting about 3,000 tests a day, including 2,000 antigen-based test. Over a dozen mobile van ambulances have been pressed into service to identify and test vulnerable people. “Treating patients early also reduced the fatality rate from 3.96% to around 3.44%. The recovery rate is around 74% and we are confident that it would further improve in the near future,” said the officials. The officials said the civic body is increasing the number of beds in Covid care centres as well as in Covid hospitals to ensure that patients do not face hardships in getting admitted for treatment. Meanwhile, Nashik district reported 1,018 fresh Covid-19 patients on Monday, including 876 from Nashik city, 120 from Nashik Rural and 22 from Malegaon, taking the total number of cases to 16,603. The city has recorded the highest number of cases in a sing;le day. The district recorded 11 deaths due to the infection, including five from Nashik city and Nashik rural area respectively. As many as 208 people have been discharged on Monday..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-covid-19-patients-on-ventilators-in-city-nmc/articleshow/77336592.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||34 CRPF personnel test Covid positive in Bihar||PATNA: At least 34 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel stationed at the Bihar sector headquarters of the paramilitary force on Ashiana-Digha Road in the city have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Rising Covid cases have worried senior CRPF officers as all its battalions deployed in state for anti-Maoist operations are commanded and controlled from sector headquarters. Sources said many CRPF personnel were granted permission to proceed on leave even after being tested positive for Covid-19. Patna frontier headquarters of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) is located just opposite the CRPF sector headquarters. District administration sources said the first Covid case at the CRPF headquarters here was detected on Thursday. “Samples of six more CRPF personnel were collected on Thursday and three were tested Covid-19 positive. Later, 25 more samples were collected and 13 CRPF personnel were tested positive on Saturday,” a senior district administration official said. He added samples of 28 more personnel were collected on Saturday and 17 were found Covid positive on Sunday. CRPF Bihar sector DIG (administration) S M Hasnain admitted that more than 30 personnel have tested positive for the virus. “Altogether 17 personnel were tested positive on Sunday. Three of them are symptomatic. They are in isolation at Patliputra Sports Complex. The asymptomatic CRPF personnel have been quarantined at another location near Kangan Ghat in Patna City,” Hasnain added. Patna DM (in charge) Richie Pandey, who is nodal officer for quarantine centres, said, “CRPF doesn’t have its own quarantine facility. We are planning to keep virus-affected CRPF personnel at various Covid care centres, including one in Bihta. I have asked the SDO to look into the matter,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/34-crpf-personnel-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77321246.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 4, 2020||Patna||Embankments fail to prevent floods in N Bihar, say experts||PATNA: How long will north Bihar continue to suffer from floods? This question is being asked by the millions of people residing in this region who are affected by recurring floods almost every year, causing a huge loss of life and property. More than five million people across 14 districts of north Bihar have already been affected by floods so far this year and many more might be affected in near future. Breach in embankment has only been worsening the situation. Experts point out that history of recent devastating floods in north Bihar can be traced back as early as the 7th Century BC when the settlement of this area began, with agriculture being the mainstay of the inhabitants. Extensively irrigated by a network of perennial rivers, the fertile soil base of new alluvium deposits could produce two to three crops a year even with low technological inputs. The natural fertility of the soil was replenished by the silt deposits of the inundating rivers, they say. But, the idea of tackling the problem of floods through extensive embanking of rivers was adopted by the government in 1896-97. Construction of embankments speeded up with the formulation of the National Flood Control Policy in 1954. Construction of embankments close to river beds is being followed as a flood control measure since then, but it has hardly been much successful in preventing floods. Environmentalists and geoscientists are thoroughly opposed to the practice of embanking the rivers. Construction of embankments has had a disastrous impact, said Patna University (PU) geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey, adding the riverbeds, in case of most of the north Bihar rivers, have gone high following the construction of embankments. “The embankments have interfered with the natural processes of the rivers and even in areas protected from spilling by them, there is waterlogging and salinity. Alternatives to construction of embankments include upstream storage and construction of detention basins within flood plains and artificial draw down of ground,” Pandey added. Geological Survey of India’s former director N Dayal highlighted the inefficacy of structural measures such as embankments and called for an appreciation of the unique physiographic-geologic-hydraulic features of the Himalayan-Gangetic region, the world’s highest and steepest young mountain system followed by extremely flat alluvial land. “The drainage system of the two, which are in dynamic interaction, have different hydraulic characteristics, hydrologic inputs and geomorphologic characteristics. Any flood management system should essentially take note of this feature,” he said. NIT-Patna retired civil engineering teacher Santosh Kumar also has suggested a careful management of technology so as not to obstruct the floods but to use the advantages of floods through better land use and planning. “In other words, a river’s natural regime should be given its due appreciation before embarking on any engineering response to contain it,” he added. Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh said if the construction of embankments is stopped, the resources thus saved could be employed for channel improvements, diversion schemes and rejuvenation of the natural drainage. The system of ‘dhars’ had brilliantly served the functions of spillage and drainage for years, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/embankments-fail-to-prevent-floods-in-n-bihar-say-experts/articleshow/77336957.cms||B K Mishra
August 4, 2020||Business||Moody’s upgrades Yes Bank to ‘positive’||Mumbai: Moody’s Investors Service has upgraded Yes Bank and changed its outlook from stable to positive following a Rs 15,000-crore capital-raise by the private lender, which has improved its solvency, the rating agency said. The bank’s long-term foreign currency has been revised to B3 from Caa1 while its long-term foreign and local currency bank deposit ratings are also upgraded to B3 from Caa1. The bank’s baseline credit assessment (BCA) is now caa2 from ca earlier. “Yes Bank’s successful equity capital raise of Rs 15,000 crore has bolstered its solvency and is the main driver of the rating upgrade. The successful equity raising showcases Yes Bank’s regained access to external market funds, which is a result of its improving financial strength and will support depositor confidence,” the rating agency said. Following the capital increase, the bank’s common equity tier-1 ratio will more than double to 13.4% from 6.6% based on the bank’s capital position at the end of June 2020, bringing its capitalisation largely in line with its private-sector peers. The significantly improved solvency ratio strengthens the bank’s resilience to potential asset quality risks resulting from the ongoing impact of the economic slowdown and the coronavirus-related disruptions on India’s economy. Another positive development was that Yes Bank’s funding and liquidity too have moderately improved in the second quarter of 2020, although they are still weaker than a year ago. Deposits, including current, savings and term deposits, increased 11% during March and June 2020, but remain 48% less than the same period last year. The deposit growth was largely driven by current accounts, corporate term deposits, and certificates of deposits. The private sector bank, which was founded by Rana Kapoor had historically depended on wholesale deposits for funding. However, the rating agency has warned that the private lender continues to face the risk of a further deterioration in asset quality in light of the ongoing economic disruption caused by the coronavirus outbreak. “About 40-45% of the bank’s loans were under a repayment moratorium as of mid-April 2020. Any further deterioration in asset quality will strain the bank’s already weak profitability,” Moody’s said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/moodys-upgrades-yes-bank-to-positive/articleshow/77338695.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Doctors, paramedics thank govt for ‘incentive boon’||PATNA: Doctors and paramedical staff working under the state health department will get an incentive in the form of one-month basic salary as encouragement for their valuable services amid Covid-19 pandemic. The state government, which had earlier made an announcement in this regard, approved the proposal on Sunday,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department. He said a sum of Rs 252.54 crore would be spent by the state for payment of incentive to frontline Covid warriors like doctors and health workers. The government’s order for incentive brought cheers in the medical fraternity and they described the move as a positive approach to strengthen the healthcare system in the state. President of state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Bimal Karak, who is also medical superintendent of PMCH, said, “The incentive is like a morale booster for doctors and paramedics, who have been tirelessly fighting Covid at the cost of their own lives.” Dr Karak said never in the recent history any disease gripped the medical fraternity as the Covid-19 and it was evident by the fact that altogether 270 health workers, including 70 doctors of PMCH, contracted the virus and Dr N K Singh of the hospital’s ENT department died. He thanked CM Nitish Kumar, health minister Mangal pandey and principal secretary of health department Pratyaya Amrit for their support to the health system and frontline workers. The IMA-Bihar president-elect Dr Amarkant Jha Amar said the incentive equivalent to one-month basic salary is welcome move which would have its impact on the rural areas where hundreds of doctors and paramedics are busy in helping people beat Covid-19. Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, nodal officer at NMCH, a dedicated Covid hospital, said incentive to healthcare workers and doctors, perhaps the first time in the recent history of Bihar, would have a positive impact on the state’s fight against the pandemic. The medical officer incharge of Fatuha community health centre (CHC), Dr S S Ray, said the news of incentive brought joy to the faces of all the 63 doctors and medical staff there. He said this CHC had been able to test 605 symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in three months. Of them, 94 were tested positive for the virus. “All these Covid positive patients were given medical kits provided by the government. The kit contains antibiotic, vitamin C, Paracetamol and zinc tablets for self-treatment at home. Most of those patients have recovered,” Dr Ray added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-paramedics-thank-govt-for-incentive-boon/articleshow/77336622.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Business||Munich Re sells stake in Apollo Hospitals||Mumbai: Munich Re on Monday sold its entire stake in Apollo Hospitals for Rs 380 crore according to BSE’s bulk deals data. The data on BSE’s website on Monday showed that Munchener Ruckversicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in Munchen (Munich Re) sold 24 lakh shares for Rs 1,600 apieace — making the deal worth around Rs 380 crore. Earlier disclosure on shareholding revealed that the German reinsurer held nearly 24 lakh shares representing a 1.7% stake in the hospital chain. Shares of Apollo Hospitals closed at Rs 1,574 on the BSE — down 6% from its previous close. At the current share price, the company has a market cap of Rs 21,898 crore. Munich Re and Apollo Hospitals came together to form a joint venture — Apollo DKV Health Insurance in 2007. DKV was a part of the Munich Re group that got absorbed into the parent brand in 2008 resulting in the joint venture being renamed Apollo Munich. Earlier this year, HDFC Ergo General Insurance completed the acquisition of Apollo Munich. Ergo is the brand used by Munich Re for its direct insurance business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/munich-re-sells-stake-in-apollo-hospitals/articleshow/77338868.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 4, 2020||Patna||Gym owners on the brink of bankruptcy||PATNA: Gymnasiums and yoga centres, which were shut as soon as the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, continue to bear the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic. They have faced massive losses and many of them are even on the verge of bankruptcy. Despite the lack of a fixed source of income for the last few months, the owners of gyms, fitness and yoga centres in the city are compelled to pay rent and money for equipment maintenance from their own pockets. “My gym has nearly 600 subscribers and 25 staff. The cash inflow has dried up completely, but I have to pay Rs 2 lakh per month as rent from my own pocket,” claimed Shams Tabrez, the owner of an upscale gymnasium near Ashiana Mor. Gym and yoga centre employees are also finding it difficult to make ends meet. Fitness instructor Shamsad told this newspaper, “I have not been paid since April. I live in a rented accommodation at Raja Bazar and it is difficult to run my family with no fixed source of income.” While yoga can be practised at home, people, who were accustomed to visiting gyms, have no other alternative. “After I was diagnosed with spondylitis, I started going to a local gym with my physiotherapist. Just when I got better, all gyms were shut due to Covid-19. Now, I am scared the problem will relapse,” said Nityanand, a resident of Saket Vihar. Many fitness freaks believe that regular workouts go a long way in improving the overall health of an individual. Being homebound for months has, therefore, affected their mental well-being as well. “Exercising on a regular basis helps fight depression and anxiety. Hence, it is high time fitness centres were reopened with precautionary measures in place,” said Dr Abhilasha, a private practitioner at Punaichak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gym-owners-on-the-brink-of-bankruptcy/articleshow/77336655.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||State IMA offers free telemedicine facility 24x7||PATNA: The Indian Medical Association ( IMA), Bihar unit, has urged people to avail medical help without visiting the clinic of a doctor or any hospital. “Stay home and get in touch with our doctors through telephone or cell phone for treatment of both symptomatic and a symptomatic problems in this pandemic age,” was the message released after hectic discussions by experts at an emergent meeting of the executive committee of the IMA convened here on Monday. The meeting chaired by president Dr Bimal Karak appealed to the people to seek the help of nearest IMA members through phone, said IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar. “We also spoke to the IMA doctors in Kerala, who supported the approach of motivating people for home isolation,” he added. The IMA released a list of 40 doctors including the executive committee members with their phone numbers available 24x7 for telemedicine facilities. The IMA has also set up helplines in all the districts and even some sub- divisions also. Dr Sunil said the IMA later held a zoom meeting with the principal secretary, health department, Prataya Amrit, who informed about six of his staff who have tested Covid-19 positive. Amrit also assured the doctors’ body to extend support from the government. The IMA also apprised people to strictly follow the norms of social distancing, use masks and wash hands with soaps for keeping the chances of infection at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-ima-offers-free-telemedicine-facility-24x7/articleshow/77336578.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||All-party team should monitor Covid, floods, says Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday urged Vidhan Sabha speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary to form an all-party committee to monitor the state health department’s initiatives to combat the spread of the Covid-19 virus in Bihar. “Our fight against Covid-19 is not a political issue. We all should unite and take a joint responsibility to protect the lives of our people, residents of this state, from the threat of Covid-19,” the CM said while replying to a special debate on ‘Covid-19 and flood situation in the state’. He further said that the proposed committee would hold its meeting every 15 days and review the actions being taken by the health department. “Though it is the last session of the 16th Vidhan Sabha, the House still has its tenure till November. The committee can function till the end of tenure of the current Vidhan Sabha,” the CM said. The five-year term of the current Vidhan Sabha expires on November 29 this year. Nitish, who leads a coalition government, further called upon the leaders of all political parties to come forward and work in unison for the state government’s fight against the Covid-19 virus. He also said that nobody knew as to what extent this infection would spread. “A few days back, BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh (of Darbhanga) died of Covid-19. Only yesterday, the CPI state secretary and former MLA Satya Narain Singh died of the infection. Let all of us take responsibility to protect the lives of our people,” Nitish said while making a fervent appeal to political parties to unite on the issue of Covid-19. Intervening into the CM’s speech, the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasasd Yadav urged the CM to depute all MLAs in their respective areas to monitor Covid-19 and flood situation. “By doing so, the state government will get feedback from the elected representatives about the officers’ work on a regular basis,” Tejashwi said and urged the CM not to rely on feedback from bureaucrats. Earlier, the truncated one-day Monsoon session of the assembly passed altogether 12 bills within an hour, without going for a detailed debate on the bills due to shortening of the session because of Covid-19. Supplementary budget passed: The assembly on Monday passed the state government’s first supplementary budget (for FY 2020-21) of Rs 22,777.32 crore. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi presented the supplementary budget in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-party-team-should-monitor-covid-floods/articleshow/77336679.cms||Madan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Divorcee doctor assaults, molests intended bride||AHMEDABAD: A 31-year-old woman from Vadaj on Sunday lodged a complaint against one Dr Tejas Rajgaur, a resident of Vrajbhumi Society near CTM Crossroads for molesting, abusing and assaulting her. The woman, who got divorced in May 2017 and lives with her 4-year-old daughter, said she came into contact with the accused through a marriage bureau in Paldi, where she had submitted her bio-data. Inspector Vanrajsinh Chavda of Vadaj police station said they have detained the accused and are waiting for the result of his Covid-19 test before they officially arrest him. An FIR under Sections 354 (a) , 452, 323,294 (b) and 506(1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged. The woman, who runs a beauty parlour from her house, in her FIR stated that about a week ago she received a call on her mobile and the caller said he had seen her profile with the marriage bureau. He said his son, a doctor, was interested in her. “Later, the doctor, who is also divorced, sent his bio-data to the woman’s mobile, but as she was busy she did not respond. On Saturday, the accused called her and she told him her daughter was ill. He asked her to bring her daughter to his house, which she did. After about 15 minutes there, they left,” said a police official. According to the FIR, the accused called her several times after that and at about 11pm came to her house and asked her why she wasn’t answering his calls. He then started abusing her. When she tried to call the police, the accused snatched her phone and threw it on the floor. He then molested her. She said that he also threatened her saying he would kill her if she didn’t marry him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/divorcee-doctor-assaults-molests-intended-bride/articleshow/77338141.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Miseries of flood-hit people continue||Darbhanga/ Khagaria/Bagaha: Lakhs of evacuated people and those staying near the marooned areas continue to suffer in 14 north Bihar districts. In Darbhanga, which is facing the wrath of Khiro and Bagmati rivers, altogether 199 panchayats spread over 15 blocks are flood-affected. According to disaster management department, 18.61 lakh families from 907 villages have been hit by floods. Altogether 517 community kitchens are running to feed 2.09 lakh people in the district. In Khagaria, floodwaters have entered 116 villages spread over 39 panchayats and affected over 96,800 people. Although floods have become an annual feature in the district as seven rivers – Kosi, Bagmati, Ganga, Kali Kosi, Burhi Gandak, Kamla and Kareh – flow from the area, the situation is worrying this time. Large number of villages under Alouli, Beldaur blocks of the district is under floodwaters. “The much-publicised relief distribution by the government agencies is inadequate,” said Pankaj Kumar, a social activist and resident of Sathma village under Kurban panchayat in Beldaur block. The district administration, however, said relief materials are being distributed in the flood-affected areas. The daily flood bulletin issued by the district administration on Monday stated that at least seven community centres are running in the flood-affected areas, feeding over 19,374 people. Although floodwaters have started receding in many villages in West Champaran district, where around 1.50 lakh people have been affected, around 500 people are not in a position to go back to their villages as their houses have collapsed. People like Ramshevak Bind of Shrinagar panchayat under Thakaraha block, who had taken shelter on the railway bund and uplands, said they were not in a position to construct new houses as their thatched houses were either destroyed or swept away by floodwaters. Flood victims have also taken shelter at Gadiyani Upgraded Middle School. Mukhiya of Shrinagar panchayat Lilawati Devi said pieces of polythene sheets have been distributed among the flood-hit people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/miseries-of-flood-hit-people-continue/articleshow/77336761.cms||N P Thakur
August 4, 2020||Business||Sensex down 667 pts as RIL, bank stocks slide||Mumbai: Weak global cues and profit-booking in the domestic market in leading stocks pulled the sensex down by 667 points, or nearly 2%, to 36,940, while the Nifty lost 182 points to close at 10,892. Both the indices have ended in the red for four consecutive sessions and the Nifty closed below the 11,000-mark after two weeks. The day’s session, however, saw buying in mid-cap and small-cap stocks. Global markets were negative mainly because US lawmakers were still trying to finalise a new stimulus package. The rising numbers of Covid-19 cases also weighed on investor sentiment. On Dalal Street, investors used the global weakness as a pretext to take some money off the table with Reliance, after its stellar run in the last three months, along with banking and financial stocks, among the most sold ones. In addition, a lot of stock specific action was witnessed after results by the respective companies, said Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “We expect this volatility and stock specific action to continue for a while.” Large buying by foreign funds pushed up the day’s net FPI buying to Rs 7,818 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-down-667-pts-as-ril-bank-stocks-slide/articleshow/77338696.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Business||BoI Q1 profit up 248%, will raise Rs 8,000 crore||MUMBAI: Bank of India (BoI) reported a 248% increase in its net profit to Rs 843 crore in the April-June quarter as against Rs 242 crore a year ago. The state-owned lender’s MD & CEO A K Das said the bank was looking to raise Rs 7,000-8,000 crore through a combination of equity and bonds to boost its capital. Total provisions made by the bank in Q1FY21 fell to Rs 1,512 crore from Rs 1,911 crore in the year-ago period. Total income during the quarter rose to Rs 11,941 crore from Rs 11,526 crore in the previous year. “We are adequately capitalised at this moment. But given our 7% credit growth target, we would require fresh capital from the third quarter,” Das said. In addition to raising capital, the bank expects to raise Rs 2,500 crore from bad loans, which would include sale of loans to asset reconstruction companies. To conserve capital, the bank is rationalising its international operations. It has consolidated several branches internationally and will do in South Africa too subject to regulations, said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/boi-q1-profit-up-248-will-raise-rs-8000cr/articleshow/77337766.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Business||Bandhan Bank stock tanks 11% after block deal||MUMBAI: Bandhan Bank on Monday recorded the largest block deal ever in the banking space at Rs 10,572 crore, which resulted in its stock closing nearly 11% lower at Rs 308 on the BSE, with the day’s low at Rs 304. The BSE’s block deal data showed that with over 4 crore shares, Caladium Investment was the leading buyer in the block, followed by Societe Generale at 2.8 crore shares and Credit Suisse at 2.6 crore shares. The large buying by foreign funds pushed up the day’s net FPI buying to Rs 7,818 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bandhan-bank-stock-tanks-11-after-block-deal/articleshow/77337355.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Coronanavirus patients can now use tabs, phones to keep in touch with kin||PATNA: Hospitalised Covid-19 patients will now be allowed to use smartphones and tablets to keep in touch and interact with family and friends via videoconferencing. In a letter issued to the states and Union territories on July 29, Director General of Health Services (DGHS) in the health ministry, Dr Rajiv Garg, said appropriate protocols for disinfecting devices and allotting time slots could be developed by the hospital concerned to facilitate contact between patients and their family members. “Social connection can calm down patients and also reinforce the psychological support given by the treating team,” Garg stated in the letter. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, hailed the move and said the arrangement would boost the morale of patients by reducing psychological stress. “Covid-19 patients are kept in the isolation ward and have no interaction with the outside world. This makes them lonely and anxious. Now that they have been allowed to use tablets and smartphones, they can keep in touch with their kin and cope with loneliness,” Dr Sanjeev told this newspaper on Monday. Earlier, the use of electronic devices in the Covid wards was restricted to minimize the risk of virus transmission. Dr Talat Halim of Paras Hospital said it was important for an ill person to stay connected with family. “After receiving the DGHS’ letter, we are making necessary arrangements at the hospital. However, I will advise patients not to make repeated calls to their family members and friends,” he added. Other health experts also expressed concern over the use of smartphones and tablets in Covid-19 wards. Dr Satyajit Singh of Ruban Hospital pointed out, “Use of personal electronic devices can lead to chaos and disturb others. We already have extension numbers for each ward so that patients can talk to their relatives on a regular basis.” Meanwhile, the letter has come as a great relief for panic-stricken people, who are hesitant to get admitted to hospitals. A resident of Rajendra Nagar, who tested positive for the virus two weeks ago, said, “A lot of people are choosing home isolation because they are scared of being left alone in the isolation wards. They also have nobody to talk to and nothing to entertain themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-patients-can-now-use-tabs-phones-to-keep-in-touch-with-kin/articleshow/77336562.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Lack of flights to UAE costs flyers dearly||CHENNAI: The UAE may have begun allowing visitors and transit travelers, but the lack of scheduled flights from Chennai forces the stranded to spend more on Vande Bharat flights. The UAE is issuing visas for people of all nationalities for travel to Dubai and Abu Dhabi, a popular transit hub for those from Chennai, but many who could have used Dubai to fly to Europe and the US by flights of their choice are forced to depend on special flights. Emirates and Etihad Air can fly to Chennai to pick up passengers with resident visas in the UAE but Emirates discontinued flights because aircraft had to land in Chennai empty because of restrictions. From August 6 to 15, Etihad will fly five times a week to Chennai. Basheer Ahmed of Travel Agents Federation of India said many were waiting to come to Chennai and to travel to UAE. “Scheduled flights at least in limited frequency will help them. The rescue flights are expensive and get cancelled if the airline cannot send in the number of arriving passengers in advance.” The UAE is opening up, but traders and business travellers are not able to benefit because of the risk of getting stranded there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lack-of-flights-to-uae-costs-flyers-dearly/articleshow/77338217.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Domestic detergents causing froth in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: High phosphate levels, primarily due to use of domestic detergents, is causing frothing in the Yamuna, Delhi Pollution Control Committee informed the National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, which had sought a detailed report on why frothing was being seen in the river. Both DPCC and the Central Pollution Control Board had been asked to look into the matter last week, after images of froth in the river went viral on the social media. DPCC officials conducted a site visit and detected froth at locations where there was a change in the level of the river, or where new water was being introduced. “The river was found to be having high phosphate content, which primarily comes from laundry detergents. There is no froth formation when there is a normal flow, but if there is a change in elevation or new water is introduced, the phosphate rises to the surface, mixing with the water to create foam on the surface,” a DPCC official explained. On July 24, Delhi Jal Board had curtailed supply at Okhla, Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants due to the presence of high levels of pollutants in the Yamuna. DPCC officials claimed there is no immediate solution to the problem, with an increased flow of water likely to help reduce the froth. “ In the long term, only the completion of tapping each drain with Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) will remove this problem,” the official added. “A large chunk of the pollution in the river actually comes from domestic sewage and not industries. Tapping both sources is essential and that will still take a couple of years. Until then, frothing will continue to occur at times,” said the official. Yamuna Monitoring Committee, which had been appointed by NGT in 2018 to rejuvenate the river, was re-appointed last month and has since directed CPCB and DPCC to carry out monthly monitoring of the Yamuna and to provide data each month. Watch Delhi: Domestic detergents causing froth in Yamuna river||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/domestic-detergents-causing-froth-in-yamuna/articleshow/77338180.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC squad to take action against pvt hosps for exorbitant charges||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has formed a five-member squad to conduct surprise checks at private hospitals. They will initiate action if hospitals are charging Covid and non-Covid patients above the rates finalized by NMC on June 4. The squad headed by IAS officer Jalaj Sharma visited Seven Star Hospital at Jagnade Square and also obtained data on the charges levied on patients since June 4 till date. TOI had on Monday reported Seven Star Hospital allegedly issued a bill of Rs1.9 lakh, later reduced to Rs1.39 lakh, for just six days for an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient. Taking serious cognisance of TOI’s report, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued a circular forming the squad on Monday. Sharma, additional municipal commissioner, has earlier worked as Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer for three years before joining as IAS. He is also BTech in computer engineering, and so was appointed head of the squad. Mundhe told TOI, “Guidelines were issued to private hospitals. Squad will check whether private hospitals are following norm of 80:20 bed sharing formula and rates. Stringent action will be taken if any violations are found.” Mundhe also said private hospitals are not supposed to admit asymptomatic positive patients. “Covid-19 positive patient with symptoms is eligible for admission in private hospitals. All asymptomatic positive patients can avail home isolation or Covid Care Centres (CCCs). Sufficient number of beds are also available in state and trust-run Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for positive patients with symptoms,” he said. A delegation of Youth Congress led by state secretary Rohit Khairwar met speaker Nana Patole on Sunday and requested government should not allow private hospitals to treat Covid-19 positive or suspected patients. Khairwar told TOI, “A private hospital issued bill of Rs2.50 lakh to a suspected Covid-19 patient (32-year-old woman) for just six days. Her father had tested positive so NMC quarantined all family members at VNIT Hostel. Her reports came negative from GMCH. But she complained of some breathlessness so was admitted at GMCH, where she tested negative second time.” He alleged GMCH doctors suggested her to get treatment from private hospital since X-ray report showed some symptoms. She was then admitted at a private hospital on July 21, and never showed symptoms. She was tested the third time at the private hospital. She was given discharge with bill of Rs2.50 lakh. Her family had to sell gold ornaments to pay the bill as they had no insurance, he said. Khairwar alleged all Covid and non-Covid patients admitted in private hospitals in last one month had to pay exorbitant bills. “State government is providing all infrastructure and facilities in government hospitals. Therefore, private hospitals should not be allowed to treat Covid positive or suspected patients. Need is to encourage doctors and staff of government hospitals to give service through out this pandemic,” he said. Referring to the government order dated May 21, Mundhe had issued circular for private hospitals and capped all rates. The motive was to restrict private hospitals from charging exorbitant rates in pandemic, which may leave many in financial crisis. The representatives of Vidarbha Hospital Association and local chapter of Indian Medical Association have requested divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to increase the rates, claiming it would lead to loss of over Rs3 lakh per day for each hospital. Kumar had forwarded their plea to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-squad-to-take-action-against-pvt-hosps-for-exorbitant-charges/articleshow/77338174.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||City sees fewer overall deaths in four months of Covid||NAGPUR: The city has registered less number of overall deaths in four months of Covid-19 pandemic. The deaths were even less in two months of full lockdown. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in the city was 107 as on Monday. Two deaths were registered in April, followed by eight in May, two in June, 71 in July and 24 in three days of August. The mortality rate is 2.59% for the 107 deaths of total 4,127 Covid-19 cases. As per data available from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), overall 6,255 deaths were registered in four months of Covid-19; April 1,311, May 1,624, June 1,512 and July 1,808. The number was 6,751 in corresponding period in 2019 and 7,049 in 2018. This means number of deaths reduced by 7.33% in four months of pandemic compared to 2019 and by 11.26% in comparison with 2018. There was full lockdown in April and May. Overall deaths were 2,935 in these two months in this year against 3,483 in 2019 and 3,561 in 2018. This is a reduction of 15.73% compared to 2019 and 17.57% in comparison with 2018. The central and state governments had ended full lockdown and eased guidelines from June 1. Overall deaths were 3,488 in June and July of 2018, 3,268 in 2019 and 3,320 in 2020. The number increased by 1.56% in 2020 compared to 2019 and declined by 4.81% in comparison with 2018. Though considered dreadful, Covid-19 situation in city is better as of July-end compared to other cities in the state. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Number of overall deaths in city was low compared to last two years. Deaths due to road mishaps reduced following full lockdown and some guidelines in existence. There are drastic changes in lifestyle since pandemic. Utmost care is being taken if health. Also, sanitation measures have improved among people as well as authorities.” Mundhe said the non-communicable disease burden in entire country has increased to a great extent in last 50 years or more. “It is directly linked to lifestyle, which needs to be changed. We have to focus on healthy food, fitness, non-motorized transport, less pollution etc, which was prevailing in full lockdown. There is also need for people to adopt changes with increase in congestion in cities,” he said. Director of Orange City Hospital Dr Anup Marar is of similar opinion. “Fewer deaths in last four months as compared to last two years can be attributed to fewer accidents due to reduced vehicular movement, reduction in crime, eating safe home-cooked food, and less occupational stress. Also, there was minimal exposure to germs due to all kinds of protection measures taken by the majority while in lockdown. This pandemic has also taught us many such measures and these should be continued after the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-sees-fewer-overall-deaths-in-four-months-of-covid/articleshow/77338159.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Covid patients celebrate Raksha Bandhan with staff||NASHIK: For many Covid-19 patients, Raksha Bandhan this year was spent away from family members. The staff at the cantonment board hospital, which has been converted into a Covid care centre, as well as the district covid hospital tried their best to cheer patients in their care. The nurses and other female employees at these hospitals tied rakhis to the patients on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on Monday. Meanwhile, the women taking treatment at these centres tied rakhis to the ward boys and other male employees at these facilities. Medial officer of the cantonment board hospital Jayshree Natesh said: “It felt good to see the patients smile when the rakhis were brought to the ward.” Natesh said Sachin Thakre, a member of Cantonment Board of Deolali (CBD), had arranged for the rakhis, sweets and all the other materials to celebrate Raksha Bandhan with the Covid patients at the hospital. The medical officer thanked Thakre for his thoughtful gesture. Raksha Bandhan was also celebrated at the district covid hospital at the Nashik civil hospital. Officials said that some patients have been admitted to the facility for more than a week. As a result, they have not been able to meet their family members in person. Most of the patients were missing their siblings on this special day. Therefore, it was decided that Raksha Bandhan would be celebrated on the premises. Medical officers of the Nashik civil hospital said even the family members of the Covid patients must have felt good on learning that the nurses, ward boys etc. celebrated the festival with the Covid-infected family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-patients-celebrate-raksha-bandhan-with-staff/articleshow/77336602.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 4, 2020||Nashik||City police start study centre at CP office for wards of cops||NASHIK: To ensure that the wards of the police personnel have access to relevant study material needed to crack competitive exams, the city police on Monday set up a study centre at the police commissionerate. The centre, named after former DGP Arvind Inamdar, was inaugurated by Nashik city police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil. Senior police officers said the centre has a seating capacity of 60 and it will stock all the necessary books and study material for various competitive exams. DCP Pournima Chaugue said they would also be tying up with institutes prepared to take virtual classes for the aspirants. The police officers said earlier, many children of police personnel entered the police service as constables. However, with changing times, many now aspire for officer-level posts in the police and other government departments by cracking the competitive exams. Meanwhile, the police commissioner also felicitated 11 children of policemen who scored above 90% in the recent SSC examination. Roshan Buva, the son of a policemen attached to the Sarkwada police station, who recently cracked the MPSC exam was also felicitated. Senior police officers said various projects would be taken up in the future to provide good guidance on competitive exams to the aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-police-start-study-centre-at-cp-office-for-wards-of-cops/articleshow/77336624.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar: GIFT City IT park runs into Covid roadblock||GANDHINAGAR: The proposed Rs 300 crore information technology and IT-enabled services park at the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) near Gandhinagar is in the doldrums because of the Covid outbreak. Companies which had expressed interest in setting up operations at the IT & ITES (IT-enabled services) park of the state government are now weighing other options. The state government too is reviewing the situation as it does not want to invest huge sums of money in infrastructure without substantial bookings. In March this year, the government was close to finalizing developers to begin construction of the Phase-I tower spanning 6 lakh square feet. The entire project (Phases I and II) is proposed over an area of 10 lakh square feet. Local industries and the government have been negotiating on various aspects of the project for almost three years. Although the state government has granted industry status to the IT/ITES sector, the dynamics have changed drastically after the pandemic. The project is now likely to experience major delay. A source in the GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation), the nodal agency for the project, said: “The government is keen to pursue the project, but the IT/ITES companies have begun to dither, contending that the previously agreed upon rates are no longer workable for them.” The source went on to say: “The government is now reviewing the situation, as it will be imprudent to invest in infrastructure without many takers.” A key member of the Gujarat Electronics & Software Industries Association (GESIA), which has inked an MoU with the GIDC, said that many companies are finding the WFH (work-from-home) model cost-effective. “With employees working from home, there is no need for large space as of now,” said the GESIA member. “We will, however, require more space when the situation improves.” The member went on to say: “We are in consultation with the government and it will be easier for us to invest if the government offers cheaper rates.” Apart from Shapoorji Pallonji Group, two Gujarat-based companies — PSP Projects and Cube Construction Engineering — are in the race for the construction of the GIFT City project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gift-city-it-park-runs-into-covid-roadblock/articleshow/77338194.cms||Kapil Dave
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik chemists not to profit off Covid drugs||NASHIK: The Nashik chemists and druggists’ association is planning to provide Covid-related medicines on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The chemists will soon be meeting the FDA officials for guidance. Atul Ahire, of the Chemists and Druggists’ Association of Nashik, said: “As a social obligation, we have decided to sell certain medicines like ‘Actemra’, which are expensive, on a no-profit-no-loss basis. Some medicines are also hard to get in the market. As a result, we have decided to centralise sales.” With the number of Covid-19 cases going up across the city and the district, a large number of patients are taking treatment at private hospitals. The relatives of such patients have to buy medicines from the markets. Some expensive medicines will now be sold at a cost price by the members of the chemists and druggists’ association. Office-bearers of the association would be meeting senior officials of the Foods and Drugs Administration (FDA) to explain their plan for approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-chemists-not-to-profit-off-covid-drugs/articleshow/77336632.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spinning mills cut production by 40% after lockdown||AHMEDABAD: With retail demand for clothing and textiles taking a hit, demand for yarn has also shown a major decline in both domestic and export markets. Spinning mills in Gujarat that produce cotton yarn, have reduced their production to 60% of installed capacity, in order to tackle overhead costs. Commenting on the scenario, Dr Bharat Boghara, chairman, All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA), said, “Domestic demand has fallen drastically because retail business has taken a major hit. Over and above this, demand in the international market too dried up, which was a bigger hit to industries, because 60% of the cotton yarn produced in mills across Gujarat is exported. With this, industry players were left with no choice but to cut production levels as piling up inventories will not make sense.” Gujarat is home to at least 150 spinning mills with an installed capacity of 35 lakh spindles. Industry players also attribute the decline in growth to labourer crisis. “A majority of the labourers employed at spinning mills come from Bihar, Jharkhand and UP. After the mass migration of labourers during lockdown, very few have returned. Initially it was fine because the demand had dried up. However, since July, when the orders have gradually begun pouring in from countries such as Bangladesh, Vietnam and even some of the European markets, industries are unable to ramp up production,” said Saurin Parikh, president of AGSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spinning-mills-cut-production-by-40-after-lockdown/articleshow/77338230.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||For first time in 5 years, BMC reports no rain-related disease deaths in July||MUMBAI: BMC did not register any death due to monsoon-related diseases like malaria, dengue and leptospirosis in July, a first in five years. Gastroenteritis and hepatitis cases saw one of its biggest dips in years, which civic officials attributed to lockdown and heightened personal hygiene measures. But malaria cases doubled in July compared to last year. In July 2019, there were many monsoon-ailment related deaths, including five leptospirosis and one each of dengue and H1N1. This July, barring malaria, which has seen a doubling of cases from 438 to 872, almost all ailments significantly declined. Gastroenteritis saw the steepest fall from 994 last year to 53. Hepatitis, which contributed to a deluge of admissions in Kurla last year, declined from 270 to one. There were no cases or deaths of influenza H1N1. Leptospirosis cases that usually spiral in July also saw one of its lowest incidences in five years. This July, there were only 14 confirmed cases compared to 74 cases and five deaths last July. In July 2018, there were 101 cases and six deaths, while in 2017 there were 59 cases and three deaths. A civic official said wading through rain water was the main source of transmission of the bacteria here. “Most people are at home, which could have brought down cases despite heavy rain and water-logging in parts of the city,” said a civic official. BMC is focussing on malaria cases after they rose in June-July. There were 328 cases in June, compared to 313 last year. “Guidelines were circulated to check fever cases for malaria,” the official said, adding that 51,44 breeding sites were destroyed since May. Dr Gautam Bhansali, who consults with Bombay Hospital, said among non-Covid admissions, many have started seeing malaria cases. “Among monsoon ailments, we are mostly seeing malaria. We have treated few cases with Covid-malaria infection. All recovered,” he said. Dr Shahid Barmare said a fall in gastroenteritis cases was expected as people are mostly having home food and water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-first-time-in-5-yrs-bmc-reports-no-rain-related-disease-deaths-in-july/articleshow/77338554.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Southern Railway to set aside space for maintenance of private trains||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will soon start work to either identify land or earmark facilities within its premises in Chennai and other cities in the state for private train operators to set up a yard to clean coaches, do technical checks and prepare their trains for trips. The facilities may have to be set up at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as private trains will be run from Chennai to these cities. The letter to the general managers says space will have to be identified for private firms to set up their maintenance yard or offer space in railway’s facility for them to set up electrified pit lines, so the firms will be able to use them without depending on railway-owned shunting locomotives to maintain the trains. The railway board has decided that maintenance of six trains — the services from Chennai to Mumbai, Mangalore, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari and Delhi — will be done in Chennai. It has also specified that the maintenance unit will have three lines for washing, interior cleaning and a spare line. There may also be an automatic washing plant which will clean the train exterior as it is driven through a pit line. The zone will now identify whether Basin Bridge railway yard or Egmore yard has the facility to handle private trains or will look for space to install the new unit. Sources said there might not be space for an electrified line and spare line in existing yards which already suffer from space crunch. “It looks like Salt Cotaurs area could be taken up for trains to Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi and Mangalore while the south-bound trains can be maintained at Tambaram. If that does not work out, all private trains could be moved to Tambaram too.” Railways may also have to find an ideal station for departure of private trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/s-rly-to-set-aside-space-for-maintenance-of-pvt-trains/articleshow/77343299.cms||V Ayyappan
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Southern Railway to set aside space for maintenance of private trains||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will soon start work to either identify land or earmark facilities within its premises in Chennai and other cities in the state for private train operators to set up a yard to clean coaches, do technical checks and prepare their trains for trips. The facilities may have to be set up at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as private trains will be run from Chennai to these cities. The letter to the general managers says space will have to be identified for private firms to set up their maintenance yard or offer space in railway’s facility for them to set up electrified pit lines, so the firms will be able to use them without depending on railway-owned shunting locomotives to maintain the trains. The railway board has decided that maintenance of six trains — the services from Chennai to Mumbai, Mangalore, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari and Delhi — will be done in Chennai. It has also specified that the maintenance unit will have three lines for washing, interior cleaning and a spare line. There may also be an automatic washing plant which will clean the train exterior as it is driven through a pit line. The zone will now identify whether Basin Bridge railway yard or Egmore yard has the facility to handle private trains or will look for space to install the new unit. Sources said there might not be space for an electrified line and spare line in existing yards which already suffer from space crunch. “It looks like Salt Cotaurs area could be taken up for trains to Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi and Mangalore while the south-bound trains can be maintained at Tambaram. If that does not work out, all private trains could be moved to Tambaram too.” Railways may also have to find an ideal station for departure of private trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-to-set-aside-space-for-maintenance-of-pvt-trains/articleshow/77338249.cms||V Ayyappan
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Rlys announces CRT at Kherwadi||Nashik: The Railways has announced container rail terminal (CRT) at the Kherwadi goods shed in Niphad taluka of Nashik district that will give a big boost to the movement of export-oriented containers.The announcement comes at a time when the Railways is toying with various ideas of drawing road traffic towards it in various forms, including the newly launched parcel service promising transportation of goods in a short time.“Goods meant for exports, which are transported in containers to Mumbai, cause heavy traffic conditions on roads. At the same time, customs clearance is a major problem. If custom-cleared containers are loaded in train, it will drastically reduce the transport time, besides reduction in pollution,” said senior divisional operations manager RK Sharma.“We had a primary meeting with traders and various organisations that are party to the movement of containers, including Halcon and Bombay Port Trust. The Railways explained about the facility it intends to provide for container movement from Nashik,” the officer said. Traders dealing in farm produce have been stressing on containers to be provided at farm-levels so that there is minimum handling of perishable goods. The container operators are willing to give it a thought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rlys-announces-crt-at-kherwadi/articleshow/77336647.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rape is a crime against society, survivor can’t condone it, says court||NEW DELHI: An accused and a rape survivor willing to compromise couldn’t convince a court to approve the man’s bail plea. While the accused offered to marry the survivor, she claimed to have no “grievance” against him. However, additional sessions judge Mohd Farrukh noted that in the bail application, the man hadn’t denied the allegations mentioned in the FIR. “It is stated that the applicant/accused is ready to fulfil his promise of getting married with the survivor. However, allegations... prima facie constitute offence of rape,” he said. The court then referred to the woman’s statement that revealed that she was drugged and raped on July 17, 2016. “The allegations are heinous in nature and cannot be condoned by the survivor as the crime is against society and that is why it has been made non-compoundable (cannot be compromised) even with the consent of the survivor,” it pointed out. The man was arrested from Jammu & Kashmir and brought to Delhi to face prosecution for allegedly raping the woman on multiple occasions on the false promise of marriage. The case history revealed the survivor had met him in February 2016 in Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he came to Delhi and met her. He fell sick during the trip and when the woman went to his hotel with home-made food at his hotel, he allegedly offered a drug-laced soft drink, which she consumed and fell unconscious. The woman claimed that she was naked when she woke up and was raped by the accused. The man reportedly promised to marry her when she began to cry. Subsequently, his parents visited the survivor’s home and they got engaged. She claimed that the man again raped her when she visited him in Jammu and Kashmir on December 18, 2016. The survivor alleged she was also raped in July 2019 and March 2020. Then he abused her over the phone and refused to marry her. Police registered a case of rape and criminal intimidation and recorded the survivor’s statement and non-bailable warrants were issued against him in June and July 2020. Pleading that both of them still want to marry each other, the man’s counsel, however, argued that the case had no basis to attract rape charges under IPC 376. The survivor said she had no grievance as he was ready to marry her. The court, however, highlighted that the investigation was at a “nascent stage” and refused bail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rape-is-a-crime-against-society-survivor-cant-condone-it-court/articleshow/77338272.cms||Aamir Khan
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Southern Railway to set aside space for maintenance of private trains||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will soon start work to either identify land or earmark facilities within its premises in Chennai and other cities in the state for private train operators to set up a yard to clean coaches, do technical checks and prepare their trains for trips. The facilities may have to be set up at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as private trains will be run from Chennai to these cities. The letter to the general managers says space will have to be identified for private firms to set up their maintenance yard or offer space in railway’s facility for them to set up electrified pit lines, so the firms will be able to use them without depending on railway-owned shunting locomotives to maintain the trains. The railway board has decided that maintenance of six trains — the services from Chennai to Mumbai, Mangalore, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari and Delhi — will be done in Chennai. It has also specified that the maintenance unit will have three lines for washing, interior cleaning and a spare line. There may also be an automatic washing plant which will clean the train exterior as it is driven through a pit line. The zone will now identify whether Basin Bridge railway yard or Egmore yard has the facility to handle private trains or will look for space to install the new unit. Sources said there might not be space for an electrified line and spare line in existing yards which already suffer from space crunch. “It looks like Salt Cotaurs area could be taken up for trains to Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi and Mangalore while the south-bound trains can be maintained at Tambaram. If that does not work out, all private trains could be moved to Tambaram too.” Railways may also have to find an ideal station for departure of private trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/s-rly-to-set-aside-space-for-maintenance-of-pvt-trains/articleshow/77343296.cms||V Ayyappan
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Southern Railway to set aside space for maintenance of private trains||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will soon start work to either identify land or earmark facilities within its premises in Chennai and other cities in the state for private train operators to set up a yard to clean coaches, do technical checks and prepare their trains for trips. The facilities may have to be set up at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as private trains will be run from Chennai to these cities. The letter to the general managers says space will have to be identified for private firms to set up their maintenance yard or offer space in railway’s facility for them to set up electrified pit lines, so the firms will be able to use them without depending on railway-owned shunting locomotives to maintain the trains. The railway board has decided that maintenance of six trains — the services from Chennai to Mumbai, Mangalore, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari and Delhi — will be done in Chennai. It has also specified that the maintenance unit will have three lines for washing, interior cleaning and a spare line. There may also be an automatic washing plant which will clean the train exterior as it is driven through a pit line. The zone will now identify whether Basin Bridge railway yard or Egmore yard has the facility to handle private trains or will look for space to install the new unit. Sources said there might not be space for an electrified line and spare line in existing yards which already suffer from space crunch. “It looks like Salt Cotaurs area could be taken up for trains to Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi and Mangalore while the south-bound trains can be maintained at Tambaram. If that does not work out, all private trains could be moved to Tambaram too.” Railways may also have to find an ideal station for departure of private trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/s-rly-to-set-aside-space-for-maintenance-of-pvt-trains/articleshow/77343297.cms||V Ayyappan
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Proper arrangements for idol sellers: Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has appealed to the officials of various departments to make proper arrangements for idols sellers to ensure Covid-19 health advisories are followed while selling and buying of Ganesh idols.  Addressing a meeting of police and Nashik Municipal Corporation officials, Bhujbal appealed to them to follow the norms of a low-key celebration of festivities and ensure they do not attend any of the programs. The minister said the administration should make all possible arrangements for a smooth process of selling idols before the Ganesh festival, maintaining all the Covid-19 norms and not compromising with citizens’ health. “Make all arrangements so that proper social distancing and other measures are followed at the time of bringing the Ganesh idols home and at the time of immersions. Ensure the immersion is held only in artificial ponds so that the river remains clean,” Bhujbal told the officials. “We have to ensure the festivities go on but not in a grand manner. Hence, big pandals will not be permitted and at the same time the government officials and celebrities would also restrict themselves from visiting the other pandals in order to discourage gathering at such places,” Bhujbal said. The minister also appealed to the people to ensure the height of Ganesh idols does not exceed 4ft in the public pandals and not more than 2 ft in households. The officials including the Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare, Nashik commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre-Patil, NMC Commissioner Radhakrishna Game and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/proper-arrangements-for-idol-sellers-bhujbal/articleshow/77336683.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Rajiv case convicts: Why oppose parole if cabinet backs release, HC asks government||CHENNAI: While the state cabinet has recommended the release of all seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, why does the state vehemently oppose the parole plea of A G Perarivalan, one of the convicts, asked the Madras high court on Monday. “Your cabinet has recommended his release in toto, then why are you opposing his application for parole for one month? Do not oppose for the sake of opposing it,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani told state public prosecutor A Natarajan. To this, Natarajan explained that he is not opposing for the sake of opposing but the applicant must have valid reasons to seek parole. “Only last year he was out on leave. As per prison rules, a prisoner becomes eligible for next parole only after three years. Moreover, the prison doctor has made it very clear in his report that though the prisoner suffered a series of illnesses, he is currently under medication for the same and he is stable,” Natarajan said. However, senior counsel R Shanmugasundaram pointed out that there is a provision in the prison rules under which the state can exempt a prisoner from such conditions and grant parole. To this, the prosecutor said, “there are such exemptions, but the same cannot be granted on medical grounds.” Refusing to accept the contention, the bench said, “If rules prohibit leave on medical grounds then such rule has become redundant. It has to be updated. Do you mean to say illnesses are not extraordinary situations?” The court then directed the state and the petitioner to file an affidavit on the current status of the multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) probing the larger conspiracy behind the former PM’s assassination and the interim orders of the Supreme Court, if any, in connection with the matter. The bench then adjourned the hearing to August 12. The issue pertains to a plea moved by T Arputhammal, mother of Perarivalan. She wanted the court to grant 90 days parole to her son who needs immediate medical attention in view of various ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajiv-case-convicts-why-oppose-parole-if-cabinet-backs-release-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/77338275.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Activists allege ‘compulsory’ land acquisition, send notice to Gujarat government||VADODARA: Activists are demanding that all activities related to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) bullet train project including, land acquisition process, be stopped.City-based Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti (PSS) has issued a notice to the state government in response to the latter’s public notice seeking objections to “compulsory” land acquisition for the project within 60 days. The government had issued the notice on June 22. “We are issuing this notice as at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising in the country and the state, it is difficult to assemble required information for submission by the affected parties,” the notice issued by PSS led Rohit Prajapati stated on Monday. Terming the land acquisition process during the pandemic as violation of JICA guidelines, international principles of human rights and the law of the land, PSS has claimed that teams of the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited, land surveyors and officials have started unexpected visits in areas of South and Central Gujarat without any prior intimation. “The owners are informed that their properties are being “acquired” for the “national project” and they have lost all their right to sell or rent it to anyone else now and would have to vacate,” the notice alleges. “These sudden official visits have come in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis that has increased the financial insecurity and livelihood crisis resulting in depression, stress and uncertainty amongst the people,” the notice further states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/activists-allege-compulsory-land-acquisition-send-notice-to-guj-govt/articleshow/77336667.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||APIIC readies draft plan for judicial capital city project||Amaravati: The Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) has proposed to take up the judicial capital city project on an extent of 1,000 acres adjacent to Kurnool Airport. However, the initial blueprint is yet to get the nod of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. According to sources, senior IPS officer Madireddi Pratap, while serving as managing director of APIIC, had roped in architects and consultants to prepare a draft plan for the judicial city in Kurnool. He also had asked the officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) before getting transferred from the corporation. Sources said Pratap consulted several advocates, including a few former advocate-generals, to take feedback to prepare the blueprint. Well-known architect Seshagiri Rao has worked on the the judicial city draft plan. It has also been proposed that 25,000 house sites will be given to practising advocates within the judicial city to make it a mega township that can be a growth engine for the region. Such a project is also expected to create jobs for the locals. “A concept was prepared with inputs from senior high court lawyers to build the best judicial city in the country. Seshagiri Rao helped us readying it as a self-financing project,” Madireddi Pratap told TOI. The judicial city should not merely mean the construction of the high court but also provide state-of-the-art office-cum-residential accommodation for lawyers, Madireddi Pratap said. The APIIC has a land bank of 9,455.41 acres in one parcel, the biggest owned by the corporation. As uncultivable government land to the extent of another 20,000 acres is available close to the APIIC land bank, officials are hopeful it can be utilised for future projects without spending on land acquisition. “Providing office-cum-residential accommodation within the judicial city is a wonderful idea to sustain the project as advocates have been struggling to travel from Guntur and Vijayawada to the existing high court,” noted a former advocate-general who extended inputs to Pratap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apiic-readies-draft-plan-for-judicial-capital-city-project/articleshow/77336656.cms||Samdani MN
August 4, 2020||Agra||MiG-23 gifted by IAF and installed on AMU campus listed for sale on OLX||AGRA: The Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-23BN fighter aircraft, which was gifted to Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) by the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2009, has now been listed on OLX for a sale price of Rs 10 crore (approx). A probe has been ordered by the university to find out the people behind the advertisement. It is suspected that the advert has been posted by some AMU members along with a picture of the MiG-23BN. However, the university proctor, Prof Mohammad Wasim Ali, said that there is no role of any present or former student or university member in uploading this advert on OLX. “We are probing the matter. The picture has been removed now. This is all fake. Someone has tried to defame the university,” said Prof Ali. Notably, AMU engineering students study about MiG-23 aircraft’s parts, technology and design. Principal of Zakir Husain College of Engineering and technology, AMU, Prof MM Sufyan Beg, said that aeronautical engineering is part of mechanical engineering and the students study this in a lab course as part of their curriculum. According to sources, AMU was the first university in the state and seventh in India, where ground attack fighter planes of Indian Air Force were installed. Besides, IAF had gifted airplanes to a number of schools in the national capital. Delhi’s Modern School has a Hawker Hunter (BA-241) installed on its campus. Made by the erstwhile Soviet Union in the 1970s, MIG-23 was inducted in IAF on January 24, 1981. But with the latest technology coming in, this fighter plane was decommissioned after 28 years of glorious service on March 6, 2009. The fighter aircraft was deployed in Siachen Glacier in Northern Ladakh, Kashmir valley and Kargil conflicts at various crucial times. The single-seater ground attack plane has an R-29-300 engine like its contemporary fighter variants. Watch IAF aircraft gifted to AMU listed online for sale, post removed later||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mig-23-gifted-by-iaf-and-installed-on-amu-campus-listed-for-sale-on-olx/articleshow/77336661.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 4, 2020||Bareilly||SNMC principal tests Covid-19 +ve, 134 new cases in Bareilly||AGRA/BAREILLY/MEERUT: SN Medical College (SNMC) principal tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening. Three staffers, including two clerks and a fourth-grade employee of SNMC, were also found positive. Being asymptomatic, the SNMC principal is under home isolation. The asymptomatic clerk was shifted to the hospital's isolation ward. On Monday, rapid antigen tests of 60 SNMC staffers, including 35 doctors, were conducted. All of them were tested Covid-19 negative. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh and senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar who had come in contact with the SNMC principal also tested negative. Moreover, at least 32 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported by the health department, taking the district tally to 1,902. These include two patients of influenza-like illness, three patients of SARI and two of coronary artery infection. Also, 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,902 cases reported in the district, 79.1% have been declared "cured and discharged". At present, there are 298 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly district, at least 134 people tested positive on Monday, said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla. Besides, three people succumbed to the deadly virus. The district tally in Bareilly touched 2,856 cases, including 2,503 active, 954 discharged and 71 deaths. As many as 32 inmates and three security personnel were among 35 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur district jail. A total of 64 people were found infected with the virus in Shahjahanpur, and of these, 35 were from the jail. The district tally has reached 1,253, and the death toll is currently nine. While 11 people from Budaun district jail were among 13 tested positive on Monday. Notably, 54 people from Budaun district jail were found positive last week. Meanwhile, at least 23 people, including a police officer and a teacher, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday, taking the total tally to 2,235, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/snmc-principal-tests-covid-19-ve-134-new-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77346929.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Agra||SNMC principal tests Covid-19 +ve, 134 new cases in Bareilly||AGRA/BAREILLY/MEERUT: SN Medical College (SNMC) principal tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening. Three staffers, including two clerks and a fourth-grade employee of SNMC, were also found positive. Being asymptomatic, the SNMC principal is under home isolation. The asymptomatic clerk was shifted to the hospital's isolation ward. On Monday, rapid antigen tests of 60 SNMC staffers, including 35 doctors, were conducted. All of them were tested Covid-19 negative. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh and senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar who had come in contact with the SNMC principal also tested negative. Moreover, at least 32 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported by the health department, taking the district tally to 1,902. These include two patients of influenza-like illness, three patients of SARI and two of coronary artery infection. Also, 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,902 cases reported in the district, 79.1% have been declared "cured and discharged". At present, there are 298 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly district, at least 134 people tested positive on Monday, said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla. Besides, three people succumbed to the deadly virus. The district tally in Bareilly touched 2,856 cases, including 2,503 active, 954 discharged and 71 deaths. As many as 32 inmates and three security personnel were among 35 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur district jail. A total of 64 people were found infected with the virus in Shahjahanpur, and of these, 35 were from the jail. The district tally has reached 1,253, and the death toll is currently nine. While 11 people from Budaun district jail were among 13 tested positive on Monday. Notably, 54 people from Budaun district jail were found positive last week. Meanwhile, at least 23 people, including a police officer and a teacher, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday, taking the total tally to 2,235, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-principal-tests-covid-19-ve-134-new-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77336671.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Co-working spaces finding few takers||AHMEDABAD: For startups, smaller firms and individual consultants, co-working spaces were the preferred places to work from than owning their own offices, given the cost-effectiveness and resource sharing. However, the once preferred place of work, now bears a deserted look with few takers after the lockdown. Occupancy levels at most shared workspaces have declined by at least 60% in Ahmedabad, suggest industry estimates, as companies and individuals using co-working spaces are either reducing costs or else, are reluctant to work from an office-environment. Speaking of occupancy levels, Yash Shah, founder and CEO of an Ahmedabad-based co-working space, said, “The occupancy level is barely 40% at our co-working centre because most people are extremely reluctant to work from an office space given the extent of spread of coronavirus infections. The months of April, May and June were particularly dull due to the lockdown. The silver lining is that inquiries have begun picking up from July onwards.” Most shared workspaces in the city have witnessed a drastic decline in the subscriptions by clients. “The demand has taken a hit very badly because people are cutting costs aggressively. Individuals and freelancers who utilized our space are now used to working from home and thus, don’t want to spend. Similarly, smaller firms and startups too have slashed budgets and therefore, have refused to join, despite being offered a discount on the rents. This has adversely hit our business with number of clients going down,” said Sneh Bhavsar, founder of another city-based co-working space. While most shared workspaces have witnessed a decline in footfalls, some are getting fresh inquiries since the past fortnight. “Some of the companies who used to operate from a dedicated office space have now begun inquiring for a fixed number of seats at our co-working space owing to the cost-effectiveness. While lockdown did take a toll on the business, it is slowly recovering,” said Jaimin Shah, co-founder, DevX.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/co-working-spaces-finding-few-takers/articleshow/77338262.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Seek fresh mandate on capital issue’||Amaravati: TDP supremo Chandrababu Naidu has demanded the assembly be dissolved and a fresh mandate be sought over the three-capital issue. He said he will accept the public verdict if it is in favour of the trifurcation. Speaking to the media on Monday, Naidu lashed out at chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy; he said Amaravati is not an issue of one area or one district but belongs to all 13 districts. “I dare Jagan to face elections. All TDP legislators will quit if the YSRC legislators also resign and seek fresh mandate,” said Naidu. Naidu set a 48-hour deadline for Jaganmohan Reddy to take a call on the issue and said he would decide the next course of action after the chief minister responded. Pointing out that the YSRC had not promised three capital cities in its election manifesto, he said that Jaganmohan Reddy had, in fact, supported Amaravati in the assembly and took a u-turn after the elections. Meanwhile, a farmer Purnachandra Rao of Uddandarayunipalem village of capital city area climbed atop a crane and demanded that Amaravati be continued as the capital city. He threatened to jump if the government did not conceded to his demand. The crane was deployed at a construction site by a contractor at Nelapadu village. Police reached the spot and negotiated with the farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seek-fresh-mandate-on-capital-issue/articleshow/77336680.cms||Samdani MN
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanjay Srivastava takes over as Ahmedabad police chief||AHMEDABAD: Sanjay Srivastava, a 1987-batch IPS officer, took charge as city police commissioner on Monday noon from DGP Ashish Bhatia, who was appointed the state’s director general of police (DGP) on Friday to succeed Shivanand Jha. Srivastava told mediapersons that fighting cybercrime and taking forward the work of ‘She’ teams formed by Bhatia would be his priorities, besides maintaining law and order. “I will also work towards implementing the guidelines for Covid-19 issued by the government to try to keep the city safe. Serve to secure will be my motto,” Srivastava said. Bhatia said missing children is a big issue in the state and that he would work hard on the issue. He also said his emphasis would be on controlling crime and terrorist activities. Bhatia said he would take the projects started by Jha and try to make Gujarat Police among the best.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/srivastava-takes-over-as-city-police-chief/articleshow/77338276.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||Fight over stench of milk products ends in murder||RAJKOT: A year-long dispute between two families over the stench of milk products being made and sold in a shop took a violent turn late on Sunday night with four persons allegedly murdering a 32-year-old man. The deceased, Arif Ghulam Hussain Chavda, was a member of local BJP minority cell and a constant companion of the cell’s president. Chavda was attacked by Abdul Khebar, his son Wasim, brother Iqbal and the latter's son Rameez near Lakhiraj Shramjivi Society on Dudhsagar Road. Wasim used to sell buttermilk in his shop near Chavda's house and made paneer too. Chavda's family members were fed-up with the constant stench of the milk products emanating from the shop and the two families often fought over the issue, said police. On Sunday night, Chavda's brothers - Mushtaq and Iqbal - went to Wasim's shop to take up the issue and asked him to shut his shop there. As there was a bitter altercation between them, Chavda went there to pacify his brothers and told them to return home. However, when Chavda had just reached outside his house, the two brothers and their sons, armed with knives, scythes and pipes, launched a brutal attack on him. "The stabbing injury in the spine turned out to be fatal for Chavda, who died in a private hospital, after midnight," said HM Hadiya, police inspector, Thorala police station. Police nabbed Iqbal and his son Rameez from Bhistiwad area while Wasim and his father Abdul, who both also suffered injuries in the fight, have been admitted to the hospital. Wasim also lodged a complaint against Chavda and his brothers Aabid, Mushtaq and Iqbal who were booked for rioting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fight-over-stench-of-milk-products-ends-in-murder/articleshow/77336686.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Home stretch: Delhi seven roads infamous for jams to be revamped by January||NEW DELHI: A week ago, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal instructed the Public Works Department to revamp seven arterial roads on the lines of the work undertaken at Chandni Chowk. The agency has now come up with a plan to resurface and reconstruct Vikas Marg, Ring Road, Narwana Road, Britannia Chowk, Shivdaspur Road, Patel Road and Road No 41 and 41A. The government having given its nod, PWD officials said the redevelopment work will start by September 15 and go on till January 2021. The seven stretches of Vikas from Laxmi Nagar Chungi to Karkari Mor; Ring Road from Mayapuri to Moti Bagh; Narwana Road from Mother Dairy to Punch Mahal; Road no 41 and 41A from Wazirpur Depot Crossing to Rithala Metro station; Ring Road from AIIMS to Ashram; Britannia Chowk to Outer Ring Road West Enclave; Shivdaspuri Road and Patel Road are notorious for traffic jams. Later last year, Delhi government’s Expenditure and Finance Committee sanctioned Rs 50.3 crore for the street-scaping of the stretch between AIIMS and Ashram. While the state government is yet to sanction grants for the other six, PWD estimates an overall budget of around Rs 200 crore. Officials said that these seven road stretches are the first of the 500-km of the city’s PWD roads to be revamped and decongested. These roads will be beautified with plants, new street furniture, toilet blocks and solar-powered streetlights. There will also be ample space for hawkers and pedestrians. PWD officials said completion of the work will allow for smoother movement of vehicles, pedestrians and cyclists. The geometry of the roads will also be improved by removing the obstacles that are currently hindering the right of way. For the redesigning of the Vikas Marg length, the PWD has estimated the cost at Rs 37 crore. Vikas Marg, which connects east and central Delhi, is one of the busiest and most congested roads in the city. Along this important artery are major markets and residential areas of east Delhi, such as Laxmi Nagar, Preet Vihar, Karkardooma and Anand Vihar. An official said that this stretch is plagued by perennial traffic snarls because of haphazard parking, encroachment of road space and irregular vehicular movement. Under the revamp plan, PWD will strengthen the road, widen it wherever necessary, create separate lanes for non-motorised vehicles and remove all encroachments. The official revealed that Narwana Road was obstructed by transformer and poles. These would be removed during the beautification. “Footpaths will be improved, and ramps will be constructed so that the people with disability and the cyclists can access the pathways with ease. Street furniture will also be put up,” the official said. The roads will also be widened wherever required and strengthened by laying fresh asphalt layers. Subways and pedestrian bridges will be repaired too during the redevelopment. Street lighting will be improved and all intersections will be decongested by improving road geometry and providing proper signage for the convenience of both vehicular traffic and pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-stretch-7-roads-infamous-for-jams-to-be-revamped-by-jan/articleshow/77338281.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon hospswarned againstovercharging||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut has appealed to people to report cases of over-charging and warned of strict action if private hospitals declared as dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) were found overcharging patients. Raut issued a notification that surprise checks would be conducted at all the private hospitals declared as DCH so that the people taking treatment in these facilities are not exploited financially.Of the 12,036 Covid-19 positive patients, 8,469 have been discharged and 549 have died. A total of 3,018 patients are being treated at Covid facilities across the district.The district administration has already declared 12 more hospitals, all of them private, as dedicated Covid facilites, in addition to Government Medical College and Hospital and Dr Ulhas Patil Medical College and Hospital of Godavari Foundation.The collector has stated in the notification that the district administration was inspecting the bills generated by the 12 DCHs and appealed to people to report cases of overcharging to the nodal officer or civil surgeon of Jalgaon. Such bills will be checked by auditors and notices sent to hospitals seek a clarification if anomalies are found, said the collector.Shops to open on alternate daysShopping complexes in Jalgaon will be allowed to remain open on alternate days during the week, Raut announced.A meeting of traders and the district administration along with Jalgaon civic officials was held on Monday, during which it was decided that shops will remain open on Mondays, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Shops along streets will also function as per the alternate-day plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-hospswarned-againstovercharging/articleshow/77336708.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 4, 2020||Meerut||Suitcase murder in Ghaziabad: Woman declared ‘dead’ surfaces||MEERUT/GHAZIABAD: Six days after she was pronounced ‘dead’ by police after being ‘identified’ by her family and then ‘buried’, Warisha Ali (22) reached Aligarh on Monday, walked to a police constable and announced she was alive. The police teams in Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, who had declared the murder case solved, were jolted. Within 15 hours of recovering the body of a newly-married woman in a suitcase in Ghaziabad, police had announced last Tuesday that it was that of Warisha and that she was killed for dowry by her husband Amir and her parents-in-law. All the three were booked for murder and put in a jail in Bulandshahr. The case was filed by Warisha’s brother. The family, surprisingly enough, didn’t recognise her body even during the last rites. The investigation, after the embarrassing turn, has now returned to the original question — who was the woman whose body was found in the suitcase on the morning of July 27 at Dashmesh Colony? Ghaziabad police said on Monday they will “start afresh” to identify the woman. According to Ghaziabad police, the body was identified as that of Warisha by her brother and mother. “Based on the report of Bulandshahr police, we are now registering a fresh case at Sahibabad police station to probe the murder of the woman whose body was found in the suitcase,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, the Ghaziabad SSP. Warisha, police said, had gone missing on July 22 from her in-laws’ house in Bulandshahr and was living with an acquaintance in Bhangel area of Noida since then. She had worked in a manufacturing firm in Noida earlier, a police officer said. On Monday morning, she reached Aligarh — her native place — and told a woman constable about the case. Realising what had happened, the constable rushed to her seniors and briefed them about the case. Since she was allegedly being tortured by her in-laws over dowry, Warisha’s parents had approached police with the suspicion that she might have been killed by them. It isn’t clear why Warisha didn’t inform her parents about her whereabouts, an officer said. Bulandshahr police will now drop the dowry and murder charges pressed against Warisha’s husband and inlaws. The Bulandshahr SSP said, “The dead woman was wrongly identified as Warisha. On Monday, Warisha turned up in Aligarh and contacted a woman constable there.” Police are trying to find out why Warisha’s family identified the woman whose body was found in the suitcase as their daughter and also buried her, despite the fact that there was no injury mark on her face. “Ismail, Warisha’s brother, and her mother had visited Ghaziabad after seeing photographs of the woman’s body. They had identified the body as that of Warisha’s in police presence,” said Manish Kumar Mishra, SP (City) Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, Ismail said, “I have no clue what is happening. My mother and I had identified the body on July 27 and it looked like that of my sister.” Watch Suitcase murder in Ghaziabad: Woman declared ‘dead’ surfaces||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-whose-murder-landed-3-of-a-family-in-jail-surfaces-ghaziabad-cops-now-clueless-about-dead-woman-found-in-suitcase/articleshow/77341179.cms||Piyush Rai
August 4, 2020||Agra||16-year-old dies ‘unattended’ in Covid ward, brother says her last wish was to tie him a rakhi||BAREILLY: She had been away from family, alone in a Covid ward, for three days. On Sunday evening, the 16-year-old from Sabal village in Mandana told her brother she wanted to tie him a rakhi. It was unlikely that he could have met her. But he did not have the heart to tell her that. An hour after they spoke, she died. “We spoke at 6pm on Sunday. When I asked how we would celebrate Raksha Bandhan this year, she asked if I could go over to the hospital with a rakhi,” her eldest brother said. She studied in Class XI, the youngest of five sisters and two brothers. “Every year, I do all I can to make it come for Raksha Bandhan. I knew I would not be allowed to see her. Now, when she died, I could not even touch her dead body.” It had been three days since she had been admitted, complaining of severe stomach ache. Her swab samples were taken, she tested positive and was moved to the level 2 Covid ward of the district hospital. “She told me she was not attended to by any doctor. Only nurses were giving her medicines and food. If we had isolated her at home, maybe she would have survived,” her brother said, claiming the hospital did not do enough. Hospital officials, however, said there was little to be done when she was brought in. “She had been critical since she was admitted. She had severe chest and stomach pain. Later, she tested positive for Covid-19. She died of comorbidities,” an official said. She was cremated following Covid protocol at the Mardana crematorium. In Bareilly, of the 2,723 people who have tested positive so far, 69 have died. That’s a fatality rate of 2.5%, much higher than the state average of 1.8%. Bareilly now has the seventh highest number of Covid deaths in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/16-year-old-dies-unattended-in-covid-ward-brother-says-her-last-wish-was-to-tie-him-a-rakhi/articleshow/77342802.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lizard found in food at CP eatery, police register case of negligence||NEW DELHI: A man who went to dine at a popular restaurant in Connaught Place on Saturday night was shocked to find a lizard in his food. He later filed a police complaint of negligence and endangering a person’s life. The victim, identified as Pankaj Aggarwal, also uploaded a video on a friend’s Twitter handle where he is seen talking to staff members. “I have already eaten some of the food and half of the lizard is missing,” he told them. Aggarwal reached the restaurant along with two friends around 9.30pm. “We had ordered two items. I was eating my food when I spotted a lizard in my sambhar. I immediately called staff members. They were more interested in removing the dish from the table than addressing our issue,” Aggarwal told TOI. “I had eaten half of my food and half of the lizard was also missing. I later uploaded the video as I wanted to make people aware about the incident.” He added, “My family has been coming to this restaurant for long and we celebrate most of our occasions here. This was my first dine-out experience after the lockdown and it disappointed me.” Stressing that hygienic conditions at the restaurant should be looked into, Aggarwal said the same items were available at roadside eateries too, “but we come to restaurants for better facilities and good hygienic conditions in which the food is prepared”. The restaurant didn’t charge them the bill of Rs 290 but, Aggarwal said, he is more worried about hygiene at such a popular restaurant. “With the pandemic still raging, everyone thinks all measures and precautions are being taken while serving customers and people are coming out to eat with that trust in mind.” Following a call to the police control room, an officer came to the restaurant from Connaught Place police station. Police have recorded statements of staff members, including those on duty at the kitchen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lizard-found-in-food-at-cp-eatery-police-register-case-of-negligence/articleshow/77338327.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Yatin Oza moves SC to protect seniority||AHMEDABAD: The president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association, Yatin Oza, has approached the Supreme Court against the HC’s decision to withdraw his senior advocate designation because of his comments against the court, particularly for likening it with a gambling den. Advocate Oza’s petition for stay on the HC decision is likely to come up for hearing before the apex court on Wednesday, said his advocate Purvish Malkan. The Bar president was stripped of the honour after a division bench referred the issue to the chief justice while initiating contempt of court proceedings against him for his comments made during a press conference on June 5.  Oza has moved the SC after the full court in the HC on July 18 rejected his unconditional apology and defence with observation, “Mr Oza should not be permitted to adopt the policy of ‘slap – say sorry & forget’.” The HC cited three previous occasions when advocate Oza had apologized when he was facing contempt of court. The judges, in an unanimous order, said, “Mr Oza has exploited as a President of Bar his designation as a Senior Advocate and has been playing Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde…is not worthy of his designation. He has caused extensive damage to the Institution. He is a man of volte face and is incorrigible…Oza does not have any heart. The apology is only a trick and this Court should not fall prey to the same. The apology should never be accepted.” While the full court said that the lawyer’s apology was nothing but a “paper apology” and a calculated strategy to avoid problems, Oza has submitted before the SC that his apology should have been accepted. He has contended in his petition that he had voiced grievances against functioning of HC registry and he had not spoken against judges. His use of the term ‘gambling den’ was at fate of cases in registry and not intended to criticize the judicial side of the court. Advocate Oza has requested the SC to reverse the HC decision saying that otherwise it would be an end to his 38-year-long career at the Bar. This is a measure disproportionate to his gesture, which is yet to be proved because the contempt proceeding has just begun. The HC’s decision to snatch away the designation may impact the contempt proceedings also, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oza-moves-sc-to-protect-seniority/articleshow/77338298.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||50-year-old man tries to rape minor girl, detained||RAJKOT: A 50-year-old man was detained for allegedly trying to rape a nine-year-old girl in Halenda village on Bhavnagar Road, about 40 km from the city, on Sunday.The man grabbed the girl when she was returning after answering nature's call. She, however, managed to free herself and escape his clutches. On Sunday evening, she and her mother approached Aji Dam police station and lodged a complaint against the accused Ravji Solanki, Solanki, a casual labourer, will be arrested after his Covid-19 test, said police sub-inspector MM Zala||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/50-year-old-man-tries-to-rape-minor-girl-detained/articleshow/77336699.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bareilly||16-year-old dies ‘unattended’ in Covid ward, brother says her last wish was to tie him a rakhi||BAREILLY: She had been away from family, alone in a Covid ward, for three days. On Sunday evening, the 16-year-old from Sabal village in Mandana told her brother she wanted to tie him a rakhi. It was unlikely that he could have met her. But he did not have the heart to tell her that. An hour after they spoke, she died. “We spoke at 6pm on Sunday. When I asked how we would celebrate Raksha Bandhan this year, she asked if I could go over to the hospital with a rakhi,” her eldest brother said. She studied in Class XI, the youngest of five sisters and two brothers. “Every year, I do all I can to make it come for Raksha Bandhan. I knew I would not be allowed to see her. Now, when she died, I could not even touch her dead body.” It had been three days since she had been admitted, complaining of severe stomach ache. Her swab samples were taken, she tested positive and was moved to the level 2 Covid ward of the district hospital. “She told me she was not attended to by any doctor. Only nurses were giving her medicines and food. If we had isolated her at home, maybe she would have survived,” her brother said, claiming the hospital did not do enough. Hospital officials, however, said there was little to be done when she was brought in. “She had been critical since she was admitted. She had severe chest and stomach pain. Later, she tested positive for Covid-19. She died of comorbidities,” an official said. She was cremated following Covid protocol at the Mardana crematorium. In Bareilly, of the 2,723 people who have tested positive so far, 69 have died. That’s a fatality rate of 2.5%, much higher than the state average of 1.8%. Bareilly now has the seventh highest number of Covid deaths in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/16-year-old-dies-unattended-in-covid-ward-brother-says-her-last-wish-was-to-tie-him-a-rakhi/articleshow/77334926.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 4, 2020||Ghaziabad||Suitcase murder in Ghaziabad: Woman declared ‘dead’ surfaces||MEERUT/GHAZIABAD: Six days after she was pronounced ‘dead’ by police after being ‘identified’ by her family and then ‘buried’, Warisha Ali (22) reached Aligarh on Monday, walked to a police constable and announced she was alive. The police teams in Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, who had declared the murder case solved, were jolted. Within 15 hours of recovering the body of a newly-married woman in a suitcase in Ghaziabad, police had announced last Tuesday that it was that of Warisha and that she was killed for dowry by her husband Amir and her parents-in-law. All the three were booked for murder and put in a jail in Bulandshahr. The case was filed by Warisha’s brother. The family, surprisingly enough, didn’t recognise her body even during the last rites. The investigation, after the embarrassing turn, has now returned to the original question — who was the woman whose body was found in the suitcase on the morning of July 27 at Dashmesh Colony? Ghaziabad police said on Monday they will “start afresh” to identify the woman. According to Ghaziabad police, the body was identified as that of Warisha by her brother and mother. “Based on the report of Bulandshahr police, we are now registering a fresh case at Sahibabad police station to probe the murder of the woman whose body was found in the suitcase,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, the Ghaziabad SSP. Warisha, police said, had gone missing on July 22 from her in-laws’ house in Bulandshahr and was living with an acquaintance in Bhangel area of Noida since then. She had worked in a manufacturing firm in Noida earlier, a police officer said. On Monday morning, she reached Aligarh — her native place — and told a woman constable about the case. Realising what had happened, the constable rushed to her seniors and briefed them about the case. Since she was allegedly being tortured by her in-laws over dowry, Warisha’s parents had approached police with the suspicion that she might have been killed by them. It isn’t clear why Warisha didn’t inform her parents about her whereabouts, an officer said. Bulandshahr police will now drop the dowry and murder charges pressed against Warisha’s husband and inlaws. The Bulandshahr SSP said, “The dead woman was wrongly identified as Warisha. On Monday, Warisha turned up in Aligarh and contacted a woman constable there.” Police are trying to find out why Warisha’s family identified the woman whose body was found in the suitcase as their daughter and also buried her, despite the fact that there was no injury mark on her face. “Ismail, Warisha’s brother, and her mother had visited Ghaziabad after seeing photographs of the woman’s body. They had identified the body as that of Warisha’s in police presence,” said Manish Kumar Mishra, SP (City) Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, Ismail said, “I have no clue what is happening. My mother and I had identified the body on July 27 and it looked like that of my sister.” Watch Suitcase murder in Ghaziabad: Woman declared ‘dead’ surfaces||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/woman-whose-murder-landed-3-of-a-family-in-jail-surfaces-ghaziabad-cops-now-clueless-about-dead-woman-found-in-suitcase/articleshow/77336698.cms||Piyush Rai
August 4, 2020||Meerut||Baghpat youth shot dead in broad daylight||Meerut: A youth was killed after unidentified armed assailants on motorcycle waylaid him and opened indiscriminate fire at him in UP's Baghpat district on Monday morning. According to police, the deceased was returning home when the incident happened. The deceased has been identified as Ravi. The police have claimed that he was shot dead because of an ongoing dispute between the deceased and his rivals in which several cases have been registered from the both sides. The broad daylight incident caught the local police off-guard, as senior police officers rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. As per eye-witnesses, a friend was accompanying the deceased when the incident happened and was allegedly abducted after the incident. Police have claimed that the deceased’s friend has been missing and they are making efforts to trace him. “Ravit had come to Gadi village to call a priest for a "havan" on the occasion of Rakshabandhan, during which he was shot at and killed," Ajay Kumar Singh, Baghpat superintendent of police, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/baghpat-youth-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight/articleshow/77336723.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Meerut||Close shave for 5 Gzb youths as vehicle falls into Ganga canal||Meerut: Five Ghaziabad-based youths in their 20s had a close encounter with death when their van swerved off the accident-prone narrow road along Ganga canal, plunging 16-foot down in the early hours of Monday, near Chittor village, under Sikhera police station.Miraculously, the van got stuck in the bushes at the edge of the canal. But the bushes could not hold the van's weight for long and the vehicle began to slide towards the water. As the shell shocked five stared at their watery grave, help arrived from the nearby police post at Chittor village. Minutes before the van slid into the water, all five occupants were pulled out.Virender Kasana, SHO of Sikhera police station, said, "When we rushed to the spot, the van was gradually sliding towards the water. But we were able to rescue them." Amar Singh, brother in-law of one of the survivors, said, “My brother in-law, Ankur, and four of his friends were on way to Haridwar, travelling on the short road adjacent to the canal, when a neelgai came in front of the van and the driver lost control while trying to save it." On Monday morning, a crane was arranged and the van was pulled out of the canal. This stretch of road along Ganga canal is infamous for claiming dozens of lives in the past. In November 2019, five friends met with a gruesome end when their car collided with a truck on the same stretch. In May last year, eight people died in two separate accidents on this stretch when their vehicles fell into the canal. Similarly, a car carrying three HCL-Noida employees plunged into the canal on the night of December 13, 2018, when they were returning from Muzaffarnagar after dropping off a colleague there.A week later, four members of a family died in another accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/close-shave-for-5-gzb-youths-as-vehicle-falls-into-ganga-canal/articleshow/77336702.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||9 from dist succumb to deadly virus, 211 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Nine Ludhianvis died of Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state on Monday, when 211 positive cases of district residents and 17 of outsiders were reported. Health department officials said a corona positive woman aged 57 of quarter number two in Central Jail, who was suffering from lung cancer, died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Others who died at the Patiala hospital included a 34-year-old man of New Vijay Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, who was suffering from a kidney disease, a 60-year-old diabetic man from LIG Flats, Ludhiana, who was also obese, a woman of 60 years and another patient of 60 years from Gill Chowk. A 50-year-old man from Urban Estate, Dugri, who was obese, died at a city hospital. Another Covid positive patient aged 45 years of Diwala village in Samrala, who was suffering from diabetes and kidney disease, died at Ludhiana civil hospital. A 35-year-old man from Jandiali in Sahnewal died on way to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, while a woman of 47 years from Jatana, Ludhiana, who was suffering from TB, died at a hospital in Mohali. The health department said the district toll tally has risen to 114 and that of outsiders to 41.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said on Monday, 148 positive reports were received. Of these, 143 were from the district and one each from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Sangrur, and Fatehgarh. The department said positive cases from the district included six each from Jagraon and Raikot, two from Samrala, five from Khanna, one from Payal, 82 from Ludhiana East Tehsil and 41 from Ludhiana West Tehsil. It added that apart from these cases, 80 positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 68 were from the district, two from Barnala, one each from Sangrur, Moga, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and three from Jammu and Kashmir. Of the positive cases in Ludhiana district, one each was from Jagraon and Raikot, 30 from Ludhiana East and 36 cases from Ludhiana West tehsils.The department added of the 211 cases, 56 were influenza like illness cases, one of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), 31 OPD cases, 28 from tracing process, 11 policemen, 11 pregnant women and six healthcare workers. “With this, the district case count has increased to 3,728 and that of outsiders to 488,” said health department officials.The department said on Monday, 640 samples were sent for testing. As per the media bulletin, 2,960 results were awaited till Monday evening. The latest bulletin said 15 patients were on ventilators. Total number of ventilators in private hospitals is 32, of which four are government machines installed at CMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-from-dist-succumb-to-deadly-virus-211-test-ve/articleshow/77336705.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Arrested: 25-year-old who posed as cop, faked his own robbery in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A man who posed as a police inspector and faked his own robbery to trap four persons has been arrested from outer Delhi’s Alipur. Pankaj Lakra (25) initially told police that he was intercepted by four people and his bag containing Rs 5 lakh and some jewellery was snatched. However, it was found that the accused, who used to work as a private tutor, had thrashed two of the four men following a road rage incident and cooked up the story to teach them a lesson. He had even posed as a cop to threaten them. On Saturday evening, Lakra told police that he had left home in his car around 5pm with the valuables kept in a bag on the back seat. When he reached an intersection, the men came from the opposite direction in a car and waylaid him. Two of them held him while the other two took the bag and his gold chain. A case of robbery was registered, but during the investigation, he gave contradictory statements, said Gaurav Sharma, DCP Outer-North. On checking his phone, it was found that the jewellery is already mortgaged with a finance company. “When questioned, he admitted that he had made a false complaint,” Sharma said. Later, the victims said they had a tiff with Lakra when they were going to meet a friend. A case was then registered for impersonating people and causing hurt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arrested-25-year-old-who-posed-as-cop-faked-his-own-robbery/articleshow/77338361.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Grievances against staff shortage pile up at VIMS||VISAKHAPATNAM: State Covid-19 hospital Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) continues to be plagued by a plethora of complaints from patients and relatives. Over the last few weeks, grievances relating to lack of care and manpower at the hospital have come up on social media. When state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) visited VIMS on Monday for a meeting on the Covid-19 outbreak, relatives of patients narrated their ordeal to him. Patients have complained about the lack of doctors, nurses or other health staff for monitoring or making regular rounds. Many also wanted to leave the hospital and requested the authorities allow them to be shifted to another hospital. On Sunday night, a video was circulated of a woman lying on the floor in the hospital after falling off a bed, waiting to be picked up by hospital staff. The son of a man who died of Covid-19 complained to the minister that hospital authorities did not inform the family when his father passed away and sent the body for cremation. Another relative of a patient admitted to the hospital said they were not permitted to send food from home while a third complained that given the lack of staff, his relative would have received better care at home. The minister assured the families he would look into these issues and direct officials to take action. A medical source well-acquainted with VIMS said, “Most of the doctors and nurses are above 50 and suffering from comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes. Therefore, nobody is daring to go near the Covid-19 patients. Remote monitoring facility is not available for all the ICUs. Also, internal groups among nurses and hospital staff are hampering coordination of work. Class IV staff are also stopping work if there is a slight delay in payment of their wages. Given the patient load, the hospital needs more anaesthetists, intensivists and staff nurses.” VIMS director Dr K Satyavaraprasad issued a clarification stating, “Everyone is working hard, risking their lives to save as many lives as possible and to make sure everyone gets good treatment at VIMS as much as possible. So far, 1,100 patients have been treated at VIMS with more than 650 of them successfully discharged. Currently, around 300 patients are under treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/grievances-against-staff-shortage-pile-up-at-vims/articleshow/77336704.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||Four injured in group clash over vacating ancestral house||RAJKOT: Four persons were injured following a clash between two groups in Langhavad No Dhaliyo area in Jamnagar city on Sunday late night. Fifteen people from both the groups, who are distant relatives, have been booked for attempt to murder and rioting said Jamangar A Division police on Monday. According to police, the two groups clashed over vacating an ancestral house belonging to Ibrahim Gajiya. The old house near Vagher Vado, adjacent to Langhavad No Dahaliyo, is occupied by one Halimaben, who has been living on rent there since last many years. Ibrahim and his daughter Farzana, an advocate, have been trying to get Halimaben vacate the house for the last six months. On Sunday night, there was an argument between Ibrahim’s family members and some relatives of Halimaben over the house. The heated arguments ended with both the groups attacking each other with knives, pipes and sticks. Two persons from each group suffered injuries and have been hospitalised, said police. While Farzana (30) lodged attempt to murder and rioting case against eight of Halimanben’s close relatives, the Mohammad Ali Makwana from the other group filed a complaint of attempt to murder and rioting case against Ibrahim, Farzana and their five other family members. According to police, of the four injured, the condition of two was critical as they had suffered grievous injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-injured-in-group-clash-over-vacating-ancestral-house/articleshow/77336714.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Meerut||Two UP cops run over by liquor smugglers' speeding car, suffer injuries||Meerut: Days after illicit liquor claimed over 100 lives in Punjab, two Uttar Pradesh cops - a sub-inspector and a constable - on a bike were left injured after alleged liquor smugglers tried to crush them under the car's wheels when they tried to stop the speeding vehicle following a tip-off near the UP-Haryana border. The incident occurred near Niwada village in Baghpat on Monday. The injured policemen were rushed to a district hospital and are currently "out of danger". It all happened when while inspecting vehicles at Niwada checkpost, the police asked a particular car to stop. However, the car soon broke the barricades and sped away. The checkpost incharge sub-inspector Balram Singh along with constable Rohit Kumar then chased the car and eventually blocked its path with their motorcycle a few kilometres away. Undeterred, the car driver ran over the bike, throwing the two cops off the road. Now, a massive hunt is on to nab the culprits. Baghpat ASP Ajay Kumar said, “We have formed teams to locate the vehicle. The two police personnel have been admitted to a district hospital and both have suffered minor injuries and are, at present, out of danger.” Being close to the Haryana border, smuggling of illicit liquor from across the border is rampant in the area. In a crackdown after the recent illicit liquor tragedy in Punjab, police of neighbouring states have conducted dozens of raids across villages in the region and the cops in UP are on alert as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-up-cops-run-over-by-liquor-smugglers-speeding-car-suffer-injuries/articleshow/77336715.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||We will encourage and promote Sanskrit: CM Rawat||Dehradun: On the occasion of Sanskrit Diwas on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the state government would celebrate this week as “Sanskrit week” and hold several programmes to encourage the use of the language. “We are dedicated and committed towards promoting Sanskrit, which is also the official second language of Uttarakhand,” the CM said. He pointed out that under the New Education Policy, the Centre too has taken steps to promote Sanskrit in the educational setup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/we-will-encourage-and-promote-sanskrit-cm-rawat/articleshow/77336706.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||‘-ve report for Rs 1,500’: Doc booked||Times News Network Ludhiana: Police registered a case against a doctor on Monday after an audio went viral in which he could be heard charging Rs 1,500 for a Covid-19 negative report. The allegations, however, are yet to be ascertained. Assistant commissioner of police (Central) Waryam Singh said, “The case is being investigated.”In the audio recording, a man is heard saying that he and his friends have to go out of the state and need a Covid negative report. On this, the doctor says that only an ID proof is required and Rs 1,500 for one person and they don’t even have to visit hospital. A case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to live) of the IPC against the doctor, who owns a hospital on Old Jail Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/-ve-report-for-rs-1500-doc-booked/articleshow/77336717.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Healthcare workers at Covid-19 level 3 hospital tie rakhis to patients||BAREILLY: On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, healthcare workers at a level three hospital in Bareilly tied rakhis to Covid-19 patients on Monday. A Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment here said, “I have two sisters who I celebrate Raksha Bandhan with every year. Yesterday I thought that this will be the first time there will be no rakhi on my wrist as family visit is strictly restricted in the Covid-19 hospital. To my surprise, the nurses here came in the morning and tied the rakhis sent by my sisters. They did not let me feel that I was away from home. After tying rakhis, they prayed for our speedy recovery. We tried to give them a gift, but they did not accept it.” “It was a pleasant surprise on Monday morning when I saw hospital staff entering our ward holding plates with rakhis, roli, rice and chocolates. It made our day because I thought that this will be the first Rakhsha Bandhan without rakhis,” another patient said. A patient who celebrated the festival after nearly seven years said, “I had a sister who used to tie rakhi to me but after she shifted to Rajasthan, no one tied rakhis to me for nearly seven years. When I saw staff tying rakhis to patients, I was happy.” Even the healthcare workers here tied rakhis to 105 male doctors, paramedical staff, technical and other staff. The hospital staff said the frontline workers involved in treatment of the patients celebrated the festival to ensure that they did not feel lonely and homesick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/healthcare-workers-at-covid-19-level-3-hospital-tie-rakhis-to-patients/articleshow/77334974.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 4, 2020||Nashik||BJP holds protest march to MSEDCL office||Nashik: The Nashik unit of the BJP organised a march from Dwarka to the MSEDCL office on Nashik Road in protest against the increase in power tariff and sending ‘inflated’ bills to consumers. City BJP president Girish Palve, party functionaries and members participated in the 6-km march. Among the demands made by the BJP are that the power bills be delivered only on the basis of units consumed instead of average metre readings and 50% discount on huge bills. A BJP delegation submitted a memorandum to in-charge chief engineer Sanjay Khandare and superintending engineer Pravin Daroli of the power utility. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-holds-protest-march-to-msedcl-office/articleshow/77336718.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Mum-Howrah to be short terminated||Nashik: Officials from the Central Railways said that the Mumbai-Howrah mail would be short-terminated at Rourkela on account of the bi-weekly lockdown announced by the West Bengal government for the month of August. The 2809 Dn Mumbai-Howrah mail will be terminated at Rourkela on August 14 and 21. The 2810 Up Howrah-Mumbai Mail will start its journey from Rourkela instead of its point of origin in Howrah on August 5. Usually, the train starts from Mumbai at 8.35pm every Friday and reaches Howrah at 5:50a.m every Sunday. In the return journey, the train starts from Howrah at 8pm on Wednesday and reaches Mumbai at 5:20am on Friday..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mum-howrah-to-be-short-terminated/articleshow/77336762.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Ensure speedyjustice, says Dada Bhuse||Nashik: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Monday said that quasi-judicial works performed by the revenue department should be completed in a time-bound manner.Speaking during an online programme to mark ‘Revenue Day’, he said, “People face the problem of cases being dragged for long periods. The revenue department should ensure better and speedy relief,’ said Bhuse. Divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane, collectors and staff, including talathis, of all five districts of Nashik division were present. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal lauded the efforts of the revenue department in fighting the coronavirus pandemic .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ensure-speedyjustice-says-dada-bhuse/articleshow/77336738.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||SOG not to file an application for voice samples||Jaipur: The Special Operations Group (SOG) will not file any more application in court on Tuesday to get approval for collecting voice samples of MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in connection with alleged horse-trading of legislators. Sources claimed SOG will not be dealing with the case. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had filed two FIRs in this connection with one mentioning the names of Sharma, Singh and middleman Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. According to one FIR, Sharma and Jain were heard talking about getting adequate number of MLAs to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. After this, Jain patched the call with Singh who spoke with Sharma about the Congress MLAs staying at the resort. As per the audio clip mentioned in the FIR, Singh and Sharma spoke about a ‘list’ in which the latter’s name is not there. The FIR in which names have been mentioned claimed that Jain was heard talking to Sharma and saying that they will have the ‘adequate numbers.’ Sharma allegedly said he was getting offers from the CM who promised him a cabinet post but he apparently refused by saying that he does not want it. While the FIR mentions this as part of the conversation, it does not mention that Sharma also claimed that he got calls from Congress leader Randeep Surjewala as well which can be heard on the viral audio recording.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-not-to-file-an-application-for-voice-samples/articleshow/77339445.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Earnings vanish, kids out of school: Gurugram auto drivers land in deep trouble||GURUGRAM: Jagdev Singh Tomar, a 42-year-old auto driver from Rajasthan, had gone back to his hometown when the lockdown snatched away his livelihood. But he was forced to return to the city because his son was unable to attend online classes because of patchy internet in his village. But despite Unlock 3, he says, he barely gets enough customers to make ends meet. “I want to go back home but I’m here only for my son’s education. I’ve even tried selling my auto but there aren’t any takers. It’s been four months now that my business has been disrupted. My savings have dried up,” he lamented. With debts piling up and his landlord demanding outstanding rent for the past three months, he borrowed Rs 20,000 from a relative and opened a tea stall to survive in the city. With less than 35% of the 40,000 autos plying the city roads, a majority of the drivers who have stayed back find themselves in a similar situation, even when the country is limping back to normalcy. Several major stretches like Golf Course road, DLF 1 and Sadar Bazar where autos would be seen criss-crossing throughout the day, bear a deserted look. The reason, the drivers point out, is that schools and colleges are still closed, office-goers are mostly working from home and the passengers who would take autos to the metro-stations have been diverted to other modes of transport till metro resumes. Some roads are even lined with autorickshaws that have been converted into makeshift stalls. Inside them, selling tea or snacks, the auto drivers say this the only choice they were left with as they are battling an acute financial crisis. Besides over a 70% dip in their daily incomes, there are EMIs to pay, hefty traffic fines to settle, and pressure to install digital-fare meters. Suchit Kumar from Bihar, who used to earn Rs. 1,000 to Rs 1,200 a day, says, “On days I get Rs 300, I consider myself lucky as the daily earnings are mostly in the range of Rs 150 to Rs 250. There are many days that I don’t make a penny. I can’t even go back home because cases in Bihar are on the rise and healthcare facilities are worse than here.” He is thinking of opening a vegetable stall for which, too, he will need to borrow money. Some drivers are doing odd jobs to sustain themselves and many have been forced to pull their children out of school. They have claimed that the government has not paid heed to their repeated demands for monetary assistance in these difficult times. Among their demands are relaxation on EMIs they are paying for their vehicles, mandatory installation of digital meters that cost upwards of Rs 3,000, and other taxes and penalties levied by the regional transport authority “For the past four months, we’ve written to various authorities but our demands have fallen on deaf ears. These aren’t normal times and when every sector is reimagining its style of working, RTA should too. We have been actively supporting the government in installation of digital meters but right now, when drivers are debt-laden and have no income, it’s difficult to buy the meters. We urge the government to stall this drive till the situation improves. Also, insurances of several auto rickshaws are expiring and it’s not financially possible to renew them now. The government should also relax its penalties in such cases,” said Mahaveer Singh, president of Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/earnings-vanish-kids-out-of-school-auto-drivers-land-in-deep-trouble/articleshow/77338373.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||‘Classify bamboo as an agriculture crop’||NAGPUR: In a bid to boost its output, former BJP MLA from Umred Sudhir Parwe wants bamboo to be declared an agriculture crop to treat it at par with other traditional crops like wheat, paddy, soyabean, gram, sugarcane etc In 2017, the Centre removed bamboo, taxonomically a ‘grass’, from the category of ‘tree’ for regulatory purposes. The Centre had through an amendment to the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927, exempted bamboo grown in non-forest areas from the definition of tree, thereby dispensing with the requirement of felling/transit permit for its economic use. Bamboo was earlier legally defined as a ‘tree’ under the IFA. So, the felling and transit of bamboo grown on forest as well non-forest land attracted provisions (permit and penalty) under the law before the amendment. In April 2017, the Maharashtra government also freed bamboo from the transit pass (TP) regime but farmers are reluctant to grow it. “Presently, as bamboo is not an agriculture crop, farmers are reluctant to grow it because it doesn’t reflect in the 7/12 extract like the other crops and also doesn’t get any financial help from banks,” said Parwe. Parwe drew attention of Maharashtra agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse and also sought intervention of leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, who has always been demanding to free bamboo from the licence regime. Minister Bhuse was not available for comments. The former MLA said farmers are keen to grow bamboo as it is not affected by drought or rain like other crops and bamboo has enough potential as a market for handicraft, building material, furniture and curtains, artefacts among many things. Moreover, bamboo is used by paper mills and it can also be used as an energy source by converting it into solid, liquid and gaseous fuels. Managing director of Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) TSK Reddy supported Parwe’s demand. “Declaring bamboo as an agriculture crop is a good move. It will entitle all benefits like the minimum support price (MSP) which conventional crops get. It will also not require a transit pass. Bamboo once grown can give sustained income till 40-50 years,” said Reddy. On promoting bamboo plantation, Reddy said, “The MBDB has encouraged plantation of bamboo on 3,315 hectare of private land in Maharashtra. Out of this, 1,400 hectares alone is in Marathwada.” Sunil Joshi, chairman, Bamboo Society of India (BSI), Maharashtra Chapter, too, stressed the need for declaring bamboo as an agriculture crop. “Bamboo needs to be put under the department of agriculture and industry only then its importance will multiply. Farmers are not growing bamboo due to fear of not getting a market for their produce,” Joshi said. However, progressive farmer Ramesh Dumbhre from Umred was very optimistic. “I’ve planted six species of over 7,600 bamboo saplings in 18 acre farm land in the last 2.5 years. I plan to market bamboo shoots as food products. Each sapling costs Rs30, though this year I received 1,400 saplings from MBDB free of cost under a scheme. Bamboo farming is anytime better than other crops as it is a one-time investment,” said Dumbhre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/classify-bamboo-as-an-agriculture-crop/articleshow/77339442.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||District lacks beds for seriously ill Covid-19 patients||Ludhiana: The district faces acute shortage of beds for seriously-ill Covid-19 patients. The health department says efforts are being made to increase beds in level-three facilities.As per the state media bulletin on Covid-19 released on Sunday evening, the number of beds at level-three facilities, which are meant for gravely-ill patients, in the district was 96. Of them, 95 were occupied.As per the media bulletin released on Saturday evening, the number of beds occupied in level-three facilities was 75 and their availability was 76. So, only one bed was left for serious patients on both the days.Even as 20 beds were added in a day, the department says there is a need for more.Sources say, “Given the population of the district and the number of serious cases seeking medical help, the department needs about five more beds in level-three facilities. As the pandemic peak has already started, an upgrade in infrastructure will help check fatalities.”Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga says, “In a meeting on Saturday, the private hospitals were told to reserve and declare 50% of ICU beds for Covid patients. Soon, we will have around 130 such beds in level-three facilities. The private hospitals have also been asked not to refuse admission to such patients. With the cases peaking, our aim is to bring down fatalities.”Social activists say increasing the bed count should be the top priority of the authorities.“With the district witnessing a spurt in cases, there is a need to have sufficient number of beds for seriously-ill patients. People should take preventive steps, like wearing masks, maintaining distance, washing hands and avoiding stepping out unnecessarily, to stem the spread of the virus,” says social activist Shiv Kumar Shivly. District Total Beds Occupied beds  Level Level 2 3 2 3Ludhiana 771: 96: 406: 95Jalandhar 879: 95: 149: 42Patiala 784: 103: 156: 33Amritsar 362: 122: 141: 28||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-lacks-beds-for-seriously-ill-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77336726.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 207 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Dehradun: Coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand reached 7,800 on Monday after witnessing a jump of 207 fresh infections on the day. Meanwhile, the toll of the virus surged to 90 after four more Covid-19 patients died in the state. Among the victims were two women — one 55-year-old and the other 64-year-old — both of them suffered comorbidities. The 55-year-old died at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital and the 64-year-old breathed her last at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. According to the health department, one Covid-19 positive man died at AIIMS Rishikesh and another infected man died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College on the day. Both of them were battling other health ailments, including kidney and cardiac issues, along with coronavirus, the officials said. On the day, Haridwar recorded the maximum of 101 positive cases, followed by 47 cases from Nainital, 38 from Dehradun, six from Pauri Garhwal, five cases each from Almora and Uttarkashi districts, two from Chamoli, one case each from Rudraprayag, Tehri Garhwal, and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Till Monday, there were 3,134 active cases in the state. On Saturday, as many as 101 patients recovered from the deadly virus in the state, taking the total tally of cured cases to 4,538.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-207-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/77336747.cms||Shivani Azad
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Burglars target Civil Lines temple, escape with cash||Times News Network Ludhiana: Thieves struck at a temple in Guru Nanak Pura, Civil Lines, and escaped with cash early on Monday.The matter came to light when Bhuvneshwar Sharma, the priest of Jai Maa Vaishno Devi Temple, opened the premises and found it ransacked. The temple is located opposite Kailash Nagar police post. Harshit Sharma, son of the priest, said, “As the main gate of the temple was locked from outside, nobody realized that thieves had targeted it. Around 6am, when my father opened the shrine door, he found it ransacked and both the cash boxes empty. The burglars used a trident kept with an idol of goddess to break open the cash boxes.” “The temple is located opposite Kailash Nagar police post, but cops did not come to know about the theft. There is an open space near the idols where bells were hanging. The thieves removed those bells to enter the premises. The CCTV installed here is non-functional,” he added. Bhuvneshwar Sharma said, “Two years ago, too, the temple was burgled. At the time, the burglars had escaped with the CCTVs and their recordings, too. That theft case is yet to be solved.” Division 8 police station SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said, “A case is being registered. We are scanning the CCTVs installed near the spot. Some devotees were outside the temple around 4.30am. Even as the lights were switched on inside, they did not suspect a burglary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/burglars-target-civil-lines-temple-escape-with-cash/articleshow/77336739.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Gadvasu gets ICMR nod for Covid testing||Ludhiana: Following the Indian Council of Medical Research’s approval, the district has got another Covid-19 testing laboratory at College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu). It is the first government-run laboratory at a veterinary university in the state.It will start conducting tests after receiving kits from Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, this week.As many as 20 scientists and lab personnel will be working in two shifts and processing approximately 100 to 250 samples per day. About 1,000 samples will be tested per day once the lab facilities are upgraded. Gadvasu has recruited nine officials for the job.Gadvasu director of research and nodal officer JPS Gill said, “Diagnostic tests are highly skill-oriented and university has the expertise and well-established research labs in the field of animal biotechnology, virology, and cell culture and disease epidemiology. Ten scientists of the university were instrumental in the initial set-up of the labs at government medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala.”Gadvasu has a BSL-2 level laboratory facility, including a molecular biology setup for virological diagnosis.The university vice-chancellor, Dr Inderjeet Singh, visited the lab on Monday to oversee its functioning. He said, “We have procured over 1,000 kits so far and will start testing this week.”Gadvasu has a robust institutional policy on biomedical waste management. At present, the state has four government laboratories reporting to ICMR – Government Medical College, Amritsar; Government Medical College, Patiala; Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot; and Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab of Animal Husbandry, Jalandhar.Third in distIt is the third lab in the district that has received ICMR’s nod. The two other labs, both private, are at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Tagore Nagar, Civil Lines, and Christian Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gadvasu-gets-icmr-nod-for-covid-testing/articleshow/77336781.cms||Mehak Jain
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||3 arrested with 14 two-wheelers in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Police on Monday bust an inter-state gang of vehicle thieves and recovered 14 two-wheelers. Three accused have been arrested. The gang was involved in two-wheeler theft in many districts. They used to sell the vehicles at dirt-cheap prices to support their lavish lifestyle. They are being inquired to ascertain their involvement in more such cases, said a police official. SP Ajay Singh said Kotwali SHO Balwant Ram’s team arrested the thieves. He said the team collected information about the thieves and found that a gang was involved in vehicle thefts in Jaisalmer and Barmer. On a tip-off, police caught Jitendra aka Jitu, Prem aka Sumer Ram and Gordhan, all residents of Jhinjhinyali. They confessed to stealing over two dozen two-wheelers from Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur and nearby areas. The SP said 14 stolen vehicles were recovered. Cases have been lodged against them at Barmer and Pungal (Bikaner).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-arrested-with-14-two-wheelers-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77339453.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||10 from MLA Rana’s family test Covid positive||AMRAVATI: Ten members from the family of Badnera MLA Ravi Rana and Amravati MP Navneet Rana tested positive on Monday. Ravi Rana’s father (72) had tested positive on Sunday following which swabs of all the family members were collected for testing. “The Rana couple has tested negative but Ravi Rana’s mother (70), son, daughter, sister and five other relatives tested positive,” said civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam who visited Rana’s Ganga Savitri residence in Shankar Nagar on Monday morning along with AMC commissioner Prashant Rode. Dr Nikam said Rana’s parents and kids have been referred to Nagpur while the MLA-MP couple has been home quarantined. “Though they have tested negative, another sample has been taken as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Nikam. Rode told TOI that roads to Rana’s residence have been barricaded and the house and adjoining areas have been sanitized. The Rana couple had been to Mumbai recently. They returned on July 28 and took rapid antigen test which had come negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-from-mla-ranas-family-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77339459.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur gets its first pvt Covid care centre||Guntur: In a move aimed at easing the burden on the public healthcare system, the Indian Red Cross Society has launched the first private Covid Care Centre in Guntur. The 25-bed centre will be managed by doctors and trained Red Cross volunteers. Services at the centre, which is being sponsored by Sri Jain Sangh, are free of cost. District joint collector Dinesh Kumar inaugurated the Covid Care Centre on Monday. The centre is housed in a hotel opposite the Infectious Diseases (ID) hospital. Speaking on the occasion, the joint collector lauded the services of the Red Cross in assisting the government tackle the outbreak. Red Cross’s decision to join hands with NGOs would boost the morale of Covid-19 patients, Dinesh Kumar said. “Frankly, Covid-19 is not a life-threatening disease provided we take a little care. About 98% are fully recovering without any trouble, chiefly due to the courage and moral support from the family, friends and community,” said Dinesh Kumar. Red Cross vice-chairman P Ramachandra Raju said they have appointed exclusive teams at the centre to take care of Covid-19 positive cases referred by the Sri Jain Sangh. Doctors, nurses and volunteers would be available to patients, he said. The centre will have a chef to provide nutritious food to patients and yoga, meditation and motivational classes will also be on offer, Raju said. Sri Jain Sangh president Rajendra Suri, Jain Seva Samithi president Amrutha Lal Jain, Dinesh Kumar Jain, Paul Bhandari and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-gets-its-first-pvt-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77336777.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong functionary: 2 private hosps denied me admission||Ludhiana: A Congress office-bearer was allegedly denied admission by two private hospitals in the city on Sunday.National joint coordinator of All India Congress Committee (Kisan Congress) Gursimran Singh Mand was diagnosed with typhoid on Saturday. Mand said, “I got myself tested as I had fever. While the test ascertained that I had typhoid, my Covid-19 report was pending. As my health started deteriorating, I approached two prominent private hospitals of Ludhiana to get admission. Both the hospitals asked me if I am corona positive. When I told them that my covid report was awaited and that I had been diagnosed with typhoid, both the hospitals denied me admission, saying there were no beds. They are refusing anyone who has fever. I now understand what the general public is going through.”Thereafter, Mand approached another private hospital in Sarabha Nagar where he was admitted for a night. He was discharged on Monday morning. “I have realised that all the talk of medical facilities is baseless. There is no check at the ground level on what private hospitals are doing. People don’t want to go to civil hospital as it lacks facilities, and private hospitals are not ready to give admission to anyone. The entire system has collapsed,” Mand added.On whether he has apprised the health minister of it, he said, “I have not called up anyone, but I tweeted to CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Ludhiana DC Varinder Sharma about it. I hope they will take action.”SPS Hospital medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra said, “We did not have a bed on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. So, we did not take any patients on these days. But, on Sunday beds were available. I am not aware whom he called for getting admission. I did not receive any call. We already have 170 Covid patients and are admitting others as well.” The medical superintendent of Fortis could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.DC Varinder Sharma said, “I will get it checked. But in case of fever, Covid has to be ruled out for the safety of other non-Covid patients admitted to a hospital. I appeal that anyone who can manage at home or at a smaller hospital should not rush to tertiary care facility, bigger hospitals as it creates artificial scarcity for seriously-ill Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-functionary-2-private-hosps-denied-me-admission/articleshow/77336758.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Volunteers celebrate Rakhi with martyrs’ families||JAISALMER: Volunteers under the initiative ‘Thar ke veer’, along with the Marugoonj Sansthan, celebrated Rakshabandhan with the families of martyrs in Barmer and Jaisalmer. The team of volunteers reached out to 31 families of martyrs to celebrate the festival. Rakshasootra, sweets, shawls and certificates were presented to about 28 martyrs’ families in Barmer and three families in Jaisalmer. The sansthan and team ‘Thar ke veer’ convener Raghuveer Singh Tamlor said that for the last four months, they were calling all the people to remain alert about coronavirus, by following the government guidelines. On the occasion of Rakshabandhan, celebrating the festival with the families of the martyrs has set a new example. He said for the last 10 years, he celebrates Rakshabandhan with the soldiers but this time, under the guidance of team ‘Thar ke veer’ patron Rawat Tribhuvan Singh, commandant Pradeep Kumar Sharma and captain Heer Singh Bhati with the help of Marugoonj Sansthan, they celebrated the festival with families of those who were martyred between 1944 and 2020 in Barmer district and three families in Jaisalmer of those who were martyred after 2017. On the other hand, Jaisalmer ADM OP Vishnoi visited the border post to boost the morale of BSF personnel on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. Vishnoi on Sunday reached Bablian border post at the Indo-Pak border and wished the BSF jawans deployed there and offered them sweets for Rakshabandhan. Vishnoi was emotionally overwhelmed and touched the feet of BSF jawans and later even polished the shoes of some border guards. Vishnoi said that the way the jawans deployed at the border work throughout day and night, their contribution is priceless. He said all Indians are safe because of these jawans. He said whatever service we can do for these jawans is still not enough. BSF officers and border guards said that this initiative boosted their morale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/volunteers-celebrate-rakhi-with-martyrs-families/articleshow/77339466.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Patients’ kin may visit hosp in PPE: Min||Visakhapatnam: State animal husbandry and fisheries minister Dr Seediri Appalaraju on Monday said relatives of Covid-19 patients will be allowed hospital visits if they bring their own PPE kit. The decision was taken at a review of Covid-19 treatment services at RIMS Srikakulam on Monday and is meant to create confidence among Covid-19 patients and check fear of the disease among them and their relatives. The minister said critical care should be carried out at RIMS and the hospital should not limit itself to general medicine treatment. All beds must have oxygen supply and plasma therapy should be encouraged, the minister said, adding that “chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is ready to provide the necessary equipment to hospitals. So, doctors and the health department need not worry about it.” Plasma therapy can be done at a low cost, the minister added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/patients-kin-may-visit-hosp-in-ppe-min/articleshow/77336805.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand sends Rs 10k cr proposal to Centre for significant projects in hills||Dehradun: Uttarakhand tourism and irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj on Monday handed over a proposal worth Rs 1,000 crore for significant management projects in the Himalayan state, which include water connection in the hills and creating jobs for natives who have returned to the state. Maharaj handed over the proposal to Anurag Thakur, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs. Apart from the funds, Maharaj also sought an extension of two years and 11 months for ongoing works under Gramya-2, a World Bank-aided project. The deadline is currently September 2021. “As the projects are extremely useful for Uttarakhand, we have requested the Union minister to extend it by a period of three years and approve the requested amount,” Maharaj said. Maharaj pointed out that around 5 lakh people had returned to Uttarakhand owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that it was important to boost the potential of natural resources to clear the path for development projects. “The thrust of the government will be on providing them (returnees) job opportunities at the local level. It will help the state and boost reverse migration. For any project in the hill areas, especially those close to the border, water connection is imperative – be it for irrigation or drinking. We need to improve water supply also for agricultural works,” Thakur assured Maharaj that he would send the proposal to the World Bank for funding and also make a recommendation for extending the time span of the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-sends-rs-10k-cr-proposal-to-centre-for-significant-projects-in-hills/articleshow/77336798.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 4, 2020||Nashik||60-year-old found dead in Tapovan||Nashik: A 60-year-old man was found bludgeoned to death near Batuk Hanuman area at Tapovan in the Panchavati area on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The deceased has been identified as Santosh Pawar, who resided in a cow shed in Tapovan area. Senior officers from Adgaon police station said that the murder was reported to them by Pawandas Maharaj, who resided in a small shelter near gate number 4 of Janardahan Swami area. Police team rushed to the spot along with a forensics teams and a dog squad. Pawar’s daughter reached the cow shed and identified the body of her father. Adgaon police have registered a murder offence against an unidentified person and have launched investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-year-old-found-dead-in-tapovan/articleshow/77336791.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Traffic Park tender PIL: HC notice to Mundhe, 2 others||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday issued notices to NMC commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and two others in a PIL filed by an NGO challenging commercial tender floated by the civic body for reviving Children’s Traffic Park. NMC’s Dharampeth zone assistant commissioner and deputy commissioner (Garden) are other respondents in the case, who were asked to reply by Thursday. Senior counsel Anil Mardikar along with Tushar Mandlekar pleaded for petitioner — Civic Action Guild Foundation — before the division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor. As a technical snag developed when NMC counsel Gemini Kasat started his arguments, the next hearing has been kept on priority. Praying for quashing NMC’s tender, the petitioner pointed out that the land (park) was being misused by anti-social elements under NMC’s patronage, despite objections by the residents. The civic body floated tender during the lockdown on July 10 for appointing an operator to exploit the area in commercial manner from August 6, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-park-tender-pil-hc-notice-to-mundhe-2-others/articleshow/77339469.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Each law aptitude test centre to have Covid room||Mumbai: A dedicated Covid room at every test centre across 67 cities, thermal testing and sanitized keyboards and door knobs will be among many precautions taken for India’s first national entrance exam during the pandemic, the Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT), on August 22. CLAT has seen a sort of consolidation with 77 other law colleges joining the consortium of National Law Schools to admit students on the basis of CLAT scores, instead of holding separate tests. This year, 68,000 candidates have registered for the entrance test for undergraduate admissions and around 9,000 for admission to the post-graduate programme. Last year, around 60,000 took the test for admission to 22 national law schools of the country. “We will test candidates’ temperature at the entrance. Every centre has a test room for positive patients. No one who has registered will be turned away,” said an NLS vice-chancellor. Yet, nearly 3,000 who registered for the test suddenly withdrew from the test, he said. Normally the entrance test is held on the first Sunday of May and the academic year kicks off by August. But the pandemic pushed the test, thus having a bearing on results and the start of the fresh semester will be delayed. “National law schools will conduct online classes till the end of the pandemic,” said another vice-chancellor. The pen-paper test format was changed to computer-based by law schools due to Covid. This year, with an additional NLS in Haryana, there are 23, and many other colleges and universities decided to admit students based on CLAT scores, instead of conducting their own entrance tests. The consortium has charged each participating institute Rs 1.5 lakh for using CLAT scores to admit students, earning Rs 1.2 crore, apart from a test fee of Rs4,000 (Rs3,500 for reserved category) per candidate. CLAT comprises five sections: English language skills, current affairs, including general knowledge, legal reasoning, logical reasoning and quantitative techniques, which is not part of many other law entrance tests. “While CLAT is tougher, it opens doors to many law schools in the country. Every law college under Delhi University will accept CLAT scores, making it convenient for many of us to take one test and apply to several campuses, including many private universities,” said Dia Jasani, an aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/each-law-aptitude-test-centre-to-have-covid-room/articleshow/77338560.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||22-year-old raped, left to die||Nagpur: A 22-year-old married woman, having a child, was raped and left to die after being assaulted under the railway over bridge at Satgaon crossing on July 31 by a colleague-turned-jilted lover, identified as Pankaj Choudhury, who has been arrested by Bori police of Nagpur rural on Sunday. He had raped her at knifepoint. It’s learnt that the survivor and Choudhury had befriended each other while working at a hotel. After the lockdown, they were separated as the hotel was closed. Choudhury, a native of Yavatmal, had returned to his place during the lockdown. He was miffed with the survivor as she would not respond to his calls on the cell phone. Police said Choudhury had forced the woman to accompany him as a pillion rider to the railway crossing where he first raped her and then tried to strangulate her with a wire until she felt unconscious. Assuming that she was dead, Choudhury left the place. The survivor returned home the next day and was rushed to government medical college and hospital where she is now undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/22-year-old-raped-left-to-die/articleshow/77339488.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Three-tier security around MLAs in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A three-tier security arrangement has been put around the two hotels where ministers and legislators have been corralled since last Friday. No minister and legislator is allowed to step out without policemen escorting them. Majority of the MLAs are staying at Suryagarh hotel. More than 500 police personnel and officers are deployed around this hotel. Policemen in plainclothes are spread in every nook and cranny of the city to keep vigil on suspicious persons and activities. The biggest worry of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who could be facing a floor test during the assembly session commencing from August 14, is poaching of his MLAs by the rival camp led by Sachin Pilot and the opposition BJP. Rajasthan police’s intelligence system is at high alert to ward off horse-trading of MLAs, said sources. IPS officers Rahul Prakash and Rajeev Pachar are overseeing the security arrangements. Strict vigil is being kept on movement of vehicles during night. Police teams are deployed up to 200 metres ahead of the Suryagarh hotel. A team of Jaipur police commissionerate is deployed at the main gate of the hotel. Those entering the hotel are thoroughly questioned and checked before being allowed inside. Another security team is deployed at the reception, which again checks the permitted persons before letting them further inside. The same arrangement has been done at the Gorbandh Palace hotel where a couple of ministers and MLAs are staying. All telecom companies have been directed to reduce the internet speed to prevent sharing information through smartphones. Sources said jammers have been put in the hotels to prevent calls on mobile phones. Many MLAs have complained about the internet restrictions, said sources. SP Ajay Singh said strict security arrangements were in place at both the hotels where the MLAs and the ministers are staying. Police patrolling at night has been increased. Policemen are keeping a watch on vehicles coming from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-tier-security-around-mlas-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77339486.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Chief GM of discom succumbs to Covid-19||Guntur: The chief general manager of Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hyderabad. His wife and serving executive director of SPDCL is also undergoing treatment in the same hospital for Covid-19. The couple, who work in Tirupati, the headquarters of SPDCL, rushed to a private hospital in Hyderabad after testing positive about a fortnight ago. Although he had no co-morbidities and was considered a health- conscious person, he had given up the fight apparently due to increased hypertension. Sources said the family members have not communicated the information to his wife as she too is not out of danger. Only four years ago, the couple lost their daughter Monisha Sangeeth in a road accident in United States. Monisha was in US to pursue her MS. The couple started a charitable trust in memory of their daughter. The CGM and his wife are from Tenali and the former was considered to be one of the honest officers of the corporation. “His straightforwardness and honest attitude kept him away from the focal points as he never used to succumb to the pressures from the contractors or senior officials” noted a senior official of SPDCL. The death of the CGM has sent shockwaves among the officials of the corporation. Several senior officials called up the younger daughter of the chief engineer, who is a doctor and works in Hyderabad. Transco CMD Dr N Srikanth has promised to extend their full support to the family in the hour of grief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-gm-of-discom-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77336875.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Women MLAs tie rakhis on Rajasthan CM||JAISALMER: Women legislators tied rakhi to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad while celebrating Rakshabandhan at a hotel here on Monday. As the legislators were not permitted to step out of Suryagarh, even Jaisalmer MLA Ruparam Meghwal’s sister and other relatives had to go to the hotel tie rakhi to him. PHED minister and Jaisalmer in-charge BD Kalla offered water at ancient Bhuteshwar Mahadev temple, 20-km away from the city, on the last Monday of Shrawan month. Another minister Pramod Jain Bhaya reached ancient Laudhrava Jain temple and offered prayers there. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who had gone to Delhi on Saturday, came back to Jaisalmer and held a meeting with the CM, who returned to Jaipur on Monday evening. MLA Bharosi Lal Jatav’s 72nd birthday was celebrated on Sunday night. MLA Sanyam Lodha gave a letter to CM demanding formation of Marwar Adivasi Development Board on World Tribal Day on August 9. The board would pave the path for development of tribal people in Jodhpur division. Ministers at Suryagarh and Gorbandh Palace hotels carried out their officials works as their departments’ files reached Jaisalmer from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/women-mlas-tie-rakhis-on-cm/articleshow/77339495.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Amidst Covid-19, monsoon woes for those living near rivers||Dehradun: Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the incessant monsoon rain in the city has spelt double trouble for residents of settlements along the city’s two main rivers — Rispana and Bindal. At the bastis around Rispana river in Mothrowala, unstable structures and pollution are recurring problems, which get worse in the monsoon.It is a similar problem for settlements near Bindal as well. Mangesh Kumar, a daily wager from Bihar who has been living in the Bindal basti for more than 20 years, said, “We get sleepless nights in the monsoon, fearing the rains might wash away our settlement.” The basti is situated along the river, which is overflowing is plastic waste and sewage. Families fear for their children who play in the river, which looks more like a landfill. In the absence of a proper road, residents cross the river using a half-broken pushta wall. Ramu Das, a resident, said, “We have been living here for decades now and have nowhere to go. This place is all we can afford. The sound of water scares us, especially when it rains. Water often enters our homes, carrying disease-causing pollutants.” Ajay Tahil, another resident, said, “I have spent three decades here and have never seen the river so polluted. With ever-increasing population and settlement around these rivers, pollution levels have also risen”. The roads of Meherkot village in Sahaspur area, which is barely 15km from Dehradun, and situated near a rivulet, were washed away in the rains, while some were blocked due to debris. After a temporary pushta road connecting the village to other areas got washed away, residents resorted to using an out-of-use drain to drive two-wheelers. “People have to walk for more than 5 kilometers to reach the main roads. Meherkot village is not far from Dehradun but development seems to be years away,” said Akash Joshi a resident. Gambhir Singh, a resident, said, “The problem of the poor road connectivity has resulted in people leaving the village. So much so, that a primary school in the vicinity had to be closed down because of lack of connectivity.” Doon district administration officials had visited the village two years ago and asked the department concerned to initiate work on a road, to make commute easier for residents. However, the construction is yet to start. When queried on what is being done in the matter, Sahaspur MLA Sehdev Singh Pundir said, “The construction of the road at Meherkot village is already in the pipeline. The work got delayed due to the restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. I will visit the village with the officials soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amidst-covid-19-monsoon-woes-for-those-living-near-rivers/articleshow/77336879.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Students in a fix as admissions to pvt univs start||Mumbai: Even as uncertainty over conduct of JEE (Main) and state common entrance test (CET) continues, admissions to private and deemed universities commenced, leaving many aspirants for professional courses in a dilemma. These universities follow their own admission processes, and need not rely entirely on JEE or CET scores to admit students. Many aspirants whose names appeared on admission lists at these colleges are worried about securing seats, as they may have to let go of part or full money if they cancel admissions later. Some of these universities have stringent refund policies, students said. Thadomal Shahani Engineering College principal G T Thampi said he had been getting many calls from aspirants desperate for admissions. “Uncertainty over admissions is adding to students’ anxiety. Even teachers want to send children to private and deemed universities as there is no clarity over conduct of state and national level exams. The state governm-ent or state CET cell needs to reassure students about conduct of exams later,” said Thampi. Abha Dixit, parent of an engineering aspirant selected for admission at NMIMS University, said, “Normally, most admissionsin government and private universitiesare synchronised. This enables students to select choices and does not burden parents with additional fees. But due to Covid-19, many government tests have been postponed. Refund rules in some private universities are stringent, leaving students with no option but to let go of seats,” said Dixit. The university’s policy allows zero refund if admission is withdrawn 30 days after last date of admission. The student was told to pay Rs 3.6 lakh. Another parent, Rajeev M, said that rules at these universities should have been relaxed during Covid. NMIMS registrar Meena Chintamaneni, said the university was receiving many mails regarding fee concession, due to which they are unable to identify genuine cases. “Students should write to the dean. Such applications are being evaluated. The university is considering 15% of such cases who can pay in instalments,” she said. Newly-formed Somaiya Vidyavihar University is conducting an entrance test for engineering admissions and is also using JEE (M) scores from December exams. Fees for FYBTech at Somaiya are Rs 2.8 lakh. Another private varsity in Navi Mumbai reportedly has a record number of applications this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/students-in-a-fix-as-admissions-to-pvt-univs-start/articleshow/77338562.cms||Yogita Rao
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept to create ‘reading cards’ with short folk tales in local languages||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has decided to create reading cards for children belonging to the age group of 5-7 years, containing short regional folk tales in local languages. The folk tales will be written in not more than 150 words, in four languages — Garhwali, Kumaoni, Jaunsari and Hindi. For this purpose, the education department will take technical help of NGO ‘Room to Read’, which will hold a workshop for government teachers who are interested in writing stories for children. There will be 21 teachers selected to create the content from different districts, including Dehradun, Nainital and Pithoragarh among others, to deliver to the children the best of literature from these distinct regions. “The reading cards are expected to assist the development of reading habit in children, and to give them a better understanding of their regional literature. We have decided to keep the word length short, to keep the children interested. Also, we’ll make sure the content doesn't give any controversial message unfit for children. We will start creating the content in coordination with the education department this week, and hope to get it finalised in a few months. After that, it will be introduced to schools,” said Pushplata Rawat, state coordinator of Room to Read. Meanwhile, the education department said to some extent, their project fits with the New Education Policy 2020, which states that primary school children should be taught in their home language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-create-reading-cards-with-short-folk-tales-in-local-languages/articleshow/77336906.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||CBI, ED should be searching ‘overambitious’ union minister Shekhawat||Jaipur: Once again accusing Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of conspiring to topple Rajasthan’s elected government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the former should be the one facing probes from the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate, instead of the Congressmen who were being searched "for no reason". The CM referred to the two audio clips allegedly related to horse-trading of MLAs attributed to Shekhawat as well as the charges against the latter in the Rs 900-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam being probed by the state police under directions from a lower court. Shekhawat, his wife and others have been named in a complaint related to the scam. "The union minister got over-ambitious and played the ‘game’ (of toppling the government). He should have kept patience, but he jumped into it fully. He forgot Rajasthan’s traditions and the nature of people here because he is a new MP who quickly got a chance to be a union minister," Gehlot said about Shekhawat, who is BJP MP from Jodhpur. "He has crashed before the take off. Now, however hard his party may think about him, people will not accept a person who is involved in a scam and in toppling an elected government," Gehlot added. Talking to reporters after returning from Jaisalmer where his MLAs are corralled, the CM said that while the Centre was involved in toppling governments, the states were the one that were putting up a fight against Covid-19. "This is the third attempt in Rajasthan (at toppling the government). There is a huge gap (between ruling party and opposition MLAs’ numbers) here, still they have no shame. The BJP has just 73 MLAs and we had 122, but the ‘game’ was played using money power. The horse-trading of MLAs is still going on; the phones are still ringing," Gehlot said. The chief minister rejected dissident Congress MLAs’ claims that public works were not done in their constituencies. "The MLAs used to appreciate our government’s work earlier but now they complain. People elected them but they have ‘revolted’. We cannot leave the people as it is not their fault," Gehlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbi-ed-should-be-searching-overambitious-union-minister-shekhawat/articleshow/77339505.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||WFH & online education charges up inverter, UPS battery demand||RAJKOT: City-based businessman Jay Chhagani was desperately searching for his jeep’s battery that dried-up due to non-usage during lockdown. But Chhagani will have to wait for at least a fortnight to get a replacement, something that would have normally taken just a few hours earlier. The demand for automotive batteries for cars and two-wheelers has significantly increased since June with vehicles lying idle during lockdown. But, at the same time, the battery manufacturers have shifted to making more lucrative inverters and UPS batteries whose demand too has soared due to work-from-home (WFH) culture and online education. According to dealers, the waiting period for four-wheeler batteries is around 10-20 days while that for two-wheelers is around 7-10 days depending upon the vehicle model. “My battery was under warranty. The dealer gave me the option to purchase a battery from elsewhere in the market and assured me to reimburse the cost. I went into the market but nowhere could I get the jeep battery,” Chhagani told TOI. Vasant Pansara, who has a battery showroom on Gondal Road, said, “The demand for automotive batteries has increased by 30% to 35%. The demand for inverter and UPS batteries has risen 20-25% compared to last year due to WFH culture and online education coupled with monsoon that causes power outages in smaller towns.” In India, Exide and Amara Raja command nearly 50% of the automotive battery market. Navneet Pansara, managing director of Jamnagar-based battery company, said, “The volume amount and profit margin is much higher in inverter batteries compared to automotive, so there is an obvious shift to making these lucrative ones. Another reason for the shift is the shortage of lead, the key raw material for automotive batteries. The metal comes from the recycling of scrapped batteries from various parts of the state but this process has been hit due to non-availability of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar labourers. Promoter of Gandhinagar-based company, Rajesh Patel, said, “The maximum demand for inverter batteries is in south Gujarat this year, mainly due to power outages in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wfh-online-edu-charges-up-inverter-ups-battery-demand/articleshow/77336911.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard believed to have killed dozen animals caught in Nainital||Nainital: A leopard believed to have killed at least a dozen domestic animals was trapped in a cage in Nainital’s Char Khet area on Sunday night.  The locals said that the leopard had been active in the area for days but had escaped the traps set by the forest department several times. Dheeraj Kumar, a local resident, said that the locals had sent a complaint to the district administration as well as the forest officials regarding the presence of leopards in the area after which the cage was set up. “We had complained to the officials about a month back after which, the cage was set up in the village. On Sunday night, we heard the sound of the leopard. Next morning, we found the leopard trapped,” said Kumar. He added that there are at least three other leopards also active in the area. “The leopard, which has been caught, had killed at least a dozen goats and other domestic animals in the area. The locals have also seen at least three other leopards in the locality and we have now asked the forest department to once again put up the trap so that the leopards can be caught,” Kumar said. The forest department officials, meanwhile, said that they have taken the trapped leopard to the Ranibagh rescue centre for treatment. Subsequently, it will be sent to the Nainital zoo. “We had set up the cage and the trap cameras in the area almost a month back. On Monday, we were informed that a leopard has been trapped in the cage. The leopard will now be taken to the rescue centre in Ranibagh,” said Pramod Tiwari, range officer. The official added that the forest department has decided to keep the trap cameras working and another cage will also be installed soon as the villagers complain that a few more leopards are active in the area. “We have decided to keep the trap cameras working so that if any other leopard is threatening the locals, it can be caught as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-believed-to-have-killed-dozen-animals-caught-in-nainital/articleshow/77336930.cms||Prashant Jha
August 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Proposal seeks appointment of bouncers at YCMH||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The standing committee of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is set to discuss a proposal that seeks appointment of bouncers to provide security at the civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital following alleged unruly behaviour by relatives of a patient and a corporator last month. The proposal will be discussed during a meeting on August 5. The proposal discusses the appointment of one female and three male bouncers who will work three eight-hour shifts at the hospital. The cost of this security arrangement has been pegged at Rs 25,000 each, for two months of work. The proposal added that a security private firm had submitted a quotation on July 28. It suggested that since the said topic needs urgent attention, the tender process should be skipped and the appointments should be done directly after an approval from the PCMC commissioner. On July 27, doctors at the YCMH staged a strike to protest the unruly behaviour by relatives of a patient and a local corporator. Doctors said they were manhandled by a group linked the patient, who had passed away at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-seeks-appoint-of-bouncers-at-ycmh/articleshow/77339510.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot walks the extra mile to please rebel legislators||JAIPUR: Ever since former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot revolted against Ashok Gehlot for allegedly neglecting him, the chief minister has been striving hard to prove him wrong. Even while announcing the setting up of new colleges a few days ago, Gehlot tried to prove that constituencies of rebel MLAs also got a fair share of them. In order to woo the Gujjars, the chief minister extended the five per cent More Backward Classes (MBC) reservation in the state judicial services by amending the Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules, 2010. Another area which the chief minister has been focusing on is the tribal areas of south Rajasthan, the stronghold of the Bharatiya Tribal party (BTP). The support of the two MLAs of the BTP party are crucial to the survival of the government. In the 2019-20 budget, the chief minister’s office had announced seven colleges, while in the 2020-21 budget he sanctioned the setting up of another five. “Some of the MLAs in the rebel camp have alleged that they were neglected in development. That is the reason they are demanding a change in leadership. But that is wrong,” claimed an official in the CMO. The new colleges announced in the budget in 2019-20 include government colleges in Virat Nagar, the constituency of Indra Gujjar, in Bandikui (Dausa), the constituency of G R Khatana, in Prabatsar (Nagaur), the seat represented by Ramniwas Gawdiya, in Neeka Thana (Sikar), constituency of Suresh Modi, in Chaksu (Jaipur) where Ved Prakash Solanki is the MLA, in Dhorimana under Gudmalani assembly segment represented by Hemram Chaudhary and another in Mandrayal under Sapotra seat of Ramesh Meena. Similarly, In the 2020-21 budget five more colleges were announced in their areas. These are in Bhinai, Masuda (Ajmer) where Rakesh Pareek is the MLA, Roopwas Bayana (Bharatpur) where Amar Singh is the legislator, in Nangal Rajawatan (Dausa), the constituency of Murarilal Meena, in Kotkhawda under Chaksu where Ved Prakash Solanki is the MLA and in Bayana where Amar Singh is the elected legislator. Watch Rajasthan crisis: Gehlot walks the extra mile to please rebel legislators||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-walks-the-extra-mile-to-please-rebel-legislators/articleshow/77339509.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Girl slits her wrist in quarantine centre||Nainital: A 23-year-old girl from Nainital tried to kill herself by slitting her wrist while in a quarantine centre in the Sukhatal area of the Lake Town. According to police, the incident took place on Monday morning after which, the girl was taken to BD Pandey Hospital. “The girl had returned from Bijnor last week. Subsequently, she was sent to the tourist rest centre in Sukhtal. The family members have said that she was talking on the phone while she slit her wrist using a glass piece which was lying in the compound,” said a police officer. The official said that she is undergoing treatment at the hospital and initial investigation showed that she tried to kill herself because of family reasons. “We spoke to the family members of the girl. Thereafter, it was revealed that the girl tried to end her life because of some family issues,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/girl-slits-her-wrist-in-quarantine-centre/articleshow/77336966.cms||Prashant Jha
August 4, 2020||Patna||Patna SP’s forced quarantine in Mumbai not right: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday expressed his displeasure over the “forced quarantining” of Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari in Mumbai, but refused to take up the issue with his Maharshtra counterpart as it was not a “political issue”. The Patna (central) SP had reached Mumbai on Sunday to lead the Bihar Police’s investigation in the Sushant case where the civic authorities allegedly forcefully quarantined him late in the evening. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey held a meeting at the police headquarters on Monday over the situation arising out of Tiwari’s quarantine till August 15 and directed the state police to lodge a protest with the Mumbai civic authorities. Nitish while reacting to the incident said, “Whatever happened (with the SP) is not right. On behalf of our government, DGP Pandey has full information about the incident and he will speak to his counterpart in Maharashtra.” The CM was interacting with mediapersons at a state government event at Rajdhani Vatika in Patna. Asked if he would take up the issue with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Nitish said, “No, it is not a political matter. It is the legal responsibility of Patna police to investigate the case. Bihar Police is carrying out its legal responsibility.” Nitish avoided commenting on whether there would be a CBI inquiry into the Bollywood actor’s suicide case. Incensed by the treatment meted out to the Patna SP by Mumbai civic officials citing Covid-19 protocols, DGP Pandey on Monday ordered IG (central range) Sanjay Singh to write a letter to the BMC commissioner to lodge protest against the action against the Bihar IPS officer. “The BMC commissioner would be asked to give exemption in order to free the IPS officer from home quarantine condition as he is on duty. Tiwari had gone there to conduct an investigation. His work falls under essential services category which includes police,” Pandey told TOI. He said the state police have studied the Maharashtra government’s rules on Covid-19 home quarantine applicable to flyers reaching the state. “There’s a clause in their rules under which the administration concerned has power to give exemption to those involved in essential works and reaching Maharashtra,” he said. The DGP had tweeted within minutes of Tiwari getting the quarantine stamp on his hand with a photo of the IPS officer's stamped hand. “Tiwari was forcibly quarantined by authorities around 11 pm hours after reaching the Maharashtra capital. The IPS officer is now unable to move around in Mumbai,” the tweet read. The DGP also alleged that the IPS officer was not provided accommodation in the IPS mess despite request and was staying in a guest house in Goregaon. However, the Mumbai Police on Monday clarified that accommodation was arranged at the senior officers’ mess in Goregaon and a vehicle was provided, adding, “all courtesies befitting to an IPS officer were duly extended to Shri Vinay Tiwari”. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporal, too, issued a statement on Monday to clear the air on the quarantining of the Bihar IPS officer. The statement clarified that Tiwary was “guided for home quarantine” as per Maharashtra government’s guidelines for flyers and that he has been “to apply to the competent authority of MCGM for exemption in the home quarantine period”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-sps-forced-quarantine-in-mumbai-not-right-nitish/articleshow/77336909.cms||Madan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Row over handling body with pending Covid result||TRICHY: While residents and social workers raised concern over the management of dead bodies of patients whose Covid-19 test results are pending, government doctors and the public health department complained of undue pressure from people in Trichy urging the hospital administration to hand over the bodies unmindful of the risks. A resident of Murungapettai in Trichy M Srinivasan, 60, a retired senior engineer from railways, complained of a ‘callousness’ in the management of a dead body of a 53-year-old-man in his area on August 1. The man passed away at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on July 31, said Srinivasan. “He was admitted to MGMGH on July 31 with chest pain and died on the same day. His body was brought to his house without any covering and the funeral was held on August 1 in which his family and relatives attended. But, his Covid-19 test result that came later in the evening showed that he was positive for the infection,” said Srinivasan. Being a resident of the area, Srinivasan expressed concern of getting the viral infection after the incident. Reacting to the complaint, MGMGH dean Dr K Vanitha said the hospital followed the protocols laid down by the government over the management of dead bodies. “We have been witnessing arguments from the family and relatives of the patients urging us to hand over the body irrespective of the Covid-19 status. If the results are pending, we take an undertaking from them and give them the body with full safety measures,” she said. As per the protocol, bodies of all the Covid-19 positive patients are packed with safety measures and sent to the Oyamaari electric crematorium, she said. Though the protocol allows the hospital administration to hand over the dead bodies of patients whose test results are pending to the family as dead bodies do not spread the virus, deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr A Subramani appealed to the people to take utmost precaution by following all the safety measures. “It’s true some influential people are putting pressure on us to hand over them body. Our appeal is that they should keep the crowd limited and maintain social distance because the crowd may have asymptomatic patients posing threat to others,” DDHS told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/row-over-handling-body-with-pending-covid-result/articleshow/77338473.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Gyms in Doon all set to open tomorrow||Dehradun: Gyms in the state will finally open on Wednesday after staying shut for nearly four months. “We are happy that fitness facilities will finally start operations. We will sanitize clients as well as their belongings before they enter the gym floor. Also, only 10 to 12 clients will be allowed in each shift, so social distancing can be maintained,” said Rajeev Khatri, a gym owner. With maintenance costs rising due to the pandemic, gym owners plan to hike membership charges. “We expect the footfall to be less. We’ll have to earn our living from the clients that do come to us,” Khatri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gyms-in-doon-all-set-to-open-tomorrow/articleshow/77336955.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||No respite from flood, over 56 lakh hit in 14 North Bihar districts||PATNA: The number of flood-affected people in north Bihar went up by around 3 lakh in 24 hours reaching 56.5 lakh across 14 districts by Monday evening. Major rivers such as Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Khiroi and Adhwara group of rivers continued to flow above their corresponding danger levels. The silver lining is that except Khiroi and Bagmati, water levels in all other rivers in north Bihar were showing either static or falling trends on Monday evening. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department on Monday evening, Bagmati was showing a rising trend at three flood gauges in Sitamarhi district and either falling or static at remaining four places in Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Sitamarhi districts. The swollen river was flowing above the danger level at all but one flood gauge in Sitamarhi district. The turbulent Burhi Gandak was also flowing above the danger level at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samstipur and Khagaria districts but it showed a rising trend only at one place in Khagaria. Kamla Balan also showed static and falling trends at both flood gauges in Madhubani district but continued to flow above the danger mark. Khiroi, one of the branches of the Adhwara, however, showed a rising trend and it was flowing above flood gauges in Darbhanga district on Monday. According to the weather forecast, only light to moderate rainfall is expected in Bihar over the next 48 hours as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted on Monday evening that monsoon rainfall activity will be comparatively higher over central and peninsular India. Dinesh Kumar Bharti, an officer at the Patna Meteorological Centre said in a statement issued on Monday that monsoon activity was normal in Bihar in the past 24 hours. “Light rainfall occurred at many places in the state. The monsoon trough line was passing through Gaya, Jamshedpur and Digha on Monday. Accordingly, one or two places in the state may receive light to moderate,” he said. As far as rescue and relief work is concerned, the daily bulletin issued by DMD on Monday stated that 4.2 lakh out of total 56.5 lakh people affected by the floods have been evacuated to safer places. A total of 17,554 people were staying in relief camps and 9.4 lakh people were getting food at 1,358 community kitchen centres. Altogether 31 teams of NDRF and SDRF are involved in flood relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-respite-from-flood-over-56-lakh-hit-in-14-north-bihar-districts/articleshow/77336868.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 4, 2020||Pune||Over 1,800 people discharged in PMC, double than those testing positive||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 1,998 cases on Monday, its lowest 24-hour tally in over a fortnight. With this, the region’s tally has risen to 92,880 so far. Besides, 45 more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the PMR’s toll to 2,129. Only on July 17, PMR’s 24-hour tally was below 2,000-mark at 1,904. Otherwise, the daily tally had been above 2,000 till Monday. Of the fresh cases, 781 were recorded in the the Pune municipal limits, while 748 were added in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 469 in rural and cantonment areas, stated the press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. Out of the 45 deaths, 21 were reported from the PMC areas, 17 from PCMC limits and 7 from the rural and cantonments parts. A total of 63,930 patients have been discharged in PMR after being declared cured. As per PMC data, nearly two times more citizens were discharged (1,822) from hospitals than those who were reported positive on Monday. The active patients under these areas were 16,981 till Monday evening. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, as many as 39,939 citizens have been cured and discharged under the PMC limits. According to the daily report of PMC, 633 critical patients were being treated at various hospitals, of whom 389 were on ventilator support. The civic administration’s report states that majority of those who died had co-morbidity issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1800-people-discharged-in-pmc-double-than-those-testing-positive/articleshow/77339518.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Fake gold racket busted, Rs 20L recovered from duo||MYSURU: The city police have recovered most of the money that a Mysuru resident lost to a gang of fake gold dealers by arresting two youths from Gujarat within two weeks of the crime. They have arecovered about Rs 20 lakh from the accused. Police have launched a search for the kingpin and his associates for selling fake gold to a Mysurean for Rs 30 lakh. Two weeks ago, Raghavendra of Kumbarkopplu knocked on the doors of police and said he was duped of Rs 30 lakh. He said a gang of six had sold him 3.5kg ornaments, that turned out to be fake gold. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda said the gang had approached many people and traders in the city promising them pure and ancient gold items for lesser money. Raghavendra too was approached by one of gang members in Saraswathipuram police limits in early July. The gang had given him some gold items to make him believe. Raghavendra had got it checked with a goldsmith and after confirmation struck a deal with the gang to buy the gold. Accordingly, on July 13, he collected the said gold items near Mysuru Palace and gave the gang Rs 30 lakh. His joy of possessing 3.5kg for a cheap price did not last long, as the items he received were fake. After all his efforts to contact the gang members went in vain, he filed a police complaint three days later. Prakash Gowda said the gang members are originally from Gujarat but have settled near KRS in Mandya. “Their profession is to cheat gullible public and make money. We have information that the gang has approached many others in the city but only Raghavendra approached us,” he said. Bheema and Arjun are the arrested accused. About Rs 20 lakh cash, two bikes and mobile phones have been recovered from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fake-gold-racket-busted-rs20l-recovered-from-duo/articleshow/77336871.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||With 220 active cases, Dehu Road’s tally highest among 3 cantonments in district||Pune: Dehu Road, the youngest of the three cantonments in Pune district, has 220 active Covid-19 cases, which is the highest compared to the 166 and 92 active cases in Khadki and Pune cantonment limits, respectively. The Dehu Road cantonment is located on the outskirts of Pimpri Chinchwad and is spread over a 40sqkm area with a population of 48,000. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, it has recorded 301 cases, of whom eight have succumbed to the contagion and 73 have been discharged after successful recovery. On June 30, the Dehu Road cantonment limits had barely 11 active cases. The rapid rise in caseload since then is mainly on account of movement of people between Dehu Road and Pimpri Chinchwad as well as Pune, the cantonment authorities said. Besides, the cantonment has been grappling with manpower shortage to monitor patients put under home isolation. R Harital, chief executive officer of the Dehu Road Cantonment Board, said, “We have appointed 70 volunteers across seven wards to keep a check on asymptomatic patients. They are working with our teams of doctor. This has worked in the last 10 days as we didn’t find any such patients outside their homes.” The cantonment, which had only a 100-bed Covid care centre, completed oxygen pipeline work on Sunday. “We will get at least 40 oxygen beds at our facility in next two days. This was needed as we had to send moderately symptomatic patients with low oxygen saturation to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital in Pimpri. On many occasions, we faced difficulties while acquiring beds,” he added. Harital has also sent a proposal to the Ministry of Defence to set up an ICU facility at the hospital. “We want to establish a 10 bed-ICU here to treat critical patients. Our proposal in this regard is pending with the ministry,” he said, adding that the cantonment had also decided to hire at least six specialist doctors, nurses and other staffs to run hospital smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-220-active-cases-dehu-roads-tally-highest-among-3-cantonments-in-district/articleshow/77339521.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Doon admin fines 225 locals for violating Covid-19 guidelines||Dehradun: A team from Dehradun district administration fined as many as 225 people for not wearing a face mask at public places in Dehradun district on Monday. The teams were vigilant anticipating heavy crowds at the market places in the city due to the Raksha Bandhan festival. The officials said that people should not forget the mandatory Covid-19 protocols of following the social distancing norms even during the times of celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-fines-225-locals-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/77336950.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Trichy||New cases appear near containment zones opened up recently in Trichy||TRICHY: Days after opening up Vaathukara street in Woraiyur, Trichy Corporation has established a new containment zone in the same street a few metres away. Parts of the city are reporting fresh Covid-19 positive cases in adjoining areas of containment zones that were relaxed recently. After the family of a TV mechanic was infected and passed it on to at least 10 people, the corporation had established a containment zone in Vaathukara street in ward 57 in K Abishekapuram zone last month. Only a week back the street was opened up. Around five new cases were reported in an adjacent street. Local spread, possibly from the containment zone, was suspected as the source. As residents are not disclosing their travel history properly, officials said they could not pinpoint the exact source of the spread. “None of the fresh positive cases in Vaathukara street have travel history outside the city. They claimed they spent most of their time indoors,” a civic body official said. Another containment zone was established 700m away in Small Sowrashtra street on Monday. The street has reported five fresh cases while officials are trying to ascertain travel history. In Ponmalai zone, police quarters in KK Nagar had two containment zones which were opened a couple of weeks back. Four fresh positive cases were reported from the adjacent block of the same police quarters on August 1. Cases recurring from the adjacent areas of the containment zones have prompted the officials to study whether people in containment zones are venturing out or vice-versa. “Sanitary officials were told to analyse the cause of new cases in the areas nearby containment zones,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-cases-appear-near-containment-zones-opened-up-recently-in-trichy/articleshow/77338501.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Timings, festival bring relief to restaurateurs||AHMEDABAD: Extension in operational hours up to 10pm with effect from August 1, coupled with the long weekend of Bakr Eid and Rakshabandhan improved customer footfall at city restaurants and eateries significantly. On Monday afternoon, several multi-cuisine restaurants, fine-dining establishments and those serving Gujarati thaali, had queues of people waiting outside, signalling a return to business for restaurateurs. “The walk-in number of customers improved since Saturday. We continue to operate at 50% of the existing capacity, but it seems people have finally begun stepping out and this is a positive sign. Over these three days, due to the long weekend, the footfall reached 50% of the pre-Covid times for the first time,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat. The long weekend on account of Eid al-Adha and Rakshabandhan provided a good jump-start to dine-in services. On account of Rakshabandhan, families met in big and small groups, and the takeaway business was also buoyant. “At our restaurants, dine-ins were limited. But after a long time, orders for takeaways and tiffins were in good numbers and this is a positive sign. We are still unsure about how the footfall will pan out in the days to come. Since it is festival time, people are bound to come out and eat, but let’s see whether the same momentum sustains on regular days,” said Dilip Thakkar, partner at a city-based restaurant. Meanwhile, restaurateurs expect that the timing restriction of 10pm imposed on eateries be removed. “We hope the government considers our request to extend timings till 11pm. The industry has been through a tough time and we need support from the government to recover our businesses,” said Rushad Jinwala, a city-based restaurateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/timings-festival-bring-relief-to-restaurateurs/articleshow/77338616.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Two more deaths, 56 positive in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: Yavatmal recorded two more deaths on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 37. Apart from the two deaths, 56 tested positive. A 65-year-old woman from Patipura and a 55-year-old man from Fulwadi area of Digras are the two deceased. Fortunately, 80 patients have recovered and discharged. There are 56 new positive patients, taking the total to 522. In the isolation ward, 130 persons have been admitted and 368 swabs were sent to the lab and the test reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-deaths-56-positive-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77358050.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||For the first time in living memory, Uttarakhand’s brutal stone-pelting festival shed less blood||Pithoragarh: Last year, more than 120 people were injured in the brutal stone-pelting festival that marks Raksha Bandhan in the hill town of Devidhura. The year before that, the number was 60. This year, for the first time in living memory, the violent tradition was disrupted. The festival of Bagwal, with its ritual stone-pelting, is a centuries-old one. On Monday, for four minutes, the four clans of Walik, Chamyal, Lamgaria and Gaherwal — 11 people each — descended on the grounds before the temple of the goddess Barahi Devi for the ritual. The Waliks wear white turbans, the Chamyals pink, the Lamgaria yellow and the Gaherwals orange. “It was a symbolic celebration,” Laxman Singh Lagria, patron of the temple committee, told TOI. The stone-pelting, however, was not forgone. The Covid-19 pandemic meant large gatherings like the Bagwal fair could not be allowed. Yet, the “symbolic” celebration ended up injuring two people. In 2013, the Uttarakhand high court had ordered that the tradition remain in place, but with fruits and flowers pelted instead of stones. The order was never followed by locals, who placed faith before what the law had spelt out. It would protect them, the community believed, from calamity and disease. The myth of the festival’s origin is a bloody one. Demons, the tale goes. had taken over the peaceful hamlet of Devidhura. The four clans came together and prayed to the goddess to come to their rescue. It would be done, she said, but at the cost of a human life every year. But one year, the community was down to its last young man who could be sacrificed. His mother prayed for mercy. The goddess offered a choice — the four clans could throw stones at one another until enough blood had been spilled for one human sacrifice. And so, with shields and stones every year, Devidhura descends into a Dionysiac frenzy to mark Raksha Bandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-the-first-time-in-living-memory-uttarakhands-brutal-stone-pelting-festival-shed-less-blood/articleshow/77336999.cms||Prem Punetha
August 4, 2020||Pune||Markets in KCB to be open 4 days a week||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board has decided to keep the markets open for four days from Thursday till Sunday every week. The markets will remain shut from Monday till Wednesday. The board had recently experimented with keeping shops in the bazaar area open from Friday till Sunday. Pramod Kumar Singh, KCB chief executive officer, said, “The objective is to break the pattern of people visiting shops in the market and prevent crowding that would otherwise take place if shops are allowed to function throughout the week.” The KCB has recorded 640 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak and 452 of these have been discharged post-recovery, while 22 have succumbed to the virus. There are 166 active cases. Singh said, “The Khadki market is known for garments and meat. We witnessed crowds even when shops were opened on alternate days. Since the bazaar area alone has about 100 active cases, crowd control is necessary.” Medical stores, milk booths, petrol pumps, ATMs and banks will remain open from Monday till Wednesday, he said. Meanwhile, Singh said, “Two elected board members of the cantonment have tested positive and their condition is serious. Their oxygen saturation level is low, and they are being treated at a private hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/markets-in-kcb-to-be-open-4-days-a-week/articleshow/77339528.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Stress management training for cops||TRICHY: The city police launched a stress management programme for police personnel in the line of duty during the Covid-19 pandemic, at the National College on Monday. “Getting infected by the virus may cause them stress. Besides helping the police to overcome stress, the programme will also speak about the way police should work during the pandemic,” city police commissioner J Loganathan told TOI. The state-wide programme will be held from 9am to 5pm and the subjects will be covered in one day. Though the Tamil Nadu police has scheduled to complete the programme in 30 days, the city police have planned to complete it in 17 days at four venues. Each venue will have 30 participants. The commissioner said that 1,983 police personnel from constables to deputy commissioners will benefit from the programme. Police personnel from Cantonment police will attend the programme at National College, Golden rock police and Tamil Nadu special police battalion will attend at SIT College, Fort police and traffic police at Rock Fort view hotel and Srirangam police and special units at Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stress-management-training-for-cops/articleshow/77338478.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Trichy||2 idols stolen from Dindigul temple recovered, 3 arrested||Thanjavur: Police arrested three people on Sunday after seizing two stolen metal idols of Durgai Amman and Hanuman from a house near Pattukotai in Thanjavur district. The one-foot Amman idol and three-quarter-foot tall Hanuman idol weighing 4kg and 2.5kg have been handed over to the revenue officials to find out the age and the metal used for their make. Police identified the accused as R Saravanan, 36, K Pranmalai, 36, of Pukarambai village near Pattukottai and A Raja, 34, of Kulithalai in Karur district. All the three have been remanded in judicial custody and sent to Kumbakonam prison. Raja had stolen the two idols from a temple in Dindigul district sometimes ago. He tried to sell the idols in Trichy several times in vain. Raja was a labourer employed to cut trees that fell during cyclone Gaja in the area. Using his contacts there, he arrived at Pattukottai to sell the idols. He met Saravanan at Pukarambai and both planned to sell the idols. Through Saravanan, the duo approached Pranmalai and handed over the idols to him. On a tip-off from a resident of Pukarambi village who came to know about their plan, a police team headed by P Thennarasu raided Pranmalai’s house nd recovered the idols. “The idols seem to be panchaloha. However, experts have to confirm it. Further inquiries are on,” sub-inspector Thennarasu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-idols-stolen-from-dindigul-temple-recovered-3-arrested/articleshow/77338514.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Silver bricks to adorn Ram Temple||AHMEDABAD: The Jain community of Gujarat has contributed 24kg silver bricks for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Jain acharyas presented silver bricks to representatives of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) in Ahmedabad on Sunday. The event was attended by 92-year-old Tapagacchadhipati Acharya Shree Manohar Kirti Sagar Maharaj, Acharya Uday Kirti Surishwarji Maharaj and Acharya Padma Sagar Suryaeshwar M.S.A. The silver bricks can be used for laying the foundation of the temple or any other suitable area of the temple, said a Jain Acharya from Ahmedabad. The community members will chant Navakar Mantra, regarded as the most significant mantra of Jainism, for an hour every day till the construction work is over. Ayodhya has been home to five Jain Tirthankars including Rishabhdeo, the first Tirthankar and Ajitnath, the second Tirthankar, among others. The community was earlier planning to give 11 silver bricks weighing 1kg each for the Ram temple. “We decided to give 24 bricks of 1kg each as a token of gift in the memory of the 24 Jain Tirthankars,” said the Acharya. On August 5, the entire community will chant mantras and light diyas in their homes as an expression of their happiness. Ashwin Patel of VHP who received the silver on behalf of the Ram temple said, “Jains follows Hindu customs and they are also very excited about the construction of the new temple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/silver-bricks-to-adorn-ram-temple/articleshow/77338593.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Vulnerable people in apartments being tested||TRICHY: With apartments and gated communities in Trichy reporting more than four-fold surge in Covid-19 cases, the corporation has decided to extend RT-PCR testing to vulnerable occupants. Those aged above 60 years and those with comorbid conditions are being tested. So far, only family contacts were tested. In the past one week, about 45 cases at an average of seven per day have been reported in such apartments in all the four zones. A containment zone was recently established in an apartment on Pattabiraman street after a family tested positive. While majority of apartments have preventive measures in place, fresh cases surface due to movement of residents for work and buying essentials. “We are screening and sanitizing all the vendors and maids entering the compound. But, we cannot stop residents from contracting the infection at their work locations,” secretary of an apartment in Pattabiraman street, K Nanmaran, said. Among the zones, Srirangam has the maximum number of apartments with positive cases followed by K Abishekapuram. Ariyamangalam remains the least affected. “Sanitary officials were instructed to trace and screen vulnerable residents in apartments that report positive cases. Preventing casualties is our priority,” corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vulnerable-people-in-apts-being-tested/articleshow/77338507.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||State inks MoUs for women empowerment||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday signed three MoUs with international companies for women empowerment through YSR Cheyutha, YSR Asara and other schemes. After the recent tie-up with Amul in the dairy sector, the state has roped in Hindustan Unilever, Procter & Gamble and ITC to help women become self-reliant. The chief minister, while addressing officials, women and representatives of the companies, said women empowerment and their self-reliance were vital for strengthening the rural economy. The government will launch YSR Cheyutha on August 12 under which SC, ST, BC and minority women in the age group of 45 to 60 years will be given a financial assistance of Rs 75,000 in four years. The scheme will cost the government Rs 4,500 crore. Under YSR Asara, to be launched in September, 90 lakh women of self-help groups are set to benefit. Eligible women can avail both the schemes, he said. While Rs 6,700 crore would be distributed under Asara, the two schemes together will cost the government Rs 11,000 crore per year. Speaking on the occasion, Sanjeev Mehta, managing director, HUL, said he agreed with the chief minister that economic empowerment of women leads to family welfare. He said the company has vast experience in manufacturing and marketing of consumer goods. HUL has been running a programme called Shakti for women empowerment in Chittoor district. “We are happy to work with Andhra Pradesh government and appreciate the welfare schemes being implemented like Amma Vodi,” he said. ITC CMD, Sanjeev Puri, said within a year, the chief minister has brought in revolutionary reforms in economic and social sectors with a focus on women self-reliance. “Agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors are our areas of interests and we are into agriculture and hospitality sectors,” he said. Proctor & Gamble CEO Madhusudhan Gopalan said they have been helping about 20 lakh students and were happy to be part of the YSR Cheyutha, which would generate employment opportunities. Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) CEO, Raja Babu signed the MoUs on behalf of the government, while Joseph Varkey on behalf of Proctor and Gamble, Rajnikant Rai for ITC and Ramaskrishna Reddy for HUL signed the MoUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-inks-mous-for-women-empowerment/articleshow/77335963.cms||Gopi Dara
August 4, 2020||Pune||PMPML employee says social ostracization worse than Covid-19||PUNE: Nuruddin Badruddin Inamdar, a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) employee, saw his closest friends turn into strangers after he tested Covid-19 positive in May. A helper with the city transport body, the 49-year-old has now resumed duty. He stated that if it were not for the insults and ostracization, coronavirus patients would recover quickly and in a positive frame of mind. “It was the month of Ramzan and one day, my teenaged son said he might have been infected as his friend’s father had tested positive. I wasted no time and got my wife, daughter, son and myself tested. My wife and daughter tested negative but my son and I tested positive and we were quarantined at a hostel for 10 days. I came to know that all our friends and neighbours had stopped speaking with us,” said Inamdar, who lives in PMT Colony at Ghorpade Peth. During the quarantine, Inamdar interacted with others at the facility and made friends. “For the next ten days, they became my family. We exchanged information and notes to boost our immunity. Many of them told me stories about how they or their families were being treated like outcasts. After my quarantine period ended on May 25 and I tested negative, I was advised home quarantine. There were many instances during my home quarantine when people would change their path seeing me or not speak to me. These people were my best friends,” he added. Inamdar joined work on June 9 but could not meet senior officials as their offices were out of bound. “Some officials were really good and they welcomed me,” Inamdar said. He said the neighbours still have lingering doubts about interacting with him. “Some people still don’t want to interact with us. Such contempt breaks my confidence. I believe that those infected will be cured faster if they are shown compassion, warmth and trust,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-employee-says-social-ostracization-worse-than-ncov/articleshow/77339549.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||57 IFS and 2 IPS officers transferred||JAIPUR: In a bureaucratic shuffle, 57 Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers were transferred on Sunday late night. The coveted post of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Jaipur was given to Shurti Sharma. Tikam Chandra Verma was appointed as field director Ranthambore tiger project, Sawai Madhopur replacing Manoj Parashar. Parashar has been transferred to chief conservator of forests, Bharatpur. TJ Kavitha, 2000 batch, who was posted as Resident Commissioner, New Delhi, has been transferred to additional project director (administration) at Rajasthan Forestry and Biodiversity Project. Deputy conservator of forest (DFO), wildlife (Kota) Bijo Joy has now been transferred to Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR). Mahendra Kumar Sharma has replaced Mukesh Saini as DFO, Ranthambore Tiger Reserve.  Meanwhile, the state government on Monday effected two transfers of IPS officers at the lower order. Shailendra Singh Indolia, assistant police superintendent, Thanagazi Alwar has been transferred to Churu Circle in Churu district while Vanidita Rana, assistant Police superintendent Sikar has been transferred in the same capacity to Deoli Circle Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/57-ifs-and-2-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/77339516.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||28 test positive in Chanda||Chandrapur: The district registered a rise in the form of 28 Covid-19 positive patients on Tuesday, taking the total to 625. Chandrapur also crossed the mark of 600 patients, with the last 100 in just four days. A total of 24 patients were discharged during the day taking the tally of cured patients to 396. This has left 227 active patients who are under treatment. District has registered two deaths so far. Chandrapur has witnessed the steep rise of over 500 patients during the last 33 days. The spurt of infection had baffled the administration forcing it to go for lockdown in Chandrapur city and surrounding hotspots to contain the spread. The district administration also increased the Covid tests manifold and had launched massive antigen testing of suspected people to identify the patients. The first coronavirus patient was found in Chandrapur on May 2 and it took 61 days to reach the mark of 100 (July 2) in the district. The 200 patient mark came within 12 days on July 14. The 300 and 400 mark came in six days, on July 20 and July 26 respectively. The next 100 patients came in the next five days on July 31 taking the district figure above the 500 mark. However, the last 100 came in a record four days, taking the total tally to over 600. New patients on Tuesday include 12 from Chandrapur city, five from Ballarpur town, three each from Bramhapuri and Bhadrawati tehsils, two each from Sindewahi and Rajura tehsils and one from Mul town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/28-test-positive-in-chanda/articleshow/77358066.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 4, 2020||Business||Data show that most Pune companies were net hirers in FY20||PUNE: Data from top listed and non-listed firms from Pune show that most of these companies were net hirers in FY20. Of the 20-top firms, 14 were net hirers, while six shed jobs. For most companies, the data is taken till March 2020. However, where available, the data has been taken till July 2020. Among the top hirers were leading financial entities like Bajaj Finance, which added over 6,800 employees in FY20. New age IT firms and unicorns of Pune have also been on a hiring spree. Contract management software unicorn of Pune, Icertis, hired over 300 employees in the first six months of 2020 and might add another "200 new jobs by 2020-end". Persistent Systems, the most-valued listed IT firm headquarted in Pune, added about 650 new jobs in FY20. Zensar Technologies, on the other hand, shed over 1,100 jobs, according to its annual report. Other firms that shed jobs include Thermax Ltd (509), Bank of Maharashtra (381) and Cummins India (285). For manufacturing firms, the analysis mostly includes only the permanent jobs. Automaker Bajaj Auto’s annual filing showed that it added close to 200 jobs in the financial year before the pandemic became a full-blown crisis. According to HR executives, the nature of jobs is changing. In a recent skill expectation interaction organised by the MCCIA’s web meeting, an HR executive said, "People must now move towards income security compared to job security. Those days of finding permanent jobs are over". According to another HR representative, people might now end-up working for more than one employer. "The Covid-19 pandemic might drastically alter hiring patterns. It can also be that existing workforce might be forced to work for shorter durations in a year," he said. However, according to labour experts, a two-way contract makes employees very vulnerable. "Short-term contracts or fixed-term employment might be here to stay for a while. However, employees must not receive a short-end of the stick. There should be reasonable payouts in case of retrenchments. Only a national law adopted by states and strict implementation can help that cause," said a labour leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/data-show-that-most-pune-cos-were-net-hirers-in-fy20/articleshow/77339525.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Lover, two others kill girl’s uncle||JAIPUR: Three persons were arrested in Sriganganagar’s Rajiyasar police station area after they killed the uncle of the girl with whom one of the accused was having a relationship. The girl’s family followed the persons after they thought she had eloped with them but were beaten up instead. The accused were identified as Naresh Dhaka, Sonu Bhambhu and Vijay Kuleria, all in their final years of graduation, while the victim was identified as Madan Lal (43). The girl’s family had an altercation with the girl’s friends following which the accused beat him up. The initial cause of death appears to be fatal wounds. The matter is under probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lover-two-others-kill-girls-uncle/articleshow/77339532.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||Misleading picture being created about 'unreported deaths’ in July: Pune collector||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Monday said a misleading picture was being created about ‘suspected Covid-19 deaths in July going unreported’ at the Sassoon and other hospitals in Pune. “A detailed ongoing inquiry (by the dean of the Sassoon hospital) will bring out a clearer picture. But there is nothing, which the authorities have to hide,” he said, while rolling out corresponding figures of deaths by natural and unnatural causes in July 2019 and 2020 at the Sassoon hospital. “In July 2019, a total of 331 deaths by natural causes were reported at Sassoon as against 387 deaths by similar causes in July this year. Similarly, 216 deaths by unnatural causes were reported in July last year as against the 144 this July. The number of brought death cases at 17 this July is half the 35 such cases recorded in July last year,” Ram said. He said even the number of medico-legal cases were more or less same as 582 such cases were reported in July last year as against 548 this July. “The inquiry will clear the air,” the collector said. During CM Uddhav Thackeray’s recent visit to Pune, Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, who represents the BJP, had claimed more than 400 suspected Covid-19 deaths in Sassoon and other hospitals in Pune had gone unreported and the city’s case fatality ratio of around 2.4% was not a true reflection of the situation on ground. Mohol’s claim found traction in a section of media and led to further speculation, prompting the authorities to go for an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/misleading-picture-being-created-about-unreported-deaths-in-july-collector/articleshow/77339554.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rs 103 crore tender boost for New Garia Metro||KOLKATA: A tender worth Rs 103.1 crore was floated for New Garia Metro car depot so that some crucial work can run parallel at the depot land. Completion of the depot is key to the truncated New Garia-Ruby Park (Hemanta Mukherjee) Metro service that’s scheduled to start in early 2022. But, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the executing agency of this project, is worried over the delay in construction of New Garia station as a small patch of land could not be acquired. Moreover, eight piers — from 12 to 19 — could not be built because of land issues. Though the construction of the depot just beside the current North-South (Noapara-New Garia) Metro depot on railway land is on in full swing, the tender was sought to complete a series of works, including water supply, drainage and sewage, road, tracks, power supply, general electrical works, supply and installation and commission of machinery and plants for setting up of the car depot. Once ready, it will be one of the biggest integrated Metro car depots in the city to serve the North-South and New Garia-Airport alignments. The depot will also facilitate the movement of cars from North-South alignment to New Garia-Airport alignment. The depot is very crucial for integrating the country’s oldest Metro corridor with New Garia-Airport line, said an RVNL official. However, the worry is over the completion of the second New Garia (Kavi Subhash) Metro Station which will again be integrated with the old New Garia station and there will be an easy passenger interface from North-South to New Garia-Airport. The new station will have parking space below it, ground level passenger ticket collection system, elevated platform for New Garia Airport line and another storey for the proposed New Garia-Baruipur section. The feasibility study of the line is done, but it’s yet to get a stamp of approval from Railway Board. With the construction of this Metro car yard, New Garia emerges as a major railway hub as suburban Sealda-Namkhana line also merges here. “Because of passengers of three busy lines, we are working on an efficient passenger dispersal system,” said a senior state official. More than 85% of civil engineering work for the main station building is over. Metro Railway hopes to make the station for the airport line operational by December 2020, using the existing maintenance shed for Kavi Subhash-Dum Dum corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-103cr-tender-boost-for-new-garia-metro/articleshow/77338604.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Girls college ahead in switching to online||TRICHY: While most colleges in the city began conducting online classes for students on Monday after receiving a directive from the state higher education department, the Cauvery College of Women has been conducting online classes for its students over a month. Many teachers in the college have completed the first unit of the curriculum through online classes for second and third year students. Right after the lockdown was imposed in March, the college started training teachers to conduct online classes. More than 200 teachers of the college learnt the nitty-gritty of online classes after two weeks of training. In the process, the teachers ended up creating 200 hours of audio visual educational videos and uploaded the same on YouTube. The teachers started conducing online classes from June 15. “While most teachers in the college have been trained in creating e-content through various aptitude development programmes, we wanted them to get used to online classes as we realised that online classes will be the norm, at least for this academic year,” said principal V Sujatha. “Classes are conducted for two hours each in the morning and evening,” said V Ramya, assistant professor, food service management and dietetics department. “We tried to be accommodative by conducting the classes at timings when most of the students would able to attend,” she added. Sujatha confessed that almost one-third of the students were unable to attend the classes. Over 500 students in the college do not have mobile phones while some others have internet connectivity issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girls-college-ahead-in-switching-to-online/articleshow/77338525.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 4, 2020||Trichy||AUT opposes National Education Policy in present form||TRICHY: Expressing disappointment over ignoring various representation on the negative impact of National Education Policy (NEP) draft, which includes abolition of university system and privatisation of higher education, the Association of University Teachers (AUT) has opposed NEP. “AUT has decided to hold a series of deliberation in the next few days in the interest of students and teachers,” said M S Bala Murugan, AUT general secretary, after an online meeting of the AUT central executive on Monday. The meeting observed that the policy document has no significant changes made from the NEP draft released earlier by the union government seeking suggestions. AUT had opposed the draft saying that it is aggressively marching in the direction of privatisation and commercialisation than the previous drafts. AUT had opposed the concept of cluster colleges by abolishing universities. Further, it also observed that the move to inviting private funding by encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in higher education will demolish the public funded education system. It also condemned the act of releasing NEP in the midst of a pandemic. Stressing on the demand for introduction of single window system for admission to arts and science colleges, Bala Murugan raised concern over not issuing admission guidelines by the higher education department as it will encourage self-financing colleges to fleece students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aut-opposes-national-edu-policy-in-present-form/articleshow/77338520.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Equip army with digital arsenal due to geo-politics shift’||JODHPUR: On the occasion of its 13th foundation day of IIT-Jodhpur, chairman of the 15th Finance Commission has called upon the need for modernisation of the forces by equipping them with digital technologies in view of the shifting geo-politics. N K Singh said that organisations such as the DRDO and CSIR have already been working for modernisation of the defence forces, but now private institutions should also come forward. He also stressed on bringing technological revolution in the agriculture sector and said there was a pressing need in the sector to bring in digital agro revolution. Meanwhile, the premier technology institution, taking a big stride towards its commitment to emerge a hub in the field of research and studies in artificial intelligence in the country, announced o launch two schools, one each in AI and data science. These schools will be further ameliorated by establishment of centres of excellence in AI, data science, machine learning and internet of things to promote research in these fields, which according to the tech experts are the fields of future. Director of the IIT-Jodhpur Santanu Chaudhury said the institute has been consistently taking strides towards exploring and establishing itself as a hub of AI education in the country. The institution has also decided to introduce 3 other UG courses from this session namely civil and infrastructure engineering, chemical engineering and material engineering. All these new UG courses will come as addition to existing 4 UG courses, electrical engineering, bio-engineering, mechanical engineering and computer science, which the institution has been offering since its inception in 2008. IIT-Jodhpur has also been rolling out courses combining diverse streams in its pursuit to prepare the leaders for Industry 4.0 amalgamating management and technology through a tech MBA and medical and technology through a PG course in medical technology in association with the IIMS Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/equip-army-with-digital-arsenal-due-to-geo-politics-shift/articleshow/77339552.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Firm dealing with Haridwar’s waste threatens to terminate its contract with HMC, residents worried||Haridwar: KRL Waste Management, the company entrusted with collecting the garbage generated under the jurisdiction of Haridwar Municipal Corporation (HMC), has threatened to terminate its agreement with the civic body, citing unpaid dues worth Rs 44 crore. The news has caused concern among residents, as waste collection is now more important than ever, because of the double threat of dengue and Covid-19. In its preliminary notice served to HMC on June 18, KRL said that its tipping fees should have been revised as per the Municipal Act, 2016. According to Sukhvir Singh, the director of KRL, the change in scope of waste management should also be taken into account (the area of work under HMC was increased from 12.17 sq km to 25 sq km around four years ago). “The only reason we haven’t issued a termination notice yet is the larger public interest,” said Singh.N K Garg, a local reisdent and a college professor, said, “The municipal corporation should understand the difficulty residents will face in case the firm suspends its door-to-door garbage collection. It should do everything in its power to resolve the issue with the company.” Assistant municipal commissioner Vinod Kumar dismissed KRL’s allegations. “KRL was awarded the responsibility of collecting waste under HMC through an open tender in 2012. It had then quoted rates for 15 years, which are good till 2027. They don’t have the right to claim a revision in tipping fees based on the Municipal Act, 2016,” Kumar said, adding that “it will in fact be a misappropriation of funds if its rates are revised.” However, the waste management company says it is forced to handle hazardous waste, including silt, sewage from drains etc which do not fall under its contract with HMC. Besides, handling of unmarked biomedical waste in the times of Covid-19 puts sanitation workers at the risk of contracting the disease, a company official said. A penalty had been imposed on KRL earlier this year for not disposing of the minimum requisite amount of garbage. It was withdrawn when KRL explained that its workforce had reduced due to the pandemic situation. While admitting that KRL worked at one of the lowest rates for a waste management company and that the HMC might have to pay a new company more, Kumar said, “If KRL chooses to terminate its contract, we will issue a fresh tender and award the responsibility to another company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/firm-dealing-with-haridwars-waste-threatens-to-terminate-its-contract-with-hmc-residents-worried/articleshow/77337048.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||AP govt plans to create drug vigilance wing||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to weed out counterfeit drugs from the markets. He conducted a review meeting with officials from the drug control department on Monday. The officials explained to the chief minister that there are nearly 34,000 retail drug stores and 285 bulk drug manufacturing units in Andhra Pradesh. They brought the issue of the limited capacity of the existing laboratories and proposed increasing the sample testing capacity from 2,000 to 13,000 per year. The chief minister gave his approval to increase the capacity in the existing lab in Vijayawada as well as the labs under construction in Kurnool and Visakhapatnam. Jaganmohan Reddy asked the officials to conduct third-party verification at the stores and establish a robust grievance mechanism to receive complaints from the consumers. The meeting also decided to constitute ‘drug control vigilance and intelligence’ wing to combat counterfeit drugs. He gave his nod to recruit more staff for the main offices as well as the district-level offices. The chief minister directed them to prepare a complete roadmap for implementation of all proposals in the next one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plans-to-create-drug-vigilance-wing/articleshow/77335988.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Amaravati||Faculty crunch continues to plague AP universities||AMARAVATI: Faculty crunch at many universities in the state continues to remain a concern with successive governments failing to fill up vacancies. The new central university in Anantapuram, set up in 2015, has been functioning at 35% of its sanctioned faculty strength, while Sri Krishnadevaraya University and JNTU (Anantapuram) have 63% and 46% vacancies, respectively. These are not isolated cases. The All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) report, 2019 had indicated faculty shortage in central and state universities. The issue assumes significance with the Centre’s focus on modernisation and strengthening of the higher education system under the new National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. “The total vacancies in new central universities are nearly 51% while the older universities are better off with 39% vacancies. These universities manage to barely do just about enough in terms of teaching by using large armies of ad hoc or part-time faculty,” observed Praja Science Vedika president, Dr Suresh Babu. While universities in the state began the process of recruiting new faculty two years ago, the matter has been in litigation since, hitting the quality of higher education. A result of this has been resorting to part-time faculty, more so with universities lacking adequate funds to hire full-time faculty. Ad hoc faculty allows the institution to continue offering courses and programmes of its choice but it is well-established that institutions with relatively higher numbers of such faculty do a less-than-satisfactory job in classroom instruction, said retired professor Dr DAR Subramanyam. “We can’t expect the universities to produce good quality stuff as long as we do not invest big in them,” said Dr Subramanyam, former EC member of Acharya Nagarjuna University. With the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) expected to increase from 30% in 2020 to 50% in 2035, colleges and universities in the future will feel the need for quality instructors more than ever before. “It is high time that governments focus on filling up vacancies in the universities,” said Dr Suresh Babu, pointing out that the absence of full-time faculty in government universities has led to private colleges and universities stepping in to fill the role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/faculty-crunch-continues-to-plague-state-universities/articleshow/77335977.cms||Samdani MN
August 4, 2020||Pune||Firm that built 1,000-bed Delhi unit to raise Pune facility||PUNE: A New Delhi-based company, which collaborated with the Defence Research and Development Organisation in setting up a 1,000-bed Covid-19 facility in Delhi, will build Pune’s 800-bed air-conditioned jumbo unit. Work on the facility started on Monday at the ground of the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP). “The other 800-bed jumbo facility in Pimpri Chinchwad, at the Annasaheb Magar stadium, is being set up by a firm that established a similar facility for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in Mumbai,” divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao informed an online news conference. Both facilities will be completed by August 19, Rao said. “The [Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad] municipal corporations started the water, drainage, peripheral roads and express feeder work today. The actual structural work will commence on Tuesday,” Rao said. He said the construction agency will be responsible for the basic infrastructure and non-medical human resources. When the structure takes shape by August 10 or 12, a medical team will come in to coordinate on whatever else will be needed and also recruit 280 personnel, including doctors and super-specialists, Rao said. The divisional commissioner said there was no let up on adding beds at Sassoon General and Aundh Chest hospitals and bringing in more private hospitals, which “are now our biggest support system”. He said private hospitals have certain problems that are being sorted out on a case per case basis — construction issues, inflow of non-Covid patients, accommodation of their own staff under quarantine, etc. “Private hospitals have two prime concerns — specialist medico manpower, for which a task force comprising IMA representatives and registered medical practitioners has been set up, and availability of Class IV staff, for which certain private agencies have been empanelled,” Rao said. So far, Sassoon hospital has received over Rs60 crore from the state to convert its new building into a dedicated Covid-19 care facility, hire experts and specialists and other work, he said. “The focus ahead would remain on super-spreaders, comorbidity screening and stabilizing centralized bed allocation system,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firm-that-built-1k-bed-delhi-unit-to-raise-pune-facility/articleshow/77339561.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 4, 2020||Pune||Naval Kishore Ram vows strict action for negligence||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Monday said a sub-divisional magistrate was expected to file by Monday evening a detailed inquiry report relating to the body of a woman lying in an ambulance cold storage for two days for want of her Covid-19 test report at a private hospital in Shikrapur. “We will take stern action in case of any negligence,” he said, while pointing out that the patient was from Osmanabad and had died within an hour of being referred to the hospital. The medical authorities had no idea whether the patient was positive or negative and, hence, advised the body to be kept in cold storage. “The patient was kept in the ambulance cold storage as per the protocol,” Ram said. On reports that the patient’s kin were charged exorbitantly for the ambulance service, he said the inquiry will cover all these aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-shikrapur-incident/articleshow/77339558.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Draft EIA 2020 encourages environmental violations, warn experts||Mangaluru: The draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, currently open for public comments and set to replace the 2006 version, has come under heavy fire from the environmentalists. The EIA notification governs the environment clearance process for industrial and infrastructural projects. Amruta Pradhan, environmentalist and PhD scholar at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru in collaboration with South Asia Network on Dams Rivers and People (SANDRP), has studied the new draft EIA in connection with hydro projects and how the government is pushing such projects to ensure a smoother path for industries in securing environment clearances. “The new draft EIA is a threat to environmental justice,” Amruta told TOI. Up to 25 MW hydro-power projects will be exempted from EIA. Thus, even if the projects have any serious local level implications, they will not be scrutinised. Under the present system (EIA notification 2006), any project up to 25 MW hydro-power project or up to 10,000ha irrigation project if found to be environmentally harmful as per the local site conditions, the State Expert Appraisal Committee can categorise it as B1 project requiring EIA. The projects would then be appraised at the state government level. Also, if the project fulfilled general condition that it is proposed in close proximity of or if located in whole or in part within 10 km from the boundary of protected areas, critically polluted areas, eco-sensitive areas, inter-state and international boundaries then it was automatically categorised into Category A project to be appraised at the central government level. “Under the proposed draft, the general condition does not apply to the B2 category projects. Thus many hydro-power projects, up to 25 MW, can come up within 10 km of the sensitive areas. The cumulative footprint will be much larger and there are chances of the projects being split on paper into multiples of 25MW installed capacity. Further, thresholds for categorisation can be changed by the technical committee appointed by the MOEFCC. Projects under category B are further categorised as B1 and B2. Thus it may happen that projects with much greater capacity or command area will be pushed under category B2 and can thus threaten the ecologically important pockets. Once the clearance is granted, it is for a lifetime and there is no review,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/draft-eia-2020-encourages-environmental-violations-warn-experts/articleshow/77330476.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dissecting Covid’s impact on victims’ internal organs||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Gujarat recorded its 2,509th death due to Covid-19. Of the total, 64% of deaths were from Ahmedabad district, followed by 18% in Surat and 3% in Vadodara. Ahmedabad in May had one of the highest mortality rates of all Indian districts. What was the reason behind this? While experts pointed to factors such as inflammation of the body’s immune system, the presence of co-morbidities, the ages of patients and even the virus strains dominant in the area, the infection is still relatively new and it requires more study to understand its behaviour in human body, says Dr D N Lanjewar, professor and head of the pathology department at Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhuj. Dr Lanjewar was one of the speakers at a webinar on ‘Clinicopathological Aspects of Covid-19’ organized by IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) recently. He presented his analysis of the 22 international studies on autopsies carried out on Covid-19 patients by experts in Germany, USA, Italy, China, Switzerland, Austria and the UK and published in journals. “The studies point out how different internal organs are affected by the viral infection. It affects almost all organs,” he said. The studies found the most severe damage was to the lungs and the blood stream whereas other organs affected included the kidney, liver, brain and heart. In the Indian context, he said, there were two postmortem biopsies at PGI, Chandigarh whereas at KEM Mumbai, a complete postmortem was carried out. “Lung, liver and kidney damage were reported in the Chandigarh cases including diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) and acute tubular necrosis (ATN) in the kidneys. The Mumbai case also showed signs of DAD,” he said. Dr Lanjewar stressed on creating infrastructure for autopsies of Covid-19 victims including negative pressure chambers, high-grade PPEs, specialized instruments and functional HEPA re-circulation units. “India has 529 medical colleges including 13 AIIMS and 258 government colleges. There should be more autopsies on Covid-19 patients to understand the infection better in the Indian context and find a cure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dissecting-covids-impact-on-victims-internal-organs/articleshow/77338627.cms||Parth Shastri
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ruby flyover worry for truncated run||KOLKATA: Just when things were looking up for the 5km Kavi Subhash-Ruby section of the Airport-New Garia Metro corridor, the alignment for the proposed Ruby flyover has come in its way. KMDA wants to build a north-south flyover at the Ruby crossing, starting at Kalikapur (near Metro Cash and Carry) and ending at VIP Bazar. An arm of the flyover turns right from the Abhishikta crossing at Anwar Shah Road connector towards Jadavpur phanri. Consultant RITES has just submitted the feasibility study and draft DPR of the flyover that would ease traffic load at this important crossing on EM Bypass. According to the draft DPR, the flyover’s alignment overlaps with pier 112 of the Airport-New Garia Metro corridor at the Kavi Sukanta station and also the location where a foot overbridge (FOB) is supposed to come up for the Hemant Mukherjee station at the Ruby crossing. “The pier must be demolished and the FOB repositioned,” a KMDA engineer said. But the Metro alignment is sacrosanct and the viaduct has long been built on the pier in question, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the agency implementing the project, has told KMDA. Since it’s not possible to demolish pier 112 near Abhishikta crossing, RVNL has offered to do away with a smaller pier below the Kavi Sukanta station and reduce the station’s length by 30m. “This way the existing alignment will not have to be tweaked and the viaduct’s alignment and strength will not be compromised with. Our suggestion has been approved by RITES, but KMDA is still undecided,” an RVNL official told TOI. KMDA, on the other hand, has referred the matter to its infrastructure advisory committee before taking a final call. And that’s certainly not good news for RVNL, which has been trying to expedite construction of Phase I or the 5km stretch between the terminal Kavi Subhas station and the Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) with a commissioning deadline of early 2022. Track-laying for Phase I has already started. RVNL officials felt the imbroglio would cast shadow on the commissioning of this priority section of the 32km Airport-New Garia project, which was launched in 2012 and is saddled with multiple land logjams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ruby-flyover-worry-for-truncated-run/articleshow/77338643.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 4, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Dissecting Covid’s impact on victims’ internal organs||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Gujarat recorded its 2,509th death due to Covid-19. Of the total, 64% of deaths were from Ahmedabad district, followed by 18% in Surat and 3% in Vadodara. Ahmedabad in May had one of the highest mortality rates of all Indian districts. What was the reason behind this? While experts pointed to factors such as inflammation of the body’s immune system, the presence of co-morbidities, the ages of patients and even the virus strains dominant in the area, the infection is still relatively new and it requires more study to understand its behaviour in human body, says Dr D N Lanjewar, professor and head of the pathology department at Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhuj. Dr Lanjewar was one of the speakers at a webinar on ‘Clinicopathological Aspects of Covid-19’ organized by IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) recently. He presented his analysis of the 22 international studies on autopsies carried out on Covid-19 patients by experts in Germany, USA, Italy, China, Switzerland, Austria and the UK and published in journals. “The studies point out how different internal organs are affected by the viral infection. It affects almost all organs,” he said. The studies found the most severe damage was to the lungs and the blood stream whereas other organs affected included the kidney, liver, brain and heart. In the Indian context, he said, there were two postmortem biopsies at PGI, Chandigarh whereas at KEM Mumbai, a complete postmortem was carried out. “Lung, liver and kidney damage were reported in the Chandigarh cases including diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) and acute tubular necrosis (ATN) in the kidneys. The Mumbai case also showed signs of DAD,” he said. Dr Lanjewar stressed on creating infrastructure for autopsies of Covid-19 victims including negative pressure chambers, high-grade PPEs, specialized instruments and functional HEPA re-circulation units. “India has 529 medical colleges including 13 AIIMS and 258 government colleges. There should be more autopsies on Covid-19 patients to understand the infection better in the Indian context and find a cure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dissecting-covids-impact-on-victims-internal-organs/articleshow/77343731.cms||Parth Shastri
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Dissecting Covid’s impact on victims’ internal organs||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Gujarat recorded its 2,509th death due to Covid-19. Of the total, 64% of deaths were from Ahmedabad district, followed by 18% in Surat and 3% in Vadodara. Ahmedabad in May had one of the highest mortality rates of all Indian districts. What was the reason behind this? While experts pointed to factors such as inflammation of the body’s immune system, the presence of co-morbidities, the ages of patients and even the virus strains dominant in the area, the infection is still relatively new and it requires more study to understand its behaviour in human body, says Dr D N Lanjewar, professor and head of the pathology department at Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhuj. Dr Lanjewar was one of the speakers at a webinar on ‘Clinicopathological Aspects of Covid-19’ organized by IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) recently. He presented his analysis of the 22 international studies on autopsies carried out on Covid-19 patients by experts in Germany, USA, Italy, China, Switzerland, Austria and the UK and published in journals. “The studies point out how different internal organs are affected by the viral infection. It affects almost all organs,” he said. The studies found the most severe damage was to the lungs and the blood stream whereas other organs affected included the kidney, liver, brain and heart. In the Indian context, he said, there were two postmortem biopsies at PGI, Chandigarh whereas at KEM Mumbai, a complete postmortem was carried out. “Lung, liver and kidney damage were reported in the Chandigarh cases including diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) and acute tubular necrosis (ATN) in the kidneys. The Mumbai case also showed signs of DAD,” he said. Dr Lanjewar stressed on creating infrastructure for autopsies of Covid-19 victims including negative pressure chambers, high-grade PPEs, specialized instruments and functional HEPA re-circulation units. “India has 529 medical colleges including 13 AIIMS and 258 government colleges. There should be more autopsies on Covid-19 patients to understand the infection better in the Indian context and find a cure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dissecting-covids-impact-on-victims-internal-organs/articleshow/77343730.cms||Parth Shastri
August 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University’s law college celebrates 75th year||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University Dr BR Ambedkar College of Law has turned 75 years old this August. Established in 1945, the college met the long-felt need of a legal education institute in this part of the country, which was part of the Madras Presidency during the British Raj. The law college owes its genesis to the farsightedness of Dr CR Reddy, the founder vice-chancellor of Andhra University, who in consultation with eminent jurists such as Lionel Leach, the then chief justice of Madras, PV Rajamannar, the then advocate general of Madras and V Govidarajachari among others set up the college. The law college began its journey from a private building in Machilipatnam in 1945. At the time, the university was located in Guntur owing to the exigencies of the Second World War. KV Gopalaswamy was the interim professor in-charge for nearly a fortnight. Subsequently, in 1949, the college was shifted to its current campus in Visakhapatnam. The law college will celebrate its platinum jubilee on August 4. Principal Prof S Sumitra, on the eve of the celebration, said, “Hailed as one of the premier institutes of legal education in the country, the college can boast of many distinguished and eminent alumni such as Justice K Rama Swamy, Justice Jasti Chelameswar, Justice Amareswari, Justice Immaneni Panduranga Rao, Justice ND Patnaik, Justice P Ramakrishna Raju and PS Rao, member of International Law Commission.” Prof Sumitra further said that Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also an alumnus of the college, will participate in the platinum jubilee celebrations to be held online on August 4. “The meeting will be held on Google Meet and will be streamed live on Youtube,” Prof Sumitra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aus-law-college-celebrates-75th-yr/articleshow/77336000.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cop among four positive cases||Wardha: A 41-year-old police constable working at Samudrapur police station tested positive for coronavirus via the antigen test on Monday. He is the first police personnel who tested positive in the district. However, three more persons also tested positive on Monday. The police constable was on leave from July 30. He underwent the antigen test at a rural hospital, where he was admitted due to fever and cough. A 29-year-old woman, a resident of Sawangi, another woman, a 58-year-old from Sewagram and a 52-year-old man from Arvi were the other three who tested positive on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-among-four-positive-cases/articleshow/77334159.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Youth’s body found in Jhalawar||KOTA: Blood-stained body of a 22-year-old man was recovered on Monday morning from a Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) grid line in Dunger village under Asnawar police station, Jhalawar. The deceased had fatal injuries over head and face and it seemed his head was allegedly smashed with a stone slab on the intervening nights of Sunday and Monday. He was on proxy duty in place of a JVVNL employee. The deceased was identified as Jaswant Singh Gurjar, a resident of Kanwadi village of Asnawar police station area. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem and lodged a case of murder under section 302 of IPC against unidentified accused. The family members have not spoken of any enmity or rivalry of the deceased with anyone. The motive behind the crime is yet to be ascertained police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youths-body-found-in-jhalawar/articleshow/77339556.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tedious e-pass norms, lack of public transport make it a crawl to work||CHENNAI: It’s two steps forward and one back for companies which want to bring back their employees to work. While the services sector appears to have embraced WFH, manufacturing units, particularly those on the outskirts, are facing issues with a tedious e-pass system and the lack of public transport. Tamil Nadu scrapped the zonal system of boundary demarcation whereby the state was divided into eight zones. “When Chennai and its adjoining areas were one zone, there was no need for e-pass. But that has been scrapped and we have gone back to boundaries by district borders, making it cumbersome and tedious for e-pass procurement,” said the head of a trade body. Consultancy firm IndiaFilings, which currently has about 100 staff working at its office in Chennai, prefers WFH. “If we apply e-pass for employees on behalf of the company, the approval rate is high. If they apply individually, it’s low,” Lionel Charles, CEO of IndiaFilings, said. TOI spoke to several company officials and most said only employees living within the city limits and having their own vehicles are able to report to work while those who depend on public transport are not able to. SECO Controls, an MSME based out of the Perungudi Industrial Estate, said the absence of public transport has hit movement of people. Vaishnavi Vignesh Raja, its VP, said the company is helping staff living outside Chennai limits get e-passes to come in to work, but there are a few employees who have been trying to get e-passes and are not able to secure them. A senior official at the state industries department told TOI that companies have been granted e-passes for inter-district movement of staff earlier and they can continue to apply. However, in industrial hubs like Coimbatore, where most staff stay in districts outside the city limits, businesses continue to get affected due to curbs on inter-district movement. “Rules must be modified such that an authorization letter from respective companies along with employee identification cards support inter-district movement,” R Ramamurthy, president, The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, (CODISSIA) said. Meanwhile, Chennai’s tech companies have embraced the work-from-anywhere model with the product firms like Freshworks, OrangeScape, Chargebee and others also hinting that they will remain remote till the end of the year. Cognizant has decided to keep its corporate and sales offices closed through the end of 2020. “We are deciding on the reopening of delivery centres based on the local Covid-19 situation and restrictions, client needs and center requirements,” a spokesperson for Cognizant said. Verizon said they plan to continue the 100% WFH implementation that is currently underway. GAVS Technologies, a software product company on OMR, has made all arrangements to accommodate increased staff but said lack of public transport has led to just around 5% employees coming in. “There is a huge amount of social anxiety about the virus, and we are also not forcing people to come in as we are okay continuing operations remotely,” Balaji Uppili, chief customer success officer, GAVS, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tedious-e-pass-norms-lack-of-public-transport-make-it-a-crawl-to-work/articleshow/77338640.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rape convict dies during treatment||KOTA: A 70-year-old rape convict, lodged in Kota Central, died during treatment at Kota Medical College Hospital on Sunday night. The deceased man had been suffering from multiple diseases and had been under treatment for one and a half months in the hospital. The body was placed in the mortuary for the post-mortem to be carried out by medical board after receipt of his Covid-19 report. An inmate was identified as Kanwarlal Mali, a resident of Bhajneri village in Bundi district. He had been lodged in the jail since March 2019. The deceased inmate was discharged from hospital on Saturday, he said and added his condition deteriorated on Sunday evening. He was sent back to the hospital where he succumbed at 9.30pm. Since the deceased inmate was suffering from multiple diseases including severe lungs infection and was dependant on food though pipes, ‘multiple organ failure’ appeared to be the reason behind death. However, actual reason would be known only after the receipt of post-mortem report, the deputy superintendent of jail said. The deceased man was lodged in Kota Central Jail which is currently free from Covid-19 infection as none of inmates from the Central Jail has tested +ve so far. However, with the detection of 7 fresh Corona +ve patients on Monday, a total 58 inmates in Mahila Jail of Kota Central jail, that currently houses 222 inmates, have tested Covid 19 +ve so far with 27 active patients currently undergoing treatment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-convict-dies-during-treatment/articleshow/77339553.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kol high-security zone set to get new CCTV cams||Kolkata: Almost two-and-a-half months after Cyclone Amphan left the city paralysed and the city police reeling with hundreds of damaged CCTV cameras, the cops have initiated the process of replacing them in a phased manner. Monday was the last day for submitting bids for the first tender for replacing cameras on Ho Chi Minh Sarani that houses two high-security addresses — the British Deputy High Commission office and the US Consulate. The street has always been a protected zone, though the police presence was substantially beefed up after the American Centre attack in January 2002. The CCTV network is critical to not only monitor the movement of poeple and vehicles, but also for investigations in the unlikely event of an incident. Police sources said that Cyclone Amphan, which damaged 85% of CCTV cameras in the city, had also led to the collapse of live monitoring from Lalbazar. According to sources, over 1,000 CCTV cameras were malfunctioning and were unable to provide live feed to Lalbazar. Around 600 cameras are presently functional. “At important roads and junctions, we had begun repairs in June after the traffic lights were up and running. By now, most of the CCTV cameras located at strategic locations are also functional. This includes a few cameras on Ho Chi Minh Sarani. But around half the cameras and other associated equipment are still non-operational and need to be replaced,” an officer said. The process of issuing e-challans in at least 15 traffic guards had been adversely impacted by the damage. “But with most cameras restored, traffic violation prosecution is back on its feet,” said a senior managing the control room. Local police station network has been hit, especially in the added areas. That is a challenge if any major crime takes place. To compensate, policemen have stepped up patrolling on bikes at night. Officers at Lalbazar said the situation will be restored soon. “But for the Covid situation, we could have completed the work earlier,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-high-security-zone-set-to-get-new-cctv-cams/articleshow/77338646.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||3 dead, 8 hurt after car rams into divider||Vijayawada: Three youngsters died on the spot while eight others suffered injuries after their SUV lost control and rammed into a divider at Gurajada village in Krishna district on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as A Amar (30), Mohammed Yousuf (25) and Sivaraj (22) from Vijayawada. According to Pamidimukkala police, the incident took place at around 9.30 pm when they were on their way to to Vijayawada from Machilipatnam Beach, where they had gone to celebrate Friendship Day. The speeding vehicle lost control after a dog crossed the road and the driver swerved to avoid hitting it and ended up crashing into the dividers. Cops said the injured were sent to Vijayawada Government General Hospital for treatment. A case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) was registered at Pamidimukkala police station. Meanwhile, all the three bodies were sent for post-mortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-dead-8-hurt-after-car-rams-into-divider/articleshow/77336007.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||PMC allows hotels to open with maximum 33% occupancy from August 5||PUNE: Hotels, guesthouses and lodges in non-containment zones in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits will reopen with maximum 33% occupancy on August 5 after a four-month gap. While the PMC issued orders on Monday allowing these facilities, along with malls, to reopen, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is yet to take a call in the matter. But officials said the PCMC was in talks with hotels. The PMC said only those without Covid-19 symptoms would be allowed entry to these facilities. Use of hand sanitizers and face masks and maintaining social distancing would have to be strictly followed in hotels and malls. Big gatherings would not be allowed and the focus should be on online services as far as possible. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Facilities being used as Covid-19 care or isolation centres will continue to be used for the same purpose. If any establishment is being partly used for Covid care, the remaining space would also be dedicated for the same purpose.” The orders state that hotel reception counters must have glass protection shields, visitors should be scanned thermally, elevators should carry limited people at a time and air-conditioners should be used as per the norms of the central public works department. Hotel rooms will have to be kept closed for 24 hours and curtains, bedsheets and other housekeeping material changed once guests check out. Any suspected patient found in the hotel will be isolated in a separate room. The PMC set guidelines for visitors and staffers at malls too. Spitting will be strictly prohibited, while senior citizens and the unwell will be allowed in only for medical-related activities or procurement of medicines. Social distancing should be followed at shops, open spaces and on the escalators. While cinema halls will remain closed in malls, food courts can offer takeaways. Play zones and game arcades for children will also remain closed. Operators and managers of these shopping centres should avoid deputing pregnant women and aged staffers, the orders state, adding that such employees could avail of work from home. Publicity material about Covid-19 awareness should be put up on mall buildings. Crowding should be avoided in the parking slots and parking valets must wear hand gloves and face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-hotels-to-open-with-max-33-occupancy-from-aug-5/articleshow/77339577.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Man murders younger brother in Jaipur after quarrel||JAIPUR: A man was murdered by his elder brother in Kaladera police station area in Jaipur rural on Sunday late night after the two had an altercation over a petty issue. The accused is yet to be arrested. The deceased was identified as Shashi Ranjan, 25, while the accused was identified as Chetan Prakash, 28. Dharam Singh, SHO, Kaladera police station, said, “The brothers were from Bihar and worked in a factory here. On Sunday, the duo were having liquor when suddenly they started having an argument.” According to officials, after the initial argument, the neighbours intervened, but the situation escalated later at night. “Following the argument, the brothers fought again at night and the situation became so severe that the accused beat up the victim with an iron rod. We got information around 11pm and on reaching the spot, found that the victim was bleeding profusely. We immediately rushed him to the hospital, but the injuries proved to be fatal,” added the official. After the attack, the accused fled from the spot and cops are still uncertain about the reason because of which the brothers fought. Elaborating further, the SHO said, “We are questioning the other workers as well to find more details about the family though none of them could give a clear idea about the cause of the fight. None of the brothers were married and their parents had died long back.” The cops are looking for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-murders-younger-brother-after-quarrel/articleshow/77339560.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Over 1.76 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries registered so far in Jaipur district||JAIPUR: As the state government has extended the date for the second phase of registration of non-NFSA beneficiaries up to August 15 from August 3 for distribution of food grains, so far over 1.76 lakh beneficiaries (44,198 families) have been registered in Jaipur district. Meanwhile, the district administration will start distribution of food grains to those beneficiaries whose names were registered but did get ration, in a couple of days. “Among these, there are 71,000 beneficiaries in Jaipur district. They will be distributed ration in a couple of days. The shop-wise allotment process has already started,” said an official. “Around 7,117 quintal wheat and 328 quintal chana (grams) will be distributed to them (those already registred),” said the official. During the survey of the poor and needy people (those who are not covered by national food security Act), done by the state government earlier, 68 lakh members of 20 lakh families were registered. In Jaipur, of the total allotment of 74,568 quintals of foodgrains, 63,364 quintals have already been distributed to over 6.33 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries in the month of June. Under the free ration scheme to non-NFSA and migrant workers 1 kg chana is distributed to each family every month and 5 kg wheat each is given to every family member. According to an official, the state government has lifted 4.46 lakh quintals of foodgrains under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme for the month of May and June at one go starting from the last week of May till the first week of June (the distribution was also done at one go). In fact, the state procured extra/additional foodgrains from FCI for these two months - 1.20 lakh quintals in May and 1.87 lakh quintals in the month of June, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1-76l-non-nfsa-beneficiaries-registered-so-far-in-jaipur-district/articleshow/77339562.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Dist admin top brass attend Covid victim funeral to dispel stigma||Tirupati: Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and Tirupati SP A Ramesh Reddy have appealed to the public to not obstruct burial of Covid-19 deceased. In a bid to dispel the stigma associated with Covid-19 patients and deceased, the Chittoor district administration has launched a campaign. As part of the campaign, Gupta along with Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha, urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy and revenue personnel on Monday attended the funeral of two Covid-19 victims. The funeral was held on the outskirts of Thukivakam. Officials wore masks and maintained physical distancing while municipal health workers buried the bodies. Speaking to media here, Gupta said,the World Health Organization and the ICMR have declared that the virus does not stay in the dead body for more than six hours. He called on families to take the bodies of their near and dear ones after six hours of their death and give them a decent funeral. He also assured that the government will extend all the support to the families who come forward to perform last rites.  Girisha and Ramesh Reddy said dignified funeral is a fundamental right of every human being. “Every human being is entitled to a decent farewell. People should not fall prey to a false notion that viruses spread from corpses. Everyone must allow funeral to take place in a humble and humane way”, they appealed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dist-admin-top-brass-attend-covid-victim-funeral-to-dispel-stigma/articleshow/77336034.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s biggest mall sealed for distancing breaches||AHMEDABAD: The city’s biggest mall, ‘Ahmedabad One’ in Vastrapur, was sealed on Monday for social distancing and crowd management violations. Centrally airconditioned malls without proper ventilation may pose serious risks and violations of social distancing and mask rules raise the risk of transmission. After sealing the mall, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) asked the mall authorities to disinfect the entire complex and submit reports of rapid antigen tests of all employees. It also asked for a detailed roadmap on the implementation of the standard operating procedure (SOP) before the mall can be allowed to reopen. TimesViewMalls, offices, and commercial establishments should follow strict social distancing measures. Visitors or customers not heeding the advice should be promptly asked to leave. Besides, no one should be allowed to enter the premises without a mask. Also, offices and establishments should consider revamping ventilation plans for their central AC systems. Unless there is a collective effort to follow all relevant norms, we may never be able to beat Covid-19.AMC officials while on a routine inspection were aghast at blatant disregard for social distancing and the mall administration’s passive response to enforcing the SOPs. “We don’t want such places to seed another round of rapid infections. A strong message should go out to malls to enforce social distancing,” said a senior AMC official. The mall was full owing to the Rakshabhandan festival and mall authorities were aware that footfalls would be higher. In an official statement, the Ahmedabad One Mall authorities said, “As per the advice of the local administration, we have temporarily halted operations at Ahmedabad One. We have been adhering to all applicable safety, hygiene and social distancing norms and shall resume operations as per further instructions from the authorities.”  Harshad Solanki, director of AMC’s solid waste department, said, “There were more than 5,000 visitors in the mall. No social distancing was being followed. A minimum of three feet of distance between customers was to be ensured, which was violated.” Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary (ACS), forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid control measures in Ahmedabad, said, “It is high time that the people of Ahmedabad, commercial establishments and those in offices behave with responsibility. The AMC has been able to contain the spread of the virus to a great extend but responsible behaviour is essential from the authorities where there are so many people gathering. The AMC will continue such drives on other commercial establishments.” AMC officials said that they had received a tip-off and conducted a surprise check and found that the mall authorities had failed to impress on store owners the need to maintain social distancing among customers. A retailer at the mall said “We have already suffered during the lockdown and this sealing will be a heavy blow. If visitors refuse to comply and do not wear masks or follow social distancing despite our insistence, why should retailers face the brunt of such disciplinary action.” Solanki added, “We have clear instructions from the municipal commissioner and the ACS to continue surprise checks and seal establishments violating social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-biggest-mall-sealed-for-distancing-breaches/articleshow/77338714.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||‘Harassed’ by administration over shutting shop, trader attempts suicide in Alwar||ALWAR: Fed up with the district administration’s decision to close shops and business establishments, a 45-year-old trader attempted suicide by slashing his wrist at Laxmangarh town of Alwar district on Monday afternoon. The man has accused sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Laxmangarh of harassing him and has been admitted to the hospital. He is also a former ward councillor. According to the police, locals informed them that the trader, identified as Shyam Punjabi, went to the rooftop on the third floor of his house and started threatening to commit suicide with a sharp-edged weapon on Monday afternoon. The businessman allegedly got into a verbal spat with the local administration while they were asking traders to close their shops at a market in Laxmangarh. This was decided after six persons tested Covid-19 positive in the market. “It was found that six persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the town, thus the local administration had asked the shopkeepers and traders to close their shops as a precaution. However, the businessman got into a verbal spat with the SDM who was at the spot. Thereafter, he went to the terrace of his house and threatened to commit suicide. He has hurt himself by cutting his veins near the wrist. I rushed to the terrace and took him to the hospital where he is undergoing treatment,” said Ajit Singh, station house officer, Laxmangarh. The businessman has also released a video in which he has alleged that the SDM has not only pressurized him to close the shop for no reason, but he also abused him badly. He has alleged that the local administration is harassing the local traders in the name of lockdown, and stated that without a written order to close shops, how can they ask them to shut shops. Police have neither lodged a case of attempt to suicide nor any case against Surendra Prasad, SDM of Laxmangarh, in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/harassed-by-admn-over-shutting-shop-trader-attempts-suicide-in-alwar/articleshow/77339565.cms||Rajendra Sharma
August 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Going out of AP? Bring back booze||VISAKHAPATNAM: Asking friends and family travelling from other states to Andhra Pradesh to buy popular brands of liquor has emerged as a trend after the lockdown was eased. A case in point is an executive of a private company, who did not want to be identified, who bought three bottles of liquor from Bhubaneswar, Odisha, on his friends’ and relatives’ request, while returning to Visakhapatnam. Another employee of a corporate company, Pavan (name changed) bought almost half of dozen of liquor bottles while returning to Visakhapatnam from Hyderabad recently. This trend is not essentially resultant of the increased liquor prices in Andhra Pradesh. The problem is that even if they are ready to pay more for popular brands, they are unavailable. Moreover, a few said that it is helping them avoid crowds outside liquor stores. “The crowd at government-run liquor shops are not at all disciplined. Most of them don’t follow physical distancing. They push and shove. Besides, even if you are ready to brave the crowd and pay extra money, you won’t get the brand of your choice,” P Siddharth, a call centre executive, told TOI. “At least, the sale counters of the bar-cum-restaurants were decent and you could get a few of the popular brands at these shops. But following the lockdown we are left with no options than to ask friends or relatives coming from other states to get a few bottles for us,” said, K Prakash Rao, who runs an export firm in Visakhapatnam. A senior official of the Srikakulam district police claimed that in no way can they stop this trend. He explained, as per the law, any people can enter the state with a maximum quantity of three bottles of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) or an equal number of foreign liquor (of any size), or three bulk litres of denatured/methylated spirit or six bottles of beer (each of 650 ml) or two bulk litres of toddy. “We can take steps only if people are carrying anything beyond this permissible limit. But the bigger apprehension is that if this trend becomes an established one then organised smuggling would start anytime,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/going-out-of-ap-bring-back-booze/articleshow/77336024.cms||Arpit Basu
August 4, 2020||Trichy||2 idols stolen from Dindigul temple recovered, 3 arrested||THANJAVUR: Police arrested three people on Sunday after seizing two stolen metal idols of Durgai Amman and Hanuman from a house near Pattukotai in Thanjavur district. The one-foot Amman idol and three-quarter-foot tall Hanuman idol weighing 4kg and 2.5kg have been handed over to the revenue officials to find out the age and the metal used for their make. Police identified the accused as R Saravanan, 36, K Pranmalai, 36, of Pukarambai village near Pattukottai and A Raja, 34, of Kulithalai in Karur district. All the three have been remanded in judicial custody and sent to Kumbakonam prison. Raja had stolen the two idols from a temple in Dindigul district sometimes ago. He tried to sell the idols in Trichy several times in vain. Raja was a labourer employed to cut trees that fell during cyclone Gaja in the area. Using his contacts there, he arrived at Pattukottai to sell the idols. He met Saravanan at Pukarambai and both planned to sell the idols. Through Saravanan, the duo approached Pranmalai and handed over the idols to him. On a tip-off from a resident of Pukarambi village who came to know about their plan, a police team headed by P Thennarasu raided Pranmalai’s house nd recovered the idols. “The idols seem to be panchaloha. However, experts have to confirm it. Further inquiries are on,” sub-inspector Thennarasu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-idols-stolen-from-dindigul-temple-recovered-3-arrested/articleshow/77338629.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Heavy rain alert for Tuesday, NDRF put on standby||MUMBAI: Rain started lashing the city Monday evening as the weather bureau issued a red alert for Tuesday and Wednesday, forecasting extremely heavy rains at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. Civic officials have requested citizens to avoid going near coast . Ward officials in Kurla have been directed to evacuate those living near the Mithi, especially in Kranti Nagar, to temporary locations in case the river overflows. There will be a high tide of about 4.5 metres at 12.47 pm on Tuesday. The fire brigade has been asked to deploy its flood rescue squads at its six regional command centres, while NDRF teams have been asked to stand by. In a forecast issued on Monday, the IMD said that active monsoon conditions are expected to prevail over the entire west coast and interiors of Maharashtra. The city is expected to see heavy rain till August 6, said weather bureau officials. There’s a high tide on Tuesday 12.47 pm of 4.45 metres. Heavy rains when coupled with high tide leads to water logging in several low lying areas of the city especially. In the 12 hours on Monday ending 8.30 pm the IMD Colaba observatory recorded 38.2 mm and IMD Santa Cruz recorded 17.6 mm of rains . This falls in the moderate rain category as per the IMD classification. Latest radar image indicating dense clouds around Mumbai, Thane, Palghar with potential of heavy spells said IMD “Due to the strengthening of monsoon currents and likelihood formation of a low-pressure area over North Bay of Bengal around August 4, the rainfall intensity is very likely to increase over Konkan including Mumbai and adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during August 3-6. Enhanced rainfall is also expected over districts of interior Maharashtra,” said a release from IMD. Rains in the interior areas, where many of Mumbai’s catchment area lakes are located, is much needed considering that on Monday, water stocks in the seven lakes that supply to Mumbai touched 5 lakh million litres or 34.7 % of the required stock. Last year on the same date, the total water stock was much higher—it stood at 13.24 lakh million litres or 91.53 % of the required quantum. The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai are Bhatsa, which supplies over 50% of the city’s total need, Tulsi, Vihar, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa and Upper Vaitarna. With regards to the red alert, BMC authorities have said that they have already coordinated with officials from police, fire brigade, traffic department, BEST, and Adani Energy, to ensure that the city is prepared with the necessary manpower and equipment for the two days of heavy rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-rain-alert-today-ndrf-on-standby/articleshow/77340123.cms||Richa Pinto
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Now, a second tiger dies in Mukundra reserve in 10 days||JAIPUR: The country’s third tiger reintroduction programme at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) is facing another crisis after tigress MT-2, which gave birth to two cubs in June, died on Monday. Nine days ago, four-year-old male tiger MT-3 had died at MHTR. Traces of one female cub born to the tigress have not been found, while the male cub had to be administered drip when it was found in a weak condition near the Bewda Talai area. The mutilated body of the mother was found in the same area. “The tigress MT-2 died in a territorial fight. It had severe multiple wounds on its body,” said Dr Rajiv Garg of Sawai Madhopur, who conducted the autopsy. According to sources, principal chief conservator of forests G V Reddy, who spearheaded the relocation programme in 2018, has reached MHTR after the death. Green activists lamented weak law enforcement and management for the tragedy and the inability to protect the endangered animal. Moreover, they accused the forest department for conducting the post-mortem in haste. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, local advisory committee (LAC) of MHTR, said, “It appears the tigress died three days ago. The tracking system is poor if the animal could not be located in 48 hours. The cubs might have died because of hunger. Also, the tiger did not attack the cubs after killing the mother.” “At Mukundra, the rangers and assistant forest conservator are sidelined by the DFO. Few trusted guards are put on the job to monitor the tigers. As they directly report to DFO, the system here is weak as other officers are not utilised for monitoring. Also, there is an 'iron curtain' drawn by the DFO. The ACF and other officers do not know what's happening in the tiger reserve,” he said. The total tiger population in MHTR had risen to six in June, including the newborns. The count is now three. Many fear that Mukundra’s plan to reintroduce tigers is doomed with these deaths. “While one male tiger MT-1is inside the 82 sq km enclosure, the tigress MT-4 is outside the fencing. A plan has to be chalked out soon as both these big cats are lonely. The cub will be likely sent to the zoo,” said a source. The tigress, which was nearly four years old, was relocated to the 82 sq km enclosure at Darrah range in MHTR from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) in December 2018. “This is the second incident in the past ten days. The Rajasthan government should take strict action against the culprits and give strict instructions for the conservation of tigers in the state,” said Diya Kumari, member of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sq km, covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, only 200 sq km in Jhalawar is dedicated to tigers. “It took nine months to shift the tigress MT-2 to MHTR as wildlife activists approached the Rajasthan High Court against the relocation, claiming it is being carried out without the permission of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The relocation was done after the court dismissed the petition," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-a-second-tiger-dies-inmukundra-reserve-in-10-days/articleshow/77339582.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Hour-long rain brings Jaipur to its knees||JAIPUR: After a lull, Pink City was greeted by heavy rainfall on Monday morning exposing lofty claims made by the civic authorities on their drainage management. It was for the first time after monsoon reached the state that 70 mm rain was recorded in the city. People in Jaipur woke up amid heavy showers that started at 7.15 am. In the first hour, torrential rainfall was witnessed in almost across the city. Later, it converted into drizzle that continued till 11am. In this season so far, Jaipur had never witnessed rainfall above 10 mm. Many low-lying localities in Jhotwara, Khatipura, Sikar Road, Ajmer Road saw heavy waterlogging. Likewise, in the Walled City, areas including Mohalla Pannigaran, Mohalla Machaliwalan and Mohalla Tawaifaan witnessed heavy flow of water. Fisherman communities of Mohalla Machaliwalan brought out boats and enjoyed the rainfall. Likewise, heavy waterlogging was witnessed around Statue Circle, Teen Moorti Circle, Tonk Road and some parts of Ajmer Road in the city. “It is the best rainfall of the season and it is time for hot samosa and kachori,” said Ashok Vij who was seen getting some snacks for his family from a sweet shop. Many people who were commuting from one locality to another in the city for Rakshabandhan got stuck as heavy rainfall gave troublesome time to them. A car also got stuck under the Kartarpura underbridge. However, locals with the help of a rope managed to bail out the trapped driver from the bridge. Similar scenes were witnessed at other underbridges in the city. Mansarovar, Sanganer, Malviya Nagar and outskirts of Jaipur and rural areas including Chommu, Kaladera also received heavy rains. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that moderate to heavy showers are expected to continue on Tuesday and Wednesday across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hour-long-rain-brings-city-to-its-knees/articleshow/77339570.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||CM slams Cong for raising questions on muhurat||Bhopal: The battle of muhurat on Ram temple ‘bhumi pujan’ in Ayodhya has turned political with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan making a scathing attack on the Congress for raising questions on the auspicious moment. Chouhan said for Congress, who denied the existence of Ram, this is a matter of politics, but for us Ram is the name of devotion and faith. He said it’s not the ‘muhurat’, but the name Ram itself is ‘auspicious’. “The Congress leaders who denied the existence of Shri Ram, are today busy in determining the auspicious and inauspicious time for the construction of Ram temple. It’s the name of Ram which makes the time auspicious,” tweeted Chouhan who is undergoing treatment for Covid at a private hospital for the last eleven days. Chouhan’s remarks came in the wake of repeated queries by senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over the muhurat of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Linking inauspicious timing with the rising cases of coronavirus across the country, Digvijaya said, “It is the result of ignoring the beliefs of Hinduism that all the priests of Ram temple have tested Covid-19 positive. UP minister Kamala Rani Varun died due to coronavirus. The UP BJP chief, Union home minister Amit Shah, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state president VD Sharma and now Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa have also been infected.” Reacting on Digvijaya’s remarks, Chouhan in a series of tweets said, “People of the country very well know that Congress is the only party, which questioned the existence of Lord Shri Ram. They (Congress) gave affidavit in the Supreme Court saying Lord Ram was never born, it’s an imagination. Even, Mani Shankar Aiyar raised questions on the birthplace of Lord Shri Ram.”He also recalled the remarks by Congress leader Kapil Sibbal and said that he stood against Ramlala and insulted Sanatan faith. “Kamal Nath called Lord Ram a political stunt. There is one Mr Bantadhar (BJP calls Digvijaya Singh), who sees only politics in Ram Naam. Even Rahul Baba (Gandhi) had stated that people visit temples to tease the girls,” he said. Chouhan said that it was the result of the evil thoughts and messing with the faith of Sanatan religion. “For Congress, Ram will be a matter of politics, but for us Ram is a matter of devotion ,” said Chouhan. He also took a dig at the Congress leaders and said, “Mandir wahin banayenge, Lekin tarikh nahi batayenge”, said Chouhan, adding, “When this moment has come, they have stomache ache.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-slams-cong-for-raising-questions-on-muhurat/articleshow/77338675.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Health min reviews Covid measures in Anantapur dist||Tirupati: Andhra Pradesh health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani) on Monday reviewed measures initiated by the district administration to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Anantapur district. Accompanied by finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and fellow party MPs and MLAs, the state health minister held a review meet with officials of the district administration at the zilla parishad office. Later, the minister also interacted with a few Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment through video communication app and asked them for their feedback on the quality of the amenities being provided to them at the hospital. District collector Gandham Chandrudu briefed the minister on the measures taken by the district administration in terms of ramping up testing, bed strength and hospitals as well as at quarantine facilities. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the review, Srinivas stated that the state government was committed to providing the best of medical care to Covid-19 patients. “Top priority has been accorded to enhancing all facilities and amenities related to patient care at the state hospitals as well as quarantine facilities. Nutritious food is being provided to patients as well as suspects admitted to the state facilities. The state government is spending Rs 500 per person per day towards providing nutritious food that will help improve the immune systems of the patients” observed the state health minister. “Today, Andhra Pradesh has emerged as one of the leading states in the country in Covid-19 testing. More number of hospitals and quarantine facilities are being earmarked to ensure the best of medical care is at the disposal of the needy and on time”, asserted Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/health-min-reviews-covid-measures-in-anantapur-dist/articleshow/77336044.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||654 fresh cases take Hry tally past 37k, 7 succumb||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid count on Monday reached 37,173 and 440 deaths as 654 new patients and seven deaths were reported from 20 districts across the state. The recovery rate in the state rose to 81.96% as 780 patients were discharged and the number of recoveries rose to 30,770. There are 6,263 patients under treatment in the stat. Of them, 110 are on oxygen support and 20 on ventilator support. The doubling rate has widened to 20 days. Haryana’s health officials have credited early diagnosis and timely treatment for the growing recovery rate. Another significant development of the day was that for the first time in two months, Gurgaon — which tops the table for coronavirus cases — showed less than 50 new patients with no casualties. Gurgaon ranked fifth in district-wise comparison of the new patients. Panipat, Panchkula and Rewari continued to see rising cases. Faridabad got the highest number of cases, 170, and its total rose to 9,172. There were 412 recoveries, with which district’s total recoveries rose to 8,106. Now, there are 932 active cases in Faridabad. Panipat, which emerged as the next hotspot, reported 106 new patients and four deaths. Panchkula got a record 60 new patients. Rewari got 50 new patients and its total is now 1,884. Gurgaon reported 43 new patients. With 33 new patients, Hisar crossed the 1,000 mark and its tally for confirmed cases rose to 1,010. Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts got 27 cases. Kurukshetra reported two deaths as well. There were 25 new cases in Sonipat and its tally rose to 2,984. There were 20 new cases in Karnal, 17 in Sirsa, 15 in Palwal, 14 in Jind, 10 in Fatehabad, nine each in Ambala and Jhajjar, seven in Kaithal, five in Mahindergarh, four in Nuh, and three in Bhiwani, where a patient died too. The testing rate in the state rose to 25,955 tests per million on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/654-fresh-cases-take-hry-tally-past-37k-7-succumb/articleshow/77338735.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||4th monsoon spell throws life out of gear across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Heavy and widespread rainfall was witnessed across the state on Monday, which affected normal life and traffic. In many districts like Dausa, Bharatpur and Alwar, fields were submerged in water, adversely affecting the crops. Kaman (Bharatpur) and Alwar received a rainfall of 100mm which was the highest in the state. People in many districts witnessed torrential rainfall that lasted for more than two hours on Monday morning. Due to the heavy rainfall, the fields were submerged, destroying the crops at various villages in Dausa district. Many roads connecting various villages to each other got submerged in water at Dausa, Bharatpur and Alwar districts of the state. In this season so far, Udaipur division and Kota division were already getting a good rainfall. However, on Monday many districts in Jaipur division and Bikaner division also witnessed heavy rainfall. Kaman (Bharatpur) and Alwar were followed by Mandrayal (Karauli) where a rainfall of 80mm was received, Viratnagar (Jaipur) got 80mm, Mahwa (Dausa) 70mm, Nadauti (Karauli) 60mm. A rainfall varying from 50mm to 10mm was also recorded in Jaipur, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar districts. The Dausa to Alwar Road route was severely affected due to the heavy rain as buses and other vehicles were moving at a slower pace due to heavy waterlogging on the state and national highway connecting the two districts. Similar scenes were witnessed on the highways connecting Bharatpur to Dholpur. In this season so far, districts including Jaipur, Alwar, Dholpur, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar received a good amount of rainfall which cheered the farmers. Earlier, these districts were in the category of deficit rainfall. “In the coming days too, there is a possibility of heavy rainfall in these districts,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. Jaipur Met office further stated that the fourth spell of the south west monsoon is going to bring heavy rainfall in many districts including Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur, Dholpur and Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4th-monsoon-spell-throws-life-out-of-gear-across-state/articleshow/77339573.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||State forms panel to examine NEP, urges organizations to share views||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Monday formed a six-member panel of educationists to examine the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020. State education minister Partha Chatterjee also urged all education organizations, teachers’ bodies and senior academics to share their views on NEP 2020 by August 15, either online or offline. The government plans to write to the Centre against this “unilateral decision”. “We have formed a six-member committee to look into the provisions (of the NEP 2020) and give us their recommendations. MP Saugata Roy, educationists Pabitra Sarkar and Nrisingha Prasad Bhaduri, vice-chancellors Suranjan Das and Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury and Aveek Majumder, the syllabus review committee chairperson, will be part of this panel,” Chatterjee told reporters on Monday. The committee is scheduled to meet on Tuesday. Chatterjee, however, did not specify any time frame for the committee to submit the recommendations. Chatterjee, who had earlier said NEP 2020 blindly aped Western countries, said, “Bengal was never consulted about this. We had sent our observations in writing but those did not find a place. No educationist from Bengal was part of the committee that framed the policy. I wonder how can they (Centre) think of enforcing it without any discussion in the Parliament or with the states. This is unilateral.” He added, “Education is on the concurrent list. There are questions on whether this can be done without amendments or not. Moreover, there are questions on the infrastructure scale-up. How will this be achieved? Who will provide the funds? You cannot say one needs to overhaul a 70-year-old system in five years. Everything—schools, colleges and universities—is shut now. They need to think about it.” Majumder, a panel member, said, “A committee meeting has been called on Tuesday to discuss the modalities. We need to look into the policy provisions. This was not discussed in the Parliament, but, announced. We need to understand how much can be implemented or if it is necessary at all. Education is on the concurrent list and a single party can’t decide such a crucial step of introducing a new education policy. We had sent 18-page suggestions that have completely been overlooked. An education system, which can be successful in the US, will not be successful here because of our diversity.” He added the committee would place its report to the government after detailed discussions. Bhaduri said, “The semester system is an utter failure even at the university level. How can we introduce it in schools now? We will evaluate the policy provisions. We will see whether the policy can fit in Bengal’s education framework or not. Our primary job is to understand the short- and long-term implications.” Sarkar said, “I am happy the state government has included me in the committee. Since I am part of the committee I shall not give any more opinion on the policy, till we have formalized our own thoughts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-forms-panel-to-examine-nep-urges-organizations-to-share-views/articleshow/77338694.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Ghaffar Khan kin moves HC to take aunt to Pak||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Monday sought the Centre’s response to a plea by a Pakistan national to appoint him guardian of his aunt, who is a Canadian citizen but has been living in India since 1983. He wants to take his ailing aunt to Pakistan to look after her. A resident of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (NWFP), Mashal Khan (40) and his aunt Zarin Ghani Walsh (76) are the great-grandson and grand-daughter respectively of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the Pashtun leader who worked to end British rule in India and was nicknamed Frontier Gandhi. Ghaffar Khan was a close friend of Mahatma Gandhi and had four children. After Partition, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan’s family became Pakistani nationals. Zarin, who resides at Breach Candy, is the daughter of his eldest son, Abdul Ghani Khan, who was married to Roshan Furdoonji, a Parsi from Hyderabad. Born on April 11, 1944 in Simla, Zarin married Stanley Walsh, a Canadian, in 1975. The couple moved to India in 1983 on account of her uncle’s ill-health. Stanley died intestate in March 2013. Zarin’s family comprises the widow of her brother and his three children, including Mashal, who live in Pakistan. According to the petition, filed through advocate Vaishali Dholakia, in April 2013, Zarin was hospitalised after a fall, having fainted. There were episodes of forgetfulness and sudden unconsciousness and more instances of hospitalisation. In November 2019, she was certified as suffering from Alzheimer’s “since 7 to 8 years” and doctors recommended that owing to her unstable and deteriorating physical and mental health, she must live with her relatives. The petition states that Zarin is of Indian origin and has continuously resided in India since 1983. She has no relatives in India. Mashal “intends to take her to Pakistan along with him” and will travel back to India along with her whenever necessary. It reveals that in July 2013, Zarin had appointed Mashal as an executor of her will and a constituted attorney, which is an indication of her “affinity, faith and trust in the petitioner”. “The petitioner is fit and proper to be appointed as a guardian of the person and property of Mrs Zarin Ghani Walsh,” it adds, stating that Mashal has his family’s consent. The petition notes that there is no legal provision under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 or the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 for appointment of a guardian for a person who is completely dependent. Before a bench of Justices Suresh Gupte and Abhay Ahuja, Mashal’s advocate Mayur Khandeparkar urged for an independent assessment of Zarin’s health. But the judges said it may not be required, adding that “respected professionals have considered her case and are top of the line professionals”. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said the National Trust Act, 1999 should be looked into as it provides for a local committee to decide the guardianship issue. The judges said the plea is “novel” as the nephew has directly petitioned the high court. They then said the Centre’s response is required. “We can’t go ahead,” said Justice Gupte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ghaffar-khan-kin-moves-hc-to-take-aunt-to-pak/articleshow/77340130.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||Parents upset over e-classes for pre-primary students||Bhopal: Parents of students in private schools are pretty disappointed with the school education department's decision to start online classes for students of pre-primary and primary section as they feel that classes for such small children are harmful to their eyes. Many parents are concerned about exposing the children to mobile phones for learning nursery rhymes, alphabets and numbers.“My son is in nursery and his school has started online classes for nursery and kindergarten. How can schools expect such small children to sit before the mobile or laptop? The atmosphere in schools where children meet their friends, play, draw and learn rhymes with actions is completely different, but these are things parents can teach their children at home too. ,” said Bharat Singh, an actor. “Children have got accustomed to being at home and have their own routines. We cannot force such small children in kindergarten and class 1 to wake up and act like it is school time because. They are getting confused and are unable to concentrate on their studies. Besides, exposing them to the laptop and mobile phone screens every day will have negative impact on their eyes,” said homemaker Darshita Matani, a mother of two. Worried about the harmful effects of the LED screens on their children’s eyes, some parents are also opting to get their children out of the school.“My daughter is in class 2 and is a very sincere student. But the 2-3 hour-long online classes were taking a toll on her eyesight. I do not want her to develop shortsightedness at the age of 7 when she is still growing. I decided to get her out of the school and am teaching her at home, with her books. I have ordered more books, educational puzzles, quizzes etc to help her break the monotony . The unnecessary pressure of online classes on such small children was causing headaches,” said Prateek Sharma, an urban farmer. Parents have started feeling that the schools are not concerned about learning, but have only started the classes so that they can ask for fee from the parents. Prabodh Pandya, secretary of MP Parents Association, said, “Parents are scared to say it out loud as their children are in private schools, but they very well understand that these are just tactics to extract fee from the parents. How can the schools compensate for the whole 4-5 hours of activities, including sports, art and music, in online classes?”Doctors have also warned educators and parents about the negative impact of mobiles and laptops on developing children and advised parents to keep their children away from the screen as far as possible. Though according to the World Health Organization, children from 2 to 5 years of age should only be allowed less than one hour of screen time, schools conducting online classes for pre-primary and primary school children last for 1 to 2 hours. “Initially my son, in class 1, was very excited to see his friends and teachers on the phone. But now it has been 3three months and he is developing constant headaches. We took him to an ophthalmologist and the doctor advised us to limit his screen time. But ,” said Renuka Singh, mother of a five-year-old.Dr Brijesh Lahri, MD, Ophthalmology, said, “It is better if children under 8 years are given less than one hour of screen time as the tissues of their eyes are very fragile and can be harmed by the blue rays of the laptops and mobile screens, damaging the cells and creating various kinds of eye problems. I think schools should give priority to the health of the students instead of forcing them to sit before the screens.”Psychologists have also observed that spending too much time online caused children to become more irritable. Lack of exercise and physical activity coupled with online classes also made them more prone to obesity and stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/parents-upset-over-e-classes-for-pre-primary-students/articleshow/77338707.cms||Shuchita Jha
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Industries in Ambattur want government to run special buses for workers||CHENNAI: With no public transport, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) has requested the Tamil Nadu government to operate special buses to enable workers from nearby districts to commute to work. The association has asked for buses every day from Tiruvallur, Arakkonam and Tiruttani to the Ambattur estate. The industrial units in and around Ambattur region used to employ 4.5 lakh people before the lockdown. While workers from other districts had left before the lockdown and are unable to return, a large section of guest workers had left for their native states and are stuck there. Even though the state government has relaxed working conditions in a phased manner, the lack of inter-district public transport has prevented most of these workers from returning to the city. "While those in the city come to work on their two-wheelers, those coming from longer distances, especially from towns like Tiruvallur, Arakkonam and Tiruttani are unable to do so and it is also not safe. With majority of industrial units in Ambattur being MSMEs, they are unable to operate private buses or private vans to ferry these workers," A N Sujeesh, president, AIEMA told TOI. An estimated 30,000 workers used to come for work from these towns in neighbouring districts. Suburban EMUs are their preferred mode of commute since it is fast, safe and cheap. "With no signs of the railways resuming such services, we have written to the state government to operate buses daily," he said. The authorities had suggested companies or the association to charter buses from MTC on per day charges. Against Rs 8,000 per day that is normally charged for up to 100 km, they offered to ply the buses for Rs 6,000. With social distancing restricting number of passengers to 30 and considering incidental expenses and absenteeism, the rate worked out to a high of almost Rs 250 per day per person for the two-way trip. "We have suggested to the authorities to run buses by charging double the normal fare, as they do for government employees. We will issue ID cards for the employees using the service. The authorities were receptive to the suggestion and are in the process of working out the details," Sujeesh said. AIEMA has suggested operating at least five buses each from the three towns to begin with and expects around 5,000 workers to use them. "In the absence of public transport, we are managing with just 25%-30% of the workers and facing hardships in completing orders on time," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/industries-in-ambattur-want-govt-to-run-special-buses-for-workers/articleshow/77338702.cms||D Govardan
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Violation of rules alleged in conduct of entrance tests in Calicut University||KOZHIKODE: A syndicate member of Calicut University has raised allegations that rules are being flouted in the conduct of entrance tests for admission to various varsity study departments. Syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said in a letter to vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj that question papers for entrance examinations for many of the post graduate courses in 36 study departments and around 10 under graduate courses are prepared by teachers/heads of the teaching departments of the university. He said that it is also understood that answer scripts of descriptive exams are valued by teachers of the department without assigning any false numbers to the answer scripts. “I would like to bring to your notice that the system of entrusting the teachers from the university itself with preparation of question papers is against examinations rules in place. In fact, we have to entrust the work with external question paper setters as in the case of the other university examinations. Otherwise, it would put the university entrance examination system under the shadow of suspicion,” he added. Ahammed said that it is mandatory to assign dummy numbers to answer scripts before valuation. “It is mandated in our examination rules to keep the confidentiality of the examination and it is a basic right of any candidate. Violation of this rule will damage the credibility of our examination system and may lead to nepotism in awarding marks,” he said. He urged for preparing clear guidelines for conducting various entrance examinations. Question paper setting for entrance tests should be entrusted with external question paper setters, and valuation of answer scripts should be done after assigning dummy numbers, he added. He said that if it is not possible to implement this in all exams during this academic year, entrance exams should be cancelled wherever possible and students should be admitted on the basis of their marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/violation-of-rules-alleged-in-conduct-of-entrance-tests-in-cu/articleshow/77344194.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||PCMC pulls up four private schools for rule violation||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has served notices to four private schools in the city for forcing students to buy academic material from them at high rates in violation of a government order. The PCMC has sealed the rooms in these schools in which the material — textbooks, uniforms, notebooks and others — was stored. Vilas Patil, nodal officer of PCMC’s education department, said schools were prohibited from making it mandatory for parents to buy academic material, such as textbooks, uniforms or stationery, from them or any other specific vendor, as per a 2004 state government resolution (GR). He said they have been receiving many complaints from parents. “Such complaints are mostly against private, unaided schools. As per the government resolution, such schools can face strict action and so, we have sealed the classrooms where the material was stored. We have served notices and are waiting their replies,” Patil said, encouraging other parents to come forward and complain against violations. The June 11, 2004 GR issued by the state education department states that no private school can make it mandatory to buy a uniform or other academic material from the school’s inventory or any specific vendor, either directly or indirectly. The GR also directs schools to inform parents a year in advance about the changes in schoolbooks or uniforms. The 2004 government resolution also outlines strict action against non-compliant schools, including blacklisting such schools, cutting off their aid (if the school is aided), cancelling their recognition and serving them notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-pulls-up-4-private-schools-for-rule-violation/articleshow/77338703.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Violation of rules alleged in conduct of entrance tests in Calicut University||KOZHIKODE: A syndicate member of Calicut University has raised allegations that rules are being flouted in the conduct of entrance tests for admission to various varsity study departments. Syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said in a letter to vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj that question papers for entrance examinations for many of the post graduate courses in 36 study departments and around 10 under graduate courses are prepared by teachers/heads of the teaching departments of the university. He said that it is also understood that answer scripts of descriptive exams are valued by teachers of the department without assigning any false numbers to the answer scripts. “I would like to bring to your notice that the system of entrusting the teachers from the university itself with preparation of question papers is against examinations rules in place. In fact, we have to entrust the work with external question paper setters as in the case of the other university examinations. Otherwise, it would put the university entrance examination system under the shadow of suspicion,” he added. Ahammed said that it is mandatory to assign dummy numbers to answer scripts before valuation. “It is mandated in our examination rules to keep the confidentiality of the examination and it is a basic right of any candidate. Violation of this rule will damage the credibility of our examination system and may lead to nepotism in awarding marks,” he said. He urged for preparing clear guidelines for conducting various entrance examinations. Question paper setting for entrance tests should be entrusted with external question paper setters, and valuation of answer scripts should be done after assigning dummy numbers, he added. He said that if it is not possible to implement this in all exams during this academic year, entrance exams should be cancelled wherever possible and students should be admitted on the basis of their marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/violation-of-rules-alleged-in-conduct-of-entrance-tests-in-cu/articleshow/77337174.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||33% water in four dams, PMC mulls alternate day supply||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) may announce water cuts in its limits as the four reservoirs that supply water to the city are only one-third full. A decision in this regard is likely to be taken after a meeting with the irrigation department this week. Sources said PMC was likely to introduce alternate day water supply if the rainfall doesn’t improve in the catchments of Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet. As per the data of the irrigation department, the four dams have a collective stock of around 33%. This time last year, the reservoirs were around 84% full. The collective storage capacity of the four reservoirs is around 29.5 TMC. PMC draws around 1.25 TMC to 1.5 TMC per month. Based on the availability of water, the civic administration chalks out its annual water supply plan till August 15, with regular reviews during the monsoon. “The water available currently can meet the needs of Pune city till September,” Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of PMC’s water department, told TOI on Monday. “We are constantly in touch with the India Meteorological Department, checking the status of likely rainfall. The weather forecast, rainfall expected in the next couple of weeks and water availability in the reservoirs will be taken into account before we take a call on water cuts,” Pawaskar added, stressing that there was no need to panic immediately. The demand for water fell marginally this summer, as the floating population had come down due to the lockdown. Demand from commercial establishments and industries too was low as they too were shut. Student population was less too, as many had left for their hometowns. However, civic officials said, residential consumption of water had increased as people were working from home and stayed indoors. On Sunday, IMD forecast moderate to isolated heavy rainfall in Pune district till August 6. On August 7 and 8, IMD said the district was likely to get light to moderate rainfall. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/33-water-in-4-dams-pmc-mulls-alternate-day-supply/articleshow/77338697.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City homemakers find business opportunity in baking & cooking||Bhubaneswar: The passion for baking cupcakes and gifting them to friends and relatives instead of the regular box of sweets from the neighbourhood confectioner brought in an unexpected business opportunity for homemaker Anwari Tarannum (42) during the lockdown. With bakeries shut during the period, many of her friends requested her to supply them with homemade cakes and cookies. “Baking is my passion. Over the years, I have read and collected many books on baking and opted for online courses to hone my baking skills. But this was the first time I was foraying into baking cakes and cookies for others,” said Tarannum, a mother of two teenagers. On her menu are the rasmalai cake, mango cake and ragi cookies, among others. She has already sold 10 rasmalai cakes in the past one month, while the demand for her mango cakes was very high from May till mid-June as her reputation spread through word of mouth. The health-conscious opted for ragi cookies and wanted jaggery or brown sugar instead of refined sugar in their cakes and cookies. While Tarannum turned her passion into business, Namita Sahoo (33), who used to cook in people’s homes before the lockdown, started supplying pickles, papads, baris and fried snacks. Making these food items at home came naturally to Namita, who hails from Berhampur where making snacks, pickles and papads is a cottage industry. “One of my clients suggested that I make these items as there is a huge demand for these and very little supply,” said Namita, a single mother of three. Word spread and Namita has sold more than 3,000 pieces of papad, 50kg to 60kg of bari along with lemon and mango pickles. While Namita goes from door-to-door, Tarannum’s customers have to pick up the orders from her home. Helped by her sister-in-law Nazia, she takes orders over phone and online. “I do not have a commercial set-up. I bake in my small oven and OTG,” said Tarannum. Some others who were supplying home food before the lockdown had to tap into new clients. Mariya Irshad started supplying lunch thalis to senior citizens living in her apartment complex. Also, there were orders for cakes, cupcakes, biryani and Chinese food from families she knew. “In home baking, all ingredients are fresh. There is more sponge and less cream in cakes. The food tastes better,” said Tarannum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-homemakers-find-business-opportunity-in-baking-cooking/articleshow/77337162.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Puja committee helps Katwa girl continue studies||Kolkata: Had it not been for the members of a Puja committee in Kolkata, a girl from Katwa in Burdwan, who scored 94.3% in Madhyamik this year, would have had to give up her dreams of pursuing a career in medicine after her father, a washerman, was left without any job during the pandemic. Learning about their plight on social media, the Puja committee members decided to fund her studies. Dipa Pal, a student at Panuhat Rajmahishi Debi High School in Katwa, scored the highest among the 151 candidates from her school. “She got admitted here in Class V and ever since, she has been performing well. Dipa is one of our brightest students,” said Kamalakanta Chakraborty, headmaster of the school. Her father Dilip used to earn Rs 5,000 a month from a local laundry before lockdown. But the pandemic and the lockdown have pushed the family to extreme financial hardship. Dipa and her mother Sujita, who make paper bags to support the family, started taking more orders to make ends meet. A teacher from her school uploaded Dipa’s story on the social media and that reached the organisers of Thakurpukur S B Park Sarbajanin Durgotsab. “When we spoke to Dipa, her determination seemed unscathed despite the hardship her family has been going through. She did not even ask for a lot of money, but gave us an estimate of some books and exercise books she needed,” said Sanjay Mazumdar a member of the committee, which held a meeting and decided to fund her education till she started working. They have kept aside a portion of the amount for the Pujas to fund her education throughout the year.  “I got an Android phone that has opened up a new world to me. Apart from attending online classes, I can now surf through study materials online,” Dipa said. “I want to study medicine. It is an audacious dream for students from my economic background, but still, I will try to achieve my goal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/puja-committee-helps-katwa-girl-continue-studies/articleshow/77338699.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Violation of rules alleged in conduct of entrance tests in Calicut University||KOZHIKODE: A syndicate member of Calicut University has raised allegations that rules are being flouted in the conduct of entrance tests for admission to various varsity study departments. Syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said in a letter to vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj that question papers for entrance examinations for many of the post graduate courses in 36 study departments and around 10 under graduate courses are prepared by teachers/heads of the teaching departments of the university. He said that it is also understood that answer scripts of descriptive exams are valued by teachers of the department without assigning any false numbers to the answer scripts. “I would like to bring to your notice that the system of entrusting the teachers from the university itself with preparation of question papers is against examinations rules in place. In fact, we have to entrust the work with external question paper setters as in the case of the other university examinations. Otherwise, it would put the university entrance examination system under the shadow of suspicion,” he added. Ahammed said that it is mandatory to assign dummy numbers to answer scripts before valuation. “It is mandated in our examination rules to keep the confidentiality of the examination and it is a basic right of any candidate. Violation of this rule will damage the credibility of our examination system and may lead to nepotism in awarding marks,” he said. He urged for preparing clear guidelines for conducting various entrance examinations. Question paper setting for entrance tests should be entrusted with external question paper setters, and valuation of answer scripts should be done after assigning dummy numbers, he added. He said that if it is not possible to implement this in all exams during this academic year, entrance exams should be cancelled wherever possible and students should be admitted on the basis of their marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/violation-of-rules-alleged-in-conduct-of-entrance-tests-in-cu/articleshow/77344192.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Round 1 of city sero survey shows antibodies in only 1.4% samples||Bhubaneswar: Results of the second phase of the first round of the serological survey undertaken by the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in Bhubaneswar has revealed that high-risk groups have the same level of antibodies as members of the community at large, who were tested in the first phase of the survey. A total of 1.4 per cent of the samples tested from both groups have shown the presence of antibodies to the novel coronavirus, indicating that they have been infected already. The RMRC has submitted its findings to the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC). A total of 2,500 serological samples were checked for antibodies in both phases of the first round. While 900 samples were taken from community members at random, 1,600 were taken from high-risk groups, considered more vulnerable to the virus because of the nature of their jobs. They included banking personnel, airport staff, civic body staff, fire personnel, hospital staff and police. Of the 2,500 samples checked, 34 samples have tested positive for antibodies. At the end of the first round of the survey, 2 per cent of the 900 samples taken from community members had tested positive for antibodies. “We will send this report to the government. We will have more data for analysis after the second round of the serological survey,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. The second round of the serological survey in the city will begin from August 16, said the RMRC. The results of the second round will provide insights into the infectivity level and the extent of herd immunity in the city’s population. “The first round of the survey has shown that 1.4 per cent people have antibodies, which is very marginal,” said RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati. She said it takes about three to four weeks for the body to develop antibodies, so the first round of serological survey done in July is a reflection of the infectivity in June, when cases were comparatively low. Since the case load in the city has spiked in geometrical progression in July, the tests done after three weeks will reveal the extent of infectivity now. “In case of Delhi, the percentage of people having antibodied is 23.48, which is significant. In Mumbai, it is 27 per cent, which means infection has been contracted by a large section of the people. Ours is a minuscule percentage and no conclusion can be arrived at. With this percent, herd immunity can’t develop. The survey result of August may reflect infectivity better as a huge number of cases has been reported in July,” said Ashok Mohapatra, vice-chancellor of SOA University. So far in Odisha, and in the capital city as well, the percentage of local cases (not quarantined and suspected to have contracted the virus from primary contact) is close to 30 per cent. This had given rise to speculation that community transmission had started in hotspots like Ganjam and Bhubaneswar, where the case count is increasing exponentially on a daily basis. The government has left it to the health expert to make an assessment on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/round-1-of-city-sero-survey-shows-antibodies-in-only-1-4-samples/articleshow/77337176.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Constable ‘amassed crores’ while working as gunman of top neta||NAGPUR: A personnel of Nagpur city police, holding the rank of naik police constable, reportedly ‘owns’ two sophisticated cars, one shopping complex, a well-equipped gym, a duplex worth at least Rs five crore, a farmhouse on city’s outskirts and some other properties. Most of the properties are in the name of his wife. It is learnt, the constable had worked as a gunman with a top politician from Vidarbha for over a decade. A top cop said there is no formal complaint against the constable, but it’s reliably learnt that he is under radar of the top brass. The constable, whose father too was in the police department, intends to opt for voluntary retirement, said sources in the police department. The constable’s current gross salary could be around Rs45,000-46,000 per month. His elder brother is also a constable known for his sound intelligence network. The sources further said that the politician trusted the constable and always preferred him as his gunman. Their good equation worked to the advantage of the former gunman whose wealth catapulted with the rise of the politician. People who would approach the politician had also started contacting the constable for getting their ‘work’ done. In the process, the constable doubled up as an agent at the office and residence of the politician. In the process, his earnings shot up to crores. According to sources, the constable is privy to many secrets of the politician and his activities. It is learnt, relations between the constable and the politician turned sour over dispute of Rs 3 crore, revolving around a cinema hall. It is reliably learnt the politician had asked the constable to settle the monetary dispute but he did not pay heed. The senior politician, who had disengaged one of his trusted personal assistants around a month ago, has now also started distancing himself from the constable, said the sources. In the meanwhile, the constable had threatened a woman cop’s beau who approached the top brass claiming threat to his life. Following the controversy, the constable proceeded on leave. City police department is also facing a question as to how a constable has managed to remain posted on same duty for so long without any official intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/constable-amassed-crores-while-working-as-gunman-of-top-neta/articleshow/77339593.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 4, 2020||Pune||Traders seek withdrawal of P1/P2 system after Akola does away with it||PUNE: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) continued to demand removal of the P1/P2 system, but shops across the city are following the norm diligently to avoid paying penalty. FTAP has sought removal of P1/P2 system in Pune, citing the example of Akola. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that he cannot cancel P1/P2 since he is not the competent authority to take such a decision. In a letter to deputy chief minister and local guardian minister Ajit Pawar, the traders’ body has cited the example of Akola, where the district collector has done away with the P1/P2 system through orders dated July 31. “Despite orders of the state government dated July 31, the district collector of Akola cancelled the odd-even or P1/P2 system. The order said that all shops could function from August 3 between 9am and 7pm in line with the rules and conditions laid down in the order. This means the authority concerned took its own decision despite orders of the government of Maharashtra,” FTAP members said. Fatehchand Ranka, president, FTAP, said, “FTAP started Covid-19 antigen test camps from July 29 jointly with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). In five days, 1,439 employees and owners were tested, and 37 employees found positive. Meanwhile, not a single trader tested positive. This proves that members are taking best care of themselves and their staff members.” He said, “It is strange that malls have been permitted to remain open on all days without any condition of P1/P2, while this is applied to shops on the street. If P1/P2 is not removed, traders are going to suffer heavy losses. From time to time, we have submitted letters objecting to P1/P2 and now, on behalf of 30,000 traders, we request that businesses be allowed to remain open on all days between 9am and 7pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-seek-withdrawal-of-p1/p2-system-after-akola-does-away-with-it/articleshow/77338708.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||50% of Covid +ve persons in home isolation have recovered||Bhubaneswar: Covid patients in the city who have availed themselves of home isolation are doing well. Between July 9 and August 2, 190 of the 403 patients who were in home isolation have recovered (around 50 per cent). These recovered patients account for 12 per cent of 1,798 recovered patients in the city so far. From the start of July, the BMC has allowed Covid patients with no or mild symptoms to be at home. “Technically, Covid positive persons with no symptoms are not considered to be spreaders of the infection. They are carriers, not patients as such. It is good that positive persons are recovering at home. It will motivate people, especially at a time when there is fear in the community,” said Ashok Mohapatra, vice-chancellor of SOA University and former director of AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Recoveries have zoomed past active cases in the city. The recovery rate, which had dipped to 43 per cent two weeks ago, now stands at 58.60 per cent. On Sunday, 107 patients recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,798. The city currently has 1,251 active cases. A city-based doctor, Alok Kanungo, said Covid positive persons staying at home should be able to manage the disease with vitamin C and D. “If they develop symptoms like fever, fatigue or breathlessness, they should consult a doctor or call the dedicated emergency number the government has given. They should be shifted to hospital. If possible, they should keep pulse oximeter in their homes to monitor the oxygen saturation level,” he said. The city on Monday reported 89 new cases, of which 65 were from quarantine centres (home and institutional) and 24 were local cases. Of this, five cases were reported from one slum cluster and 17 cases were reported from a potato godown at Aiginia. The city has tested 62,048 samples (till July 31). In the past 10 days, it has been testing around 1,600 samples daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/50-of-covid-ve-persons-in-home-isolation-have-recovered/articleshow/77337190.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL’s work stuck for want of permission||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), which is laying alternative power supply lines in some areas, claimed 5% of the work was stuck as the civic body had not issued permission for the past three months. As per the plan, an alternative 1km-long line is being laid from the Gultekdi sub-station to the Aranyeshwar area — including Sahakarnagar, Swargate, Janata Vasahat and Aranyeshwar — as the existing lines from the Parvati sub-station were old and develop frequent faults. MSEDCL said 950 metres of cable has been laid, but work in the last 50 metres has stopped because it was awaiting permission to dig roads from Pune Municipal Corporation. “Despite paying the charges for excavation as per the norms, Pune Municipal Corporation is yet to grant permission for excavation,” an MSEDCL official said. “The permission for road excavation had been granted up to March 31, 2020. However, the lockdown started on March 23 and the work stalled. Unavailability of manpower forced us to miss the deadline,” an official said. “MSEDCL wrote to PMC in April seeking an extension, but there has been no response yet. We finished laying 950 metres of cables,” an official said. They said that the number of complaints about power outages from residents of these areas has increased manifold in the monsoon months. “Thousands of residents from the areas suffered from power outages due to the rain and falling of branches since May. These areas include containment zones. Thousands of residents, who are working from home, are also facing problems,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcls-work-stuck-for-want-of-permission/articleshow/77338716.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||In a sign of the times, crooners at bars go for security, get hitched||Kolkata: Pubs and bars in the city being shut since the last week of March to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus, many who earned a living from those establishments have been left without a source of income for the past several months. Crooners or bar singers, who are the main draw at these singing bars in Kolkata, are mostly the sole breadwinners for their families. With bars showing no signs of reopening amid the pandemic, many have changed professions and some have chosen to marry and settle down, hoping to end the uncertainty and live a secure life. “While there is nothing unusual in getting married, many of these girls have taken the decision in distress because they could not even pay the rent of the apartments, where they stayed. Since there is no indication of the bars reopening, their future hangs in balance,” said the owner of a singing bar on Bentinck Street. TOI spoke to at least three crooners who have tied the knot over the past several weeks. Before the coronavirus outbreak, Puja (name changed) said, she earned an above-average income and was even looking to buy a house for herself in the southern suburbs. “The bar I worked at drew a lot of guests and they tipped really well. But once the Covid outbreak started, everything stopped. I was unable to even pay the rent of the apartment where I stayed,” said Puja who hails from Noida and has a family to look after back home. She married the owner of the orchestra in the last week of June. According to the rules, a crooning licence is a right given to an individual to sing in a specified singing bar. In many bars, women are spotted holding microphones and lip-syncing to Bollywood songs, often swaying to the numbers. “Tips from guests are our main source of livelihood. The bar or the orchestra manager doesn’t pay us a fixed salary,” said Rina (name changed), who shifted to a central Kolkata bar from a Rajarhat bar in 2015 after the cops shut bars in that area. She, too, tied the knot in June. Rights activist Debjani Sengupta felt if the current pandemic and the consequent restrictions continued, many crooners might be pushed into prostitution and cane even be trafficked. “As crooners usually do not have any steady source of income, they are compelled to depend on others to meet their expenses. Most girls are the sole breadwinners and shoulder responsibilities of their families. It is unlikely they will get a job in the organised sector in these tumultuous times. They face the threat of being trafficked or pushed into prostitution,” said Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-sign-of-the-times-crooners-at-bars-go-for-security-get-hitched/articleshow/77338734.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 4, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Nagaur names village roads after girl toppers||UDAIPUR: Roads are traditionally named after historical figures, war heroes, political leaders and those who have made a difference to our life and society. But in a new initiative, the panchayat samitis of Nagaur district have decided to dispense with this convention and promote the education of the girl child. This has come as a huge surprise for the likes of Divya Sharma, Khushbu Rathore, Ghazal Bhatesar, Pooja Choudhary and Komal Prajapat who now find the lanes in their villages named after them. The Nagaur district administration undertook the project under the 'Raasta Kholo Abhiyan' and, recently,opened up 38 disputed roads for the public after renaming them with names of girl students who performed well in examinations. There are over 500 such roads that are either lying closed or have been obstructed by influential people of the area for decades in the district. All these roads are in villages. The administration has now chalked up a plan to clear such obstructions or encroachment and free the path for public movement. Divya Sharma, a state-level hockey player and a Class 10 topper who scored 97% this year, hails from Kuchera in Mundwa tehsil and now has a lane named after her. “It was really a surprise for our family when we were informed in the morning that there would be a 'Gaurav Path' after Divya's name. This is a real motivation not only for my daughter but for hundreds of other girls in the district who would be inspired to perform well and attain higher levels of education,” said Divya's father Raghu Nandan Sharma to TOI. Divya, who has participated five consecutive state-level hockey championships, too is elated. Watch Rajasthan: Nagaur panchayat samitis name village roads after girl toppers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nagaur-names-village-roads-after-girl-toppers/articleshow/77339599.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
August 4, 2020||Pune||Man rapes & robs woman of Rs 1L||Pune: A man has been booked on charges of raping a 45-year-old woman in an open plot on Mundhwa-Koregaon Park Road before stealing her gold ornaments worth Rs 1 lakh on Sunday. Police said the man and the woman knew each other. The woman, from Pimple Gurav, had gone to Fatimanagar from where she wanted to go to Loni. The man, who was riding his motorcycle, spotted the woman and offered her lift. However, he took her to an isolated spot and raped her. While leaving the spot, he also stole her ornaments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-rapes-robs-woman-of-rs-1l/articleshow/77338732.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Railways says alternative to Melghat route will be more damaging to environment||Nagpur: Reacting to ‘ Broad Gauge, Narrow Mind’ report on August 2, the South Central Railways (SCR) has stated that projects are taken up after proper evaluation “wherein preliminary engineering and traffic survey is done taking the needs of the people and the geography of the terrain. Read AlsoBroad Gauge, Narrow MindGreens rejoiced when state CM Uddhav Thackeray told the railway ministry that the metre gauge running through Melghat Tiger Reserve should not be widened and sought an alternative route. The upgradation will virtually split the reserve by 254 sq km, an area equal to Pench National Park. The railwayRakesh CH, the chief public relations officer of SCR stated in a release, “The alignments of the project (Akot-Khandwa broad gauge conversion) is planned in such a way as to cause least environmental damage. Further, Railways is taking up work on any infrastructure project only after getting necessary approvals. Even in the gauge conversion project, Railways has been doing work in only those sections which have all necessary clearances.” He further stated Railways has agreed to maintain the same speed (60kmph) as that of earlier metre gauge trains. “Railways has also agreed to construct underpasses and overpasses at all identified locations for animal movement. We will bear the cost of any mitigation measures by the forest department,” it said. Allaying fears that Ambabarva and Wan sanctuaries will be completely severed from Melghat Tiger Reserve as a result of broachgauging the line, the CPRO stated, “Gauge conversion work will be carried out within the existing railway land boundaries with no further land acquisitions, especially in the reserved forest area and Melghat Tiger Reserve. This portion has always been with the Railways without any untoward incident since 1959-60.” Stating that Railways will avoid blasting, mining and quarrying in forest areas while undertaking gauge conversion work, the CPRO stated diversion of the track to the alternate route will “entail construction of about 7km tunnel, acquisition of additional virgin forest land (152 hectares) as well as revenue land (370 hectares)”. “As such, it is in fact, the latter option which would comparatively involve more tree cutting, building of bridges, stations and tunnels, which will adversely affect the environment,” the statement said. TIMES VIEWFears of greens were expressed in the report ‘Broad Gauge, Narrow Mind’ written in a form to make not just CM Uddhav Thackeray but also readers aware about the rich biodiversity of Melghat Tiger Reserve. To the naked eye, the conversion seems well nigh impossible to undertake without destroying the ecology of the forest despite the assurances given by the Railways. Highest authorities like the National Wildlife Board, Wildlife Institute of India and National Tiger Conservation Authority are all unanimous that ‘avoidance of broad gauging is the best mitigation measure’ for the reserve. The MPs and MLAs of Akola and Buldhana too have voiced their opinion that with hardly any villages along the metre gauge route, the alternative route from outside Ambabarwa sanctuary — the southern tip of Melghat Tiger Reserve — will cater to more people. Ideally, Railways should have let the metre gauge just be. With stringent measures in place, the route held excellent tourism potential to run vistadome coaches for people to soak in the sights. Now that the tracks have been removed, this chance has been lost. This paper has always batted for environmental issues and will continue doing so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/railways-says-alternative-to-melghat-route-will-be-more-damaging-to-environment/articleshow/77339598.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Institutional reverse quarantine not a safe option: Experts||KOCHI: The state government’s decision to sanction institutional reverse quarantine (IRQ) for the elderly and those with other health conditions has experts worried. They fear a repeat of what happened in Europe and the US, where the spread of Covid-19 in old-age homes contributed to high mortality rates. The expert health committee, headed by Dr B Ekbal, has asked the government to reconsider the decision. The panel discussed the issue in detail after the health department, in a July 30 order, said: “Facility for reverse quarantine needs to be identified and established in coastal areas. This is for elderly people/people with comorbidities who don’t have a facility for reverse quarantine at home.” Committee members were unanimous in raising concerns over the move. IRQ has already been initiated in the coastal clusters of Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, while other districts are in the process of identifying facilities. The government’s argument is that in coastal regions it is not advisable for vulnerable groups to stay in their homes. Moreover IRQ will, it believes, ensure better palliative care. The fact that those being moved to IRQ facilities are being tested using antigen kits is a key sticking point. “These tests have only about 50% sensitivity and there is concern about false negatives. We may miss out a case in testing and there is every chance of an IRC facility becoming an epicentre,” a panel member said. The fear is that it takes only one inmate or one caregiver to spread infection amongst the vulnerable groups in a facility by the time they test positive. Besides the high risk of contracting Covid-19, committee members also pointed out the psychological needs and physical limitations of vulnerable persons, who may have difficulty adjusting to a new and unfamiliar environment. “The expert committee has asked us to look at it from all dimensions and then decide whether IRQ or reverse quarantine should be emphasized when it comes to dealing with senior citizens. Members said that it should be the last option. The matter is under consideration,” said a senior official with the health department. “Reverse institutional quarantine for elderly persons has to be carried out with special caution. Along with physical concerns, their emotional and behavioural issues can’t be ignored. Constant vigil is needed to identify if anyone becomes symptomatic,” said former IMA president Dr V G Pradeep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/experts-institutional-reverse-quarantine-not-a-safe-option/articleshow/77344065.cms||Preetu Nair
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Institutional reverse quarantine not a safe option: Experts||KOCHI: The state government’s decision to sanction institutional reverse quarantine (IRQ) for the elderly and those with other health conditions has experts worried. They fear a repeat of what happened in Europe and the US, where the spread of Covid-19 in old-age homes contributed to high mortality rates. The expert health committee, headed by Dr B Ekbal, has asked the government to reconsider the decision. The panel discussed the issue in detail after the health department, in a July 30 order, said: “Facility for reverse quarantine needs to be identified and established in coastal areas. This is for elderly people/people with comorbidities who don’t have a facility for reverse quarantine at home.” Committee members were unanimous in raising concerns over the move. IRQ has already been initiated in the coastal clusters of Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, while other districts are in the process of identifying facilities. The government’s argument is that in coastal regions it is not advisable for vulnerable groups to stay in their homes. Moreover IRQ will, it believes, ensure better palliative care. The fact that those being moved to IRQ facilities are being tested using antigen kits is a key sticking point. “These tests have only about 50% sensitivity and there is concern about false negatives. We may miss out a case in testing and there is every chance of an IRC facility becoming an epicentre,” a panel member said. The fear is that it takes only one inmate or one caregiver to spread infection amongst the vulnerable groups in a facility by the time they test positive. Besides the high risk of contracting Covid-19, committee members also pointed out the psychological needs and physical limitations of vulnerable persons, who may have difficulty adjusting to a new and unfamiliar environment. “The expert committee has asked us to look at it from all dimensions and then decide whether IRQ or reverse quarantine should be emphasized when it comes to dealing with senior citizens. Members said that it should be the last option. The matter is under consideration,” said a senior official with the health department. “Reverse institutional quarantine for elderly persons has to be carried out with special caution. Along with physical concerns, their emotional and behavioural issues can’t be ignored. Constant vigil is needed to identify if anyone becomes symptomatic,” said former IMA president Dr V G Pradeep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/experts-institutional-reverse-quarantine-not-a-safe-option/articleshow/77344067.cms||Preetu Nair
August 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Youth booked on charge of raping minor, aide in net||PUNE: The Pune rural police on Sunday booked a youth on the charge of raping a 11-year-old girl on Saturday and arrested his accomplice, who allegedly helped him. The girl’s mother lodged an FIR with the Shikrapur police on Sunday. An officer from the Shikrapur police said when the girl didn’t return home on Saturday evening, her mother requested a youth from the neighbourhood to help her search for her daughter. “The youngster noticed the girl coming towards her house with one of the suspects and was crying,” the officer said. The girl told her mother that the suspect had taken her behind a temple in the village and showed her obscene video clips on his cellphone. “After some time, the other suspect reached there and raped her. He even beat up the girl when she tried to resist,” the officer said. After receiving the complaint, the police arrested the youth, who had shown the video clips. “We will arrest the other suspect. The duo has been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act,” the officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-booked-on-charge-of-raping-minor-aide-in-net/articleshow/77338730.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rising cases prompts HC to put hearing through video-con on hold||Cuttack: In view of the continuing threat of the spread of Covid-19, the Orissa high court on Monday discontinued hearing through a video-conference system installed on the court premises. Counsels will now have to appear only from their office or residence. Since the functioning of the high court was suspended (March 25 to April 15) owing to the lockdown, hearing on urgent matters had been taken up so far through the video-conference system installed on the premises of the court. In view of the exigency caused by Covid-19, the Orissa high court had introduced e-filing facility on April 9. The facility that enabled litigants to file cases electronically was introduced under the Orissa High Court e-filing and Video Conferencing Scheme 2020. The advocate and litigants were also allowed to appear through a video-conferencing system installed on the court premises after making specific requests in that regard while submitting memos for listing. The court also restricted the filing of new cases to only by e-filing or email, discontinued receiving of petitions at its filing counter between 10am and 1pm from Monday. It, however, allowed filing of cases through a drop box kept on the court premises from 10am to 1pm in the event of urgency, if any difficulty is faced in e-filing mode/email mode. If a case is filed through drop box on the ground of urgency, a memo containing the nature of urgency has to be attached with the file, the order issued by the registry said. “All concerned are requested to avoid congregation while submitting files in the drop box and to strictly maintain social distancing,” it added. The registrar general had on Sunday notified that the normal functioning of the high court shall continue to remain suspended till August 21. However, during this period the high court shall have restricted functioning by virtual mode with limited number of judges as per the roster assigned by the Chief Justice and take up only extremely urgent matters. In another office order, the deputy registrar (judicial) said, “The benches will function through video-conferencing and counsels may appear only from remote locations like residence/offices, etc. There shall be no provision on the court premises to facilitate appearance to learned counsel/ parties in person owing to the lockdown restrictions.” Accordingly, the high court on Monday listed over 430 cases for hearing through video-conference. More than 210 bail matters along with some criminal appeals and writ petitions found place in the weekly list before the courts of four single-judge benches and two division benches, one of them having the Chief Justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rising-cases-prompts-hc-to-put-hearing-through-video-con-on-hold/articleshow/77337205.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Institutional reverse quarantine not a safe option: Experts||KOCHI: The state government’s decision to sanction institutional reverse quarantine (IRQ) for the elderly and those with other health conditions has experts worried. They fear a repeat of what happened in Europe and the US, where the spread of Covid-19 in old-age homes contributed to high mortality rates. The expert health committee, headed by Dr B Ekbal, has asked the government to reconsider the decision. The panel discussed the issue in detail after the health department, in a July 30 order, said: “Facility for reverse quarantine needs to be identified and established in coastal areas. This is for elderly people/people with comorbidities who don’t have a facility for reverse quarantine at home.” Committee members were unanimous in raising concerns over the move. IRQ has already been initiated in the coastal clusters of Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, while other districts are in the process of identifying facilities. The government’s argument is that in coastal regions it is not advisable for vulnerable groups to stay in their homes. Moreover IRQ will, it believes, ensure better palliative care. The fact that those being moved to IRQ facilities are being tested using antigen kits is a key sticking point. “These tests have only about 50% sensitivity and there is concern about false negatives. We may miss out a case in testing and there is every chance of an IRC facility becoming an epicentre,” a panel member said. The fear is that it takes only one inmate or one caregiver to spread infection amongst the vulnerable groups in a facility by the time they test positive. Besides the high risk of contracting Covid-19, committee members also pointed out the psychological needs and physical limitations of vulnerable persons, who may have difficulty adjusting to a new and unfamiliar environment. “The expert committee has asked us to look at it from all dimensions and then decide whether IRQ or reverse quarantine should be emphasized when it comes to dealing with senior citizens. Members said that it should be the last option. The matter is under consideration,” said a senior official with the health department. “Reverse institutional quarantine for elderly persons has to be carried out with special caution. Along with physical concerns, their emotional and behavioural issues can’t be ignored. Constant vigil is needed to identify if anyone becomes symptomatic,” said former IMA president Dr V G Pradeep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/experts-institutional-reverse-quarantine-not-a-safe-option/articleshow/77336106.cms||Preetu Nair
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||HP OK to rapid antigen testing by firms||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed industries to carry out rapid antigen testing to enable early reopening of the industrial units, but with certain riders. The government has made it clear that sample collection, transportation and testing will be the sole responsibility of the industrial unit, factory or commercial establishment, and these will further enter into an agreement with a diagnostic laboratory or hospital having requisite strength of medical and paramedical staff at its own level. The industry associations had sought permission for rapid antigen testing after delays in RT-PCR result cycles impeded reopening of industry. Solan district had reported 110 positive cases till July 1, of which 25 were active. On August 2, the count rose to 690 positive cases, of which 396 are active and 288 have recovered. Majority of industries in Himachal Pradesh are located in Baddi, Barotiwala, Nalagarh (BBN) area of Solan district from where maximum positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the last one month. Seeing the spurt in positive cases from industrial units of BBN area, district administration imposed lockdown in BBN area from July 25 midnight till July 28 morning (6am) to break the spread chain among industrial workers. Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Himachal Pradesh, said this had again hit the pace of economic activity in the biggest industrial corridor of the state. Office-bearers of industries associations of the state from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh in Solan district, Kala Amb in Sirmaur district and Mehatpur in Una district had demanded that new work force coming to the state from other parts of the country should be kept in institutional quarantine for 7 days instead of self or home quarantine and their rapid antigen testing done. Additional chief secretary (Health) R D Dhiman, in a circular, said that real time RT-PCR is the gold standard test for diagnosis of Covid-19. He said that various open and closed RT-PCR platforms (open systems RT-PCR machines, TrueNat and CBNAAT) are currently being used for Covid-19 diagnosis in the state. He said all these platforms require specialised laboratory facilities in terms of equipment, bio safety and bio security. He said that minimum time taken for the test varies between different systems with a minimum of 2-5 hours and the time taken for sample transportation. These issues limit the widespread use of the RT-PCR test and also impede quick augmentation of testing capacity in various settings, he explained. According to Dhiman, it will have to be ensured that details of samples collected and their results are entered on the ICMR portal, for which a formal letter of request shall be sent by the industrial unit, factory or commercial establishment to the concerned chief medical officer. Apart from this, cost of testing and other expenses of the employees and workers shall be borne by the industrial unit, factory or commercial establishment. It has recommended rapid antigen testing of all the workers and employees, and if any positive case is found, then he or she should be isolated, and all the workers and employees should be tested again after 6-7 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-ok-to-rapid-antigen-testing-by-firms/articleshow/77338761.cms||Anand Bodh
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Tata Motors to drive in foreign partner in India passenger car biz||Mumbai: Tata Motors has set the ball rolling to induct a foreign strategic partner in its India passenger vehicle business by transferring the unit to a wholly-owned subsidiary for Rs 9,417 crore. The flagship of the Tata Group is in talks with multiple automakers, among them European and East Asian, to sell up to 49% stake in its India passenger vehicle business, which accounted for 4% (Rs 10,297 crore) of its turnover in fiscal 2020. The move to bring in a strategic partner in the India car business comes 12 years after Tata Motors acquired Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) from Ford for $2.3 billion. The deal catapulted the Indian company into the club of the largest automotive players in the world. “The India passenger car business is something that we want to run and hence, we will not hand over majority control of the unit,” said a top official of Tata Motors. The company has held talks with various Chinese players, including Geely, Changan, and Chery, which is a 50% partner in JLR’s China venture. The deteriorating relations between India and China has impacted deal-making, said a source close to the developments. Tata Motors has also been conversation with a few others, including France’s PSA Group. But with PSA merging with Fiat Chrysler, things have slowed, sources said. Fiat Chrysler already has a manufacturing joint venture with Tata Motors in India. PSA, on the other hand, is making a re-entry into India with plans to launch its Citroen brand next year. The subsidiary, TML Business Analytics Services—to be renamed Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles—will issue fresh shares to Tata Motors towards the Rs 9,417-crore payment. Once the India passenger car business is separated, Tata Motors will be left with the commercial vehicle business and investments in JLR and other subsidiaries. Tata Motors, which started as Telco in September 1945 with the manufacturing of boilers and locomotives, ventured into commercial vehicles in 1954 and, after more than three decades, got into making passenger cars. A couple of years ago, Tata Motors and Volkswagen explored an alliance to develop an economy car, but it didn’t materialise. Whoever comes into TML Business Analytics is expected to bring a fresh lease of life to the struggling, loss-making passenger car business that also houses the electric vehicle unit. “Partnership is the future of our passenger vehicle business,” said the Tata Motors official quoted earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tata-motors-to-drive-in-foreign-partner-in-india-passenger-car-biz/articleshow/77340134.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 4, 2020||Pune||21-year-old stalks woman for a month||Pune: A 21-year-old youth was booked on Sunday on the charge of stalking a woman for the past one month. The woman approached the police after the suspect abused her and robbed her cellphone on Sunday. “The suspect had been stalking the woman since July 1. He used to follow her till the entrance of her workplace and had also forced her to talk with him,” an officer from the Pimpri police said, adding, “We have launched a searched for the suspect.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/21-year-old-stalks-woman-for-a-month/articleshow/77338736.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Now, cops to call shots in mitigation activities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following the surge in Covid-19 cases and reports of people violating restrictions, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has decided to act tough and has given more powers to the state police for mitigation activities. From contact tracing to control of containment zones, the state’s law-enforcement officers will now dictate the terms. The government also revised guidelines for declaring containment zones. Instead of branding an entire ward, only places where primary contacts of positive cases reside would now be assigned as containment zones. As soon as contacts test negative and steps are taken accordingly, containment zone status will be lifted. District police chiefs have been given power to ensure quarantine and maintain strict measures in containment zones. “In case of violations, the police will have the authority to initiate strict action. From now on contact tracing will be carried out by the police. The force will also ensure that people don’t jump quarantine,’’ the chief minister said. Police should collect details of infected persons and their primary and secondary contacts. The bike squad should conduct daily checks on them to ensure strict compliance with quarantine rules. “The police will be responsible for any lapses on this front,’’ he said. Kochi police commissioner Vijay Sakhare has been appointed state nodal officer to coordinate efforts of the police department. Moreover, IAS officers have been named as incident commanders in cluster areas. District police chiefs or city police commissioners will also be part of the team. Police chiefs, collectors and medical officers will review the situation in their respective districts every day, Pinarayi said. The containment zones will be fully under the control of the police. The force and its volunteers will also be responsible for ensuring supply of groceries and other essential commodities to residents in such zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/now-cops-to-call-shots-in-mitigation-activities/articleshow/77345761.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, cops to call shots in mitigation activities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following the surge in Covid-19 cases and reports of people violating restrictions, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has decided to act tough and has given more powers to the state police for mitigation activities. From contact tracing to control of containment zones, the state’s law-enforcement officers will now dictate the terms. The government also revised guidelines for declaring containment zones. Instead of branding an entire ward, only places where primary contacts of positive cases reside would now be assigned as containment zones. As soon as contacts test negative and steps are taken accordingly, containment zone status will be lifted. District police chiefs have been given power to ensure quarantine and maintain strict measures in containment zones. “In case of violations, the police will have the authority to initiate strict action. From now on contact tracing will be carried out by the police. The force will also ensure that people don’t jump quarantine,’’ the chief minister said. Police should collect details of infected persons and their primary and secondary contacts. The bike squad should conduct daily checks on them to ensure strict compliance with quarantine rules. “The police will be responsible for any lapses on this front,’’ he said. Kochi police commissioner Vijay Sakhare has been appointed state nodal officer to coordinate efforts of the police department. Moreover, IAS officers have been named as incident commanders in cluster areas. District police chiefs or city police commissioners will also be part of the team. Police chiefs, collectors and medical officers will review the situation in their respective districts every day, Pinarayi said. The containment zones will be fully under the control of the police. The force and its volunteers will also be responsible for ensuring supply of groceries and other essential commodities to residents in such zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-cops-to-call-shots-in-mitigation-activities/articleshow/77336131.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Now, cops to call shots in mitigation activities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following the surge in Covid-19 cases and reports of people violating restrictions, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has decided to act tough and has given more powers to the state police for mitigation activities. From contact tracing to control of containment zones, the state’s law-enforcement officers will now dictate the terms. The government also revised guidelines for declaring containment zones. Instead of branding an entire ward, only places where primary contacts of positive cases reside would now be assigned as containment zones. As soon as contacts test negative and steps are taken accordingly, containment zone status will be lifted. District police chiefs have been given power to ensure quarantine and maintain strict measures in containment zones. “In case of violations, the police will have the authority to initiate strict action. From now on contact tracing will be carried out by the police. The force will also ensure that people don’t jump quarantine,’’ the chief minister said. Police should collect details of infected persons and their primary and secondary contacts. The bike squad should conduct daily checks on them to ensure strict compliance with quarantine rules. “The police will be responsible for any lapses on this front,’’ he said. Kochi police commissioner Vijay Sakhare has been appointed state nodal officer to coordinate efforts of the police department. Moreover, IAS officers have been named as incident commanders in cluster areas. District police chiefs or city police commissioners will also be part of the team. Police chiefs, collectors and medical officers will review the situation in their respective districts every day, Pinarayi said. The containment zones will be fully under the control of the police. The force and its volunteers will also be responsible for ensuring supply of groceries and other essential commodities to residents in such zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-cops-to-call-shots-in-mitigation-activities/articleshow/77345762.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Film producers get ‘active’, form new assn||Chennai: With Covid lockdown shutting down cinema halls leading to a backlog of films ready for release, a section of Tamil film producers has launched Tamil Film Active Producers Association to address the industry’s problems. The new association will have as members only those producers who have produced at least three films in the last five years. “The new association is in no way in conflict with the existing Tamil Film Producers’ Council (TFPC), which will remain the parent body. This has been formed to protect the interest of active film producers, whose requirement for producing, marketing and distributing requires much higher focus and attention,” director and producer P Bharathirajaa said in a statement. TFPC has a little over 1,300 members. While Tamil film industry rolls out around 200 films every year, the industry gets about 125-130 first time producers, attracted by promises and glamour, most of whom end up as one-film wonders. “Only 60–100 members are regular producers rolling out new projects consistently. While TFPC is a body for all members, the interests of active producers are seldom focused on. The senior members are more interested in the welfare measures they get from the council,” an active producer, part of the core team that is pushing for the new body, told TOI. Such an arrangement exists in Telugu film industry, which despite having Telugu Film Producers Council, also has Active Telugu Film Producers Guild. “There are pressing issues including resumption of shooting, opening of cinema halls, as well as high GST rates and local entertainment tax and we need an active body to take it up with the state government,” another producer, who did not want to be named, said. Bharathirajaa, along with director and producer S A Chandrasekaran, called on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami last Friday to request him to launch the new association. But as opposition to the new move came from a section of producers, who also sought to politicize the development, the chief minister asked the industry veterans to go ahead with the launch, without his presence, industry sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/film-producers-get-active-form-new-assn/articleshow/77338801.cms||D Govardan
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New bonds forged as doctors, nurses tie rakhis on patients, cops give out masks||KOLKATA: This pandemic saw a different kind of Raksha Bandhan celebrations, with a special bond being forged among people. While at a city hospital, nurses-turned-sisters tied rakhis on Covid patients’ hands, cops went around the city, giving away masks to people on the roads and taking forward their #maskupkolkata campaign on Monday. At AMRI Mukundapur, around 16 nurses and four doctors tied rakhis on 20 patients being treated in the isolation wards. The nurses also tied rakhi on the doctors on Covid duty. “We felt happy doing this. Even the patients seemed elated when we tied the rakhis. They had probably thought that since they were Covid positive, no one would tie rakhi on them this year,” said Kuni Hembram, who was among the nurses who participated in the initiative at the Covid ward. Doctors said the initiative was meant to lift the spirits of Covid patients admitted to the isolation wards of the hospital and were unable to meet their families and siblings on this special day. “We know these little things matter. It makes us glad to know our patients are not only happy with the treatment but also for the measures we took to make their stay a little more satisfactory,” said AMRI group CEO Rupak Barua. On the roads, cops distributed masks to those not wearing one. “We gave it to pedestrians, bus drivers and whoever we found without masks. We felt distribution of masks was more important than tying rakhis,” said a police officer. Several patients staying in home isolation shifted to digital celebrations by tying the strings of bond over video calls and sending restaurant food through delivery apps. “My brothers usually come home on this day and I cook their favourite dishes. But this year, I sent them rakhi wishes over video call and sent biryani to their homes through a food delivery app,” said a Covid-positive patient, who is currently under home isolation in Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-bonds-forged-as-docs-nurses-tie-rakhis-on-patients-cops-give-out-masks/articleshow/77338769.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 4, 2020||Goa||1,000 govt staff working on contract basis for 20 yrs||Panaji: There are about 1,000 workers employed on contract basis in various government departments and some have been working as contract labourers for over 20 years, it has been found. In the secretariat itself, there are about 20 such people who have been working for 18 to 20 years on contract despite their plea for regularisation. The electricity department has maximum number of people, 490, working on contract. One contractor labourer said there are several cases wherein people, after a contract period of four to five years have been regularised. However, he and some others, who have put in over 10 years of service, continue to be in unstable employment. “We have petitioned every authority possible, but we are yet to see our demand fulfilled,” he said. He said they had suggested to the government that, at the least, their candidature be considered when vacancies are available. “But people like us are conveniently forgotten because whoever heads the ministry has people from his constituency, voters, for the jobs in their department,” he said. Ex-president of Goa Government Employees’ Association (GGEA) John Nazareth, said during his tenure, in several cases, they had petitioned the government to at least regularise people who have worked for many years. “Hire and fire is the policy adopted by all governments. It serves their purpose to have people appointed on contract basis as contract employees will not dare oppose them or decline to do a job which may not fit into the rule book,” Nazareth said. Despite their opposition, he said, the practice of hiring people on contract continues unhindered. A government officer said hiring staff on contract basis helps cut costs. Also, a department can recruit on contract, if there are no regular vacancies for certain jobs, and approval for the same is unlikely to be granted. “Such appointees continue to work for years together. The longer they spend on contract basis, the lesser their chances of getting regularised as they may not fulfil eligibility criteria as and when vacancies are advertised,” he said. Some, he said, may not be able to apply even if vacancies are created in their department as they will not be able to meet the educational qualification requirement and, more importantly, age criteria. “In such cases, unless the rules are amended, they stand no chance of getting permanent status,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1000-govt-staff-working-on-contract-basis-for-20-yrs/articleshow/77339607.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||Traffic goes haywire as people throng roads on Raksha Bandhan||Bhopal: Almost all major city roads witnessed traffic jam on Monday, the last day of lockdown, as people came out in large numbers on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan to visit their relatives and celebrate the festival. Heavy traffic jam and long queues of vehicles were seen on major roads including Kolar, between Roshanpura-Polytechnic Square to Kamla Park, VIP Road, Ret Ghat, Sultania Hospital Road in front of Talaiya police station and from Bairagarh to VIP Guest house in Koh-e-Fiza.Initially, police counselled people to return home and cases were registered against those, who did not follow the order. Later, police barricaded the roads and conducted strict checking due to which people were stuck in jams. An angry car-borne couple had a scuffle with Shyamla Hills police at Polytechnic Square when they were not allowed to pass. Huge traffic jam was seen on Kolar main road since afternoon as there is only one point of entry and exit. A large number of cars and two-wheelers were stuck in long queue and the cops struggled to clear the jam. People started driving in the wrong lane, which worsened the situation. In the evening, Kolar police barricaded the entry point resulting in a major jam. SHO Kolar Sudhir Arjaria said that despite lockdown, people came out on roads in their vehicles in large numbers. At around 6pm, police stopped traffic on the Sarvdharm Bridge by barricading due to which long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road. People were instructed to return homes and the jam was cleared around 7.30pm. Similar was the condition on almost all major city roads. Heavy traffic jam was witnessed on the road in front of Talaiya police station. A large number of vehicles were stuck in a jam from Polytechnic Square to Kamla Park and on the other side till Banganga Square. ASP Zone-1 Rajat Saklecha said that a large number of people came out on city roads on Monday to celebrate Raksha Bandhan festival with their relatives despite the lockdown still in force. Police counselled people to return to their homes. Cases were registered against those, who did not follow the order. Box- Videos go viral as couple fight with copsA couple entered into a heated argument with cops at Polytechnic Square when their car was stopped. A scuffle took place between the man and SHO Shyamla Hills police station Tarun Singh Bhati. Videos of the incident went viral on social media. Later, CSP Bittu Sharma reached the spot and the couple was taken to police station. SHO Bhati said that the couple had their two children along with them. They were stopped at Polytechnic Square. However, they started shouting at police saying they have no right to stop them. When police pointed out that they were not wearing masks, they started arguing. A police van was called from Shyamla Hills police station. However, the man was not ready to sit in the police vehicle and cops had to use mild force to make him sit in a police vehicle. A case was registered against them for violating lockdown order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/traffic-goes-haywire-as-people-throng-roads-on-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/77338798.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cong would like to fight civic polls together with Sena, NCP: Thorat||NAGPUR: In an early indication of possible tie up of coalition partners in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Congress leader and Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat stated his party would like to fight municipal corporation and council polls together with alliance partners. Speaking to the media during his visit here on Monday for reviewing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president clarified the talks in this regard were yet to begin. The civic polls in major cities like Nagpur, Pune and Mumbai are slated in 2022. Surprisingly, he refused to comment on any issues related to controversy over investigations in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death saying he hadn’t studied the issue. On grievances lodged by former Congress minister Anees Ahmed regarding inflated power bills, Thorat, who was accompanied by energy minister Nitin Raut and sports minister Sunil Kedar, said complaints were pouring in from entire state and the issue would be discussed in forthcoming cabinet meeting. “Power sector also needs funds to survive. We will try to find out on how some respite could be provided to consumers,” he said. He stated the charges of suppression of their democratic rights made by opposition leaders, including ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Praveen Darekar, were baseless as the entire administration was busy in fighting pandemic. “We are working as per the government resolution (GR) issued by Fadnavis government. They can’t complain now.” He denied Congress was playing politics on Maratha reservation issue, currently being heard by Supreme Court, and said under former CM Ashok Chavan, who heads a sub-committee on the subject, regular meetings were held with community leaders. He said revenue of the entire state was hit hard by the coronavirus outbreak as resources were depleted. “The government however fulfilled its commitment of offering loan waiver to marginal farmers to the tune of Rs 18,000 crore so far. We also made the biggest ever purchase of cotton and milk so far to save farmers from becoming bankrupt due to pandemic.” Refusing rumours of Sarathi Trust post being taken over by deputy CM Ajit Pawar from Vijay Wadettiwar, Thorat clarified the Congress would name a new incumbent to the post by Tuesday. He also said some technical snag was delaying the renewing of tenure of three statutory development boards in state and the government was firm on restarting their functioning. He denied there was any rift between coalition partners and claimed they were working in tandem and focusing on making the state corona-free. Earlier, Thorat interacted with Congress MLAs, MPs and leaders, including Vikas Thakre and Raju Parve and discussed various issues like implementation of unlocking and strengthening party organisation, besides pandemic. ‘Govt will stand with Mundhe’ Balasaheb Thorat stated government would always stand behind administration doing good work while commenting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and charges levelled against him by BJP corporators on various issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-would-like-to-fight-civic-polls-together-with-sena-ncp-thorat/articleshow/77339603.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Three more Covid deaths, 79 positive in a day||Yavatmal: Three more deaths, one each from Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Pusad town, were reported on Monday, taking the death toll to 35. Apart from the three deaths, 79 persons tested positive. The deceased are a 66-year-old woman from Kumbharpura, a 75-year-old man from Mahadev Nagar in Pandharkawda and a 74-year-old man from Prabhat Nagar in Pusad. Among the 79 positive patients, 36 are men and 43 women. Eight patients were discharged on Monday. Currently, 126 presumptive cases are in GMC’s isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-more-covid-deaths-79-positive-in-a-day/articleshow/77334307.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||CM to interact with Class X, XII passouts in Aug 6 webinar||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant will be interacting through a webinar with around 1,000 students, who have recently passed their Class X and XII state board exams, on August 6 from 6pm to 7pm. The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools to nominate two students each to participate in the event. The students will provide their mobile numbers and will connect to the webinar using a link sent on their phones. “The computer teachers are directed to guide the students in getting connected to the webinar in case they face any difficulty. The students will attend the seminar from their residence only. The event is being held on the WebEx platform and hence they will have to download the WebEx app,” DoE has told the schools. Schools have been asked to submit the Google forms with the details of the participating students by August 4. Once the data of the participating students is collected, the link to the event will be sent to the heads of the institutions and the students on Thursday morning itself, the directorate has said. “The students will have to start connecting to the link latest by 5.15pm on August 6 so as to avoid any last minute hassle,” education director Santosh Amonkar has told schools. Amonkar has also told schools that all other school students too should be asked to watch the interaction live on Facebook and other social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-interact-with-class-x-xii-passouts-in-aug-6-webinar/articleshow/77339610.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Agents get e-passes approved through government ‘connections’||CHENNAI: Common citizens struggle to get e-passes, even for genuine reasons, but some travel agencies and cab operators get them issued easily through ‘connections’ at district collectorates and Greater Chennai Corporation. This reporter, seeking an e-pass for return of stranded relatives, marriage and a health emergency, approached three taxi operators in Chennai who promised to get the document for Rs 250-Rs 300 per head over and above the base fare (Rs 10-Rs 20 depending on the vehicle model). “It’s ok even if you don’t have hospital records. We can apply for a pass to Kerala and drop you at Madurai,” said Chennai-based travel agent Rajamanickam. Claiming that Tamil Nadu authorities didn’t cross-check documents much for inter-state travel, he said applying from a random address would get the job done. Vasu, another travel agent, said he could transport even seven people in a Xylo, meant for four, and demanded Rs 1,500 for an approved e-pass through an internet centre with ‘connections’ in government. All he wanted was an ID card like Aadhaar or driving licence with a Chennai address. It was not necessary for the person to travel in the car as it was only for e-pass approval. Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) mandates local address proof for such travel. The last agency approached by this reporter, Ragavendra Travels, said it could arrange passes to and from Kanyakumari without hassle and didn’t charge extra for e-pass approval. Asked how it was able to do this when applications for genuine reasons were rejected, staff at the agency said what was entered in the description column mattered and that they had learned how to get it right. J Ramanujam of TN Call Taxi Operators Association said some drivers from other districts had started taking regular trips by pooling in people. “Just like share service, people travel together by paying their share,” he said. Every day, on an average, he got 10-15 such calls but avoided many as they had invalid supporting documents. TNeGA officials said their role ended with facilitating the application process and transferring it to respective district authorities to take the final call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agents-get-e-passes-approved-through-govt-connections/articleshow/77338819.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Farmers come up with rainfall data||KOZHIKODE: To make up for the absence of a localized rain monitoring mechanism in Wayanad, despite the district witnessing a series of rainfall-induced disasters like landslides over the last two years, the soil conservation department here has set up a local network of 55 rain gauges for hyperlocal rainfall checks. While government departments and agencies have less than 10 rainfall monitoring stations, the district soil conservation department has come up with an improvised solution by putting to use the rain gauges set up by small coffee-tea estates and other farmers, who have installed private rain gauges on their farms for agricultural purposes. With the wide network of 55 rain gauges, the department is now able to monitor precipitation in a localized manner and it is compiling data in a single graph and sharing it with district emergency operations centre and other departments. "Given the topographic diversity and varied rainfall patterns in various areas, we need more localized rainfall monitoring and so we roped in coffee farmers and other small scale plantations who have rain gauges on their premises to monitor rainfall for fertilizer applications," said district soil conservation officer PU Das. A single unit for measuring rainfall (in mm) was adopted for the entire district as many were making measurements in units like cm and inch. Now, department staff call up all private rain gauge owners or visit premises to take readings of daily rainfall which is taken at a standard time of 8am. "One interesting factor that has emerged from our observation of daily rainfall data is that there are four rainfall zones in the district with a high rainfall intensity zone comprising Chooralmala, the area in Padinjarathara where the control shaft of the Banasura Sagar dam is located, Vythiri, Pozhuthana and Periya. The other three rainfall zones, including Mananthavady and surrounding areas, Ambalavayal and nearby areas and Sultan Bathery have received lesser rain in descending order," he added. Das said localized rainfall monitoring will help closely track high intensity rainfall events in a particular location and help authorities react appropriately. Also, data would come handy for developmental planning and bringing changes in cropping patterns depending on precipitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/farmers-come-up-with-rainfall-data/articleshow/77337282.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Farmers come up with rainfall data||KOZHIKODE: To make up for the absence of a localized rain monitoring mechanism in Wayanad, despite the district witnessing a series of rainfall-induced disasters like landslides over the last two years, the soil conservation department here has set up a local network of 55 rain gauges for hyperlocal rainfall checks. While government departments and agencies have less than 10 rainfall monitoring stations, the district soil conservation department has come up with an improvised solution by putting to use the rain gauges set up by small coffee-tea estates and other farmers, who have installed private rain gauges on their farms for agricultural purposes. With the wide network of 55 rain gauges, the department is now able to monitor precipitation in a localized manner and it is compiling data in a single graph and sharing it with district emergency operations centre and other departments. "Given the topographic diversity and varied rainfall patterns in various areas, we need more localized rainfall monitoring and so we roped in coffee farmers and other small scale plantations who have rain gauges on their premises to monitor rainfall for fertilizer applications," said district soil conservation officer PU Das. A single unit for measuring rainfall (in mm) was adopted for the entire district as many were making measurements in units like cm and inch. Now, department staff call up all private rain gauge owners or visit premises to take readings of daily rainfall which is taken at a standard time of 8am. "One interesting factor that has emerged from our observation of daily rainfall data is that there are four rainfall zones in the district with a high rainfall intensity zone comprising Chooralmala, the area in Padinjarathara where the control shaft of the Banasura Sagar dam is located, Vythiri, Pozhuthana and Periya. The other three rainfall zones, including Mananthavady and surrounding areas, Ambalavayal and nearby areas and Sultan Bathery have received lesser rain in descending order," he added. Das said localized rainfall monitoring will help closely track high intensity rainfall events in a particular location and help authorities react appropriately. Also, data would come handy for developmental planning and bringing changes in cropping patterns depending on precipitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/farmers-come-up-with-rainfall-data/articleshow/77345509.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Farmers come up with rainfall data||KOZHIKODE: To make up for the absence of a localized rain monitoring mechanism in Wayanad, despite the district witnessing a series of rainfall-induced disasters like landslides over the last two years, the soil conservation department here has set up a local network of 55 rain gauges for hyperlocal rainfall checks. While government departments and agencies have less than 10 rainfall monitoring stations, the district soil conservation department has come up with an improvised solution by putting to use the rain gauges set up by small coffee-tea estates and other farmers, who have installed private rain gauges on their farms for agricultural purposes. With the wide network of 55 rain gauges, the department is now able to monitor precipitation in a localized manner and it is compiling data in a single graph and sharing it with district emergency operations centre and other departments. "Given the topographic diversity and varied rainfall patterns in various areas, we need more localized rainfall monitoring and so we roped in coffee farmers and other small scale plantations who have rain gauges on their premises to monitor rainfall for fertilizer applications," said district soil conservation officer PU Das. A single unit for measuring rainfall (in mm) was adopted for the entire district as many were making measurements in units like cm and inch. Now, department staff call up all private rain gauge owners or visit premises to take readings of daily rainfall which is taken at a standard time of 8am. "One interesting factor that has emerged from our observation of daily rainfall data is that there are four rainfall zones in the district with a high rainfall intensity zone comprising Chooralmala, the area in Padinjarathara where the control shaft of the Banasura Sagar dam is located, Vythiri, Pozhuthana and Periya. The other three rainfall zones, including Mananthavady and surrounding areas, Ambalavayal and nearby areas and Sultan Bathery have received lesser rain in descending order," he added. Das said localized rainfall monitoring will help closely track high intensity rainfall events in a particular location and help authorities react appropriately. Also, data would come handy for developmental planning and bringing changes in cropping patterns depending on precipitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/farmers-come-up-with-rainfall-data/articleshow/77345510.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||In a first, IISER Bhopal completes aloe vera’s genome sequencing...on WFH mode||BHOPAL: A team of IISER Bhopal has completed the world’s first genome sequence of aloe vera plant, which will help in getting better medicinal usage from the plant. The study was also recently published in an international biology science journal BioRvxiv. The IISER research team claimed that the analysis of this largest angiosperm plant was performed through work from home strategy during the lockdown and Covid period. The work provided valuable insights into the genomic evolution of aloe vera and molecular basis of its drought tolerance capabilities. This work is also significant since the sequencing of this one of the most challenging genomes was completed by a single lab compared to similar large genomes like wheat, which could be completed with efforts from multiple labs in 19 countries and took more than 10 years to complete the genome at a cost of around $75 million. Other members of the research team were PhD students — Shubham Jaiswal, Abhisek Chakraborty, Shruti Mahajan and Sudhir Kumar. Highlighting the importance of the study, associate professor Department of Biological Sciences IISER-Bhopal, Vineet Sharma said the study reports the first and complete draft genome sequence of aloe vera species. “It is the first genome from the Asphodelaceae plant family. It is the largest angiosperm genome sequenced till date (all crops are generally angiosperms),” said Sharma. He led the team. He further said that Ayurvedic treatment depends on medicinal extracts from this plant and its genome provides an opportunity to better understand the unique properties of aloe vera. “We completed the first draft genome sequence of the aloe vera using a hybrid approach (short-read and long-read) comprising 86,177 coding genes. We performed a comprehensive comparative genomic analysis of aloe vera with other available monocot species genomes,” said Sharma. He added that the significant outcome was the revelation of signs of adaptive evolution specifically in the genes involved in drought stress tolerance, CAM pathway (lead to efficient water and CO2 usage), and plant circadian rhythm (control CAM pathway), which contribute to the unique phenotypes of this species. “The genes involved in DNA damage response were also positively selected in aloe vera helping in better survival against several biotic and abiotic stress conditions. This work provides valuable insights into the genomic basis of the evolution of drought tolerance capabilities in aloe vera. About the study, he said that it is the largest genome sequenced using Oxford nanopore technology in the world. “Hybrid approach of short-read and long-read sequencing and assembly. The assembly was challenging because of the large size and high repeat content,” he said. As aloe vera has high antibacterial and antiviral properties, the genome sequence could be a milestone in developing better medicines in the future,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-a-first-iiser-completes-aloe-veras-genome-sequencing-on-wfh-mode/articleshow/77338841.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Sweet shops make profit from online orders||Kolkata: Though many brothers and sisters in the city, who live in different houses, chose to stay away from each other to keep Covid at bay, it didn’t stop them from ordering sweets online and sending them to each other to celebrate Raksha Bandhan. The sweet shops were left smiling at the end of the day as they mostly registered over three times the sale that they could achieve even on weekends for the last four months. The sweet sellers said they didn’t expect the sales to be so good as they ran out of stock by the afternoon and had to make sweets afresh to meet the evening rush of buyers whose orders had been taken in advance in the afternoon. The only difference noticed this time was the crowd of food aggregators who gathered at the shops to collect the sweet boxes which had been ordered online by people for home delivery, unlike other years when sweet shops would be teeming with a large number of buyers for this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sweet-shops-make-profit-from-online-orders/articleshow/77338829.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 4, 2020||India||175 on guest list for bhoomi pujan||AYODHYA: In all, 175 guests have been invited for Ram temple bhoomi pujan to be held in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. In a press statement, Champat Rai, the general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, said that 135 of these invitees are saints from 36 spiritual traditions of India and Nepal. "Shri Mahesh Bhagchandka & Shri Pawan Singhal from family of Shri Ashok ji Singhal will be Mukhya Yajman (main worshippers) in Bhumi Pujan. PM Shri @narendramodi, Shri Mohanji Bhagwat, Pujya Nritya Gopaldasji Maharaj, Governor Smt Anandiben Patel and CM Shri @myogiadityanath will be present on stage," the trust said in a tweet. "Some eminent citizens of Ayodhya have also been invited," it said. "There are certain practical difficulties in the arrival of some guests due to the Corona pandemic. Arrival of people who are aged above 90 years is not appropriate under present circumstances. Pujya Shankaracharya ji & many Pujya Sant have expressed inability to attend due to Chaturmas," Rai's statement said. "Sacred soil from more than 2000 teerth sthan and water from more than 100 rivers has been brought to Ayodhya for Bhoomi Pujan. Pujya Shankaracharya and Sants have sent many auspicious materials for Bhoomi Pujan," he said. All invitees will be in Ayodhya by Tuesday evening. “Many have already arrived, including VHP leader Dinesh Chand, mahants from different monastic orders of Haridwar. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi among others are expected to arrive on Tuesday,” he said. Rai also said it was “unfathomable” that some people were “influenced by green clothes”. It’s not a matter pertaining to PMO, CM or the Trust. The priest has been deciding the colour of clothes as per the day. He does not make changes under anyone’s influence, he said. Earlier, Acharya Satyendra Das, chief priest of the makeshift temple on Sunday had stated that the idol of Ram Lalla will dress as per the day's significance. “For Monday, it would be white, for Tuesday it would be red and for Wednesday it would be green clothes. We have also kept an option of yellow and saffron too,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/175-on-guest-list-for-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77340877.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Covid warriors rescue sr citizens||Kolkata: Two elderly persons who had been lying on the pavement with none to take them to the hospital after they were suspected to be Covid-infected were rescued on Sunday and Monday. Both are undergoing treatment at two different government hospitals. On Sunday, a caller dialed the Covid Care Network (CCN) Helpline number saying that an elderly man was lying on the pavement in Sovabazar and the person had Covid symptoms. On reaching the spot, CCN volunteers found the man had been taking shelter in the premises of a nearby temple for months. But when he developed symptoms like fever and cough, he was asked to leave the temple. “He is about 70-year-old. He was taken to MR Bangur Hospital. His Covid test was done and it came out to be negative. The patient has now been shifted to Vidyasagar hospital for treatment,” said Sayantan Chakraborty. The a young doctor, a Covid survivor, is a volunteer with CCN. On Monday, CCN got another call from locals at Girish Park about another elderly man, who was lying unwell on the pavement. Locals said the man lives in the footpath of the locality but has fallen ill about about five days back and they suspected it could be Covid-infection. Theatre personality Debshnkar Haldar, who is also volunteer of CCN, reached the spot with a fellow volunteer. “By this time Abhjit Chowdhury, who is a key person in CCN, had organized an ambulance and arranged for treatment at NRS Medical College,” said Haldar. But the ambulance drivers did not touch the patient initially as his clothes were soiled. But some locals came forward and cleaned the man. The man is undergoing treatment at NRS Hospital and a Covid test will also be conducted.CCN was set by like-minded group of people — many being Covid survivors and their family members, doctors, medical students and social activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-warriors-rescue-sr-citizens/articleshow/77338777.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal tally hits 2,818 as 115 test +ve||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally reached 2,818 on Monday, with reports of 115 new cases in a day even as 99 recovered, taking the number of cured cases to 1,658. Of the total positive cases, 1,128 are active, 12 have died while 18 have migrated out of the state. A total of 1,51,574 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till now, of which 1,48,206 have tested negative while results of 550 samples are awaited. As many as 32 cases were reported from Solan, 30 from Mandi, 26 from Una, nine from Bilaspur, six from Kangra, four each from Chamba and Sirmaur, and two each from Hamirpur and Shimla. Of the 99 patients who recovered, 33 are from Sirmaur, 19 from Kangra, 16 from Shimla, 14 from Mandi, six from Hamirpur, four from Solan, three each from Chamba and Una, and one from Bilaspur. Solan district has reported 722 cases (421 active, 292 recovery and nine of migration).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-tally-hits-2818-as-115-test-ve/articleshow/77338846.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Late-night rain lashes Kolkata, more likely today, tomorrow||KOLKATA: The city and the rest of south Bengal are set to be lashed by rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, with occasional spells of heavy showers predicted in the coastal districts. On Monday, the city received some rain after 9.30pm. Triggered by a low-pressure trough — the second to form this monsoon after a barren July — which is set to form over north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, the showers could lose intensity by the second half of Wednesday, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). The rain could bring down the temperature, which touched 37.1°C on Monday, five notches above normal. “So far this monsoon, we have had just one weak low-pressure that didn’t trigger adequate rain. This is the first one to form over Bay of Bengal and is likely to be a stronger one. We expect light to moderate showers across Kolkata, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogly, East and West Burdwan and Nadia on Tuesday under its impact. On Wednesday, the showers could strike the western districts of Bankura, Purulia and Birbhum,” said RMC director GK Das. He added the system could move towards Chattisgarh on Thursday and cease to have an impact on Bengal. The Met office expects another low-pressure to form over Bay of Bengal around August 10. But it said it was still too early to predict its impact. Showers have been sporadic and inconsistent this monsoon. “We have long, dry periods during which the mercury has been shooting up. This week was no different and the day temperature has remained high. Unless we have consistent rain, the mercury will not slide down,” said a meteorologist. The city had been largely dry since last week with the mercury hovering around 34°C-35°C. Kolkata, in fact, recorded the highest temperature of the year after the onset of monsoon. Even as the monsoon trough moved north, the northern districts received heavy showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/late-night-rain-lashes-city-more-likely-today-tomorrow/articleshow/77338803.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||135 test positive in Amravati||Amravati: Recording its second highest single-day spike of 135, the district took its Covid count to 2598 on Tuesday. With 83 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1830. This left 698 active cases, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt also posted its highest single day count of 80 to take its tally to 606. The NandgaonPeth MIDC today experienced a Covid blast of 27 cases — 12, 9, 8 and 6 came from Chandur Railway, Dhamangaon Railway, Achalpur and Chandur Bazar tehsils. Mahuli Jehangir posted three and Anjangaon Surji posted four cases while two cases each came from Karanja Lad in Washim district, Teosa, Bhatkuli and Rahatgaon. Daryapur, Masod, Bodna, Morshi and Kekatpur reported a case each. In the city, the highest 11 cases came from Badnera which took its own tally to 212. New Ambedkar Nagar reported four cases while three each came from Sarojnagar and Itwara. A brace each came from Frezerpura, Chilam Chhaoni, Belpura, Bhovate Layout and Tirupatinagar. Twenty-two other localities reported a case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/135-test-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/77357961.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Fund, manpower crunch hits milk supply to children||BENGALURU: The government’s plan to deliver milk powder to homes of children has been hit by logistical challenges and a resource crunch. As Ksheera Bhagya (milk for children scheme) has been temporarily suspended due to closure of schools, kids haven’t got food and milk as part of midday meals in June and July. The government plans to supply milk powder in a 0.5-kg pack along with a kit containing 5kg rice and 1.5kg tur dal. The education department tied up with RDPR and decided to use the Covid task force at the gram panchayat level. While this may boost immunity of children against the pandemic and help unions manage overproduction of milk, it’s costing the state exchequer Rs 1,978 crore for 2020-21 and the education department is seeking Rs 320 crore for now to roll out the scheme. “The proposal awaits finance department approval,” said SR Umashankar, principal secretary, department of primary and secondary education. The finance department said the government has decided to freeze all spending, except for Covid operations. “It’s difficult to say whether the milk scheme will get funds unless it’s directly brought under Covid mitigation scheme. We’re yet take a decision,” a finance department official said. The scheme will benefit 55 lakh school children. The half-kilogram milk powder translates to 4 lakh litres daily from Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) whose inventory is piling up. This is apart from 3.5 lakh litres milk meant for anganwadi children. The education department officials said they hope the finance department will be obliged to give its nod considering importance of the scheme. “This scheme will clear inventories in all 14 milk unions,” said MT Kulkarni, director (marketing), KMF. The daily procurement of milk is 88 lakh litres compared to the average of 60 lakh litres. Meanwhile, RDPR is having trouble recruiting volunteers to the GP Covid task force. Education department officials requested RDPR to spare autorickshaws meant for spreading awareness about the virus to deliver milk packets and food kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fund-manpower-crunch-hits-milk-supply-to-children/articleshow/77338082.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: This Covid positive doctor is busy leading Zoom sessions||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For Dr Kavitha Ravi, it came as a shock that she had tested positive for Covid-19. However, she took it in her stride and is now busy taking Zoom sessions on Covid-19 for her colleagues, doctors and also for the Indian Medical Association (IMA) from her isolation room at the Government Medical College Hospital in the state capital. Dr Kavitha said she was doing Zoom meetings with the doctors and also with the members of the women’s wing of the IMA. “The doctors are stressed out due to their relentless work in the pandemic situation. I had a Zoom session on ‘Covid and Stress’ the other day. Even an online entertainment quiz was conducted by the IMA, which I chaired,” said Dr Kavitha, who is an additional professor in pathology, Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. As a doctor, she has learnt to live with Covid and is now advising her peers on the need for maintaining courage and instilling confidence among them. “I have been involved in the Zoom sessions right from the beginning of the pandemic and I have addressed about 50 such sessions. Hence, I thought I should continue with it so that I can covey my experience while in isolation,” she added. She had come to the state capital last week on official duty. On last Thursday, symptoms like fever, sore throat and headache developed. “When I gave the swab for testing, I was not worried. I have been wearing masks, using sanitizers and was always maintaining social distancing. Also, I was involved in giving awareness on the need for taking precautions. Hence, I was sure that I will not test positive,” she said. However, Dr Kavitha said she was tensed while attending the call from the hospital. “When I was told that I have tested positive, it was a big shock for me. I became so worried because I had a coronary angioplasty recently and hence belonged to the high-risk category. I called up my mother and brother and informed them. They were literally crying over the phone. I lost all my confidence and my children suddenly fell silent,” said Dr Kavitha. It has been four days in the isolation room now and she said getting through the first day was difficult. “Even though I have been admitted to hospital earlier, this is the first time I was being isolated. My children video-called me soon I entered the room and it was a big solace,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-covid-ve-doc-is-busy-leading-zoom-sessions/articleshow/77345606.cms||Rajiv G
August 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Colleges get permission to admit 10% additional first year students||PANAJI: With over 15,300 students clearing the Class XII state board exam for 2020, the academic council of Goa University (GU) has decided to permit colleges to admit an additional 10% students to the first year BA, BCom, BSc and other self-financed programmes during the academic year 2020-21. The council also said that for the BSc programme, the strength of a division can go up to 80 students, versus the earlier limit of 60. The intake for BA and BCom will continue to be 60 per division. Three academic council meetings were held on July 23, 24 and 27 where issues related to first year admissions in affiliated colleges for the new academic year were discussed. “No additional students shall be permitted beyond 10% of the sanctioned intake. Consequently, no wait lists are to be maintained,” GU registrar YV Reddy said in a circular issued on Monday. He, however, said that colleges which have applied for additional divisions will not be permitted to admit these additional 10% in any division. “Colleges will be required to apply separately for opening an additional division by requesting for NOC from the directorate of higher education and applying for affiliation to the university with prescribed affiliation fees,” Reddy said. Over the last two years, over 89% students have been clearing the state board’s Class XII public exam. Additionally, around 1,000 students in Goa, who clear Class XII through other boards like CBSE, also opt to join GU affiliated colleges. The university’s academic council, during its meeting last month, also approved the request to increase class strength from 60 to 80 for third year BA, BCom and BSc programmes. This has been done to accommodate students with backlogs. As a one-time measure, the council also approved the increase in batch size for the third year project paper from the existing 5 students to 10 students for the academic year 2020-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colleges-get-permission-to-admit-10-additional-first-year-students/articleshow/77339639.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Why no Std XI CAP for Ngp rural jr colleges: HC||NAGPUR: Censuring Maharashtra government for discriminating between colleges in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday sternly asked it to explain why colleges in Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) were not included in Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for Standard XI. The bench’s oral poser came after government counsel argued that unlike Mumbai and Pune, colleges under NMRDA lack internet connectivity and other resources. While adjourning hearing till August 6, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor sternly reminded the government of its own tall claims of having net connectivity in entire state, including in remote areas of backward Gadchiroli district like Aheri, Alapalli and Bhamragarh towns. Alleging rampant commercialization of Standard XII education due to nexus between junior colleges and coaching classes, about 30 junior colleges from the city led by New English High School Association filed a PIL contending that many no-grant institutions have mushroomed in NMRDA areas, outside Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits. According to petitioners’ counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni, a majority of the colleges in NMRDA area have illegal tie-ups with private classes. Students and parents prefer them as they don’t have to regularly attend lectures. Even the biometric machines for students’ attendance are installed in coaching classes in the city, instead of college classrooms in rural areas. The nexus runs so deep that admissions were made even before Standard X results are announced and students only need to join tuitions while their college admission is facilitated by class owners. Since all these colleges were not included in CAP, there’s no watch on their illegal activities, which results in genuine colleges in city suffering due to severe shortage of students. The petitioners have demanded thorough inquiry into all 200 colleges under NMRDA and 500 under NMC jurisdiction, including checking biometric attendance, number of teachers present since last few years and infrastructure to handle student numbers. JR COLLEGE INTAKE IN NMC & NMRDA Faculty ------------Intake ----------------NMC --------------NMRDA Science ----------- 32,170--------------- 21,600------------------ 10,570 Commerce ------- 19,280--------------- 13,840------------------ 5,440 Arts ---------------- 25,800--------------- 7,720------------------- 18,080 Composite -------- 5,960--------------- 3,520-------------------- 2,440 Total --------------- 83,120--------------- 46,680------------------ 36,530 Percentage -------- 100--------------- 56.10%------------------ 43.90% HC notices to St Paul, Prerna, Taywade & Jakate colleges After petitioners named four colleges having alleged illegal tie ups with various coaching institutions in their amended petition, the HC issued notices to them, asking them to file reply before next hearing. The colleges are St Paul College at Hudkeshwar, Prerna Convent’s branches at Reshimbagh and Vihirgaon, Taywade’s Arts Science and Commerce College at Koradi, and Hemant Jakate’s branches at Hudkeshwar Road and two other places. Their counsels sought time to file a reply. According to the petitioners, each of these colleges has over 1,000 to 1,500 students on rolls, but none of them have teachers to teach or infrastructure to accommodate so many students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/why-no-std-xi-cap-for-ngp-rural-jr-colleges-hc/articleshow/77339606.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Specialised MBAs, UG courses on IIMB agenda||BENGALURU: Prof Rishikesha T Krishnan, the new director of Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore, has a host of plans for the premier B-school. In an interview with TOI, the professor said besides ramping up the institution’s online education infrastructure in context of the pandemic, they are considering launching innovative academic programmes like specialised MBAs and undergraduate courses. Excerpts: You’re the first director who has taken charge after the IIM Act came into force and may be the only one to have been an IIM director before. What’s your vision for IIMB, considering it has already reached the pinnacle in most rankings in India?In the short-term, the institute’s priority is to offer the best possible educational experience to all our students who are now attending classes online due to the pandemic. We have made special efforts to upgrade our digital education infrastructure and the faculty’s digital teaching skills. Our students have appreciated these efforts and classes are progressing smoothly. An important priority for IIMB is to further enhance our impact. Multiple platforms can enable us to do this: * The outstanding research capabilities of our faculty and specialised research centres offer us a significant opportunity to do contextually-relevant rigorous research, that can address India’s myriad managerial, economic, societal and environmental challenges. * Engaged digital learning by blending MOOCs with synchronous learning as a way of reaching out to thousands of new learners. * Our new campus near Anekal provides the opportunity to nurture innovative leaders and entrepreneurs through new academic programmes in the most picturesque surroundings in keeping with IIMB’s mission. Do you intend to start a UG programme in IIMB, like the one you did in IIM-Indore?Our new campus provides an opportunity to offer innovative and impactful new academic programmes. We are considering several alternatives, including specialised MBA programmes (like the MBA Analytics programme we just launched) and undergraduate programmes. We will take a call on our future portfolio of programmes in the next few months. What are the plans for the Anekal campus?The new campus near Anekal will be built in phases. Construction of the first phase (a new Management Development Centre for Executive Education) is expected to be completed in early 2021. We hope to start one or more academic programmes there in the next phase. Since commuting between the campuses takes time, we will probably start an independent set of programmes at the new campus. However, this will take at least 2-3 years. With NEP having kicked in, what will be IIMB’s role in it? Are you looking at implementing any suggestion?The focus of NEP 2020 is on quality, which is what IIM-B stands for. We are already in tune with NEP on many dimensions, including research, innovation and internationalisation. Our faculty have always had the freedom to design new courses. The one area where I see a challenge is that NEP has a distinct preference for multi-disciplinary universities. We would have to seriously consider aligning our new programme offerings with this preference. Any plans to take IIM-B abroad?IIMB is already highly internationalised in terms of students, faculty, exchange programmes and MOOCs (we have participants from across the world). We offer an executive programme in Dubai. We have partnerships with many global business schools. Our students do international immersion courses in several countries. Today, a physical presence overseas is not required to be global as there are digital alternatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/specialised-mbas-ug-courses-on-iimb-agenda-new-director/articleshow/77338119.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: This Covid positive doctor is busy leading Zoom sessions||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For Dr Kavitha Ravi, it came as a shock that she had tested positive for Covid-19. However, she took it in her stride and is now busy taking Zoom sessions on Covid-19 for her colleagues, doctors and also for the Indian Medical Association (IMA) from her isolation room at the Government Medical College Hospital in the state capital. Dr Kavitha said she was doing Zoom meetings with the doctors and also with the members of the women’s wing of the IMA. “The doctors are stressed out due to their relentless work in the pandemic situation. I had a Zoom session on ‘Covid and Stress’ the other day. Even an online entertainment quiz was conducted by the IMA, which I chaired,” said Dr Kavitha, who is an additional professor in pathology, Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. As a doctor, she has learnt to live with Covid and is now advising her peers on the need for maintaining courage and instilling confidence among them. “I have been involved in the Zoom sessions right from the beginning of the pandemic and I have addressed about 50 such sessions. Hence, I thought I should continue with it so that I can covey my experience while in isolation,” she added. She had come to the state capital last week on official duty. On last Thursday, symptoms like fever, sore throat and headache developed. “When I gave the swab for testing, I was not worried. I have been wearing masks, using sanitizers and was always maintaining social distancing. Also, I was involved in giving awareness on the need for taking precautions. Hence, I was sure that I will not test positive,” she said. However, Dr Kavitha said she was tensed while attending the call from the hospital. “When I was told that I have tested positive, it was a big shock for me. I became so worried because I had a coronary angioplasty recently and hence belonged to the high-risk category. I called up my mother and brother and informed them. They were literally crying over the phone. I lost all my confidence and my children suddenly fell silent,” said Dr Kavitha. It has been four days in the isolation room now and she said getting through the first day was difficult. “Even though I have been admitted to hospital earlier, this is the first time I was being isolated. My children video-called me soon I entered the room and it was a big solace,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-covid-ve-doc-is-busy-leading-zoom-sessions/articleshow/77336152.cms||Rajiv G
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||With no service for 134 days, Namma Metro runs into Rs 100 crore loss||BENGALURU: With Namma Metro operations suspended since March 22 to check spread of Covid-19, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has not earned a dime in passenger revenue for over four months. BMRCL officials said they have incurred a revenue loss of around Rs 100 crore, and plan to seek financial assistance from the government. The corporation’s daily expenses, including salary and loan servicing, amount to nearly Rs 80 lakh. “We have been using project funds so far. Our monthly expenses are around Rs 25 crore a month. We will have to approach the government finally,” said BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth. Before the pandemic struck, BMRCL’s daily ridership was around 4.5 lakh and passenger revenue Rs 1.5 crore. However, Metro is unlikely to enjoy pre-Covid patronage whenever it resumes, mainly because of the work-from-home concept and virus scare. Non-fare box revenue from parking contracts, shop and ATM rentals and advertisements will also be hit. The government recently promised to release Rs 961 crore to four transport undertakings, including KSRTC and BMTC, towards salaries of more than 1.3 lakh employees till September. However, it has not announced any relief to BMRCL. While the Centre recently issued guidelines on Unlock 3.0, it’s yet to allow resumption of Metro services for reasons like chances of infection spread being higher in AC coaches and difficulty in ensuring social distancing. It had allowed all public transport barring Metro during Lockdown 4.0. “In most countries, mass rapid transit systems like Metro, subway and tube are operational. Railways and state transport undertakings are also operating AC coaches. It’s possible to screen passengers at entry/exit points. The government should allow Metro to run as it’s the city’s lifeline” said Subida S, a regular Metro passenger. BMRCL Employees’ Union vice-president Suryanarayana Murthy said: “There shouldn’t be any hurry to resume services. Metro coaches are closed AC spaces so one affected person could spread the virus to several passengers and staff. BMRCL should cut down on unnecessary work and expenses.” 714 staff deployed for Covid duty Ajay Seth said 714 operations & maintenance staff have been deployed for various Covid-management duties like contact tracing and quarantine watch. “This is to pool available human resources to respond to the pandemic. Staff from various departments, state PSUs and agencies has been roped in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-no-service-for-134-days-namma-metro-runs-into-rs-100cr-loss/articleshow/77338029.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 4, 2020||Chennai||TN: Info panel gives long rope to pollution board official||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu state information commission (TNSIC) has called an RTI applicant and the public information officer (PIO) of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) for a fourth inquiry this week despite indicating in a letter four months ago that the latter had erred by not providing correct information. The RTI applicant, M Thuyamurthy, a resident of Tondiarpet, has written to the commission asking why multiple chances are being given to the PIO. “It has been proven during the inquiries that the PIO has not furnished the information as applied by me. Why should he not be fined Rs 25,000 under section 19(8) of the RTI Act and I should be given Rs 10,000 as a compensation,” Thuyamurthy has written in the letter on July 30. The TNSIC has conducted inquiries on July 19 and July 30 via tele-conferencing. The first inquiry was conducted on March 10 in which the PIO did not appear. The RTI application, filed with TNPCB on September 12, 2019, asked for details of government directives on treated waste water to be released in Buckingham Canal in Greater Chennai Corporation limits, details of effluents released in the canal and Cooum river by industries in Tiruvottiyur, Ennore and Manali, the directives permitting release of waste water into Noyyal and Palar rivers and the action taken by TNPCB to stop pollution in waterbodies by industries. The head office of TNPCB declined to give the details, stating that the information demanded by the applicant was not available in the prescribed format. After the first appeal, TNPCB offices in Guindy and Ambattur responded saying the offices don’t have information with them. The commission had in a letter on February 24 stated that the details provided to Thuyamurthy in response to the RTI and first appeal were not correct. The PIO had been instructed to provide all information before March 10, with a copy to be sent to the TNSIC as well. If the information was not given, then the TNSIC said that they would issue a showcause notice against the PIO during the hearing on March 19. “This has not happened and the PIO has been given three chances. I have not got the information and neither has the PIO been punished,” Thuyamurthy said in his letter to the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/info-panel-gives-long-rope-to-pollution-board-official/articleshow/77338843.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru city police, CID, Mandya SP expedite work through e-office||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police and Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Karnataka state police are using some serious bandwidth in giving the e-office project of the state government a mega push. Against the 59 policing units in the state police, these two units stand first and second, respectively, with the office of superintendent of police of Mandya a close third in terms of e-files created, e-files moved as well as e-receipts created and e-receipts moved. Aimed at expediting the e-office project of the government, this initiative that Praveen Sood had launched prior to him taking over as head of the state police force has helped expedite routine police administration in policing units. This project has also come as a boon during the pandemic. While the state police embraced this project in July last year, it is now at the height of the pandemic, that we are realising its benefits, said B Dayananda, additional director general of police (CID). “All our correspondence is now much faster, be it a routine leave application, salary related query, purchases and the lot,” Dayananda said. “With the whole communication digitised, alerts pop up on the dashboard when an e-file is not attended to in time,” he said. For P S Harsha, Mangaluru city police commissioner, his position demanded more time be devoted to law and order duties, and the e-office was a handy tool for administrative issues for him. From an average turnaround time of 7 working days, routine files are now handled in less than two days, and in some cases within the day itself. “This was near impossible in physical format, which in some cases took the entire day to be generated,” he said. While a leave application form now gets approved in less than two hours, a file pertaining to weapons licence is handled in 2 days. This allows us to utilise the manpower that was otherwise used for clerical jobs for real policing, Harsha said. The e-office also makes functioning of the police units seamless, and the decision making is also that much more transparent, Dayananda said, adding it is only a matter of time before the other policing units pick it up. Going digital Name of Police Unit e-file created e-file moved e-receipt created e-receipt moved Mangaluru City Police 4,649 46,217 17,870 50,322 CID HQ, Bengaluru 995 21,989 7,889 17,230 SP, Mandya 4,081 15,380 5,327 6,569 Source: e-office, Government of Karnataka - As on June 21||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-city-police-cid-mandya-sp-expedite-work-through-e-office/articleshow/77330617.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||One death, 9 positive in Wardha dist||Wardha: A death due to Covid-19 and 9 positive patients were registered in the district on Tuesday. Twelve got discharged after recovering from coronavirus. Four men and five women are among positive and they are from Arvi 3, Wardha 5 and Talegaon 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-death-9-positive-in-wardha-dist/articleshow/77358017.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Left out on the streets in the time of a pandemic||Vandana Gopikumar, Mrinalini Ravi & Keshav DesirajuWearing a yellow and saffron robe, his hair matted and vermilion on his forehead, listening to his favourite radio station, bemused by masked passersby, stands Bholaynath. A child of the Mumbai jails, he turned an adolescent compelled to work on construction sites to feed himself before he began his pilgrimage with his inner thoughts.On another stretch of the road, Shanti works hard to be invisible, protecting herself fiercely from all attention, sexual violence and abuse. Embarrassed in red, blotched nighties, unable to access sanitary pads or a toilet as she menstruates, the streets are her only home.There are an estimated 150 million homeless people globally and 1.78 million in India — a gross underrepresentation from 2011 Census figures owing to restricted definitions of homelessness and unstandardised measures adopted for enumeration. And in the middle of a pandemic they have no way to stay safe. Inability to socially distance in the shelters or the streets, poor immunity borne from harsh living circumstances, poor nutrition, lack of access to health care and neglect on the part of society are concerns that confront the homeless during the Covid-19 pandemic.To address the issue of homelessness, it’s important to understand that there is always a backstory to someone living on the streets. Confronted by violence, abject poverty, caste and gender-based prejudice and concomitant social losses, homeless people usually suffer experiences of trauma and segregation. Homelessness is often aggravated by mental illness, and the two conditions feed off each other; 35% of the homeless are believed to be living with either a mental health or substance misuse concern. Children and vulnerable groups such as the homeless and the mentally ill are exposed to abuse, exploitation, injury, and death. This legacy of oppression is unperceived by the privileged.The UN Commission for Social Development, in 2020, recognising that homelessness is a serious affront to human dignity, passed a resolution mandating a comprehensive approach to address this inequity and outlined underlying causal factors such as poverty and structural violence. Covid-19 has put this resolution to test. In our national response have we recognised the humanitarian crisis faced by our homeless? Tamil Nadu and Kerala have done comparably well in their relief and rehabilitation efforts with National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) shelters anchored by the city corporations, that provide food, access to medical care, shelter and options for rehabilitation. This was important because in the early days of the pandemic, and following the lockdown, religious establishments and small eateries were closed. Institutes of mental health and civil society organisations worked with those with mental illness. And yet, there are many who have not been able to access support. While recognising interventions that reduce distress, it must be remembered that this is a colonial legacy, that homelessness is treated as vagrancy and an offence; what society considers ‘proper’ serving as the benchmark. It is essential that the government reviews poverty reduction programmes, outreach and crisis support services and appropriateness of infrastructure and human resource competencies. It is also essential to have a comprehensive understanding of rehabilitation and community inclusion. Most importantly, legislators and public health workers must realise that homelessness is a condition which must be addressed in a non-judgmental, non-discriminatory and ethical manner.Often, poverty is both the cause and result of homelessness. The government needs to mandate a basic income for those living below the poverty line such that a descent into homelessness is prevented. An increase in income is also a harbinger of hope, autonomy and control. Innovation is key. If homeless collectives ran the NULM shelters as social enterprises, there would be a chance to develop skills and provide job opportunities. Peer leadership movements could be catalysed to establish more egalitarian ways of care management. For ultra-vulnerable people with mental illness, the Tamil Nadu model of the emergency treatment centres that are located at the district-level hospitals must be scaled up; early identification and associated care provision usually results in better prognosis. Soup kitchens, employment kiosks, safe spaces for children and women, and other social care centres are needed now more than ever.‘Round-ups’ as a means to herd the homeless into care, en masse, are a regressive ritual and will have to stop. Government run shelters must be raised to a level where the homeless will readily seek the services they offer. Many like Bholaynath may still opt to sleep under the stars. Society and the state should be accepting of this. What if you were to meet Shanti? Many interactions, meals and chats later, she may gain the confidence that her presence doesn’t repulse you and that you truly care. Will we find the motivation as a people to engage with her as long as is needed? Or continue to seek quick- fix solutions? Will states demonstrate the capacity to value personhood? From these insights alone will emerge justice and equity-based care.(Vandana Gopikumar is co- founder, The Banyan, Mrinalini Ravi is co-lead, Sundram Fasteners Centre for Social Action and Research and Keshav Desiraju is former Union health secretary)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/left-out-on-the-streets-in-the-time-of-a-pandemic/articleshow/77340477.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Sharp increase in demand for frozen meat||KOZHIKODE: The demand for frozen meat and meat products has witnessed a sharp increase in the state as consumers eye hygiene considerations and avoiding visits to local butcheries amid the pandemic. Government-owned Meat Products of India (MPI) has clocked an over 20% increase in monthly sales when compared to pre-Covid months, despite market disruptions. Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), another major supplier of frozen meat products with over 100 outlets, is also seeing a sales boom. MPI managing director Dr A S Bijulal said monthly sales, which stood at Rs 1.4 crore, have risen by over 20%. MPI had a turnover of Rs 17 crore last fiscal, which is expected to increase this year going by current trend. “Demand has increased considerably as many people are now averse to travelling to local markets and are more concerned about hygiene. With demand increasing, we are now getting many inquiries from entrepreneurs for new outlets across the state,” he said. Bijulal said MPI is planning to start outlets attached to district animal husbandry department offices and veterinary centres. We have received a positive response from the department over allotment of land, he said. K Purushothaman, marketing manager of Wayanad-based BDS, said that many outlets in Kozhikode city, which used to post average monthly sales of around Rs 3 lakh, have seen sales crossing Rs 5 lakh in June. “We opened four outlets in Kozhikode city in July and a further six outlets will be opened this month. People are now more concerned about food safety and hygiene and also want to avoid crowded markets. Also, the outlets provide a good shopping experience in a clean and hygienic environment and the products themselves have a long shelf life and can help reduce food waste,” he said. Many outlets are offering home delivery of products as well. Curbs on sale of fish after many coastal areas turned hotspots and the widespread seizure of stale fish in the state in the initial period of the lockdown have also contributed to the demand for frozen meat products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sharp-increase-in-demand-for-frozen-meat/articleshow/77342022.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Arrested duo helped Jalal in transporting smuggled gold||KOCHI: The two accused, arrested by National Investigation Agency in the gold smuggling case on Sunday, will be crucial in finding other co-conspirators. NIA’s remand report said the duo had conspired with Jalal AM, one of the prime accused, and assisted him in transporting and distributing smuggled gold among co-conspirators. Sources said that Muhammed Ali, son of Abdul Kader and PFI member acquitted after trial in the palm chopping case, was Jalal’s driver. The report said the duo received proceeds from the smuggling. “CDR analysis of their mobiles showed that they were in contact with Jalal on June 28 and had travelled together to Thiruvananthapuram to collect smuggled gold from Ramees KT,” the report said. It added that they stayed at a hotel in Thampanoor and received gold from Ramees in the parking lot of the hotel. Ramees had pointed out in the presence of independent witnesses, the place where gold was handed over to them. NIA informed the court that the accused wre required for further evidence collection. Meanwhile, Customs submitted the statement of Swapna Suresh recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act before additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) in a sealed cover. Customs sources said Ali was a person of interest as his name came up when they were on the hunt for Jalal. Meanwhile, Abdul Hameed from Perinthalmanna native presented himself before Customs in Kochi claiming that he was part of the racket. He had told a vernacular news channel that he was recruited by the racket and that he left after realizing that they were smuggling gold in large quantities. Sleuths let him off after taking his statement. Meanwhile, the special prosecutor who appeared for enforcement directorate (ED) in the gold smuggling case resigned after ED appointed another advocate to represent it on Monday. The counsel said it was inappropriate to continue, as a lawyer –who was not part of the panel of advocates of ED –was appointed to replace him. Shaijan George submitted his resignation after ED appointed P Unnikrishnan. ED has a panel of four advocates for legal counsel and George had appeared in court while it applied to record the arrest of the accused in the gold smuggling case in July. Last week, he had appeared for ED and requested that the accused be granted in custody. On Sunday, ED’s legal cell decided to appoint Unnikrishnan. Shaijan, who suspects political interference, said the new appointment was made out of the blue without a particular reason. “I think it was done due to political pressure and I felt that it would be inappropriate to continue appearing for them in future cases,” he said. Meanwhile, ED approached Ernakulam principal sessions court to issue a production warrant against the accused persons including Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair who are in judicial custody. The accused will be produced in court on Wednesday. ED will file a petition seeking their custody for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/arrested-duo-helped-jalal-in-transporting-smuggled-gold/articleshow/77342246.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||Despite 10-day lockdown, cases still on the rise in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Many areas which did not report double digit positive cases, during the earlier phases of lockdown, are now part of the pandemic spread in the state capital. The infection has spread across Bhopal, where the total number of cases has doubled in the last few weeks. The writing was on the wall when the Kolar SDM issued restrictive orders for the area on July 21. SDM, Rajesh Gupta, exercised the powers conferred under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 within the boundaries of the sub-division from Bagh Sewania police station to Bagh Sewania Bazaar Basti and Raja Bhoj Arcade intersection to Om Nagar intersection. During the lockdown, Kolar has not reported double digit cases of COVID-19 infection. Soon, a 10-day lockdown in Bhopal was declared to break the chain of transmission. Health experts point out that a proper lockdown can reduce the number of cases by 60%. That said, the barricading of roads and streets has had an unexpected impact. “We cannot move around in certain pockets. People are taking advantage of the situation,” said a policeman posted with Jehangirbad police station. The irony of barricading the BRTS corridor under the police station has led to conversion of the roads into makeshift cricket fields. “Children and adults are seen playing night matches. We have reported the issue, but no concrete action has been taken,” said a resident of Roshapura, which has reported three more cases during the 10-day lockdown. Lockdown, which should have been effectively applied in mohallas, colonies and settlements, was not enforced properly. Koh-e-Fiza police have chased people betting on the banks of the Upper Lake towards Khanugoan, but local influenzes have led to no action, according to residents of the area. At a time when movement of ordinary citizens is completely banned, simple barricading of roads has not served the purpose. “People violating the order should be punished under Section 188. There are no cases or action against such offenders. If the administration is proactive, only then the lockdown will serve any purpose,” said a retired government servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/despite-10-day-lockdown-cases-still-on-the-rise/articleshow/77338851.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Teachers seek clarity on work from home orders||Panaji: Teachers have decided to write to the state government asking for clarity on whether they are expected to work from home or report to schools, after on Monday, close to 12,000 teachers returned to work. The last circular issued in the regard was on June 25, which asked schools from the primary to the higher secondary school level to allow teachers to work from home upto July 31. This circular was in line with the central government’s directives. But as there was no follow-up circular on whether teachers can continue to work from home post July 31, teaching and non-teaching staff had to report to duty from Monday. The executive committee of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association (AGSSTA) held an online meeting to discuss the issue on Monday evening. “We have decided to write to the government requesting to allow us to continue to work from home given the Covid-19 situation. We will ask for clarity from the authorities,” said AGSSTA president Dattatreya Naik. “By insisting that we report to work, when Covid-19 cases are rising in Goa, the government is putting the lives of teachers and our families at risk. In the end, the directorate of education wants results. We are ready to give results. But let the government be clear on its stand on whether we should be working from schools or home,” said Naik. He said that the work load for teachers has increased manifold since the online teaching began. Naik said asking for work from home does not mean teachers are shying away from their work. “Provide us with the facilities to carry out online teaching in schools. If such facility cannot be provided then we will work from home and do whatever is expected of us. We are not avoiding our responsibility. At the end of the day, teachers are accountable for their students’ performance,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-seek-clarity-on-work-from-home-orders/articleshow/77339641.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Sharp increase in demand for frozen meat||KOZHIKODE: The demand for frozen meat and meat products has witnessed a sharp increase in the state as consumers eye hygiene considerations and avoiding visits to local butcheries amid the pandemic. Government-owned Meat Products of India (MPI) has clocked an over 20% increase in monthly sales when compared to pre-Covid months, despite market disruptions. Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), another major supplier of frozen meat products with over 100 outlets, is also seeing a sales boom. MPI managing director Dr A S Bijulal said monthly sales, which stood at Rs 1.4 crore, have risen by over 20%. MPI had a turnover of Rs 17 crore last fiscal, which is expected to increase this year going by current trend. “Demand has increased considerably as many people are now averse to travelling to local markets and are more concerned about hygiene. With demand increasing, we are now getting many inquiries from entrepreneurs for new outlets across the state,” he said. Bijulal said MPI is planning to start outlets attached to district animal husbandry department offices and veterinary centres. We have received a positive response from the department over allotment of land, he said. K Purushothaman, marketing manager of Wayanad-based BDS, said that many outlets in Kozhikode city, which used to post average monthly sales of around Rs 3 lakh, have seen sales crossing Rs 5 lakh in June. “We opened four outlets in Kozhikode city in July and a further six outlets will be opened this month. People are now more concerned about food safety and hygiene and also want to avoid crowded markets. Also, the outlets provide a good shopping experience in a clean and hygienic environment and the products themselves have a long shelf life and can help reduce food waste,” he said. Many outlets are offering home delivery of products as well. Curbs on sale of fish after many coastal areas turned hotspots and the widespread seizure of stale fish in the state in the initial period of the lockdown have also contributed to the demand for frozen meat products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sharp-increase-in-demand-for-frozen-meat/articleshow/77336170.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Arrested duo helped Jalal in transporting smuggled gold||KOCHI: The two accused, arrested by National Investigation Agency in the gold smuggling case on Sunday, will be crucial in finding other co-conspirators. NIA’s remand report said the duo had conspired with Jalal AM, one of the prime accused, and assisted him in transporting and distributing smuggled gold among co-conspirators. Sources said that Muhammed Ali, son of Abdul Kader and PFI member acquitted after trial in the palm chopping case, was Jalal’s driver. The report said the duo received proceeds from the smuggling. “CDR analysis of their mobiles showed that they were in contact with Jalal on June 28 and had travelled together to Thiruvananthapuram to collect smuggled gold from Ramees KT,” the report said. It added that they stayed at a hotel in Thampanoor and received gold from Ramees in the parking lot of the hotel. Ramees had pointed out in the presence of independent witnesses, the place where gold was handed over to them. NIA informed the court that the accused wre required for further evidence collection. Meanwhile, Customs submitted the statement of Swapna Suresh recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act before additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) in a sealed cover. Customs sources said Ali was a person of interest as his name came up when they were on the hunt for Jalal. Meanwhile, Abdul Hameed from Perinthalmanna native presented himself before Customs in Kochi claiming that he was part of the racket. He had told a vernacular news channel that he was recruited by the racket and that he left after realizing that they were smuggling gold in large quantities. Sleuths let him off after taking his statement. Meanwhile, the special prosecutor who appeared for enforcement directorate (ED) in the gold smuggling case resigned after ED appointed another advocate to represent it on Monday. The counsel said it was inappropriate to continue, as a lawyer –who was not part of the panel of advocates of ED –was appointed to replace him. Shaijan George submitted his resignation after ED appointed P Unnikrishnan. ED has a panel of four advocates for legal counsel and George had appeared in court while it applied to record the arrest of the accused in the gold smuggling case in July. Last week, he had appeared for ED and requested that the accused be granted in custody. On Sunday, ED’s legal cell decided to appoint Unnikrishnan. Shaijan, who suspects political interference, said the new appointment was made out of the blue without a particular reason. “I think it was done due to political pressure and I felt that it would be inappropriate to continue appearing for them in future cases,” he said. Meanwhile, ED approached Ernakulam principal sessions court to issue a production warrant against the accused persons including Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair who are in judicial custody. The accused will be produced in court on Wednesday. ED will file a petition seeking their custody for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/arrested-duo-helped-jalal-in-transporting-smuggled-gold/articleshow/77337357.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Surat||Ahmedabad man booked for raping FB friend from Surat||SURAT: A 34-year-old married woman has lodged a complaint of rape against a man from Ahmedabad who she had befriended on Facebook two years ago. The woman approached Khatodara police station on Sunday with the complaint against 36-year-old Adhyay Soni, who stays in Paldi area of Ahmedabad. She alleged that Soni had falsely claimed that he was a bachelor and promised to marry her. Soni’s wife also shared his objectionable photos with the woman’s husband, she alleged. There was a fight between the couple and the complainant returned to Olpad to stay with her parents. The woman said he had received a ‘Hi’ message on her Facebook messenger around two years ago, but she did not reply then. During lockdown in May, she was checking her FB page on her husband’s phone and replied to the old message. Later, Soni and the woman started exchanging messages and she shared her phone number with him. Since the woman has a feature phone, she talked with him or sent messages to Soni. After a few days of developing friendship, the woman told Soni that her husband harassed her and threatened divorce. In reply, Soni claimed that he was unmarried and offered to marry her. On June 6, Soni came to meet her in the city and they went to a hotel in Althan where they spent a day together in a room. The woman alleged that Soni raped her and sent her back home after allegedly threatening to kill her. On June 9, the woman received a call from an unknown number and the caller told her that she is calling from the school of her children and asked for her husband’s number since fees were due. The woman shared her husband’s number. Later, her husband received the call and the woman identified herself as Soni’s wife. She then sent the photos to him, said Khatodara police station sources. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ahmedabad-man-booked-for-raping-fb-friend-from-surat/articleshow/77337276.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Arrested duo helped Jalal in transporting smuggled gold||KOCHI: The two accused, arrested by National Investigation Agency in the gold smuggling case on Sunday, will be crucial in finding other co-conspirators. NIA’s remand report said the duo had conspired with Jalal AM, one of the prime accused, and assisted him in transporting and distributing smuggled gold among co-conspirators. Sources said that Muhammed Ali, son of Abdul Kader and PFI member acquitted after trial in the palm chopping case, was Jalal’s driver. The report said the duo received proceeds from the smuggling. “CDR analysis of their mobiles showed that they were in contact with Jalal on June 28 and had travelled together to Thiruvananthapuram to collect smuggled gold from Ramees KT,” the report said. It added that they stayed at a hotel in Thampanoor and received gold from Ramees in the parking lot of the hotel. Ramees had pointed out in the presence of independent witnesses, the place where gold was handed over to them. NIA informed the court that the accused wre required for further evidence collection. Meanwhile, Customs submitted the statement of Swapna Suresh recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act before additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) in a sealed cover. Customs sources said Ali was a person of interest as his name came up when they were on the hunt for Jalal. Meanwhile, Abdul Hameed from Perinthalmanna native presented himself before Customs in Kochi claiming that he was part of the racket. He had told a vernacular news channel that he was recruited by the racket and that he left after realizing that they were smuggling gold in large quantities. Sleuths let him off after taking his statement. Meanwhile, the special prosecutor who appeared for enforcement directorate (ED) in the gold smuggling case resigned after ED appointed another advocate to represent it on Monday. The counsel said it was inappropriate to continue, as a lawyer –who was not part of the panel of advocates of ED –was appointed to replace him. Shaijan George submitted his resignation after ED appointed P Unnikrishnan. ED has a panel of four advocates for legal counsel and George had appeared in court while it applied to record the arrest of the accused in the gold smuggling case in July. Last week, he had appeared for ED and requested that the accused be granted in custody. On Sunday, ED’s legal cell decided to appoint Unnikrishnan. Shaijan, who suspects political interference, said the new appointment was made out of the blue without a particular reason. “I think it was done due to political pressure and I felt that it would be inappropriate to continue appearing for them in future cases,” he said. Meanwhile, ED approached Ernakulam principal sessions court to issue a production warrant against the accused persons including Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair who are in judicial custody. The accused will be produced in court on Wednesday. ED will file a petition seeking their custody for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/arrested-duo-helped-jalal-in-transporting-smuggled-gold/articleshow/77342245.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Sharp increase in demand for frozen meat||KOZHIKODE: The demand for frozen meat and meat products has witnessed a sharp increase in the state as consumers eye hygiene considerations and avoiding visits to local butcheries amid the pandemic. Government-owned Meat Products of India (MPI) has clocked an over 20% increase in monthly sales when compared to pre-Covid months, despite market disruptions. Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), another major supplier of frozen meat products with over 100 outlets, is also seeing a sales boom. MPI managing director Dr A S Bijulal said monthly sales, which stood at Rs 1.4 crore, have risen by over 20%. MPI had a turnover of Rs 17 crore last fiscal, which is expected to increase this year going by current trend. “Demand has increased considerably as many people are now averse to travelling to local markets and are more concerned about hygiene. With demand increasing, we are now getting many inquiries from entrepreneurs for new outlets across the state,” he said. Bijulal said MPI is planning to start outlets attached to district animal husbandry department offices and veterinary centres. We have received a positive response from the department over allotment of land, he said. K Purushothaman, marketing manager of Wayanad-based BDS, said that many outlets in Kozhikode city, which used to post average monthly sales of around Rs 3 lakh, have seen sales crossing Rs 5 lakh in June. “We opened four outlets in Kozhikode city in July and a further six outlets will be opened this month. People are now more concerned about food safety and hygiene and also want to avoid crowded markets. Also, the outlets provide a good shopping experience in a clean and hygienic environment and the products themselves have a long shelf life and can help reduce food waste,” he said. Many outlets are offering home delivery of products as well. Curbs on sale of fish after many coastal areas turned hotspots and the widespread seizure of stale fish in the state in the initial period of the lockdown have also contributed to the demand for frozen meat products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sharp-increase-in-demand-for-frozen-meat/articleshow/77342023.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Plea seeks HC directions to Hry on online classes||Chandigarh: A petition has been filed in Punjab and Haryana high court seeking directions to Haryana education department for relaxation in online classes or their suspension for pre-primary classes till schools open, under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act. The matter has reached the HC in the wake of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Saurabh Rajput, a resident of Gurgaon, who says the online classes being conducted due to the Covid-19 pandemic “have the potential of being destructive rather than being constructive for children”. The petition seeking immediate ban on online classes is expected to come up for hearing on Tuesday. According to the petitioner, he has approached the court on behalf of children and their parents, saying they were "badly affected" by online classes. He has submitted that kids from pre-nursery to Class V are being exposed to a lot of screen time which is affecting their health. "The kids are supposed to sit in their uniforms for hours together, without moving away from the screen, whereby for many parents who are working from home, it has also meant adjusting their schedule to provide their children with laptop and uninterrupted internet connectivity, which is not in their control all the time, and most of the children have started complaining of headaches and irritation in the eyes," the petitioner said. The petitioner claimed that most state governments had already stopped online cla@sidhsses for nursery to Class V after receiving complaints from parents and conducting surveys. It has been submitted that MP and Karnataka have already issued instructions to schools to stop online classes for pre-primary school and charge no fee in the name of smart classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plea-seeks-hc-directions-to-hry-on-online-classes/articleshow/77338854.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||SGPDA to seek central funds for new wholesale market||Margao: The South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) at its meeting on Monday gave its approval for seeking funds amounting to Rs 50 crore from the central fisheries department for constructing a wholesale fish market at the existing place. SGPDA chairman Wilfred D’Sa told TOI after the meeting that it was decided that the market would be handed over to the fisheries department for execution of the project, which will be taken back by the SGPDA upon the completion of the project. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) to that effect will be signed with the fisheries department, D’Sa said. D’Sa had, last week, held a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant and fisheries minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues in that regard, where an in-principle nod was obtained for the project. The project was earlier decided to be constructed by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation at an estimated cost of Rs 20 crore. However, the project couldn’t take off owing to financial crunch. As SGPDA later planned to add a cold storage facility to the project, it now decided to tap the central funds for the project. The funds for the proposed project are required to be shared on a 60:40 basis. D’Sa said that the state will bear 40 % of the cost if 60 % of the funds for the project are obtained from the centre. The plea of the ramponkars (local fishermen) for earmarking space for them inside the wholesale fish market was also considered by SGPDA at its meeting, D’Sa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sgpda-to-seek-central-funds-for-new-wholesale-market/articleshow/77340167.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Don’t deny admission to disabled: DoE||Panaji: The directorate of education on Monday instructed the heads of non-government aided primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in the state not to deny admissions to children with disability on grounds of their disability. “This violates provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disability act 2016 and the Right to Education Act 2009,” director Santosh Amonkar stated in a circular. Instructions were issued after the department learnt that “many schools are denying admission to children on the grounds of disability,” the education director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-deny-admission-to-disabled-doe/articleshow/77339656.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Students of government, aided schools get textbooks, bags||COIMBATORE: Students of II, III, IV, V, VII and VIII classes in government and government-aided schools in the district were given free textbooks and school bags on Monday. Batches of 20 students per hour were called to the schools for the purpose. Students and parents were told to wear masks, maintain social distancing and not crowd in front of the schools as per the Covid-19 safety guidelines. Teachers said as they had distributed textbooks for Classes X and XII last month, and had seen the practical issues, they were better prepared. “As we distributed books and bags right from morning to evening, we could finish distributing on Tuesday,” said a teacher. While students would be given a full set of books, notebooks, bag and accessories such as drawing note, atlas, graph note, geometry box and crayons, this year, they were given only books and bag. While books for Classes I, VI, IX, and XI have arrived at schools, they could be distributed only after the admission process was over, teachers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-of-government-aided-schools-get-textbooks-bags/articleshow/77338874.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Governor calls for policy to promote Sanskrit||Nagpur: Stating that Sanskrit is the mother of all Indian languages and repository of ancient knowledge and wisdom, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari today called upon Sanskrit scholars to suggest a new policy to promote and popularize Sanskrit language on the lines of the new education policy.Koshyari was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the online Sanskrit Mahotsav organized by Kavikulaguru Kalidasa Sanskrit University (KKSU). Minister of higher education Uday Samant and vice-chancellors of various universities were present. Sanskrit Mahotsav organized on Shravan Purnima was attended by thousands of Sanskrit lovers from across the country.Observing that India’s culture is deeply interlinked with Sanskrit language and literature, Koshyari said, “Collective efforts should be made with missionary zeal to make Sanskrit a world language.” Countering the claim by some scholars that Sanskrit is a dead language, the Governor asserted that Sanskrit can rise like a phoenix and emerge with numerous languages and dialects.Describing Mahakavi Kalidas as Mount Everest among poets across the world, the Governor recalled that German philosopher-writer Goethe had danced in glee when he read out Kalidas’s Shakuntalam. The Governor appealed to the organizers and Sanskrit scholars to restore the prestige of the language through Sanskrit Mahotsav.Samant felt that Sanskrit Mahotsav should not remain a one-day event but should become an annual festival in which all students across the universities are involved. He assured that the government would shortly organize a function to present the Mahakavi Kalidas Award.Prof V Kutumba Sastry, renowned Sanskrit scholar and ‘Sambhashan Sandesh Sanskrit Magazine’ were presented the Sanskrit Seva Sanman on the occasion.Soon after the inaugural ceremony Koshyari witnessed a literary programme ‘Geet Meghdutam’ based on Kalidas’s work ‘Meghdutam’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/governor-calls-for-policy-to-promote-sanskrit/articleshow/77334449.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Changes in supplementary exam centre||Margao: The HSSC supplementary exams of Goa Board for Curchorem centre will be held at Guardian Angel Higher Secondary School and not at Chandrabhaga Tukoba Naik Higher Secondary School, as notified earlier, conductor of Curchorem centre, clarified. The HSSC supplementary exams will be held from August 6 to 14 in two sessions – 9.30am to 12pm, and 2.30pm to 5pm. The seat numbers that will appear at the Curchorem centre in Guardian Angel higher secondary school are: Arts – 70588 to 70658 and 71971, Commerce – 70659 to 70684, Science – 70685 to 70711, Vocational – 70712 to 70734.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-in-supplementary-exam-centre/articleshow/77339645.cms||---
August 4, 2020||India||Tripura CM undergoes Covid-19 test after kin test positive||AGARTALA: Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday announced that he underwent testing for COVID-19 test, the result for which is awaited after two members of his family tested positive for the virus. He is currently in self-isolation. "Two of my family members found COVID-19 positive. Other family members found NEGATIVE I have undergone the COVID-19 test, the result is yet to come I am following self-isolation at my residence & all precautionary measures have been taken Praying for the speedy recovery of family members," Deb tweeted. Two of my family members found COVID19 POSITIVE.Other family members found NEGATIVEI have undergone COVID19 test,… https://t.co/leAqeE1ngS— Biplab Kumar Deb (@BjpBiplab) 1596475586000Tripura has so far reported 1,742 active COVID-19 cases, according to the Ministery of Health and Family Welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tripura-cm-undergoes-covid-19-test-after-kin-test-positive/articleshow/77340886.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||45% of Gujarat population aged below 25 years: SRS||AHMEDABAD: The data recently released by the Sample Registration Survey (SRS) of population by the central government for the year 2018 reveals that 45% of Gujarat’s population lies in age groups below 25 years.  The last government data on population released by the Census 2011 report showed the population of below 25-year groups forming 29.3% of the state’s population. So, the below 25-year age groups have increased their share in the state’s population by 15% between 2011 and 2018. The SRS stated that the age groups below 25 years constituted 47.4% of the population in rural areas of the state and 43.2% in urban areas. The data also reveals that 55% of the population in Gujarat was below the age of 30 years, while the same in rural Gujarat was 57% and it was 53% in urban areas. Another 16% of the state’s population was in the age group of 30-39 years. According to Census 2011, Gujarat has a population of 6.04 crore. The SRS found 8% of the state’s population was in the 60-85 years age group, and only 0.3% of the state’s population was in the above 85-year age group. The share of the 20-39 years age group in urban population was 39% while it was 35% in rural areas. Gaurang Jani, a sociologist, said the trend shown in the 2011 Census has continued not only in Gujarat but across the country. Geographic distribution in the age group of 20-39 years is influenced by migration for work, studies and marriage, with urban areas winning preference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/45-of-state-population-below-25-years-srs/articleshow/77338915.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Don was living in city since 2018: Cops||COIMBATORE: The two-storeyed building painted in pale yellow and green colour is not very different from rest of the house of Balaji Nagar, a sparsely populated upcoming residential locality in Kalapatti on the periphery of Coimbatore. Only that it was from this house Sri Lankan underworld don Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka was hiding and probably operating his network for the past five months. Police say Lokka had come to Coimbatore in 2018 and started living in an apartment at Saravanampatti till he moved to this house in February this year. For residents of Balaji Nagar where he lived, Angoda Lokka was as mysterious a figure as his death. Flaunting multiple gold chains, the Hindi speaking, Bullet-riding man who walked with a swag was always intriguing for the residents. But Lokka seldom spoke to anyone other than asking for cigarettes at the corner provision shop or vegetables at grocery store. Residents say he will never speak to any of them but would be seen in the evenings feeding street dogs. Amani Dhanji, who was living with him too would not speak to anyone. “He seemed to be a rich man. How can we pick a conversation with such affluent people,” asked the provision store owner behind his house. For everyone he was Pradeep Singh, supplying protein supplements to gyms. Even when he fell unconscious on July 3, his unsuspecting neighbours summoned ambulance and sent him to the hospital. They had no inkling that he was a notorious gangster and it has come a rude shock to them. “The two never had any visitors in all these five months,’’ said a neighbour. The owner of the rented house where Lokka lived is in America and his relative who lives in Coimbatore had rented out to Lokka. “I don’t want to talk about it,’’ said the relative when TOI spoke to her, apparently shocked at the developments. Police said Lokka came to Chennai way back in 2017 in the height of gang war in Lanka and threat to his life mounted. He was also wanted by Lankan police for various offences including murders, extortion and drug running. It has come to light that Lokka was arrested in Chennai in 2017 for using a fake passport. “We have sought more details of the case,’’ a police officer said. It was then that he obtained a fake Aadhar card with the help of Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari and her friend Dhayaneswaran from Erode. Police said Sundari’s father was a LTTE sympathizer. “Sundari got a call from a person in Dubai, claiming to be her father’s friend. He asked her to help Lokka,’’ police said. Lokka then travelled to Madurai where he stayed at Sundari’s house for three months. Sundari then approached her friend Dhayaneswaran who in turn helped get the Aadhar card with a Tirupur address, found the apartment at Saravanampatti and later the house at Kalapatti for Lokka. “Dhayaneswaran told the house owner that Lokka and Amani were couple from Dubai. They couldn’t travel because of lockdown and would stay for few months in Coimbatore,’’ police said. Amani, apparently was widow of a man murdered by Lokka in Lanka. She had travelled thrice to India in the last three years to meet Lokka. Police say they do not suspect Amani’s connivance in her husband’s murder. “After the murder, Lokka forced her to be with him,’’ police said. There were speculations that Amani had poisoned Lokka to death to avenge her husband’s murder. “But there is little to support the poisoning theory. Neighbours saw his unconscious body. There were no frothing or other symptoms of poisoning,’’ said a police officer adding that he was a chain smoker and cardiac arrest as said in postmortem was probable due to the habit. Police have seized laptops, mobile phones and multiple Sim cards from them. Only after perusal of the call records we would know if Lokka was operating his drug business from here, say police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/don-was-living-in-city-since-2018-cops/articleshow/77338909.cms||V Mayilvaganan
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Data breach a concern in edtech startups, warn experts||TNN/ Kevin Mendonsa Mangaluru: The free online classes offered by educational technology (edtech) startups comes with a risk: Data Breach. Stakeholders say that it can be prevented with right amount of precautions. Most common data breach is hacking of account details like email, name, password and other personal details of the users. “Stolen passwords are one of the simplest and most common causes of data breaches. Technical vulnerability is another way that crooks can exploit in countless ways,” warns Beas Dev Ralhan, co-founder and CEO, Next Education India Pvt Ltd, in an email to TOI. He adds that data breaches are often very hard to prevent, but that’s not to say they’re difficult to anticipate. The stolen data is shared with the advertising companies for marketing purposes. In the Next Learning Platform, the access to students/parents credentials rests with the school stakeholders only. So there is no chance of data being shared with the outsiders, he said. According to Beas Dev, organisations that maintain those programmes routinely look for and address exploits before they are discovered by cyber frauds. Malware is also another perfect example of just how simple cybercrime can be. Crooks purchase a piece of malicious software, find a system that contains a known vulnerability, plant the malware and scoop up the rewards. Data is also sold to some companies that further use it for marketing. Anuj Kumar, CTO, Adda247 stresses that in the time of pandemic, cyber hygiene is as important as personal hygiene. “I feel that the biggest assets we have at these times is our data. Some basic hygiene steps are — being away from the unsecured internet hotspot, using reputable antivirus and malware software, keeping strong passwords for one’s accounts, changing passwords and updating browsers and softwares regularly.” According to Anant Goyal, director and founder, Bright Tutee, India’s online education market size is around 9.6 million students and common subjects have been Maths and science. “Online education market in India has seen a 20-30% increase after lockdown and his organisation alone seen a whopping 225% of increase in user engagement”. Why online education vulnerable? Beas Dev Ralhan says as of now, the online education sector currently is not guided by any standard norms or regulations by the government. During the current lockdown, homebound students attend school in record numbers via online edtech platforms, e-learning environments and video conferencing. Parents should be aware of new technology issued to children who do not have a foundation for online safety. Children may not recognise the dangers of visiting unknown websites or communicating with strangers online. Further, the definition and framework of online education are lacking and in some cases, online education even includes teachers sharing worksheets and study material on WhatsApp and training sessions on Skype. “In this process, it’s also imperative to create a cloud-based system and evaluate how artificial intelligence delivers an online assessment,” suggests Beas Dev. “Consumers are not equipped to prevent data breach and online frauds. In fact they aren’t even equipped to take decisions regarding data privacy. It is partly because it involves complex trade-offs. Many harms from data sharing are intangible, uncertain and long term and partly because of information asymmetry – companies for example know much more than they do on what will happen to the data. Therefore there are only two solutions: stronger regulation and reputational damage to companies leading to better practices,” says Pooja Haldea, senior advisor, Ashoka University Centre for Social and Behaviour Change (CSBC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/data-breach-a-concern-in-edtech-startups-warn-experts/articleshow/77330674.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||CB-CID takes over Lankan underworld don death case||COIMBATORE: Director general of police (DGP) JK Tripathy on Monday transferred the case of suspicious death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka to the Crime Branch-CID from the Coimbatore city police. The CB-CID took over the case in the evening and registered two fresh FIRs in the night. “We have registered an FIR under section 174 CrPC (suspicious death) and another FIR for fabrication of documents to obtain Aadhaar card,” inspector general of police, CB-CID, K Shankar said. Shankar and CB-CID superintendent of police Madasamy arrived at the office of the CB-CID in the city in the evening and convened a meeting with CB-CID DSP OH Raju and inspector of police Sarasumani.  “We plan to take the arrested people in the case under police custody soon,” Shankar said. "This case has international connection, and the Coimbatore city police cannot go beyond a limit for investigation. So, we requested the DGP to transfer the case to CB-CID,” a city police officer said. Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka, 35, was living in a rental house at Green Garden near Cheran Maa Nagar in the city in disguise till he died under questionable circumstances on July 3. A woman named Amani Dhanji, 27, of Sri Lanka, was staying with him since February 2020. Madurai-based lawyer T Sivakami Sundari, 36, helped Lokka hide at her residence for three months. Sundari sought help from her friend S Dhiyanesawaran, 32, of Tirupur to take a rental home in his name in Coimbatore city for Lokka and Amani Dhanji. Lokka had hidden his citizenship and obtained an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh. According to police, Lokka was wanted in Sri Lanka for multiple offences. He was also involved in a series of murder and drug smuggling cases. In the wake of a spate of killings in the island nation between Lokka and his rival gangs, he went underground in 2017. Dhanji confirmed the death of Lokka. Following the postmortem, the dead body of Lokka was taken to Madurai by Sivakami and Dhanji and cremated there. On Sunday, police arrested her, lawyer Sivakami and Dhiyanesawaran. She was also arrested and was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital after her fetus was aborted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cb-cid-takes-over-lankan-underworld-don-death-case/articleshow/77338888.cms||A Subburaj
August 4, 2020||Goa||ITIs jump on e-bandwagon, admissions online||Panaji: Launching the online enrolment system for ITIs, the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship now plans to bring in career counsellors and introduce new courses to ensure a steady flow of skilled personnel for Goa’s industries. Minister for skill development Vishwajit Rane said that the online admission and student data management system will eliminate the need for students to travel all the way to Farmagudi to complete their admission process. “We need to introduce new skills, we need to introduce more courses. This student management system will help industries find which students have the skills that they are looking for,” said Rane after launching the online portal. Rane said that the career counsellors will be appointed within a month, while the new courses will be introduced based on feedback received from industry partners and a skill gap analysis. “The industry, especially during the Covid time, has different needs. The student management system will have information of all the students who have the relevant skills and marks that they scored. It will be easy for the industry to engage with the students and know what type of skills are available in Goa. The industry can also guide us and help us to introduce the courses that they need,” said Rane. The online portal will also enable parents to track their child’s attendance and academic performance. When asked if the government would take the classes online, Rane said the department was working in that direction. “It should be our objective. Once we know about the connectivity we can see how it can be done,” the minister said. Director for skill development and entrepreneurship Dipak Desai said that students had to earlier visit Panaji to complete their admission which prompted the government to shift the admission process to the ITI as Farmagudi. “The prospectus will be available online, and from now on all candidates can complete their admission on the portal,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/itis-jump-on-e-bandwagon-admissions-online/articleshow/77339659.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Spice farmers from the hills struggle to keep prices down||Being an essential food item in most kitchens, it’s not the demand for Kodaikanal malai poondu that had farmers worried during the lockdown but the price fluctuations and intervention of middlemen. Something they had been trying to sort out for years. Farmers in the region had fought for the GI tag which the garlic variety got last year but they are yet to reap its benefits. The lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic slowed down the process of the farmers forming a society, only after which the farmers can claim use of the GI tag to augment export avenues.A Usha Raja Nanthini, head of the department of Biotechnology, Mother Theresa University in Kodaikanal, said the farmers would have completed the process of forming the society a few months ago, but the lockdown delayed the process. "Bylaws for the society are ready now. Farmers have taken a place on rent for the functioning of the society. We expect the process to be over in a few days," she said. The recognition is expected to relieve the farmers a bit from the clutches of traders, who fix prices for the produce. Farmers are dependent on money from traders during cultivation time and have a little say in fixing the price. The farmers may look at exporting the produce directly after forming the society. The best quality garlic is fetching `350/kg now, while the second and third grades fetch `240 and `160. If the transport service is resumed, they may get `30 to `40 extra, they say. K Vivek, a farmer from Mannavanur said, "A few years ago, the price dropped up to `80/kg for the first grade. We are clueless as to what causes the price crash, since the prices are fixed by the close-knit trader’s community in Vadugapattu market," he said.Unlike other garlic varieties that cannot tolerate extreme temperatures, the Kodaikanal Malai Poodu grows in cool climates between 11°C to 20°C in two crops — in September-October and April-May. The climatic conditions and soil of the region led the garlic peculiar characteristics with abundant medicinal properties, say farmers. Horticulture officials say that Kodaikanal Malai Poondu has antioxidant and antimicrobial potential, which are attributed to the presence of higher amounts of organosulfur compounds, phenols and flavonoids compared to other garlic varieties. It is a sought-after food ingredient due to the high content of organosulfur compounds that give it a strong smell and pungent taste. The rain-drop shaped garlic gets its distinct light-brownish colour because of its unique processing. Farmers tie them into bundles and hang them around in their kitchens to increase their shelf life. The smoke emanating from the firewood stove gives the dark colour. Although garlic fetches good returns, farmers mostly take up cultivation in small pieces of land since it is labour intensive. To address this, the government is giving an incentive of `12,000 per hectare to garlic farmers, said K Srinivasan, deputy director of horticulture department.Email southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spice-farmers-from-the-hills-struggle-to-keep-prices-down/articleshow/77340478.cms||V Devanathan
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||3 washed away in Pedhi river, one body found||Amravati: Four persons were swept away in flood waters of Pedhi river on Sunday night. While one survived and a body was recovered, two are still missing. A 14-member rescue is searching for the missing persons. According to sources, Pedhi river was in spate following heavy rains on Sunday night. Water was flowing above the bridge which needed to be crossed to go to Pusla village. At around 11pm, four residents Vinayak Kore, Satish Bhujade, Padmakar Wankhade and Ankush Sagane, all from of Pusla under Walgaon police station, decided to cross the overflowing bridge and got swept away by the current. Kore luckily got stuck to a tree and managed to rescue himself. He returned to the village and informed the villagers about the incident. A rescue team launched search operation around 6 on Monday morning and recovered body of Sagane 500 meters away from the spot. Bodies of the rest two were not found by the time of filing this report. Walgaon PI Atmaram Chormale, SDO Rajput and tehsildar Badge visited the spot this morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-washed-away-in-pedhi-river-one-body-found/articleshow/77339642.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Approval for more mobile towers in 15 days: Sawant||Panaji: The government plans to give permissions to telecom operators to set up telecom towers across Goa in the coming 15 days, said chief minister Pramod Sawant as he promised to resolve complaints of poor digital connectivity. Sawant said that the Goa Infrastructure Policy 2020 will also be finalised soon which will specify uniform rules for installation of mobile towers in the state. “In the next 15 days, we will give permissions for installation of telecom towers as many have asked for permission,” said Sawant. The Economic Revival Committee had called for improvement in digital connectivity while Sawant had suggested that Goa could be the first state to test the 5G network. Cell Operators Association of India (COAI) and Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA) have urged the state to formulate a uniform telecom infrastructure policy and had also highlighted the need for critical infrastructure in Goa. “We want to ensure that once permissions are given there are no more problems. A parent department will be identified and then all permissions will be given to those who want to setup towers in government premises. The rent will be fixed and the policy will be finalized which will help resolve connectivity,” said Sawant. Just two days earlier, Goa Technology Association had said that IT companies and startups were struggling due to poor last mile internet connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approval-for-more-mobile-towers-in-15-days-sawant/articleshow/77339660.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Phone-in grievance session a hit||COIMBATORE: As many as 95 Tirupur residents phoned collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday, seeking solutions to civic problems and to cut red tape. The district administration had abandoned the weekly grievance redressal meetings, conducted on Mondays at the collectorate, five months ago due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, a petition box was installed at the collector’s office. Most of the petitions the collector addressed on Monday were about damaged roads, drinking water supply, senior citizen pensions, new ration cards and land patta, a statement said. Residents can contact the collector on 0421–2969999 every Monday between 11am and 1pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/phone-in-grievance-session-a-hit/articleshow/77338927.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chennai||TN: Woman attempts suicide after killing 6-year-old daughter||TIRUVANNAMALAI: A 28-year-old woman who was suffering from depression for the past year, attempted to end her life after murdering her six-year-old daughter by slitting her throat at Keezhsirupakkam village in Tiruvannamalai district on Sunday evening. A senior police officer said Suganya, 28, was living with her husband Kalaiarasan, 35, a farmer, and their daughter Nivetha. A year ago, her mother in-law committed suicide by hanging herself inside the bathroom. Suganya was the one to discover her and had been suffering from depression ever since. On Sunday evening, Kalaiarasan on returning from his farmland, couldn’t find his wife and daughter. When he went in search of them in the bathroom located in the backyard, he found his wife and daughter lying in a pool of blood with a knife in Suganya’s hand. On hearing his cries for help, neighbours rushed in and sent the two to Government Tiruvannamalai medical college and hospital. The doctors declared Nivetha dead and referred Suganya, who was battling for her life with her throat slit, to a government hospital in Chennai. A case has been registered against Suganya under Section 302 (Punishment for murder). Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-attempts-suicide-after-killing-6-yr-old-daughter/articleshow/77340479.cms||Karal Marx
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Faceless assessment scheme of I-T: Pilot project includes Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The faceless assessment scheme, notified in September 2019 by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and launched in October, will be expanded in the state, said Pritam Singh, principal chief commissioner of Income Tax (PrCCIT), Gujarat, on Monday. Singh said that Ahmedabad is among the eight cities selected for the pilot project along with Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai and Delhi. “At national level, 58,319 cases were selected from the cities, out of which 8,701 were assessed without making any additions and in 296 cases the additions were proposed,” he said. “The scheme will be expanded with positive reviews from the state so far. Of course, right now less than 2% of the assessments are done through this method. Primary feature of the initiative is, the assessment of a taxpayer from any of the eight cities can be assigned randomly to any officer from any other city,” said Singh. “Moreover, there would be four parts of the assessment which could be done by different officers. It would separate the assessee from the officer, making the system more transparent.” Singh said that the department is also emphasizing on digital records to reduce the visits of the taxpayers to I-T office. “All queries are sent to the taxpayers through email. It would bring in uniformity in approach,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/faceless-assessment-scheme-of-i-t-pilot-project-includes-abad/articleshow/77338930.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for sexually abusing girl||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old Periyanaickenpalayam resident on the charge of sexually abusing a 15-year-old girl. The girl was alone at her house when the man visited her and told her that her brother had asked him to bring her to the Periyanaickenpalayam railway station, police sources said. “He took the girl to the railway station area and sexually abused her. But he escaped after the girl raised an alarm,” a police officer said. Police have registered a case against the man under Section 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-girl/articleshow/77338919.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||CR moving cars by train to reduce carbon footprint||NAGPUR: In a bid to achieve ‘net zero’ carbon emission mass transportation network by 2030, Indian Railways have taken decisive steps by despatching cars to different parts of India thereby saving fuel and earning carbon credits. As a part of this mission, Central Railway, in coordination with automobile companies like Mahindra & Mahindra, has started business development units (BDUs) to increase share of railways in goods and parcel sector. “One to one meeting conducted with Mahindra & Mahindra has resulted in more loading of automobiles. They also have first and last mile connectivity for delivering the vehicles. This mode cuts down the time taken to transport their newly built vehicles from plants to dealers in cities across the country,” said CR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar. “Automobiles are transported in dedicated rakes. One such rake can carry 118 vehicles while a car carrier rake, new high capacity railway wagons, can carry approximately 300 vehicles,” he added. At present, railways uses new modified goods rakes and privately owned car carrier rakes for transportation of cars. Close monitoring of these rakes to reduce turnaround time and make the rakes available for next loading has resulted in customer satisfaction, he said. Maharashtra is a big automobile hub, where Mahindra, Tata, Ford, Piaggio, Bajaj etc are manufacturing vehicles near Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad. “There is a vast potential to carry automobiles manufactured in Maharashtra to different parts of the country. We have held BDU meetings with Tata Motors and other car makers,” said Sutar. Maruti has also transported 1.78 lakh cars using freight trains in this financial year from its five loading terminals to 13 destination terminals including Nagpur and Mumbai. Central Railway has transported automobiles in 18 rakes in July 2020. Similarly, it has transported agro-based fertilizer (potash) manufactured from molasses alcohol waste for the first time from Daund near Pune. “New traffic of wheat loading from Betul and Multai stations under Nagpur division, maize from Khandwa and Paras, husk from Chalisgaon in Bhusawal division has already started,” he said. Earlier, other commodities targeted by the Central Railway included fly-ash, cotton etc. A quantum jump in onion loading including export to Bangladesh has also been achieved. Central Railway has appealed to customers to join hands and participate in cutting carbon footprint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cr-moving-cars-by-train-to-reduce-carbon-footprint/articleshow/77339658.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||With 750 new cases, MP's Covid tally crosses 34,000||BHOPAL: With 750 people testing positive on Monday, the number of Covid-19 positive patients in the state crossed 34,000-mark and reached 34,285. Apart from these new cases, 14 casualties were also reported, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties have been reported includes Bhopal (six deaths), in Indore (two) and one each in Jabalpur, Khargone, Sagar, Raisen, Sehore and Damoh districts. With these new deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 in state reached 900 on Monday. While fresh cases were reported from 44 out of the 52 districts of MP, deaths were reported from eight districts on Monday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Bhopal district where maximum 166 new positive cases were reported on Monday. After Bhopal, it was Indore where 91 new positive cases were reported on Monday, followed by Gwalior where 76 cases were reported. Of the 44 districts that reported fresh cases on Monday, new cases were reported in double figures in 20 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 12,862 samples were received on Monday of which 750 people tested positive; thus overall 5.8% of the people whose samples were tested were found positive. This positivity rate — the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested — is greater than that of average positivity rate which hovers around 4%. Overall, there were 9,286 active cases in the state as of Monday. On the brighter side, 549 people who were admitted in hospitals around the state recovered. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 24099. Thus, the recovery rate is now 70.2%. Incidentally, it was more than 76% on July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-750-new-cases-state-covid-tally-crosses-34000/articleshow/77338926.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Onus on manufacturers to engage in waste mgmt||Panaji: The state government has begun drafting the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policy which will ensure that plastic manufacturers and producers will contribute towards collection, transportation, bailing and disposal of non-biodegradable waste either by creating infrastructure or by contributing through funds to Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC). “Drafting of the EPR policy is under process. It has been decided that GWMC will issue certificates towards EPR,” Sanjeev Joglekar, member secretary, department of science, technology and environment said. As far as EPR compliance is concerned, he also said that since 2016, only two-three submissions have been received. “Waste generating entities need to contribute more towards waste management. This will be our focus for next few months,” he said. A survey of waste generation by each industry will be undertaken, and these industries will be asked to register, Joglekar said. “Organisations presently working in this field will also be required to register in order to record the amount of non-recyclable waste and track its movement,” Joglekar added. The industries will reeive EPR certificates based on the activities they undertake in waste management which will be equivalent to the amount of waste they are generating, he said. Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) plays a major role in EPR implementation. The new guidelines suggest that every Producer Responsibility Organisation (PRO) has to register with GSPCB. The board will also play a role in organising the survey for various industries. Monthly and annual compliance reports are to be submitted to GSPCB. Goa Non-Biodegradable Garbage Control Act has been amended to include fines for littering. There are fines for burning of waste as well. Single-use plastic ban is also classified under this act. However, the final rules and its implementation have not been notified, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/onus-on-manufacturers-to-engage-in-waste-mgmt/articleshow/77339663.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Ukkadam lake project workers forced to relieve in open||COIMBATORE: Beautification and rejuvenation of lakes in the city is among several ambitious projects of the corporation, but the living conditions of the workers involved in these projects leaves much to be desired. Workers involved in the rejuvenation project at Ukkadam Periyakulam in the city said they do not have access to toilet facilities and are forced to defecate in the open, along the lake bund every day. The quick-win component of the lake project - beautificatication of Northern bund of the lake along Perur byepass road - was inaugurated only a month ago by the chief minister. The corporation that has been pulling out all stops to beautify the lake, seems to have forgotten about basic sanitation facilities needed for workers involved in the project. A 58-year-old worker, part of the project for the past 45 days, is living along with his family at a temporary shelter near the lake without any toilet facilities. “We wake up before 5am when it is still dark to use the lake bund for our sanitation needs. If we get up late, then we have to walk over a kilometre to use the public toilet near Ukkadam bus stand. We have to pay Rs 5 every time we use the toilet,” he said. All the workers at the project site concur that toilet facilities are needed. “The situation becomes difficult during working hours. While men relieve themselves along the bund without giving a second thought to privacy, women cannot,” said a 50-year-old woman labourer at the site. There is a toilet near the office room of the project site, she said, but it needs requesting the security guard’s permission. “Worse, we are prohibited from using toilets that have been constructed for the general public,” she said. The open defecation has also invited the ire of local residents. “When we informed our higher-ups about the need for toilets, they assured to make alternative arrangements later as they cannot construct a toilet due to practical difficulties in times of Covid-19,” he added. A Loganathan, a commuter, said he is wary that workers at the site are forced to defecate in the open. “What is the point of scolding the workers? Isn’t it the responsibility of the corporation to fulfil their basic requirement of a toilet?” When contacted, corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said he will instruct the contractor to take necessary action on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ukkadam-lake-project-workers-forced-to-relieve-in-open/articleshow/77338940.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||+ve doc goes to U’khand, booked||Hisar: A doctor from Hisar visited the Himalayan Institute Hospital Trust (HIHT) in Dehradun of Uttarakhand to enrol in the MS course six days after being tested positive for Covid-19. Hisar police have now registered a criminal case against the doctor. Hisar city police station filed a case on the complaint of civil surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti against Dr Ankit Jain, a resident of Rishi Nagar, for disobedience and “malignant act likely to spread infection”. In the complaint, Dr Bharti said Dr Jain has been found Covid-19 positive on July 25. “He was advised home isolation on his undertaking to abide by all rules. Unfortunately, he visited HIHT for admission in MS on July 31,” the CMO said. She said Dr Jain had also submitted an undertaking at HIHT on July 31 that he had not interacted or lived with someone who had tested positive, which was false.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ve-doc-goes-to-ukhand-booked/articleshow/77338958.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Unlock norms to kick in, but curbs can be imposed as per need||BHOPAL: The 10-day lockdown in Bhopal would come to an end at 5 am on Tuesday. Although there is no order from district collector, Avinash Lavania, on the unlocking till the writing of this report, the state government — in an order on Monday — said all temples across the state on the next two days would be open for recital of ‘Ramayana’ and ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ with social distancing in place. Meanwhile, home ministry guidelines on Unlock-3 have also come into effect. Accordingly, night curfew will not be in place. Also, e-pass for entry and exit from the district will not be required, gyms and yoga centres will also start functioning. Inter-state and intra-state travel will be allowed. Additional secretary, home, SN Mishra, while talking to TOI, said all the guidelines of Unlock-3 will be implemented as they are mandatory and can't be diluted. However, he said that the district administration can impose extra rstrictions according to requirement. According to sources in the collector’s office, while relaxations as stipulated in Unlock-3 would be granted, Sunday lockdown may continue as of now and closure of markets on Saturday may also continue. At the same time, police presence on the roads and pickets to check traffic may be further strengthened in the next two days in the wake of the proposed foundation laying ceremony for the Ram remple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unlock-norms-to-kick-in-but-curbs-can-be-imposed-as-per-need/articleshow/77338956.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gold touches another record high at Rs 55,800||AHMEDABAD: Continuing its upward rally on account of global factors, gold price touched yet another record high of Rs 55,800 per 10 gram on Monday. Analysts attribute the increase to rally in yellow metal price in the international market on account of a boost in safe-haven investments. The trend was brought about by the outbreak and surge in cases of coronavirus infections in various parts of the world. Gold price rose by Rs 300 against Friday’s Rs 55,500 per 10 gram when the market closed. High price of gold along with the ongoing coronavirus crisis has hit the demand for gold jewellery to a great extent, so much so that the import of gold has declined by 68% from January to July in Gujarat against the same period in 2019. Jewellers suggest that the decline in demand will prove detrimental to the employment in the gems and jewellery sector. “Many artisans have fled to their home states and some may never return. Those who are currently here are also not getting adequate wages as the jobwork has come to a complete standstill with retail demand drying up. The high price of gold and income shortage faced by people are two major deterrents to gold purchases here,” said a city-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-touches-another-record-high-at-rs-55800/articleshow/77338950.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||12 sovereigns stolen from house at Sulur||COIMBATORE: Burglars decamped with 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a locked house at Pattanampudur near Sulur on Monday. CCTV footage showed two people, who had covered their face with clothes, roaming in the area on Monday morning. “They attempted to break into the house of Kannan, but escaped after the inmates woke up and raised an alarm. They later targeted the house belonging to Karthi but had to flee after the inmates woke up. They then targeted the house of Prabhu, who had left for his wife’s house at Alandurai on Saturday evening,” a police officer said. Though they forced open two steel bureaus, they could not find any valuables. They took a locked bureau to the entrance of the house and broke it open using boulders to steal 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments. They abandoned the bureau in front of the house before leaving the place. Neighbours who noticed the mangled bureau informed Prabhu. He lodged a complaint with the Sulur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/12-sovereigns-stolen-from-house-at-sulur/articleshow/77338957.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Protest against custodial torture||COIMBATORE: An umbrella group of activists, lawyers and members of Dravidian outfits protested on Monday near the Periyar statue at Gandhipuram in the city demanding speedy trials and quicker dispensation of justice in cases of custodial deaths and police brutality. The Joint Action committee Against Custodial Torture (JAACT) was floated across the state two weeks ago after the Sathankulam custodial deaths. In Monday’s protest organised by the forum’s district chapter, members demanded that the state conduct trials fairly and ensure quick justice. Kovai Ravikumar, district general secretary of Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, a dalit outfit part of the JAACT, said criminal cases should be filed against the government doctor and the judicial magistrate who issued remand order for Jeyraj and Bennix, and the members of ‘friends of police’ who were present at the police station. Citing another case of a Tenkasi farmer, Anaikarai Muthu, who died after being arrested by forest police, a case under IPC section 302, should be filed, they urged. “When a person is arrested, police should follow the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in the D K Basu Vs State of West Bengal case, for arrest and detention. We seek that the guidelines be strictly followed by police when they arrest anyone,” said Ravikumar. The representatives also sought that the state take steps to curb custodial deaths. Members of outfits such as Dravida Tamizhar Katchi, Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Revolutionary Youth Front, Makkal Adhikaram, participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/protest-against-custodial-torture/articleshow/77338942.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||‘Celebrate Ayodhya event like Diwali’||Panaji: Ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday said that the occasion should be celebrated like Diwali. He said that the temples in the state should be lit up. “During the foundation stone ceremony, the temples where Ram shila pujan took place should perform aarti and burst crackers,” Tanavade told reporters. Party workers have been told to light up their houses and also traditional lamps if possible, the state BJP chief said. He said that banners of the foundation stone ceremony would be put up across the state, but it would not bear the party symbol or flag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/celebrate-ayodhya-event-like-diwali/articleshow/77339665.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nayara’s Rs 1.3 lakh crore expansion: Public hearings on August 28, 29||AHMEDABAD: The much-delayed public hearing for environmental clearance to Russian oil giant Rosneft-backed Nayara’s proposed Rs 1.3 lakh crore expansion plans at Vadinar will now be held on August 28 and 29. The hearing has been kept in two parts, as some part of the project affected area falls in the Devbhoomi Dwarka district while others are in Jamnagar district, sources said. The hearing comes after some villagers approached the high court, alleging that a public hearing which is mandatory for the project was not held. Last August, a public consultation for the project was held for grant of environmental clearance for the expansion plans. This was opposed by some villagers who claimed that the government authorities had tried to sidestep the public hearing process by choosing the public consultation. The environment appraisal committee (EAC) under the Union environment ministry deferred the matter after it was approached by the company for environmental clearance, according to an interim order passed by the high court earlier this year. The court order quoted the senior counsel of the company, according to whom the EAC had deferred grant of clearance. Nayara Energy’s expansion plan includes the setting up of a 10.75 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) capacity petrochemical complex and expansion of the refinery from 20 MTPA to 46 MTPA for a total investment of about Rs 1.3 lakh crore. The expansion will also mark Nayara Energy’s foray into the petrochemicals business. The public hearing was delayed due to the lockdown. At one instance, villagers had sought permission from the district collector to allow them to step out of their homes during the lockdown for the state pollution control board’s hearing on May 1. The sarpanch of Gagava village near Jamnagar had sought permission for a village-level meeting during the lockdown to discuss the environment impact assessment (EIA) report. His request was turned down by the authorities and the hearing was postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nayaras-rs-1-3-lakh-crore-expansion-public-hearings-on-august-28-29/articleshow/77338959.cms||Maulik Pathak
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||National education policy evokes mixed reaction||COIMBATORE: While members of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam (DVK) held a protest against the national education policy (NEP) in the city on Monday, BJP leader Vanathi Srinivasan said the policy has been brought after consultation with all stakeholders. DVK members said the features of the policy is against accessible education for all and favoured only the urban elites. “The policy proposes board exams for Classes III, V and VIII. This will force underprivileged and rural students to drop out and take up their parents’ occupation. This is a way to impose community education, which Rajaji had tried to bring in, but failed,” said district secretary of the outfit N V Nirmal Kumar. The policy will also lead to closure of government schools in rural areas and bring-in cluster schools, which will pave way to more rural students dropping out, the DVK leader said. “It favours urban elite students more than rural and underprivileged students. It says that, by 2035, the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education will be increased to 50%. But Tamil Nadu’s gross enrolment ratio is already 49%. So, they should ideally implement our education system across the country. But they are imposing their system, which has achieved only around 26% GER, on us.” The policy undermines the uniqueness and freedom of states, Kumar said and added that it also openly imposes Sanskrit, which is undesirable. Representatives of Revolutionary Youth Front also participated in the protest. Meanwhile, Vanathi Srinivasan, vice-president of Tamil Nadu BJP, said the NEP has been implemented only after perusing opinions of all stakeholders. “Learning an additional language will benefit the students. Government school students have been denied the opportunity to learn a third language,” she said. The BJP leader accused leaders of Dravidian parties of enrolling their children in private schools that teach three languages. “DMK president M K Stalin should release a white paper on the schools in which the children of DMK supporters study.” After chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took exception to the three-language policy stressed in NEP and reiterated his stance on the two-language policy, DVK welcomed it, while BJP expressed disappointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/natl-education-policy-evokes-mixed-reaction/articleshow/77338952.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal corona tally reaches 7,200||Bhopal: The spurt in Covid-19 infections continued unabated as 193 people tested positive in the state capital on Monday. The Advanced medical college in Kolar reported seven new cases of Covid-19, Also, another quarantine centre — the one in MANIT — is fast becoming a hub of coronavirus spread, reporting five positives cases. Arera Colony reported five more positive cases of the infection. One more person was diagnosed with the infection in the local headquarters of a public sector bank in MP Nagar. Char Imli also reported one more case of Covid-19 infection. Besides, three AIIMS Bhopal staffers were diagnosed with the infection. In Sudama Nagar, a total eight cases have been diagnosed since the pandemic began. The positive tally for Bhopal touched 7,200. Around 190 deaths in the state capital have been attributed to Covid-19 . According to a health department bulletin, the most number of cases in a single place were diagnosed in the district jail. Eighteen more people were found to be infected, with four being from the same family. Police lines, Govindpura, also reported new cases of the infection. Nearby Sankar Garden (Semara Road) has been converted into a containment area after a Covid-19 infection cases were diagnosed. Shiv Nagar (Bhanpur), Kunjan Nagar (Bagh Sewania), Rajiv Nagar (Semra), Minal Residency, BDA colony Koh-e-Fiza, Panchwati colony reported more Covid-19 infection. Shahpura (C-sector) and Kanha Kunj, Berasia, Akriti Greens also reported new cases of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-corona-tally-reaches-7200/articleshow/77338964.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala on alert over rains, landslides||KOCHI: Heavy rain was reported from many places in the state on Monday amidst the orange and yellow alerts sounded by the weather department. Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) has put all districts on alert for possible roads caving in and landslides in central and north Kerala this week if it rains more than 15cm. KSDMA officials said that a high alert has been issued to the local administration. Four teams of the national disaster response force (NDRF) have been pre-positioned in Idukki, Wayanad, Alappuzha and Thrissur. Army, Navy and police have been alerted to respond in case of an emergency. Across the state, 6,432 buildings have been readied to shift people in vulnerable regions at short notice. Though orange and yellow alerts have been issued for certain districts, officials are treating it as an equivalent of a red alert. “It doesn’t take long for a yellow or orange to turn red — extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20cm,” said an official. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Weather experts said that there could be one-day extreme rainfall events with 20-30 cm rain that could trigger landslides or mud-slips as seen recently in Kottayam. The seas will be very rough with waves in the range of 2.4-3.4 metre forecast along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds would vary between 50-70 cm/sec. KSDMA officials said that based on the GSI team assessment in 2018 and KSDMA’s expert assessment, each district collector has been given a list of vulnerable sites for mud-slips, landslides, ground-cracks, soil pipes and sudden inundation. “We will move people as soon as possible to the identified rehabilitation buildings. As of Monday, Vadakara had recorded 16cm of rain while Idukki had 8cm. Vaikom, Myladumpara, Thalassery, Kudulu recorded 7cm each. Other rainfall reported areas include Munnar, Peermade with 6cm each and Vellanikkara, Mananthavady, Vythiri and Irikkur got 5cm each. Following heavy rains in Idukki on Monday, the shutters of Pambla (Lower Periyar) and Kallarkutty dams were opened on Monday. One of the shutters of Pambla dam was opened by 30cm to release 45cumecs of water. Kallarkutty dam was opened to release 30cumecs of water. Meanwhile, the sluice gate of Peringalkuthu dam was opened on Monday. People living on the banks of Chalakudy river have been asked to be alert in the event of sudden rise in water levels. The district collector banned bathing, photography and fishing on the river banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-on-alert-over-rains-landslides/articleshow/77341964.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala on alert over rains, landslides||KOCHI: Heavy rain was reported from many places in the state on Monday amidst the orange and yellow alerts sounded by the weather department. Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) has put all districts on alert for possible roads caving in and landslides in central and north Kerala this week if it rains more than 15cm. KSDMA officials said that a high alert has been issued to the local administration. Four teams of the national disaster response force (NDRF) have been pre-positioned in Idukki, Wayanad, Alappuzha and Thrissur. Army, Navy and police have been alerted to respond in case of an emergency. Across the state, 6,432 buildings have been readied to shift people in vulnerable regions at short notice. Though orange and yellow alerts have been issued for certain districts, officials are treating it as an equivalent of a red alert. “It doesn’t take long for a yellow or orange to turn red — extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20cm,” said an official. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Weather experts said that there could be one-day extreme rainfall events with 20-30 cm rain that could trigger landslides or mud-slips as seen recently in Kottayam. The seas will be very rough with waves in the range of 2.4-3.4 metre forecast along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds would vary between 50-70 cm/sec. KSDMA officials said that based on the GSI team assessment in 2018 and KSDMA’s expert assessment, each district collector has been given a list of vulnerable sites for mud-slips, landslides, ground-cracks, soil pipes and sudden inundation. “We will move people as soon as possible to the identified rehabilitation buildings. As of Monday, Vadakara had recorded 16cm of rain while Idukki had 8cm. Vaikom, Myladumpara, Thalassery, Kudulu recorded 7cm each. Other rainfall reported areas include Munnar, Peermade with 6cm each and Vellanikkara, Mananthavady, Vythiri and Irikkur got 5cm each. Following heavy rains in Idukki on Monday, the shutters of Pambla (Lower Periyar) and Kallarkutty dams were opened on Monday. One of the shutters of Pambla dam was opened by 30cm to release 45cumecs of water. Kallarkutty dam was opened to release 30cumecs of water. Meanwhile, the sluice gate of Peringalkuthu dam was opened on Monday. People living on the banks of Chalakudy river have been asked to be alert in the event of sudden rise in water levels. The district collector banned bathing, photography and fishing on the river banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-on-alert-over-rains-landslides/articleshow/77337416.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||A tie of protection in time of Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: For Jayesh Patel, a resident of Ghatlodia, it was the first Rakshabandhan in a decade when he was not with his sister Smita, currently living in Bhavnagar. “She would come down for a few days ahead of the festivities and our families would celebrate it together. But we advised her not to travel this year. My cousin in the city tied the rakhi as we connected over a video call,” said Patel.  He was not alone in the virtual festivity on Monday as brothers and sisters advised each other to stay home to stay safe from possible Covid-19 infection. In at least one instance, a man and his sister held the ritual wearing masks in a common plot outside their home to prevent breach of any social distancing due to limited space indoors. But it did not dampen the spirit of the festivities as citizens were seen in large numbers on city roads in the morning and evening hours as many decided to visit their near and dear ones to mark the festival. At Civil Hospital in the city, a special event was organized where nurses tied rakhis made of organic material to Covid-19 patients. For Brahmins in the city, only a few public events were organized to change their janeu (sacred thread). Hetal Padh, a member of the priest family at Kala Ramji Temple on Kalupur Road, said they carried out the ritual with social distancing where all participants wore masks. “The number of course went down compared to past few years. But it was necessary due to the epidemic,” he said, adding that many even opted for live streaming of the event to change janeu at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-tie-of-protection-in-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/77338999.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||In Jind, women skip bus travel for tying rakhi||Jind: Women skipped travelling in buses to tie rakhis to their brothers in Haryana’s Jind district this year. While buses of Haryana Roadways are usually packed with women on Rakshabandhan, there was no such thing this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the Haryana government not letting women travel for free on buses. Otherwise, at the bus stand, people were seen using face masks on Monday, but they were not following social distancing. A commuter, Vishal Pawar from Jind district, said everyone was worried about their family’s health and dropped travel plans. Somnath Goyal, a resident of Jind, said, “Many people chose to travel in personal vehicles.” Bijender Hooda, general manager (GM) of Haryana Roadways in Jind, said, “We have reported 50% less commuters this year. Women were not keen on travelling to their brothers’ home this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-jind-women-skip-bus-travel-for-tying-rakhi/articleshow/77338963.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chaos at Mangor Hill after cops evict striking councillor||VASCO: Chaos prevailed at Mangor Hill on Monday after a large posse of cops deployed there evicted councillor and ex-chairperson of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), Saifulla Khan, after he sat on an indefinite hunger strike at Chota Mangor demanding that the area be delisted as a containment zone. Khan’s eviction prompted hundreds of residents to sit on the road in protest. The crowd dispersed only after the councillor reassured the people via a phone call that he was fine. He, however, told the police that he would not withdraw his strike. Khan had last week threatened to go on a hunger strike if the administration didn’t fulfil his demands for the welfare of the people by Sunday. On Sunday night, Khan and five others were served notices against going on strike and a team of policemen was stationed outside his house. Khan, however, began his hunger strike prompting a team of authorities to visit the spot and convince him to call off his agitation. When the councillor refused to budge, deputy collector Sachin Dessai ordered that he be taken to the Vasco police station. He was then taken to Margao on the instructions of South Goa collector Ajit Roy. “I have been assured that permission will be granted by Friday enabling people to go to work after they register their names. The collector has also said that he would ask the electricity and water departments not to charge consumers in the containment zone,” Khan told TOI. The former chairperson and councillor of MMC, Deepak Naik, told reporters that the government intends to lift the containmnet zone at Mangor Hill in next 8 to 10 days. “The reports from Mangor Hill have now started coming negative and there is a decline in cases. Good news can been be expected by August15, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chaos-at-mangor-hill-after-cops-evict-striking-councillor/articleshow/77340186.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala on alert over rains, landslides||KOCHI: Heavy rain was reported from many places in the state on Monday amidst the orange and yellow alerts sounded by the weather department. Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) has put all districts on alert for possible roads caving in and landslides in central and north Kerala this week if it rains more than 15cm. KSDMA officials said that a high alert has been issued to the local administration. Four teams of the national disaster response force (NDRF) have been pre-positioned in Idukki, Wayanad, Alappuzha and Thrissur. Army, Navy and police have been alerted to respond in case of an emergency. Across the state, 6,432 buildings have been readied to shift people in vulnerable regions at short notice. Though orange and yellow alerts have been issued for certain districts, officials are treating it as an equivalent of a red alert. “It doesn’t take long for a yellow or orange to turn red — extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20cm,” said an official. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Weather experts said that there could be one-day extreme rainfall events with 20-30 cm rain that could trigger landslides or mud-slips as seen recently in Kottayam. The seas will be very rough with waves in the range of 2.4-3.4 metre forecast along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds would vary between 50-70 cm/sec. KSDMA officials said that based on the GSI team assessment in 2018 and KSDMA’s expert assessment, each district collector has been given a list of vulnerable sites for mud-slips, landslides, ground-cracks, soil pipes and sudden inundation. “We will move people as soon as possible to the identified rehabilitation buildings. As of Monday, Vadakara had recorded 16cm of rain while Idukki had 8cm. Vaikom, Myladumpara, Thalassery, Kudulu recorded 7cm each. Other rainfall reported areas include Munnar, Peermade with 6cm each and Vellanikkara, Mananthavady, Vythiri and Irikkur got 5cm each. Following heavy rains in Idukki on Monday, the shutters of Pambla (Lower Periyar) and Kallarkutty dams were opened on Monday. One of the shutters of Pambla dam was opened by 30cm to release 45cumecs of water. Kallarkutty dam was opened to release 30cumecs of water. Meanwhile, the sluice gate of Peringalkuthu dam was opened on Monday. People living on the banks of Chalakudy river have been asked to be alert in the event of sudden rise in water levels. The district collector banned bathing, photography and fishing on the river banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/state-on-alert-over-rains-landslides/articleshow/77341963.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Teens develop Chrome plug-in for shopping desi products online||Mangaluru: Want to shop local or Indian made products on e-commerce websites? Here is a chrome plug-in SochSwadeshi that helps online shoppers buy Indian made products and support the Prime Minister’s ‘Vocal For Local’ call. The plug-in is developed by three teenagers — Swasthik Padma, Mohammed Suhail CS, and Pranav Shikarpur. Mohammed Suhail is native of Srinrangapatna and Pranav is from Bengaluru, both have taken a break after their Class 12 to focus on research. Swasthik, a first year electronics and communication engineering student from Puttur, said SochSwadeshi is a chrome plug-in that helps shop Indian products on e-commerce stores like Amazon, Flipkart. “This plug-in was developed to support our Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Vocal For Local and Atma Nirbhar Bharath,” said Swasthik Padma. He said the trio were brainstorming on how to find an alternative to Tiktok and other Chinese apps post its ban in India. “This is when we got an idea of this plug-in which helps an online shopper to shop only Indian made products. The plug-in was ready in just a week’s time,” added Swasthik. It is currently available only for desktops and they are planning to introduce the same for mobile browsers. “Taking this plug-in to mobile requires testing and there are also privacy issues which need to be addressed. We are working on it,” he added. To download SochSwadeshi click: https://get.sochswadeshi.in/install||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/teens-develop-chrome-plug-in-for-shopping-desi-products-online/articleshow/77330731.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Buying time costs patients’ lives in Kamptee||NAGPUR: A 50-year-old patient visited clinic of Dr Manish Dipani, a private practitioner at Kamptee, complaining of cough and breathlessness a few days ago. “Her oxygen level was at 53. I checked again with another pulse oximeter which showed a level of 50. Oxygen level dipping below 95 is not a good symptom. When I asked her to get a Covid test done, her son and daughter-in-law admitted that she was avoiding it since many days. “I referred her to a government hospital for the test. In less than couple of hours after they went, I came to know that the patient had died,” said Dr Dipani. Dr Manoj Gurdasani, also a private practitioner in Kamptee, had a similar story to tell. A patient complained of fever and his oxygen level was at 93. “He ignored the written advice and did not go for the test till another four days. He passed away a day after and tested positive later on,” said Dr Gurdasani. Private doctors in Kamptee town, which has emerged as a Covid hotspot, say they have come across cases of patients fast developing critical symptoms as they kept avoiding tests hoping to get well soon. Doctors say this does not rule out chances of some of the fatalities going unrecorded as deaths are happening even before patients are getting tested for Covid. A pathology laboratory owner said on the condition of anonymity that there have been 4 to 5 deaths of bed-ridden senior citizens in a locality at Kamptee. “They died recently after sudden deterioration in their health. Even as they were bed-ridden there was no other major health issues all these days. Such persons can be suspected to have died of Covid, but there is no record. The kin manage to do the last rites by arranging death certificate from their family doctors,” the lab owner said. According to doctors, even the written advice in the prescription is being ignored. “Not only this, patients are also not giving the correct details like their name, phone number and address,” said Dipani as others also agreed. “There were patients with oxygen level of 87 and 93, they were advised tests but they did not return for a review,” he said The doctors said, however they are referring Covid tests for any patient having symptoms like cough, fever and body ache. The number of persons coming to the clinics with such symptoms has gone up substantially. Dr Rajesh Dipani, also a private practitioners at Kamptee, said he has also come across a case with symptoms that cannot be directly linked with Covid. “As against the known symptoms like fever, cough and cold, a patient had severe vomiting. On being tested he was found to be positive. There are chances that he may be having mild fever earlier. There were some other cases of diarrhoea too but the patients had other Covid symptoms like lack of test or smell. They were also tested positive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buying-time-costs-patients-lives-in-kamptee/articleshow/77339664.cms||Shishir Arya
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC standing panel opposes water tariff hike||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) standing committee on Monday registered its objection against civic administration’s decision to hike water tariff. As per approval given by the general body, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had increased the tariff by 5% from April 1 and water works department issued water bills as per new rates for the first quarter. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said directives have been given to send the proposal to the general body. “Water works department tabled water tariff hike with the committee for purpose of noting. I registered objection and asked it to put up before general body. Hike was not justified amid Covid-19,” he said. The general body had approved hike in water tariff by 5% in 2011-12. The administration had increased tariff for 10th time. The hike is being done every year for increasing rate of private operator- Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW). Zalke also said, “NMC should stop sealing areas under containment zone system. The officials are just erecting tin-sheets and not monitoring movement of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-standing-panel-opposes-water-tariff-hike/articleshow/77339669.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Another fake plasma donor tricks Covid-19 patients in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Families of patients, in need of plasma donation, have raised alert over another scamster on the prowl. They say a person, who goes by the name of Sai Charan, asks for transport charges to make the donation and then never shows up. Sai Raghu landed in the city on July 13 from Philadelphia to help his mother who was battling Covid-19. “As my mother’s condition worsened, I posted on social media asking for plasma donors. I was approached by Sai Charan who said his friend was willing to provide plasma,” said the IT professional. The two communicated for three days and on July 20, as his mother’s condition worsened, Sai Raghu transferred Rs 3,500 to cover the transport costs of the donor, who was said to be in Warangal. Once this was done, there was no response from the other side. Sai Raghu’s mother passed away the same day. Akhil Kumar, another IT professional, was duped in a similar manner. Kumar’s father is in a private hospital in Secunderabad and was approached by Charan. “I paid Rs 5,000 because he said he would come from Vijayawada. I told him I would pay more once he reaches here but he never turned up,” he said. Kumar was fortunate enough to get another donor in time. Speaking to TOI, Ashish Paidewar, who has been helping people identify genuine donors, said Charan had duped at least five people till now. Cyber crime Assistant Commissioner of Police KVM Prasad said that they had not received a complaint yet. “We will take action once we get a complaint,” he said. This is the second such instance of a person defrauding plasma seekers. Last month, police had arrested 25-year-old Sandeep Reddy from Andhra Pradesh for duping 200 people, many from Hyderabad, on the pretext of donating plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-fake-plasma-donor-tricks-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77339007.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tests Covid positive again, will remain in hospital||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will undergo further hospitalisation after a Covid-19 repeat test on the ninth day came back positive, health minister Prabhuram Choudhary said here on Monday. Chouhan has been at a private hospital in Bhopal since July 25. “The CM’s RT-PCR test for SARSCov-2 on ninth day was positive. His medical parameters are normal,” said a health bulletin from Chirayu Hospital. MP home minister Narottam Mishra confirmed this and said the CM will “stay in hospital for now”. The cabinet meeting scheduled for Tuesday will be a virtual one, he said. The CM has been holding review meetings on Covid and law on video-conference during his stay in hospital. Tuesday’s virtual cabinet meet will be his second. Chouhan had tweeted on Sunday that he is healthy and not showing any symptoms of the infection. He hoped he would be discharged on Monday if his Covid test comes negative. Chouhan also shared on Twitter a picture of a Rakhi tied on him by PPE-clad nurse Saroj, who is attending to him in the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-tests-ve-again-will-remain-in-hosp/articleshow/77339040.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Surat||E-comm to help small units market diamonds globally||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has decided to provide an e-commerce platform to the stressed diamond industry, especially the small and medium units, for online sales and marketing of products using social media and help them reach out to the customers across India and around the globe. SGCCI’s gems and jewellery committee plans to raise funds from the diamond miners, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and other stakeholders for marketing the diamonds on the social media platforms including Facebook, Instagram, Whatspp and Twitter. Co-chairman of gems and jewellery committee of SGCCI, Rakesh Gandhi told TOI, “Barring a few big diamond companies selling on online platforms, the small and medium diamantaires are dependent on Mumbai for selling their products. We want to provide an e-commerce platform to these small diamantaires for selling directly to the customers across the world.” Under this initiative, SGCCI will allow diamantaires to create a virtual catalogue of their products and also help them expand and manage their business wherever they need support. Gandhi added, “Due to travel restrictions in place, international customers are not going to come to India. Even the diamantaires won’t be able to travel frequently to foreign countries for marketing. However, social media marketing and e-commerce will help the diamantaires tide over the crisis.” SGGCI is known among India’s jewellery retail industry due to annual gems and jewellery event ‘Sparkle’ being organised from the last 12 years. Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “It is time for the diamantaires to reach out directly to the customers. The pandemic is not going to be over soon and international buyers will continue to avoid travelling to India to purchase diamonds. An e-commerce platform will go a long way in helping the diamond industry.” According to Dinesh Navadiya, interim president of SGCCI more than 5,000 diamantaires and 5 lakh workers have been affected due to the pandemic and weak demand for diamond in the international market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/e-comm-to-help-small-units-market-diamonds-globally/articleshow/77337497.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Pub owner, three aides get bail||NAGPUR: The district and addl sessions court on Monday granted bail to pub owner Tapan Jaiswal and his three aides earlier booked for extortion and other charges by city police last week for harassing one Sameer Ingle and demanding interest at the rate of 15% on Rs 70,000 borrowed by him. The court observed that there was risk in keeping the accused in jail during the covid pandemic. It also observed that keeping the accused in jail would not serve any purpose when the investigation officer of the crime branch and public prosecutor had strongly opposed the bail. Jaiswal and three others have been instructed by the court to cooperate with the investigation and also furnish bonds of Rs25,000 each. Advocates Kamal Satuja, Kailash Dodhani, Sameer Sonwane and Nitin Wase appeared for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pub-owner-three-aides-get-bail/articleshow/77339674.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||11 bikes, 3 cars recovered from thief||NAGPUR: Vaibhav Bhandekar alias Triple XXX, having 29 offences of thefts against him in the past, was arrested by Sitabuldi police team last week following a chase on Maharajbagh road. Around 11 two-wheelers and three cars worth nearly Rs11 lakh were recovered from him. It’s learnt that Bhandekar, notorious for his vehicle theft records, had tried to flee on a bike when cops started chasing him. He was nabbed from a shrub where he tried to hide after abandoning the bike. Police said Bhandekar had stolen the vehicles from different places in the city in the last couple of months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-bikes-3-cars-recovered-from-thief/articleshow/77339677.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Local rly officials exploring ways to cut plastic pollution in station premises||Ludhiana: After the railway’s decision to place a blanket ban on the usage of plastic carry bags with thickness less than 50 microns in the station premises across India, local railway authorities are taking this eco-friendly initiative to the next level. They have been working on the different proposals for disposing waste like food wrappers and water bottles or recycling biodegradable waste material that is being generated in the city station. Railway authorities are planning to install some more plastic bottle crusher machines inside the station premises for recycling the used plastic bottles from station premises. The authorities have also invited local non government organisations to install plastic waste collecting boxes inside the station premises. In return, they could recycle plastic waste collected in the boxes to cover cost. Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar confirmed that locally efforts are being made to install more bottle crushers inside the station. “Although, for recycling chips and biscuits packet wrappers, railways is planning to tie up with local NGOs which could reuse collected food wrappers. We are focusing on the installation of bottle crusher machines,” he added. According to the station director, passengers and visitors mostly dump these used plastic bottles on the tracks and platform, spoiling the environment. “Even many garbage pickers burn these bottles, which is far more hazardous for the environment. With bottle crusher machines, this could be easily recycled,” said Kumar. At present there is one bottle crusher unit on platform number 1, but this is not enough to recycle all plastic bottle waste generated inside the city station, said the director. Meanwhile, the ban on single-use plastic bags have put more burden on local vendors, as they have to shell out more money to purchase biodegradable carry bags. A stall owner Rajinder Sharma said, the decision to ban plastic carry bags with thickness less than 50 microns is a good initiative. But we have been appealing to the railway authorities that they should issue their own eco-friendly bags branded with Railway logo that can be used by vendors inside the station premises. This will mean drastic reduction in plastic pollution, but will also be a good branding exercise,” said Rajinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/local-rly-officials-exploring-ways-to-cut-plastic-pollution-in-station-premises/articleshow/77336258.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC hopes to rake in Rs 1,000 crore from property tax amnesty scheme||HYDERABAD: Despite Covid-19, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) expects another Rs 1,000 crore will be added to its coffers in the next 45 days. Under the one-time amnesty scheme for clearing property tax arrears, Rs 2.35 crore has already been added to GHMC’s kitty in the last three days. “Since August 1, 2,491 property owners paid Rs 2.35 crore. We expect over Rs 1,000 crore revenue,” a GHMC official said. The last date to avail the scheme is September 15. Under the scheme, property owners, who have property tax dues with interest, need to pay just 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal amount up to the 2019-2020 financial year. A source in GHMC said the scheme was rolled out by the state government to boost the corporation’s revenue amid Covid-19 and earn goodwill among people ahead of GHMC elections. “When the GHMC requested for funds from state government, civic officials were asked to generate their own revenue. After that, a plan was chalked out to boost revenue by state government,” a GHMC official said. “There is financial crisis in GHMC. As of now, only infrastructure projects are being executed as the civic body availed Rs 2,500 crore term loan ,” a GHMC official said. As per GHMC records, 5.64 lakh property owners have to pay Rs 2,495.62 crore property tax arrears (including interest). The municipal corporation has already upgraded its software to facilitate online payment. The scheme can also be availed by logging into GHMC website and My GHMC app. Tax payers can also avail the scheme by visiting Citizen Service Centers and Meeseva centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-hopes-to-rake-in-rs-1k-cr-from-property-tax-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/77339064.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 3,024cr for dept under ‘rebel’ Pilot not cleared by state finance wing||Jaipur: The finance department has not yet released the state finance commission (SFC-V) grant of Rs 3,024 crore to the rural development and panchayati raj department, which came under the ministry held by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, for the 2019-20 period. This was revealed in a presentation given by the rural development and panchayati raj department on issues it had with various departments to the state-level development and coordination committee, headed by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, on July 30. Under the head, 'inter-departmental issues', the presentation stated that the fund was part of the state finance commission (SFC-V) grant. The finance department is under the ministry held by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. It also pointed out that Rs 1,883.25 crore from the central share was pending as the state share of Rs 1,262.53 crore for implementing MGNREGA, Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMAY-G), National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), National Rural Economic Transformation Project (NRETP) and Border Area Development Programme (BADP) schemes has not been released. Among other issues that the panchayati raj department had with the finance department include payment of interest against delay in transfer of money of the Central Finance Commission to gram panchayat; Rs 11 crore required for completing undergoing works for 16 PS buildings of panchayat samitis created in 2014; formation of State Finance Commission (VI); non-payment of honorarium to panchayat sahayaks since April 2020. Under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY-WC), bills amounting to over Rs 45 crore are pending at treasury and bills amounting to Rs 90 crore pending for sending to treasury, the presentation pointed out. This would delay the second instalment of Rs 116 crore from the Centre. Other pending issues are matter of provision of additional allocation of Rs 148.97 crore from water cess under Rajiv Gandhi Jal Sanchay Yojana (RGJSY) and creation of posts in new panchayat samitis and gram panchayats. Asked about the Rs 3,024 crore pending under SFC-V grant for the year 2019-20, additional chief secretary (finance) Niranjan Kumar Arya, said, “I will have to check. As far as I know, there is no pendency. Whatever demands or bills we receive from them, we release it immediately.” The rural development and panchayati raj department also pointed out issues with the revenue department. These include not allotting residential land to 14,503 landless beneficiaries under PMAY-G and land allotment by collectors for gram panchayat and panchayat samiti bhawans. Similarly, the issue with the education department was related to transfer of closed school buildings to panchayati raj department for gram panchayat bhawans and panchayat samiti bhawans. The local self-government too has been found wanting on an issue related to the notification of new nagar palikas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-3024cr-for-dept-under-rebel-pilot-not-cleared-by-state-finance-wing/articleshow/77337569.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 4, 2020||Aurangabad||87 new cases emerge in Aurangabad dist||Aurangabad: As many as 87 Covid-19 cases were identified from across the district on Monday, taking the tally of active patients to 3,255. While 49 cases were reported from the municipal limits of Aurangabad city, 39 were from the rural areas. The Covid-19 tally in the district has reached 14,640. The death toll reached 484 after two people undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) succumbed to the infection on Monday. A 65-year-old man from New Hanuman Nagar and a 45-year-old man from Krushnanagar were among the deceased patients. Of the 191 patients taking treatment at GMCH, the condition of 119 patients is said to be critical. Officials in the district administration said that the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the district has come down. The number of patients successfully recovering from Covid-19 and getting discharged from hospitals has gone up. So far, 10,901 patients have been treated and discharged from different health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/87-new-cases-emerge-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/77336263.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Double whammy: Covid-dengue infections add to doctors’ worry in Kolkata||A middle-aged man who was found infected with both Covid-19 and dengue died at MR Bangur a few weeks ago. A teenager, who died in Howrah during treatment for Covid, was also found positive to dengue as well. TimesViewThis season throws several health challenges at us. Coronavirus wreaking havoc does not mean that other seasonal scourges are going to stay away. Both government agencies and citizens must be prepared for these onslaughts.A child from Beniapukur, who was brought to Institute of Child Health (ICH) about 12 days ago, had tested positive to both as well. The child was referred and is now undergoing treatment at Medical College & Hospital, Kolkata. Dengue has started to pile more misery on Kolkatans, who are already struggling to cope with Covid-19. There have been at least three known cases of dual infection — Covid-19 and dengue — over the last few weeks. Though doctors are yet to be definite about the impact of the double infection on patients, there is an increasing concern as some symptoms of the two infections overlap. “So far, the number of dengue cases has been sporadic but cases will start rising by next month. In that case, we might be getting more cases of dengue and Covid co-infection,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri of ICH, Kolkata. “Since this is the first time we are getting co-infection cases, we are not sure how the dual infection can impact a patient. The possibilities are that both the viruses might supplement each other. But we need more cases to be sure about it,” added Giri. “The two infections have overlapping symptoms like fever, headache and body pain. A person can be found infected by both as the vectors are different. Patients who are suspected of double infection should be subjected to proper diagnosis rather than depending on symptoms,” said infection control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI. Gupta added that in such patients, there could be cross reactions during diagnostic tests. “While RT-PCR should be confirming Covid, dengue PCR should be ideal for confirming dengue infection,” added Gupta. Doctors said that in some, medications and treatment approach of the two infections are contra-indicative to each each. Therefore, managing patients with two infections could be challenging. “For example, anti-coagulant is used in the management of some patients in Covid treatment. Now, if this patent is also dengue positive, such drug is contra-indication of dengue. Some management protocols are different. Therefore, managing a patient infected by both dengue and Covid could be quite a tough job,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas of RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. The state has scaled up the number of fever clinics to deal with Covid patients. Now, with the number of dengue cases set to rise, these clinics may have a tough job at hand. “The government should come up with a clear guideline on this emerging health issue,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/double-whammy-covid-dengue-infections-add-to-doctors-worry/articleshow/77337560.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||PU says no entrance for CET (UG), admissions to be on Class XII merit||Chandigarh: Panjab University announced the admission schedule for the 2020-21 academic session for CET (UG) on Monday, which will be based on merit of Class 10+2. In view of the Covid-19 crisis, the special committee headed by Navdeep Goyal decided not to hold entrance test and conduct admission on the basis of merit instead. The admission schedule is for students seeking admission in B.Sc (Honours) and B. Pharmacy. Students have to register themselves on the PU CET (UG) admission site (https://cetug.puchd.ac.in/) by August 9 after submitting their information. Navdeep Goyal said it has been decided that students who have already deposited the fee to appear for the entrance exam will not have to give counselling fee as the amount will be adjusted in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-says-no-entrance-for-cet-ug-admissions-to-be-on-class-xii-merit/articleshow/77337551.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Gyms expect 30% to hit exercise floor, rest to go online to stay fit||Kolkata: When gyms re-start on August 6 (since August 5 is a lockdown day), they expect just 30%-40% of the members to return to the exercise floor. The rest have already told their trainers that they would prefer to stay back home for the moment and have asked for online training in breathing techniques, stretching and light free-hand exercises to stay fit. Both trainers and owners said they were welcoming these suggestions on tailor-made demands to make good lost business. They added that since only very few will come back to exercise on the floor, social distancing will automatically be taken care of. Members have told their gyms that consultant doctors are advising light to moderate free hand exercise, pranayams and certain yogic postures that will help to activate the unused and dormant alveoli inside the lungs. “It is because of the inactive alveoli inside the lungs that people are ending up in ventilators. If the alveoli are all active and the lungs are strong, one can easily fight it out. Hence, we have devised simple anulom-virlom, kapalbhati and other pranayam related training and yogic postures for online training,” said Tapas Maity, the chief trainer in five gyms. Most gyms are reopening with a modified regimen of greater emphasis on cardio-vascular light exercises and an absolute no-no to high intensity workouts. “Our fitness routines are being tweaked. The high-intensity workouts will cause greater perspiration and hence the chances of infection are high,” explained Gagan Sachdev, who runs the Karma Fitness Studio chain. During the lockdown, trainers had prepared videos of such exercises and even trained members in groups online. “We have already asked our members in the WhatsApp group that we have created, as to how many would want group online participation or group training and how many can come to the gym. Accordingly, we are fixing the routine,” said Divya Himmatsingka, owner of Sculpt gym. The owner of the Endorphins chain of gyms, Ronodeep Maitra feels that though members are calling up for breathing exercises from a distance, you can hardly take our “breathing” from an exercise regimen. “It’s interwoven. Any exercise is a workout for the lungs also and in time strengthens them and we are focussing on how to do it right,” he added. Fitness expert at Soul Fitness and Yogam, Ajoy Sarkar, said that each such online breathing and light exercise regimen are finding favour with members who don’t want to come back to the floor yet. General physician Mukesh Kochar said: “Since morning and evening walks seem difficult for many now, online training from home under guidance is a good choice,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gyms-expect-30-to-hit-exercise-floor-rest-to-go-online-to-stay-fit/articleshow/77337622.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||PU teachers, students raise concerns after Day 1 of online classes||Chandigarh: After first day of classes on Monday, most faculty members said better infrastructure is required in Panjab University departments to hold online classes for the ongoing semester. Students faced issues in internet connectivity, due to which some could not join classes on time while many could not do so at all. While smooth wi-fi connection was a problem, day one of classes also took a backseat to Raksha Bandhan celebrations for many. R K Singla, dean, university instructions assured that the problems would ease over the next few days. He said his office is approving all time-tables on priority so that classes can be held on time. He also said departments are equipped with infrastructure. Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the committee for admission and examination said soon the decision will be taken to allow faculty to work from home. However, he said no infrastructure will be provided by authorities for the purpose. Punjabi department chairperson Yog Raj Angrish said he has sent a representation to authorities saying that the department should be allowed to hire ad-hoc teachers to hold classes in view of staff shortage. He said authorities had hired 300 guest faculty members last year and it is not possible to hold classes with regular teachers only. Professor Jatinder Grover, dean, faculty of education and coordinator of the Centre for academic leadership and educational management said on the first day, they held orientation to make students aware of the process of joining classes. Initially, there will be issues but it will soon be resolved, he said. Ajay Ranga, associate professor, university institute of legal studies (UILS) said he has already mooted a proposal to allow work from home if authorities want proper classes. Rahul Kumar, an anthropology student said students need time to get used to online classes. He also said most students did not join class due to Rakhi celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-teachers-students-raise-concerns-after-day-1-of-online-classes/articleshow/77337635.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||PU DIS suggests short-term online courses for foreign students||Chandigarh: In view of the Covid-19 crisis, dean, international students, PU has, for the first time, asked departments to draft short-term online courses for foreign students. A circular the DIS shared with all departments stated that the current situation has presented many opportunities for universities to start new experiments in the field of education. The committee of the working group of the office of the dean, international students has suggested that departments can propose short-term online courses for international students. The DIS has asked departments to send proposals to start online courses for international students in their respective departments, centres and institutes. The proposal should mention the details, theme of the course, duration, number of seats, eligibility and fee structure. Dr Nandita Singh, dean, international students said that till last year, foreign students came for summer or winter training of three to four weeks, during which they experienced ground realities of the country by visiting various sites for projects. She said while it is not possible for the DIS to hold such a training programme this year, they have asked the department to chalk out courses. She said some of the departments consulted the DIS on drafting of courses and it was suggested that they make videos to make foreign students understand the issue at hand and then hold an interactive session for them. Online training could be given in subjects of renewable energy, Knowing India and Handicrafts, she said, adding that departments are yet to send a final proposal. The issue was recently raised in an all-chairperson meeting and all heads were asked to send the proposal to the DIS for consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-dis-suggests-short-term-online-courses-for-foreign-students/articleshow/77337579.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Villagers hound family with 27 patients, cut TMC power||Jharsuguda: A joint family of 27 members faced a harrowing time at the hands of villagers after they tested positive for Covid-19. The situation came to such a state that the administration had to intervene after villagers, unwilling to let them stay at the temporary medical centre, laid siege, cut the electricity line to the centre and stopped supply of food for those inside for fear they might also catch the virus. The incident took place at Parmanpur under Kolabira block in Jharsuguda district. The family members belong to Raghunathpalli, under the same block. Among the 27-member family are 8 children, the youngest being two-year old. Out of them, 19 have recovered while a 74-year-old male member have died due to the virus. The rest are undergoing treatment. Narrating their ordeal, one of the members said, “On July 27, me and my elder brother were taken the temporary centre at Parmanpur where we were joined by 17 of our family members who had recovered from Covid-19.” The same evening villagers of Parmanpur and neighbouring places under Kolabira block gathered outside the centre and demanded that they leave. “The protest got so aggressive that the villagers disconnected the power supply to the centre and stopped food being served to us. We went hungry for more than 8 hours. There were children who also faced the brunt of the protest. What wrong had the children done?” the person asked. But the villagers were in no mood to listen. “It was only after the district administration assured the villagers that we will be moved to home quarantine, a day later, that the locals relented,” the person said. Once back in Raghunathpalli village, the family members faced protest from the locals, who wanted them to stay away from the village. “It was only after all of us, including the children, signed an undertaking that we won’t step out of our house for 12 days that we were allowed to enter our home,” said the person. “I fear this persecution might continue even after the end of the 12-day isolation period. It has been mentally taxing for us. I just pray that this doesn’t happen to anyone. I would also request the state government to sensitise villagers against this type of social discrimination,” the person added. Jharsuguda district collector Saroj Kumar Samal said, “Local people have unnecessarily developed fear of COVID, We are reaching out to the people and making them understand that there is no fear if a Covid patient has been discharged and is living in home isolation.” He added that what happened in Parmanpur should not be repeated and said the administration took care not to get swayed by the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/villagers-hound-family-with-27-patients-cut-tmc-power/articleshow/77337640.cms||Ritesh Sharma
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||Tailor hangs self due to poor business||RAJKOT: A 35-year-old tailor allegedly committed suicide in his rented shop by hanging on Sunday night. Preliminary investigation suggested that the tailor Bhavin Jesor was suffering from severe financial crunch as the business was down after lockdown. Jesore lived in a rented house in Radhe Shyam Society on Mavdi Road with his wife and daughter. Police said he was finding it difficult to pay the rent for the house and shop as there was not getting stitching work due to the coronavirus pandemic. Tailor is a native of native of Gadu village in Maliya-Hatina taluka of Junagadh district where his parents live. Rajkot has seen a spate of suicides by small-time businessmen and individuals, mainly due to the financial crisis triggered by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tailor-hangs-self-due-to-poor-business/articleshow/77336297.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Mixed response from students for ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ telecasts||MADURAI: ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ TV programmes for government school students to learn from home, has evoked mixed response from students during the first phase telecast between July 15 and 31. The programmes, which covered lessons for all Classes from I to XII, are being telecast for 14 hours per day based on a schedule with each episode lasting 28 minutes. While they are enabling students to learn from home, it has not been easy for students to adapt so soon. “It is nice to see the programmes. However, it is not easy to learn like in a classroom. Especially, when some new concepts are being taught, I cannot even pause the programme to understand better so for the rest of the episode I feel like being left in the dark,” said G Arun Kumar, a Class IX student. Students also felt that with different teachers for different programmes, the quality of teaching was varying making it difficult for them to follow. “Students from my school said that the programmes are very helpful. But, at the same time, when the teachers are talking monotonously, it is difficult for some students to follow. Some programmes are also not being telecast as per schedule,” said M Thennavan, headmaster, Kondapethan Government Middle School. Teachers said that the programmes would work better if they are more engaging and interactive. “The videos for the first term has been done. But, we will improve the videos to be shot and edited for the second and third terms. Right now, we are following power point presentation and teachers are lecturing every single concept thoroughly. It is being planned to bring improve quality by making it more visually interactive and engaging with animations and cartoons,” said K Ramachandran, senior lecturer, district institute of education and training (DIET), Madurai. He added that the videos would be reviewed by a committee to ensure better quality. Though the programmes are gaining traction, teachers have cautioned that students should still be able to learn the lessons again when schools reopen and not be forced to give exams based on learning from just these programs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mixed-response-from-students-for-kalvi-tholaikatchi-telecasts/articleshow/77339138.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||‘Iron men’ struggle with new normal as laundry industry scrambles||Try not to feel like a surgeon every time a customer places a set of un-ironed clothes into your gloved hands and you have to toss your rubber gloves into the dustbin after he leaves. Ignore the fact that your cotton mask exaggerates the heat in your workplace as you steam-press these clothes. Forget the fragrant fabric softener and pour the drab antiseptic liquid into the 10kg washing machine at the end of every cycle instead. Then, to kill time, dust and sanitize the room endlessly while waiting for new clients that seldom arrive. Lather. Rinse. Repeat. To cope with the new normal, ‘iron man’ Sandeep Sharma—who works at an app based, pick-up and drop laundry service in Thane called UClean—must almost distract himself from it. Given that the vehemently sanitized counters of the city’s laundry and dry cleaning industry are grappling with the stubborn dust of gloom caused by Covid-induced concerns about hygiene and the hazy ways of Mumbai’s unlocking, Sharma’s reconfigured mental workflow applies to many ‘iron men’ in the city, who did not flee to their hometowns during the lockdown. The invisible industry that was a perennial friend to the pinstriped corporate slave—especially of the bachelor variety—has temporarily lost its starched sheen in the germophobic, Work From Home reality. In the wake of ‘Unlockdown’, while big businesses—that return shirts with a piece of cardboard inside the shirt collar—are re-strategizing while many small businesses have either folded or are folding clothes that have been lying in the stores since lockdown began in March. New unironed formal shirts and pants are hard to come by, let alone the blankets and rajais that used to arrive in hordes during monsoon. “It’s going to be a long winter,” says Sanjay Somani of Bueno drycleaning service, referring to the slowdown. Since resuming business on June 9, Bueno's sales volume is 15 to 18 percent of what it used to be, he says. “The mood of the consumer is fragile. Not many want external contact. Besides, many offices have yet to open. It feels like we are starting from zero,” says Somani, whose firm has not only started no-contact pick-up and delivery but also introduced what he calls "price rationalisations"—an industry euphemism for price reduction. At around Rs 120 per set, premium drycleaning services are not affordable to all, says Abhinand Pushpakar, regional manager at Spin N Press, which has four physical stores in the city whose operations are compounded by the uneven rules of various pincodes. For instance, if the Malabar Hill store is allowed to remain open six days a week ,the store in Parel works on the odd-even principle. To help their cause, the firm ‘quarantines’ clothes for a day or two before they are sent to the ‘processing centre’ for washing. This means the clothes marinate in a sanitizer-spiked solvent before churning in the washing machine at the workshop which socially distances one person’s clothes from another. Predictably, manpower has been the biggest challenge for the industry. “Majority of the team members at the store were natives of Bihar, Odisha and the North East. Once the lockdown came into place, many of them went back to their hometowns and are still not comfortable coming back since they fear another lockdown could happen anytime, especially in a city like Mumbai,” says Arunabh Sinha of Uclean, which has seven outlets in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. To cope, the firm has started "sharing" its ‘iron men’. So, the same ‘iron men’ now divide their time between the two Thane stores—a formula that works well for the moment as the workload isn't high. “The salaries also end up getting shared between the two franchises,” says Sinha. Curiously, the heightened germophobia has resulted in a steady spike in the number of new customers who are availing the services of professional dry-cleaners in place of the local dhobi. Gyanendra Jha recalls many such calls for his laundry business Mr Paddy in Thane but the lack of manpower has meant that the service had to shut shop after suffering losses of Rs 5 to 6 lakh during the lockdown. “I called up all my regular customers after resuming service but no one is showing up,” says Jayprakash Salian of International Laundry, a four-decade-old establishment in Colaba that was last shut for four days during the 1992-93 riots. Only when the local trains start working, will the winter end for the industry, guesses Dilip Kanojia of Blue Angel laundry in Colaba, who is still wounded by an electricity bill of Rs 32,900 that he had to pay “even though my store was shut”. Now his day chiefly consists of returning clothes lying in the store since March in neat, brown-paper-shrouded piles and heeding to the regular customers who warn him good-naturedly: “Don’t accept clothes from anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iron-men-struggle-with-new-normal-as-laundry-industry-scrambles/articleshow/77339770.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula civic body plans to turn dumping ground into a green belt||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) is going to carve out a beautiful park on the dumping ground in Sector 23. The dumping ground is located close the residential area. The MC has also claimed that the issue of foul smell will be resolved with the new waste disposal plant at the site. Besides this, they have also planned to plant over 10 lakh saplings throughout the district, starting from the dumping ground. Haryana assembly speaker-cum-local MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited the dumping ground along with the officials of the MC and the administration to assess the progress of the waste disposal works. The contractor concerned was also called on the site. Gupta said the waste disposal project was his top priority. Officials present on the spot said the process of composting will begin at the dumping ground soon. People living in the nearby sectors will get rid of the pungent smell that they have been facing for the last 16 years. The work of beautification of the plant has also been started. Officials of the municipal corporation said within a year of the commencement of work, the garbage dump will be converted into fertilizer. From the bio-mining project, fertiliser will be prepared by mining 2,000 to 3,000 tonne of waste daily. The solid waste discharged will be sent to the cement factory. MC commissioner Mahavir Singh said, “With the installation of the plant, the work for segregation will be started here. The dumping ground will be converted into a park in the near future.” R P Malhotra, president of the Federation of Resident Association (FORA), said, “Till the time the waste disposal plant does not start working here, we are going to face the problem. The tall claims of shifting the dumping ground, which is close to the residential area and disposal of waste, has only been a mere announcement, but nothing concrete has been done in this regard.” Besides this, to make Panchkula greener, the MC along with an NGO is going to plant over 10 lakh saplings to maintain greenery in the city. According to information received from the MC officials, saplings will be planted in the Panchkula district during this monsoon season. They planted 121 saplings near the dumping ground in Sector 23 on Saturday. Officials, while planting the saplings, stated that everyone must pledge to plant a tree on their special day, including birthday, wedding or any other special occasion, which will benefit the nature and our environment. General secretary of Vishwas Foundation, an NGO, Nilima Vishwas appreciated the steps taken by the Panchkula administration. She said, “We initiated the tree plantation drive near the dumping ground because it will help in reducing the foul smell in the locality. Besides, it will turn the dumping ground into a green cover in a few years.” She said their NGO will also provide a tree guard to these saplings so that they can be protected from stray animals and can grow fully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-mc-plans-to-turn-dumping-ground-into-a-green-belt/articleshow/77337677.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 4, 2020||Madurai||File counter in accused cop’s bail plea: HC to CBI||MADURAI: Madras high court on Monday directed the CBI to file a counter on the bail plea moved by suspended head constable, S Murugan, who was arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks. After the assistant solicitor general V Kathirvelu appearing for the CBI sought time to file a counter, justice V Bharathidasan directed the CBI to file a counter and adjourned the case to August 17 for further hearing. Jeyaraj’s wife Selvarani also filed an impleading petition in the case objecting the grant of bail to Murugan. Murugan, a resident of Tirunelveli district had stated that he came to the Sathankulam police station at around 8.15pm on the day of the incident after conducting an inquiry in another case at the government hospital. When he came to the police station, inspector Sridhar and sub-inspector Balakrishnan compelled him to sign in the typed complaint registered against the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/file-counter-in-accused-cops-bail-plea-hc-to-cbi/articleshow/77339169.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Surat||He won many hearts, but lost battle to Covid||SURAT: When people of his age preferred to stay indoors, he was out on the streets feeding hundreds of poor people and arranging food packets for the paramedical staff and policemen on duty during the lockdown, without fear of getting infected with Covid-19. But on Sunday night, the 66-year-old textile trader and a social worker Kailash Dhut lost a 22-day-long battle against the deadly virus at a private hospital. Dhut, a sari and dress material trader owing shop at the Millennium Market on Ring Road was always on the forefront and ensured that the poor do not sleep without food. Dhut, who is survived by his wife, son and daughter-in-law, worked relentlessly during two months of lockdown under the banner of Dr Ambedkar Vanvasi Kalyan Trust and Maheshwari Samaj, for arranging food and ration kit for the poor and migrant workers. A known personality in the textile circles, Dhut, played a pivotal role during the month-long protest by the textile traders against the goods and service tax (GST) in July 2017. Along with the Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA), Dhut was spearheading the GST agitation and was involved in drafting letters to the Central government demanding the abolition of GST. Champalal Bothra, secretary of FOSTTA told TOI, “We have lost a leader of Rajasthani Maheshwari Samaj and a dedicated social worker. His demise is a big loss to the traders’ fraternity. For us, Dhut was a real corona warrior, always ready to help the needy.” Dhut was admitted to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital on July 14 after he complained of severe cough and fever, where he tested positive of Covid-19. In a day or two, Dhut was shifted to the Venus Hospital in Rampura and was put on oxygen support. On July 30, Dhut celebrated his 66th birthday with the hospital staff and distributed sweets. “I have seen his dedication and conviction in serving the poor during lockdown, be it distributing ration kits or homoeopathy medicines. Two days before he was hospitalised, he was in the field serving ayurvedic kadha,” said Nandkishore Sharma of Dr Ambedkar Vanvasi Kalyan Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/he-won-many-hearts-but-lost-battle-to-covid/articleshow/77337630.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Last kharif crop rice diverted to market?||Hyderabad: Rice millers have not returned 3.6 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of rice to the government a year after paddy was given to them for milling, raising suspicion that the staple may have been diverted to the open market. Every year the government gives paddy of two crops i.e., vaanakalam (kharif) and yasangi (rabi) to the millers, which are milled and returned to the government for supply through the public distribution system (PDS). Civil supplies officials were apprehensive that further delay in getting back rice from the millers would result in shortage of stocks to be distributed to the poor (white ration card holders) through fair price shops. Also, the financial burden on the state government would increase in the form of interest as it had obtained over Rs 10,000 crore loan to procure rice from farmers and could repay it by selling milled rice to Food Corporation of India for public distribution to Telangana and other states. The 3.6 lakh MTs of rice should have been returned to the government by March-end itself as the paddy was given during the last monsoon. Though it is suspected the millers in connivance with some officials might have diverted the rice to the open market, a member of the Telangana Rice Millers’ Association said shortage of labour, lockdown and coronavirus scare were prime reasons for delay in returning it to the government. Civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar has expressed ire over the delay on the part of the officials to procure rice from the millers. “The delay is continuing even for procurement of milled rice of the recent yasangi,” he said. He also asked the civil supplies department task force teams to raid rice mills and FPS to check diversion of PDS rice to the open market. “I will review the raids and performance of task force every month,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-kharif-crop-rice-diverted-to-market/articleshow/77339199.cms||Roushan Ali
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Political parties gear up for forthcoming MC elections||Mohali: Political leaders of Mohali have started canvassing for the forthcoming MC elections. The frontrunners are Congress leaders who are gearing up for a tripartite contest with SAD-BJP and AAP. Congress is on a developmental projects inauguration spree. They are also rendering public services with gusto. Recently, cabinet minister-cum-local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu shouldered developmental works in residential societies across the district with the department of local bodies approving funds worth Rs 2.1 crore for the project. He said the local bodies department has issued necessary instructions to the municipal corporation, Mohali in this regard and approved the development works under Section 82 (3) of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. Congress aspirants Raja Mohali, Kuljit Singh Bedi, Rishav Jain and many others have already started activities to establish a connect with residents in preparation for the MC elections. Sidhu said, “Mohali residents are very satisfied with the Congress and we have also delivered the best. We will be contesting from all 50 wards and this time, we will sweep the MC elections.” Punjab local bodies had announced that the government is likely to hold MC election by October depending on the Covid-19 pandemic situation. In Mohali, elections will be held in 50 wards with 50% of them reserved for women candidates. AAP candidates are also not far behind. Under the leadership of Narinder Singh Shergill, party activists have starting tapping the RWAs and holding meetings with them in a bid to get them to vote for their candidates. Shergill said, “We will be contesting on all 50 wards and this time we will show our presence.” On the other hand, the SAD-BJP alliance flanked by the Azad group is on the backfoot as of now. Party leaders said they have already started their activities on social media and will start ground activities soon too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/political-parties-gear-up-for-forthcoming-mc-elections/articleshow/77337751.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: College admissions date extended till tomorrow||CHANDIGARH: The education department extended the last date to apply online for both centralised and non-centralised courses in city-based colleges till August 5. The new admission schedule will be released by Tuesday. Applicants will be able to download provisional application form after clearing final discrepancies on August 16 for centralised courses and for non-centralised course (BA) on August 9. As per the figures shared by director higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar, a total of 35,521 forms have been received for centralised and non-centralised admissions. Brar said, “The total number of applications received for centralised admissions are 16,129 while those for non-centralised are 19,392. He shared that application received by four government colleges for BA are 10,745. Admission for ongoing classes (second year and third year) will be done as and when the norms and guidelines will be issued by Panjab University. On the other hand, the first phase of Class XI admissions ended with Monday being the last day for the registrations. Brar said 14,723 forms have been submitted online. Total registrations till Monday are 17,502 while 15,482 have made the payment. All those students who have applied will have to wait till August 6 for the provisional common merit list which will be uploaded by the authorities on the website of the UT education department at 11am. Students will then be given a chance to report any objections pertaining to the merit list between 11.30am on August 7 and 1pm on August 8. The objections will have to be submitted through an email. The total number of seats available in all government schools under four streams are 1,2500. The streams offered are science, commerce, humanities and skill education (vocational).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/college-admissions-date-extended-till-tomorrow/articleshow/77337707.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Well done: Family in drought-prone Beed uses lockdown to dig itself out of water crisis||AURANGABAD: A couple and their two sons in Marathwada’s drought-prone Beed have utilized the lockdown period to manually dig up a well on their compound to address the water crisis. The water from the well is now also being made available to other people in the neighbourhood. Nagnath Tat, a 48-year-old resident of the Dutt temple lane area of Beed city, is a caterer, while his wife Manisha (45) is a homemaker. Their sons Shubham (22) and Kartik (19) are goldsmiths. During the lockdown, all the men in the family were left without jobs. Therefore, they utilised the time to improve the water situation in the locality. “We do not have a civic water connection. For the past 22 years, we had been dependent on a public tap,” Nagnath told TOI. Manish added that often, during the summers months, the area receives water once in 20 days, forcing the family to purchase water from private suppliers. “We had been told to dig a 5,000litre capacity water tank. But the biggest question was: ‘From where to source the water to fill up the tank?’” Nagnath added. Shubham and Kartik first came up with the idea of digging a well on 600 sft of their property. They started digging using basic tools in May and completed the work only recently. They stopped digging only after water started percolating in the well from underground channels. The mini-well — 32 feet deep and three feet wide — currently has 8 feet of water. “We did this as we wanted to keep ourselves busy. Now, on completion of the project, we feel a sense of achievement,” said Shubham. “We are happy that we will not have to purchase water from outside or stand in a line at the public tap anymore.” The family gives most of the credit to Kartik, who carried out most of the laborious digging work by entering the pit. “Now we are giving water to everyone in the locality,” said Kartik. He said the family considers the water a blessing from the Almighty and has, therefore, decided to share it with others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/well-done-family-in-drought-prone-beed-uses-lockdown-to-dig-itself-out-of-water-crisis/articleshow/77336306.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 4, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks counter on plea to prevent illegal sand mining||MADURAI: Observing that illegalities are taking place right under the nose of the authorities, the Madras high court on Monday took serious view and directed the state government to file a counter on a plea which sought to prevent illegal sand mining at Vaipar riverbed in Tuticorin district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Ramasamy, a resident of Vilathikulam taluk, who sought for a direction to prevent illegal sand mining and illegal transportation of sand from the riverbed under the garb of quarrying savadu soil from patta lands by private people in the district. He also sought to take action against the officials for failing to prevent illegal sand mining. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that the petitioner brought to the notice of the court that the same serial number was given in the transport permits to trucks for transportation of sand. The petitioner contended that either bogus permits were used or empty signed permits were issued by the authorities for transportation. The judges observed that perusal of the transport permits and photographs submitted by the petitioner paint a disturbing picture. The judges observed that it prima facie appears that the authorities are not obeying the court orders which were passed to prevent illegal sand mining. The judges further observed that the GOs passed with regard to prevention of illegal sand mining remain only on papers. The judges suo motu impleaded the chief secretary as respondent in this petition. The judges directed all the respondents including chief secretary, principal secretary to industries department, commissioner of geology and mining department, Tuticorin district collector to file individual counter-affidavits and adjourned the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-counter-on-plea-to-prevent-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/77339194.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Businesses in Courtallam staring at losses this ‘saaral’ season due to lockdown||MADURAI: As tourists from Tamil Nadu and Kerala will not be coming to Courtallam during the ‘saaral’ (drizzle) season due to lockdown restrictions, the livelihood of thousands who depend on tourism has been affected. Hot bajji, bread omelette and tea are among the items sold like hot cakes to tourists stepping out after a refreshing bath in the freezing waterfalls. Farm fresh fruits such as rambutan, mangosteen and durian, chips, a dozen varieties of halwa, toys and herbal oils are among items that used to be in demand during the season. Shops used to be open round-the-clock as business is equally good at nights. Hundreds who had taken the more than 1,000 homestays and lodges on lease and parking lots at the various falls are among those who have paid several lakh in advance and stare at a big loss this year. The impact does not stop with Courtallam but also extends to Tenkasi and its vicinity. P Sendhur Pandian, who has taken the park near the main falls on lease since 2002, said that the town used to witness 40-50 lakh tourists during the saaral season. “It used to be 2,000 to 5,000 daily during weekdays and 25,000 to 30,000 during weekends,” he added. “Now, we are affected due to restrictions imposed by the Tamil Nadu government. This year, we are sceptical about business during the Sabarimala season from mid-November to mid-January that used to be the second best season due to restrictions imposed by the Kerala government,” president of Courtallam Vyabarigal Sangam, S Kavaihya said. The 52-year-old who runs a tea stall near Courtallam Main Falls for over 35 years said it is with earnings during these two seasons the town survives the remaining seven months, including rent for shops during non-peak seasons. He said that the loss incurred by the town to be more Rs 100 crore for saaral season. Traders who rented shops belonging to HR&CE have made an appeal to the government to waive rents till normalcy returns. Rent for temple shops and local body shops that range up to a few lakh a year is paid in advance. They hope to get a refund next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/businesses-in-courtallam-staring-at-losses-this-saaral-season-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/77339196.cms||M K Ananth
August 4, 2020||Rajkot||Another jail inmate flees hospital after testing positive||RAJKOT: One more arrested person fled from the Rajkot Civil Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday night. Anandgiri Goswami, who was arrested for nearly 50 house break-ins and thefts, had tested positive in Gondal sub-jail on July 31. He was admitted to the Covid centre on the fourth floor of the hospital from where he escaped. Last week too, two persons arrested for thefts, had fled from the hospital after testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-jail-inmate-flees-hospital-after-testing-positive/articleshow/77336309.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sero survey begins in Berhampur||Bhubaneswar/Berhampur: The Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) with the help of ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, launched a five-day serological survey here on Monday to figure out the extent of the spread of coronavirus. BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore said at least five teams comprising staff of the civic body and RMRC have been formed to conduct the survey. “The objective of the sero survey is to get an idea about the prevalence of antibodies among the residents, which will help the BeMC determine the future course of action,” he added. According to the strategy of the survey, 2,500 samples will be collected from 12 different priority groups, including high-risk groups, from the BeMC area. While 1,000 samples will be collected from high-risk categories, the other 1,500 samples will be collected randomly from the community, an official source said. An RMRC Bhubaneswar source said around 500 samples were collected on the first day of the survey. Most of the samples were drawn from the community members. RMRC Bhubaneswar director Sanghamitra Pati said the first round of the survey in Berhampur would be completed on Friday. “We will submit the survey report to the government on Monday. The second round of the survey will start after 28 days,” she added. Pati said they would conduct a sero survey in Badamba-Narasinghpur of Cuttack district from August 6. Around 1,500 samples will be collected from this locality. The second round of survey there will be conducted after 28 days like in other places. “We are also planning to do this survey in Gajapati district,” she added. The first round of sero survey has been completed in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area. Around 1,600 samples were drawn from high-risk people and 900 from the community. The second round survey will start on August 16. The RMRC had started the sero survey in Puri district from June 27. It had collected more than 650 samples from there. The state is planning to cover 10,000 people in nine districts under the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sero-survey-begins-in-berhampur/articleshow/77337720.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Sarpanch of Durbhat, 25 others test positive||Ponda: At least 26 people from the Desaibhat area, including the sarpanch of the Durbhat village panchayat, have tested positive for Covid-19. While seven of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital, the sarpanch has opted to be home-quarantined. A sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the area prompted the district collectorate to seal the Adpai-Agapur area on Saturday afternoon. At least 35 active cases have been logged so far, including eight from Agapur. The first Covid-19 fatality from the area was reported on Sunday, with the death of a 54-year-old transporter from Adpai. The person had been shifted to the Covid hospital at Margao from the GMC, Bambolim, where he had sought treatment for a kidney ailment. Covid-19 has spread across the taluka, with over 200 active cases reported by the five primary health centres (PHC) there. The Ponda PHC area itself has over 50% of these cases, including the 35 from Adpai-Agapur. Cases in Kavlem village, which falls under the same PHC, are also on the rise. So far, 24 people have tested positive for Covid-19, of which 10 have been cured. The active cases include five of a single family from Paunwada, Kavlem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarpanch-of-durbhat-25-others-test-positive/articleshow/77340274.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Permission sought to celebrate Janamashtmi in UT temples||Chandigarh: The Hindu Parv Mahasabha has sought permission from the Chandigarh administration to allow, as a special case, opening of all temples in the city up to 12.30pm on the occasion of Janamashtmi on August 12. Permission has been sought to organise puja up to midnight, which is believed to be lord Krishna’s time of birth. The Hindu Parv Mahasabha is a representative body of 74 temples located in Chandigarh. It has been assured that all precautionary measures would be taken. The letter to the administration states that Janamashtami is one of the major Hindu festivals, which will also be celebrated in Mathura, said to be the birth place of lord Krishna on August 12. Therefore, they stated, permission should be granted to celebrate Janamashtmi in Chandigarh temples too. The letter said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and directions of the Chandigarh administration as well as the ministry of home affairs, Government of India, Hindu Parv Maha Sabha will not take out the Shobha Yatra this year. The procession has been organised for the last 40 years. B P Arora, president, Hindu Parv Mahasabha, Chandigarh said temples located in Chandigarh have adopted all precautions and measures in line with the directions of the administration. Puja will be performed in each temple by members of the management and devotees may pay obeisance by strictly following the guidelines issued by the Chandigarh administration, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/permission-sought-to-celebrate-janamashtmi-in-ut-temples/articleshow/77337761.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rapid antigen tests for New Town shopkeepers||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) will start conducting rapid antigen test on shopkeepers at NKDA markets and drivers in New Town soon. NKDA officials said that it was recently decided in the Covid war room to conduct rapid antigen tests of shopkeepers and drivers to check and prevent spread of coronavirus among the people. The process to enlist the names of all the shopkeepers began on Monday. “The rapid antigen tests will be conducted primarily among shopkeepers and drivers on government duty to prevent the possible spread of the virus. If anybody tests positive, they will be sent to quarantine,” an official said. Officials said that the selected persons will undergo the rapid antigen test in Bidhannagar sub divisional Hospital at Salt Lake. The process is expected to start off in a few days time. “We are also on the process to procure some rapid antigen test kits in New Town to conduct the test here,” said a NKDA official. NKDA is also conducting health camps to for Covid screening of construction workers and labourers. As the only containment zone in New Town so far is a construction site, the authorities are taking precautions to identify construction sites across the township where there groups of workers or labourers live together. “Those with suspected Covid symptoms are being sent for testing at government hospitals. So far, 10 such workers have been shortlisted to be tested,” an official said. Moreover, a Covid test kiosk has been set up in New Town. It is being operated by two private labs. NKDA is also registering names to for free Covid testing for those who cannot afford the tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rapid-antigen-tests-for-new-town-shopkeepers/articleshow/77339221.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 4, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: With BS Yediyurappa testing positive, 5 ministers in home quarantine||BENGALURU: Already struggling in the fight against the pandemic, the administrative machinery has been dealt a body blow, what with chief minister BS Yediyurappa, two ministers and several senior officials indisposed after testing positive for the virus. Besides them, at least five ministers and a dozen officials who held meetings with Yediyurappa over the past few days are now in home quarantine. The latter list includes deputy CM Govind Karjol, besides ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Byrathi Basavaraj and Kota Shreenivasa Poojary although all of them have tested negative. Two ministers – BC Patil and Anand Singh – who had tested positive recently are already in home isolation. SR Vishwanath, CM’s political secretary, who was in-charge of managing Covid-19 in Yelahanka zone, has also decided to stay in home quarantine, while governor Vajubhai R Vala, who held a meeting with Yediyurappa and Bommai on Saturday, may also remain indoors for a few days. Vala’s personal secretary Tejas Bhatti, in a statement released by the governor's office, said, “After learning that the chief minister has tested coronavirus positive, the governor, his aide-de-camp, and I took a test and the results were negative.” With so many of the top tier in the government out of action, it remains to be seen how the state will continue its fight against the pandemic.  Hours after Yediyurappa learnt he was infected, his daughter Padmavathi and eight personal staff were also found to have contracted the virus. “After Yediyurappa and his daughter tested positive, all staffers and others at his official residence and home-office were subjected to tests,” an official said. Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra, who was last week elevated to BJP state vice-president, is also in home quarantine although he tested negative. Other members of the family who had come in contact with the CM and his staffers including security personnel and housekeeping staff have been made to undergo random tests. BBMP staff on Monday sanitised the CM's official residence Cauvery, his office Krishna and his Dollars Colony house and surrounding areas. It’s still not clear how the CM contracted the virus. It is speculated that one of his cooks at his official residence Cauvery, who had tested positive three or four days ago, could have possibly passed on the infection. “But we cannot definitely say he transmitted the virus,” a source said. Another theory that he contracted the virus while flagging off Metro tunnelling work on Friday is also doing the rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-yediyurappa-testing-ve-5-ministers-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77341275.cms||Anil Gejji
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Yoga instructors take the online route amid Covid-19 scare||MADURAI: Yoga instructors from Madurai are switching over to the online mode, with a large number of people showing a renewed interest in yoga to fight Covid-19. Although there were initial hiccups while switching over to the online mode, the instructors managed to overcome the issues quickly. Even though the number of people taking up online classes are lesser when compared to the numbers that a regular yoga class would attract, the online classes are fast catching up. Considering the fact that most of the instructors switched over to online mode only a month or two back, the numbers have been encouraging. V Shankar, a yoga instructor from Kadachanendal, said that online yoga classes allow people to practice the discipline from the comfort of their homes at flexible timings. On the flip side, it is difficult for the instructor to ensure that those attending the classes achieve the right posture. “We can ensure 100 per cent posture accuracy in physical sessions by correcting the postures. However, it is way better to take up online classes than doing nothing. Even if normalcy is restored, we will continue to offer online yoga classes for the benefit of people staying at places far away,” he said. Apart from the regular asanas, the instructors also lay emphasis on a set of asanas, which are believed to be helpful in fighting Covid-19 by expanding lung capacity and increase immunity power. R N Sethuraman of Thulir Yoga Centre from Gomathipuram, said that as many people are interested in only learning only a few therapeutic postures, he had dedicated separate classes for it. While Ustrasana or camel pose helps in lung expansion and titivate thyroid gland, dhanurasana (bow pose) helps to build immunity power and keep diabetes under control and matsyasana (fish post) helps increase oxygen level in blood and fighting stress, he said. R Shanmugam, 50, a resident of Madhichiyam who started taking online yoga classes two weeks ago, says that he is practising yoga for the first time after learning that it is good for the lungs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/yoga-instructors-take-the-online-route-amid-covid-19-scare/articleshow/77339225.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: With BS Yediyurappa testing positive, 5 ministers in home quarantine||BENGALURU: Already struggling in the fight against the pandemic, the administrative machinery has been dealt a body blow, what with chief minister BS Yediyurappa, two ministers and several senior officials indisposed after testing positive for the virus. Besides them, at least five ministers and a dozen officials who held meetings with Yediyurappa over the past few days are now in home quarantine. The latter list includes deputy CM Govind Karjol, besides ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Byrathi Basavaraj and Kota Shreenivasa Poojary although all of them have tested negative. Two ministers – BC Patil and Anand Singh – who had tested positive recently are already in home isolation. SR Vishwanath, CM’s political secretary, who was in-charge of managing Covid-19 in Yelahanka zone, has also decided to stay in home quarantine, while governor Vajubhai R Vala, who held a meeting with Yediyurappa and Bommai on Saturday, may also remain indoors for a few days. Vala’s personal secretary Tejas Bhatti, in a statement released by the governor's office, said, “After learning that the chief minister has tested coronavirus positive, the governor, his aide-de-camp, and I took a test and the results were negative.” With so many of the top tier in the government out of action, it remains to be seen how the state will continue its fight against the pandemic.  Hours after Yediyurappa learnt he was infected, his daughter Padmavathi and eight personal staff were also found to have contracted the virus. “After Yediyurappa and his daughter tested positive, all staffers and others at his official residence and home-office were subjected to tests,” an official said. Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra, who was last week elevated to BJP state vice-president, is also in home quarantine although he tested negative. Other members of the family who had come in contact with the CM and his staffers including security personnel and housekeeping staff have been made to undergo random tests. BBMP staff on Monday sanitised the CM's official residence Cauvery, his office Krishna and his Dollars Colony house and surrounding areas. It’s still not clear how the CM contracted the virus. It is speculated that one of his cooks at his official residence Cauvery, who had tested positive three or four days ago, could have possibly passed on the infection. “But we cannot definitely say he transmitted the virus,” a source said. Another theory that he contracted the virus while flagging off Metro tunnelling work on Friday is also doing the rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-yediyurappa-testing-ve-5-ministers-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77341277.cms||Anil Gejji
August 4, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: With BS Yediyurappa testing positive, 5 ministers in home quarantine||BENGALURU: Already struggling in the fight against the pandemic, the administrative machinery has been dealt a body blow, what with chief minister BS Yediyurappa, two ministers and several senior officials indisposed after testing positive for the virus. Besides them, at least five ministers and a dozen officials who held meetings with Yediyurappa over the past few days are now in home quarantine. The latter list includes deputy CM Govind Karjol, besides ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Byrathi Basavaraj and Kota Shreenivasa Poojary although all of them have tested negative. Two ministers – BC Patil and Anand Singh – who had tested positive recently are already in home isolation. SR Vishwanath, CM’s political secretary, who was in-charge of managing Covid-19 in Yelahanka zone, has also decided to stay in home quarantine, while governor Vajubhai R Vala, who held a meeting with Yediyurappa and Bommai on Saturday, may also remain indoors for a few days. Vala’s personal secretary Tejas Bhatti, in a statement released by the governor's office, said, “After learning that the chief minister has tested coronavirus positive, the governor, his aide-de-camp, and I took a test and the results were negative.” With so many of the top tier in the government out of action, it remains to be seen how the state will continue its fight against the pandemic.  Hours after Yediyurappa learnt he was infected, his daughter Padmavathi and eight personal staff were also found to have contracted the virus. “After Yediyurappa and his daughter tested positive, all staffers and others at his official residence and home-office were subjected to tests,” an official said. Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra, who was last week elevated to BJP state vice-president, is also in home quarantine although he tested negative. Other members of the family who had come in contact with the CM and his staffers including security personnel and housekeeping staff have been made to undergo random tests. BBMP staff on Monday sanitised the CM's official residence Cauvery, his office Krishna and his Dollars Colony house and surrounding areas. It’s still not clear how the CM contracted the virus. It is speculated that one of his cooks at his official residence Cauvery, who had tested positive three or four days ago, could have possibly passed on the infection. “But we cannot definitely say he transmitted the virus,” a source said. Another theory that he contracted the virus while flagging off Metro tunnelling work on Friday is also doing the rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-yediyurappa-testing-ve-5-ministers-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77341276.cms||Anil Gejji
August 4, 2020||Nashik||Speed up work on new railway bridge, says industry body||AURANGABAD: The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) on Monday said that the authorities concerned should ensure that the work on the new railway bridge connecting the Waluj MIDC area with the city was completed on a priority basis. A statement issued by Massia members Sachin Gayake and Sumit Malani on Monday read that the entrepreneurs faced a lot of problems while visiting Waluj industrial area due to the bottleneck caused by the old and narrow over-bridge on the Aurangabad-Pune road which connects Aurangabad city to Waluj area. The bottleneck led to frequent traffic jams. “We had made a representation to the railway authorities on February 17, 2020 seeking them to complete the work as soon as possible. Authorities of the South Central Railways have informed us that the work would be completed by November 2020,” said Gayake. He further said, “We have demanded the railways to ensure that they stick to the deadline and open the over bridge for general public to end the year-long issue of traffic jams and eventual loss of working hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/speed-up-work-on-new-railway-bridge-says-industry-body/articleshow/77336316.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: RIMS short of over 100 doctors; netas blamed||HYDERABAD: Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) is the only tertiary care hospital in Adilabad, but even amid a raging pandemic is short of over 100 doctors. Though the hospital came into being in 2008, it is still struggling to fill vacant posts. Reason: Some specialist doctors working there and local politicians are not allowing recruitment. “There is a private medical mafia behind the vacancies not being filled deliberately,” Adilabad MP Soyam Bapu Rao said, demanding the vacancies be filled on an urgent basis. RIMS director Dr Balram Banoth said some specialist doctors working at the hospital were opposing recruitment. Dr Balram’s comments came in the wake of criticism that the facilities at the hospital were not up to the mark. “It is a fact that people should get access to good medical care. Then, the question also arises about how well the hospital is equipped in terms of specialists,” he said. TOI tried to reach Adilabad collector Sikta Patnaik, but she was not available. “Of the 236 posts of specialist doctors, only 106 have been filled so far,” BJP MP Soyam Bapu Rao said. Former minister and Adilabad MLA Jogu Ramanna was said to be “busy” when TOI tried to contact him on the issue of local politicians being a hindrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rims-short-of-over-100-docs-netas-blamed/articleshow/77339230.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Six-fold rise in car sales since May shows economy is shifting gears in Delhi||NEW DELHI: If vehicle sale figures in Delhi in July are an indication, the economy in the capital is on the track of revival now. Compared with May 2020, when vehicle registrations restarted after the Covid lockdown, car sales saw a more than fivefold increase in July. Vehicle registrations in Delhi restarted on May 4 with relaxations in the lockdown. While online sales of vehicles began in April and 912 two-wheelers and 944 four-wheelers were sold, registration began only in May and 8,861 vehicles were documented. Though more than 70% of the vehicles sold in Delhi are two-wheelers, the number of cars sold is also increasing. Compared with June, while the number of two-wheelers sold saw an increase of 10.3%, car sales jumped 41.6%. “The sale of four-wheelers has picked up in July,” said K K Dahiya, special commissioner (transport). “The sale of cars picking up shows revival of the economy in the capital and it is a success for the state government.” Dahiya said that the rising car sales, along with signs of revival in other sectors, are related to the big dip in new and active Covid-19 cases in the capital. “Delhi government has been successful in containing the spread of Covid and the general public has acquired confidence and started attending to routine works. All these have resulted in the relatively earlier economic revival in Delhi than in other states,” he said. Dahiya said that the total annual collection of road tax till July last year was Rs 411.9 crore. This year, till July, the government has been able to collect Rs 231 crore, despite sales being closed for two months. “We are trying to recoup the missing revenue,” the special commissioner added. Although road tax collected in July this year is Rs 90.4 crore against Rs 39 crore in July 2019, Dahiya admitted that this figure included pending taxes of May and June. Tax purely related to July this year was Rs 60 crore. Sources in the transport department, however, said that while it was expected that two-wheelers and small budget vehicle would witness higher sales, the sale of high-end cars, including SUVs, has also been significantly high. The novel coronavirus had made a dent on the sale of vehicles in Delhi, as revealed by figures when registrations reopened. When compared with January 2020, when the coronavirus was yet to become a part of a Delhiite’s lexicon, the registration of cars had dipped by 87% in the month of May. The sale and registration of two-wheelers had a lesser dip of 74% in May compared to January. This drastic gap, however, is now closing. When compared with the corresponding months in 2019, May 2020 saw an overall dip of 83.3%, which was significantly reduced in June when the dip compared with June 2019 was 31.6% and in July, 22.9% “There was a perception that economic revival in Delhi could take more than six months but in just three months, vehicle sales have reached 80% of last year’s figure and we are closing the gap very fast and reaching normalcy,” Dahiya said. While the capital’s lifeline — Delhi Metro — has been closed for more than four months with no clarity on when services will resume, more people are re-joining work and economic activity in the city has begun anew. Although buses are operational, strict social distancing norms have reduced capacity. In the absence of dependable public transport, many people who didn’t have personal vehicles earlier are now opting for one. Watch Car sales in Delhi rise by six times since May||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-fold-rise-in-car-sales-since-may-shows-economy-is-shifting-gears/articleshow/77339200.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With BS Yediyurappa testing positive, 5 ministers in home quarantine||BENGALURU: Already struggling in the fight against the pandemic, the administrative machinery has been dealt a body blow, what with chief minister BS Yediyurappa, two ministers and several senior officials indisposed after testing positive for the virus. Besides them, at least five ministers and a dozen officials who held meetings with Yediyurappa over the past few days are now in home quarantine. The latter list includes deputy CM Govind Karjol, besides ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Byrathi Basavaraj and Kota Shreenivasa Poojary although all of them have tested negative. Two ministers – BC Patil and Anand Singh – who had tested positive recently are already in home isolation. SR Vishwanath, CM’s political secretary, who was in-charge of managing Covid-19 in Yelahanka zone, has also decided to stay in home quarantine, while governor Vajubhai R Vala, who held a meeting with Yediyurappa and Bommai on Saturday, may also remain indoors for a few days. Vala’s personal secretary Tejas Bhatti, in a statement released by the governor's office, said, “After learning that the chief minister has tested coronavirus positive, the governor, his aide-de-camp, and I took a test and the results were negative.” With so many of the top tier in the government out of action, it remains to be seen how the state will continue its fight against the pandemic.  Hours after Yediyurappa learnt he was infected, his daughter Padmavathi and eight personal staff were also found to have contracted the virus. “After Yediyurappa and his daughter tested positive, all staffers and others at his official residence and home-office were subjected to tests,” an official said. Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra, who was last week elevated to BJP state vice-president, is also in home quarantine although he tested negative. Other members of the family who had come in contact with the CM and his staffers including security personnel and housekeeping staff have been made to undergo random tests. BBMP staff on Monday sanitised the CM's official residence Cauvery, his office Krishna and his Dollars Colony house and surrounding areas. It’s still not clear how the CM contracted the virus. It is speculated that one of his cooks at his official residence Cauvery, who had tested positive three or four days ago, could have possibly passed on the infection. “But we cannot definitely say he transmitted the virus,” a source said. Another theory that he contracted the virus while flagging off Metro tunnelling work on Friday is also doing the rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-yediyurappa-testing-ve-5-ministers-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77338201.cms||Anil Gejji
August 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Reduce antigen test cost for travellers, urges TTAG||PANAJI: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has urged the tourism department to reduce charges for antigen tests. Travellers arriving in Goa are being charged Rs 2,000 for undergoing these tests. Last week, antigen testing began operational at Goa International Airport. TTAG pointed out that antigen testing costs less in other states. The antigen test kit can be bought for Rs 500-700, so there is no reason why the government should charge Rs 2,000 for the test, it said. “We have requested the government to explore the possibility of reducing the testing cost,” said Nilesh Shah, president of TTAG. A South Goa-based hotelier said the government must reduce the price of antigen tests as this would discourage tourists from visiting the state as and when things improve for the hospitality industry. “The hospitality industry is going through its toughest phase ever. We haven’t got any relief from the government, but instead of boosting our spirits, they are charging Rs 2,000 for antigen tests. In Delhiand elsewhere, such tests can be done by paying Rs 600-700,” the hotelier said. The hotelier also stated that a private hospital in South Goa which has got permission to conduct antigen and antibody tests, also charges less. “The government was charging Rs 2,000 for TrueNat tests. The same amount is being charged for antigen tests, though it costs less. I don’t understand its logic,” the hotelier said. This, he said, is certainly discouraging since other countries are offering relief to the hospitality industry. “Here in Goa, though tourism happens to the mainstay of the economy, there have been no attempts to help it. I’m hoping better sense will prevail and the government will reduce the cost of antigen tests for travellers,” he said. Shah said the plus point of having antigen tests is that the travellers get faster results, unlike earlier when it took 48-72 hours. In some cases, visitors received a message of their test result on the day of their departure, he said. Shah further said occupancy at most hotels that began operations is less than 5%, while some have shut after obtaining permissions. The hotels continue to pay all taxes, whether it is garbage or other fees, even though they are closed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduce-antigen-test-cost-for-travellers-ttag/articleshow/77340288.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Book Dera supporter for hurting Sikh sentiments’||Ludhiana: A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal, led by Atam Nagar constituency incharge Gurmeet Singh Kular, met SHO of division number 6 and demanded a criminal case against Dera Sacha Sauda, Sirsa, supporter Veerpal Kaur for hurting Sikh sentiments. The delegation gave a written complaint against Veerpal and submitted proofs in support of their complaint. Kular said, “Veerpal Kaur has hurt Sikh sentiments by her acts like placing the Dera chief on a par with Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Gobind Singh. These blasphemous remarks were widely circulated to outrage Sikh sentiments as the Dera leader is a convicted rapist. Veerpal’s lies need to investigated to weed out her sponsors who tried to destabilise Punjab. Besides this, she also levelled false allegations against our leader and SAD president Sukhbir Badal. Strict action should be taken against her and punishment should be meted out to her as per law. We are hopeful that the FIR will be lodged on the basis of our complaint and action will be taken by the Ludhiana police.” Reacting to an FIR registered against YAD leader Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Grewal said that registering a case against party leaders for raising voice against the state government was an example of political vendetta. He said, “Recently, Gosha along with his supporters had protested against non-availability of beds in hospitals but the police registered a case against him and his supporters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/book-dera-supporter-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments/articleshow/77337705.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Post liberalisation, family firms bet big on services: ISB||Hyderabad: Post liberalisation of the Indian economy in 1991, Indian family firms underwent a sea change and rapidly moved from manufacturing to services sectors, a study titled – ‘Family businesses and India’s transition to a service led economy (1991 – 2018)’ by the Thomas Schmidheiny Centre for Family Enterprise at ISB has revealed. The findings of the study, which were shared on Monday, were based on the data of companies listed on the NSE and BSE. The study analysed industry-wise affiliation of 4,589 companies over a period of 28 years. “We found that Indian family firms rapidly moved from manufacturing to services post-liberalization and then from traditional to modern services as the millennium ended. While the entry of standalone family firms in the second half of the 1980s decade kick-started the movement of family firms into the services sector, family business group firms continue to dominate SFFs today on measures of both size and profitability across the services sector,” said Nupur Pavan Bang, associate director, Thomas Schmidheiny Centre for Family Enterprise. A number of standalone family firms were incorporated in the late 1980s and the first half of the 1990s which took advantage of the newfound demand from both global and domestic fronts for services. As per the study, barring a few years, family firms have consistently been valued more by investors when compared to non-family firms and the family firms in the services sector have been valued much higher by investors than firms in the manufacturing sector. The study notes that post 2000, when digitization took off, family firms asserted their dominance in the modern services sectors such as telecom and software, outshining MNCs and state-owned enterprises. The family firms continued to maintain a strong presence in traditional services such as trade and construction, which continue to generate sizeable profits. Industries where family firms have performed their best in terms of return on assets are a mix of traditional service sectors such as trade, construction, modern and hybrid services like IT services. “In the past three decades, while modern services have taken up the mantle in terms of economic growth, older and traditional sectors remain prolific profit churners for family firms and their investors,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/post-liberalisation-family-firms-bet-big-on-services-isb/articleshow/77339207.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Piped water for all of rural Odisha by 2024||Bhubaneswar: Odisha has set a target to enable all rural households to have access to safe and adequate drinking water within the premises of their house by 2024. A whopping Rs 50,000 crore is projected to be spent under different schemes and projects to ensure the same. Fifty per cent villages have already been covered under the piped water supply project but only 11 per cent rural households have access to piped drinking water at their doorstep now. Official sources in the state panchayati raj and drinking water department said out of the total 47,411 villages in the state, 24,219 villages have been covered under piped water supply projects. And, out of total 83.06 households in Odisha, only 8 lakh households have household tap connections. “We aspire to cover all rural households under piped drinking water system by 2024 as per the target set under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Providing safe and adequate drinking water to all rural household is one of the top priorities of the state government. We have earmarked around Rs 8,000 crore in the annual state budget for 2020-21 fiscal to strengthen the drinking water system,” said B Parameswaran, director, drinking water and sanitation. Parameswaran said 66 mega drinking water projects and 2,000 individual piped water supply projects, with a total investment of Rs 20,000 crore, are under different stages of implementation. He added that administrative approval has been sought for projects worth another Rs 4,400 crore in eight districts — Gajapati, Kandhamal, Kalahandi, Rayagada, Malkangiri, Boudh, Sambalpur and Sonepur — where the piped water supply coverage is less. The government also plans to set up piped water supply projects in Athagarh and Tigiria blocks of Cuttack district, where the quality of drinking water is not good. Although the initial lockdown stalled work, state panchayati raj minister and drinking water minister Pratap Jena recently reviewed progress of the projects and asked officials to expedite them. “The government is committed to ensuring safe and adequate drinking water for all households,” said Jena. Besides the Jal Jeevan Mission, which is a centrally sponsored scheme that is being implemented on a 50:50 fund sharing pattern between the state and Centre, the state government also launched the Buxi Jagabandhu Assured Water Supply to Habitations (BASUDHA), a state specific scheme, in 2017-18. Other than budgetary allocation, resources such as funds from the district mineral foundation and Odisha Mineral Bearing Area Development Corporation are being spent to strengthen the drinking water supply system to individual households in the mining-affected areas. In urban areas, all households will get piped drinking water supply by December this year. To improve the quality of water, the state government has started a ‘drink from tap’ mission. Around nine projects have been taken up on pilot basis in Bhubaneswar and Puri in the first phase of the mission. Bikash Kumar Pati, programme coordinator of Water Aid, an NGO that works on water, sanitation and hygiene, said the government’s plan to provide piped water connection to every household is a very ambitious project. “There are two challenges ahead. First, what will be the mechanism to ensure quality service delivery? Second, what will be the arrangements to enhance the existing piped water supply for conversion to functional household tap connection?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/piped-water-for-all-of-rural-odisha-by-2024/articleshow/77337771.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Diverting flood surplus from Mettur would not affect delta: State tells HC||MADURAI: The state government on Monday informed the Madras high court that the scheme of diverting flood surplus water from Mettur dam to the dry tanks at Sarabanga basin in Salem district by lift irrigation would not affect the riparians of delta region. The principal secretary of public works department (PWD) in a counter-affidavit, submitted that the proposed diversion scheme is not to develop a new ayacut, but to fill 100 irrigation tanks to sustain agricultural operations and drinking water purposes only during the years where flood surplus water inflows in Mettur dam. The scheme does not give assured pumping for diversion during normal years. Denying the contentions raised in the petition filed by P R Pandian, secretary of the Cauvery Viyasayigal Sangam at Tiruvarur district, that there was no surplus water in the dam, the state said that as per data from 1936 to 2019, Mettur dam had a surplus water for over 555mcft in 43 years out of 84 years, at the dependability of 51%. Several schemes are being implemented by the government for the delta region. It had constructed Kattalai barrage across Cauvery at Mayanur in 2014, and a barrage across Adhanur and Kumaramangalam across Kollidam is underway and it would save surplus water to be utilised by the delta farmers. Another project named ‘Asian Development Bank assisted Climate Change Adaptation Programme in Cauvery Delta’ is under implementation at a cost of Rs 1,560 crore. This scheme is implemented to benefit the tail-end areas and would also reduce outflow to sea during northeast monsoon season. The proposed scheme was to pump only 555mcft of water and that too when there is surplus water in the dam. It would not affect the riparians of delta region but would give partial relief to the long-pending suffering of the farmers at Edappadi, Sangagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks in Salem district, said the counter. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam adjourned the case to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/diverting-flood-surplus-from-mettur-would-not-affect-delta-state-tells-hc/articleshow/77339235.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Chirec International school students raise Rs 1 crore for Covid relief||HYDERABAD: One hundred and ninety students from the city’s Chirec International School have crowdfunded Akshaya Patra Foundation’s Covid-19 relief efforts to the tune of little over Rs 1 crore through a fundraising campaign. The funds helped to serve over four lakh meals to economically poor and daily wage labourers. These students are in the 13-17 age group across Grades 9 and 12. They raised the amount in three weeks on Fueladream.com, an online crowdfunding website. Divija Cherukuri (Grade 9), Krishna Teja Somisetty (Grade 10), Sreeni Reddy (Grade 9), Vajra Mocherla (Grade 10) and Dia Reddy (Grade 10) are the leading fundraisers from the school. “I took part in the campaign because I know I had to do something for those who weren’t as lucky as I was. When my campaign hit almost Rs 2 lakh on the first day, it felt absolutely surreal. I was not even expecting Rs 10,000 on the first day,” said 13-year-old Divija. Another student Vajra said that this campaign has taught that wonderful people exist in the world who think about others at troubled times. “We are overwhelmed with the support we have received from the students and management of Chirec International School. This crowdfunding campaign is a testament to Millennials and Gen Z empathizing with the less privileged. This endorses our campaign that ‘no individual should go hungry’. We are humbled that these students have come forward and crowdfunded Akshaya Patra which exists to serve the society,” said Sundeep Talwar, CMO, Akshaya Patra. During Covid-19, Akshaya Patra came forward to support homeless people and migrant labourers by providing cooked meals and grocery kits across India. Incidentally, Akshaya Patra and associate foundations have served about 70 million meals to underprivileged sections of the society over the last four months. Funds helped serve over four lakh meals to economically poor and daily wage labourers. These students in the 13-17 age group raised the amount in three weeks on Fueladream.com, an online crowdfunding website||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chirec-international-school-students-raise-rs-1-cr-for-covid-relief/articleshow/77339234.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Glass barrier divides families; adults, kids try to cope with isolation pangs||Kolkata: If staying locked at home 24×7 — without being allowed to meet their friends or play outside — was not enough for young kids, sudden separation from Covid-affected parents in home isolation having a worse impact on kids who often fail to understand the reason.The issue was triggered by a viral tweet from MP Babul Supriyo — currently in home isolation as he had recently met home minister Amit Shah who was diagnosed with the disease on Sunday — where he posted three photographs of his daughter checking on him through a glass window. “I was fine in my Quarantine, few phone calls, sm reading, catching up on the ‘Work2Do’ list but it’s JUST now that the isolation sunk in & HOW. My little one comes to say Goodnight to me frm outside the window panes making my heart go as brittle as the glass that separates us (sic),” – Supriyo tweeted little after midnight.Behala resident Tanima Mondal, who has been in home isolation for five days, said she can relate to the Union minister. Her seven-year-old son, too, sits outside the door of her room for a better part of the day often making excuses to get inside. “My son even went to the extent of faking fever so that he is allowed to stay in the same room with me. My heart breaks asking him to move away every time,” said Mondal, who had started going to office from July before she developed fever last week.Kolkata Police sergeant Ekhlaque Ahmed who had to stay 14 days in home isolation, following a seven-day hospital stay, after he tested positive for Covid in May, also shared similar feelings. “While I was at the hospital, it was easier to convince my absence about the infection. But when I returned home, with no visible sign of sickness and still stayed away from them in a separate room, it got difficult to explain,” he said. “I kept a table outside my door to prevent it from being opened, but my daughter always tried to slip through the door for a hug. I had a hard time convincing her to stay on the other side of the table and contend with ‘air hugs’ and ‘flying kisses’. But the feeling we had after the quarantine period was over and I tested negative is inexplicable. My daughter and son were crying while hugging me for a long time,” said Ahmed, who is attached with the Bowbazar police station.Psychologists say, kids — especially toddlers who are extremely attached to their parents — find it extremely difficult to adjust to the sudden change and react in different manners. “Children are often very attached with their parents so the sudden detachment makes them insecure and they start behaving in a manner they would not under normal circumstances,” said clinical psychologist Devika De Ghosh.“While some children become angry and rebellious, others may get depressed. If there are grandparents or other family members around, their roles become very important to educate the child about the reasons behind the absence of the parent and keep them happy and engaged,” she added. “In case of a nuclear family, the role of the other parent becomes extremely crucial as he/she has to balance office work and household chores as well as spend time with the kid. But occasional meetings keeping a safe distance and wearing a mask can help the child rather,” The psychologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/glass-barrier-divides-families-adults-kids-try-to-cope-with-isolation-pangs/articleshow/77339227.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Schools conduct e-counselling sessions for harried parents||Kolkata: The pressure of attending online classes and getting used to a new lifestyle and study pattern have been taking a toll on both students and parents. To help them cope with such situations, several schools have started counselling and interactive sessions for stressed parents helping them tide over the pandemic-induced challenges. Many have benefited from the sessions that provide guidance on a range of issues from adapting to the new teaching-learning methods to tackling adolescent problems.Birla Bharati School, for instance, held a session on online examinations and handling the stress of online coaching. “We called the meeting ‘Mapping the Future’. Parents interacted with teachers. The session aimed to strengthen kids’ bonds with parents, offer academic queries, help them tide over uncharted path and address anxiety,” principal Apala Dutta said.Parenting is a daunting task that has turned more complicated in Covid times, pointed out South Point School spokesperson Krishna Damani. “Adolescence throws up many challenges for parents as well as youngsters. There may be conflict. The situation can be best handled by the parents themselves if they equip themselves,” said Damani.He added that while the pandemic made things more difficult for adults, it has also been hard on the students. “We decided to bring in leading psychiatrist Rima Mukherji for a session with the parents of students of classes IX to XII on August 7,” he said.The Heritage School had a similar session — a virtual coffee meet with parents. “We finished with some of the sessions where we are asked the guardians and parents to talk to our counsellors or coordinators for help. They shared their concern about the dangers of internet access and the availability of devices. They said they were also worried about leaving home while their kids attended online classes,” said principal Seema Sapru.The suggestions of the counsellors and coordinators included introducing child-lock system and installing firewalls. “We also asked the parents to trust the children with their responsibilities and we spoke on how to proctor the tests for the students,” added Sapru.Children tend to get bored and lose focus while attending multiple online classes at a stretch, said psychologist Soumya Mukherjee. “They have been attending online classes for nearly five months now, with very little outdoor activity, which can be stressful. It can lead to erratic behaviour and lack of concentration. So, we must listen to them and help them ease into the new normal,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-conduct-e-counselling-sessions-for-harried-parents/articleshow/77339233.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Under Mission Fateh, washable masks distributed in Jawaddi||Ludhiana: Worried over the rising cases of Covid-19 and increasing deaths in the state, especially Ludhiana, the state government has now decided to distribute washable masks free of cost among needy persons, so that they can try and keep themselves and their family members safe. Under the programme about 10 lakh masks will be distributed in the state while 80,000 will be distributed in Ludhiana district. The initiative was launched in Ludhiana on Monday under the Mission Fateh programme of the government by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and masks were distributed in Jawaddi area of city in the presence of various councillors and district administration officials. In Ludhiana, these masks will be distributed in slums, vehras, etc. first, followed by distribution in other parts of the district, where people cannot afford these. Speaking about the initiative, Ashu said, “In order to make Mission Fateh of the Punjab government successful, 10 lakh washable masks would be distributed among the needy persons in the state. To boost the morale of the people and make them as our partners in this mission we have also got logos of Mission Fateh embossed on the masks and 80,000 such masks will be distributed in Ludhiana district. The decision to distribute 10 lakh masks has been taken by the chief minister Amarinder Singh keeping in view the fact that there are huge number of people who still can not afford purchasing masks and therefore they should be provided with washable masks by the government so that they can keep themselves safe. Our government is committed to providing these masks to every needy person not only in the district, but in other districts of the state as well.” Ashu added that, “As per the latest studies, wearing of a mask is foremost important and if every person starts wearing a mask, we can easily break the chain and score victory over Covid-19, therefore it is my request to the public that for you and your family and near ones’ safety do wear mask without fail. I also request the residents of Ludhiana that they should not panic if they are tested positive as all government as well as private hospitals are fully equipped to handle the patients. In case someone has the symptoms of Covid-19 he or she should not delay getting tested and immediately visit their nearest testing centres. Moreover, Covid testing is being done totally free of cost in all government testing centres across the state.” Meanwhile, Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma too was present on the occasion and he said that the district administration had developed a mobile app on which one could check the status of vacant beds in private hospitals of the district and the app was in its testing stage right now and would be formally launched for residents within this week. Others present on this occasion included ADC Sandeep Kumar, councillors Mamta Ashu and Dilraj Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/under-mission-fateh-washable-masks-distributed-in-jawaddi/articleshow/77337747.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Raksha Bandhan celebrated with warmth, caution||Chandigarh: Although Raksha Bandhan was celebrated in Tricity with the usual warmth, Covid-19 pandemic necessitated caution. Many people had to settle for digital celebrations. Those who did visit their loved ones took all possible precautions. Women in Sector 40 tied a 7 feet rakhi to a 32ft idol of lord Hanuman. Mahila Sunderkand Sabha, Chandigarh tied the seven feet long eco-friendly rakhi on the wrist of the 32-feet high lord Hanuman statue amid chanting of vedic shlokas at Sri Hanumantha Dham Temple, Sector 40. It took 15 days to make the magnificent rakhi for lord Hanuman. It was made of thermocol, coloured paper, ribbons and artificial flowers. Sabha chairperson Neena Tewari prayed for relief for all countries from the Covid-19 pandemic and congratulated people ahead of Independence Day. She also stressed the need to make the city polythene free. A number of residents also tied rakhis to their pets. With Raksha Bandhan, the Shravan month has ended. Devotees who were fasting on Shravan Mondays visited the temple in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/raksha-bandhan-celebrated-with-warmth-caution/articleshow/77337783.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Yoga centres, gyms set to reopen after 4 months||Bhubaneswar: After a gap of four months, yoga centres and gyms across the city are set to reopen from Wednesday. But there’s a catch. The owners of several yoga centres said they will open with fewer people, increase the number of practice sessions and continue with the online classes as many members may not turn up owing to the fear of exposure to the virus. Similarly, gyms are also getting ready with more space between equipment, frequent sanitisation and fogging, and multiple time slots. The Centre on Monday issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for yoga centres and gyms and said people above 65 years of age and with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years are not advised to use gyms in closed spaces. The advisory mandates a distance of at least 6ft between participants and the use of masks at all the time inside the premises. The health ministry has also suggested not to practise yogic kriyas like nasal cleaning (neti), (cleaning of respiratory system) kapal bhati, stomach cleaning (dhouti) for the time being. If at all, they must be done in open spaces. “We are going to take all the precautionary measures like thermal checking, maintaining proper hygiene and use of gloves. Though it is not advisable to wear masks while doing asanas, those who are comfortable in them may keep them on. We are planning to conduct more practice sessions with fewer members. Those with heart and lung problems and asthma patients can practice at home,” Narayan Nanda, director of Prayaas Yoga and Research Institute, said. He added that the institute, which used to have more than 40 people in each batch earlier, will now restrict it to 10 and will continue its online classes for those who do not want to venture out yet. However, many yoga centres are skeptical about the return of the fitness enthusiasts amid the steady rise in cases in the city as well as the state. “With no let-up in Covid cases, we are not going to reopen now, but will wait for some more days before taking any decision. Even if we open our centre, not many will turn up owing to the fear of the infection. Besides, there are issues of wearing masks and maintaining distances,” a member of Satyananada Yogashrama, another yoga centre in Bhubaneswar, said. Though the SOP calls for the use of available outdoor spaces and minimum physical contact between the trainer and practitioner, maintaining social distance is a challenge for some centres. “During the practice sessions, we have to correct the postures of people. Besides, wearing a mask during asanas is not comfortable and there will be a need for more space to maintain social distance, so we may not open from August 5,” Sanatan Mahakud of Vivekananda Yoga Therapy and Research Centre, said. “We have started sanitising the gym and are waiting for the health freaks to start pouring in. From checking the temperature, wearing face shields and gloves, we will take every possible preventive measure. There will be enough space between equipment and each one will be sanitised after every use. Shower and steam bath will not be allowed for the time being as everyone will be required to bring their own mats, towels and water bottles,” Nihar Mullick, the owner of the Bhubaneswar Health Club, said. The All Odisha Gym Owners’ Association have urged the state government to provide some relief in terms of waiving the electricity bill or tax on POS machine to the owners of those gyms, which have been suffered huge losses because of the prolonged closure for the last four months. “Doing exercises regularly will help improve one’s immunity. Besides, reopening the gyms will ensure the livelihood of hundreds of trainers and other workers engaged in the industry,” Satyajit, president of the association, said. Fitness trainers also lamented job loss and lack of work owing to the pandemic in the last few months. “This life-threatening disease has made life difficult for many of us. I was thinking of taking up some other profession for survival. Thankfully, the government has allowed the gyms to reopen,” Umesh Sahu, a fitness trainer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/yoga-centres-gyms-set-to-reopen-after-4-months/articleshow/77337794.cms||Minati Singha
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344867.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344864.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344869.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Probe e-pass brokers: Taxi drivers||MADURAI: City cab drivers petitioned Madurai district collector on Monday urging to be liberal when it comes to approving e-passes as they are losing an important source of livelihood. The group of drivers from Tamil Nadu call taxi workers association, attached with CITU, said that they were getting a decent number of trips when e-passes were freely issued. Now they are bearing the brunt as most of the e-pass requests are being rejected. S Senthamaraikannan, general secretary of the association said that e-passes applications with valid proofs are being rejected without valid reasons restricting people to even attend marriages of close relative and deaths. He alleged that passes are however sold in the market for Rs 4,000 through brokers. He urged the district administration to take action against the brokers and conduct an inquiry on how they get e-passes when genuine ones are rejected. Members of the association demanded approval for genuine applications without any delay and bring an end to involvement of brokers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/probe-e-pass-brokers-taxi-drivers/articleshow/77339249.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four runaway Covid patients traced, readmitted to RIMS||HYDERABAD: Four Covid-19 positive patients among nine others who ran away from the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad have been traced and brought back to the hospital. However, there are conflicting versions on how they left the hospital in the first place. RIMS director Dr Balram Banoth told TOI that two of the patients were traced on August 1 night itself and two others by Sunday morning. “Two Covid-19 positive patients wanted to go home for Bakrid festival and they were allowed. They are in isolation now,” the director said. It remains a mystery as to how the two positive patients were allowed to go home since the virus would spread among the people who would come in contact with them. DMHO Dr Narender Rathod, however, gave a different take on the disappearance of the patients. He said only nine (not 10 as reported in a section of media) patients had run away from the isolation ward, of whom four have been traced and readmitted to the RIMS. “The remaining five had tested negative and therefore there is no worry over them,” he said. He said as soon as they learnt that the patients had vanished from the hospital, two teams were sent to trace them. While two were found from their houses on Saturday night and brought back to the hospital, two others were traced on Sunday. Meanwhile, the district health authorities have begun a probe into how the patients left the hospital. At the time of their leaving, the security personnel were reportedly in the emergency ward. The RIMS director constituted a four-member doctors’ committee to inquire into the allegations of negligence on the part of the doctors, poor sanitation and poor quality of food and submit a report. A video of the patients making the allegations of lack of facilities had gone viral on social media. The patients alleged that doctors and health staff had neglected them. Fed up with their treatment, the patients who were being treated at the isolation ward escaped. The patients who escaped are said to be residents of Kailash Nagar, Chanda, Teachers Colony, Nizamabad, Kotta Kummariwada, Dwarka Nagar, Indravelli and Khanapur. “All of them had come to the hospital and had been kept in isolation as their test results were pending. After having waited for two days, they left the hospital. Out of the nine, four tested positive,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-runaway-covid-patients-traced-readmitted-to-rims/articleshow/77339240.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC to provide land for setting up CNG stations||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation will soon provide land to Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MNGL) in some parts of the city for setting up of green fuel stations. Sandeep Srivastava, the head of MNGL, Nashik said the civic body has agreed to lease its land at locations like Pathardi, Panchavati, Adgaon and other places where MNGL would serve Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) stations to dispense the green fuel to the city buses. NMC has decided to run CNG buses in different city routes in the near future, which will take over the city bus services from the cash strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). “We will immediately start the work to establish these CNG stations after we take possession of the land leased by NMC,” said Srivastava adding that the civic body has rendered assurance in establishing these stations. MNGL is also working to establish a liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant at Pathardi area. The plant which is expected to be commissioned by February next year, would convert LNG into CNG and piped natural gas (PNG) before it is supplied to the CNG stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-provide-land-for-setting-up-cng-stations/articleshow/77336355.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344866.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77339243.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Siblings hacked to death in revenge killing||Hyderabad: Two members of a family were hacked to death at Hazarigudem village in Nalgonda district in the early hours of Monday. Police said the double murder was an act of revenge killing as one of the victims was an accused in a murder case. The accused reportedly planned the assault expecting all three brothers of the family to be at home on Raksha Bandhan day to meet their sister. The victims were identified as J Satyanarayana, 38, a private electrical contractor, and his brother J Anjaneyulu alias Anji, 30, a garments store owner from Hazarigudem. According to Halia police, the victims were sleeping at their homes in Hazarigudem when about six to seven assailants attacked them with talwars (swords) and hunting sickles between 3am and 3.30am. “Satyanarayana, who was sleeping on a cot in front of his house, was killed first. His brother Anji, who heard the noise and came out of the adjacent house, was attacked next. Both of them died on the spot,” Miryalaguda deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Venkateswara Rao said. Police suspect the double murder could be a revenge for a similar gruesome killing that took place on February 5 in the neighboring Halia village. Milk vendor Revanth Kumar, 22, was hacked to death by a group of assailants at Halia in the early hours of February 5. Revanth died while his parents, Indiramma and Srinivas, were trying to shift him to hospital. Police named six persons, including Anji, his younger brother Hari, also a garments store owner from Halia, and four others as accused in the case. “Hari suspected Revanth was having an affair with his wife and murdered him with the help of other accused,” Nalgonda superintendent of police (SP) AV Ranganath said. Hari, who is the main accused in Revanth’s murder case, got conditional bail in June third week. On Monday, he was supposed to appear before court in relation to the bail. Police suspect that Revanth’s mother Indiramma along with her relatives and some hired assassins planned to kill all the three brothers as she expected them to be at home for Rakhi festival. “Anji and Satyanarayana were at home, but Hari, who has been staying in Hyderabad, did not come to the village. The victim’s family members said they saw Indiramma along with the assailants near their house,” police said. The accused were on the run and police launched a manhunt to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/siblings-hacked-to-death-in-revenge-killing/articleshow/77339258.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||For 1st time, final year degree exams start online, go smoothly||Panaji: For the first time, final year exams to graduate programmes in colleges across Goa were held online on Monday. These exams, which are being answered on the internet due to the Covid-19 pandemic, are expected to go on for another 8-10 days. Colleges said that since this is the first time such an exercise is being undertaken, an orientation and mock tests were already held in preparation for the exams. Thus, it ensured that Monday’s papers went on smoothly. All final year examinations of the current academic year 2019-20 are being held online, based on guidelines issued in mid-July by Goa University. College heads said this gave them sufficient time to gear up for the exams. Students were sent the question paper through online platforms like Google Classroom, Moodle, e-mail, WhatsApp, etc, at 10am. They were given two hours’ duration to complete the exam. “Students had till 2pm to submit their answersheets by email or through Whatsapp,” said DB Arolkar, principal of DM’s College and Research Centre, Assagao. “As we had students from some remote areas like Pernem, we were apprehensive about network coverage. But the students had sufficient time to submit their answersheets and everything went on smoothly. We had explained how the entire process would take place beforehand to students, and we had also carried out mock tests as preparation.” The exams are being conducted online for final year students of BA, BSc (including home science), BCom, BCA and Bachelor in Social Work (BSW) programmes. Final year exams for BA BEd, BSc BEd, BEd, and BPEd programmes are also being held online from August 3. BPharm final year exams too began online from Monday. Principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona, Manoj Kamat said that he had instructed heads of departments and teachers to ensure that the questions asked should require application of mind as physical supervision is not possible during online exams. “The exam went on smoothly. It required a massive orientation exercise to be carried out for the students, which we had done in preparation. We also conducted a mock test. This ensured students knew the exact steps to be followed,” said Kamat. Students could either type the answers electronically or write down the answers and then scan or photograph the sheets and upload the answer sheet. Some institutes asked students to click a photograph of the answersheet exactly at 12noon, though it could be sent to the teacher till 2pm. This ensured that the time at which the photograph was taken was recorded. The question paper was only of 30-marks per subject, and the final evaluation of students’ performance will also see weightage given to the marks of previous semesters and to internal assessments. This ensures that the evaluation of the students performance is not entirely based on the online exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-1st-time-final-year-degree-exams-start-online-go-smoothly/articleshow/77339784.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 test drive in hospital hub, health workers’ housing belt in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Beginning Tuesday, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) will launch a four-day Covid-test drive in the Mukundapur-Anandapur-Panchasayar belt that has six major hospitals and houses hundreds of healthcare workers. The aim of the exercise is to identify the affected zones and respond with specific measures to protect the hospital hub that is crucial to the city’s battle against Covid-19. The decision to conduct RT-PCR and antigen tests in the belt was taken in a meeting in KMC — headed by Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the nodal officer for Covid response in Kolkata — following reports of a spurt in cases in this belt along the city’s eastern edge. Of the 60 samples collected from Mukundapur market in the first round of antigen tests on Saturday, five had tested positive, sparking concern. Of these, three were relatives or acquaintances of Covid patients. The tests will target specific groups perceived as high-risk. “This is important to protect healthcare workers, as well as local residents,” said ward 109 coordinator Ananya Banerjee. Sources said the tests will primarily focus on three sets of people — auto drivers and rickshawpullers, those working in guest houses and hospitals other than doctors and nurses, and residents of neighbourhood complexes. Cops will also be tested as Panchasayar, Anandapur and Survey Park police stations have reported multiple cases. There is also concern about Shahid Smriti Colony, which has a population of 15,000. A KMC official said a random survey will be carried out, but the civic body has a fair idea about those who are in the high-risk category and are possible carriers. Till date, 364 Covid cases have been reported from the ward that has around 15 big and small hospitals. Spread over 9.2sqkm and with a population of 66,000, the area has 52 housing complexes and 17 colonies. Of the 364 cases, 123 were local residents and the rest were healthcare workers, patients and their relatives, as well as hospital support staffers. “Four housing complexes on EM Bypass and Survey Park have reported several cases in the past four months,” said Banerjee. Together with Patuli and Baghajatin, Mukundapur has as many as nine containment zones. Incidentally, the first Covid case in the state had been reported from a complex in this area on March 17. The youth, a student, had returned from abroad when he tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-test-drive-in-hospital-hub-health-workers-housing-belt/articleshow/77339226.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 4, 2020||Madurai||43 deaths, 16,481 active Covid cases in south TN; 10 deaths in central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 43 Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the health department bulletin in the 10 southern districts of the state on Monday. It is the highest single-day rise in the region, taking the toll past 800. More than half of them died between July 28 and 31 at various government hospitals in the region and were added to the toll on Monday. The number of active cases in the region is 16,481. Meanwhile, the central region of the state witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 related deaths with ten casualties taking toll to 161 on Monday. On the other hand, the region saw a drop in the number of fresh cases for the second consecutive day with 441 cases. The active cases in the district were also decreasing. As many as 4,756 people are undergoing treatment in the eight districts. Virudhunagar (105) is the second district in the region after Madurai (257) to cross 100 deaths. Virudhunagar has the 6th highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the state.Virudhunagar (9) Sivagangai (5), Tenkasi (5), Theni (5), Tirunelveli (5), Madurai (4), Tuticorin (4), Kanyakumari (3), Ramanathapuram (2) and Dindigul (1) reported deaths on Monday. With 802 deaths from the 56,458 positive cases the death rate in the region has climbed to 1.42%. The number of people who have recovered and were discharged is 69.4% while 29.2% are undergoing treatment. The 1,550 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in the 10 southern districts on Monday is the lowest single day rise since July 22. As many as five districts – Ramanathapuram (62), Sivagangai (64), Dindigul (75), Tenkasi (75) and Tirunelveli (85) – recorded less than 100 fresh cases on Monday. Theni had a positivity rate of 22.7%, with 305 testing positive from 1,342 samples. The 106 positive cases in Madurai on Monday are the lowest in the last 40 days. But on July 20, when an equal number of cases were reported in the district, the number has always been much higher and at times crossed 450 cases a day when the backlog was cleared. The last time the district had recorded less than 106 cases was 99 cases on June 24 and has not been below 100 cases thereafter. Sivagangai MP Karti P Chidambaram tested positive on Monday. Announcing it in Twitter, he said that he has mild symptoms and is under home quarantine as per medical advice. “I would urge all those who have recently been in contact with me to follow medical protocol,” he said. Former minister and BJP state vice-president Nainar Nagendran, from Tirunelveli, also informed on Twitter that he has mild symptoms of Covid-19. Thanjavur district was on top of the list among central districts with 146 cases on Monday. Trichy district reported 101 new cases taking the tally to 4,517 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/43-deaths-16481-active-covid-cases-in-south-tn-10-deaths-in-central-region/articleshow/77339257.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Jawaddi CHC likely to be made Covid care centre||Ludhiana: Punjab food, civil supplies & consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday expressed concern on the rising number of Covid patients in the district and said that there was a need to develop more such level 2 and 3 healthcare facilities. After consultation with the authorities he has decided that one such Covid care centre can be started at community health centre (CHC), Jawaddi, as an entire floor is lying vacant. Ashu said, “During visit to the CHC Jawaddi on Monday, we consulted Dr RP Singh from Pancham Hospital and we have sought logistic support from him. At least one ward in Pancham Hospital can also be used to increase the number of beds in the district. At the same time some private hospitals need to come forward during today’s testing times and provide all kind of support for strengthening the government healthcare facilities. For the welfare of Ludhiana city residents, Covid 19 testing is now being done totally free of cost at Civil Hospital, Mother Child Hospital near Vardhman Mills and Meritorious School, CHCs at Jawaddi, Subhash Nagar and Giaspura. Besides, sampling is also being done at Police Lines (for police personnel) and at Central Jail (for inmates/undertrials) and by mobile teams in containment/micro-containment zones.” Ashu added, “The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Ludhiana have agreed to operate the Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital as a Covid Care Centre. We are also in talks with other private hospitals for taking over the government hospitals so that best healthcare services can be provided to the residents.” The minister also directed the district administration officials to ensure that there was no shortage of beds for patients in Ludhiana and services of more private hospitals should be taken in the interest of people. He was accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, ADC (development) Sandeep Kumar, MC councillors Mamta Ashu and Dilraj Singh, besides several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jawaddi-chc-likely-to-be-made-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77337764.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344871.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu sees 500 deaths in 5 days, but new coronavirus cases decrease||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll is rising even as the number of fresh cases is slowly dipping. There have been 500 deaths in the last five days, including 109 on Monday, the first time the daily toll touched three figures. The time it takes for the number of deaths to double had dropped to 19 days from 24 days on July 28. The case fatality rate for TN at 1.6% is one of the lowest among high prevalence states. But it’s not uniform across districts. It’s 2.1% in Chennai, among the worst-hit district. Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga too record a little over 2%. TN announced the first Covid-19 death on March 25 when a 54-year-old succumbed to the viral infection in Madurai. In April, the state reported 26 Covid-19 deaths, and the following month it had 146 deaths and in June it added another 1,028. Until then the case fatality rate in the state, including the worst-hit Chennai, the mortality rate was hovering between 0.7 and 1.6. In July there were 1,845 deaths, and the health department added 444 Covid deaths that had gone unrecorded between March and July in Chennai. The three days of August saw 306 deaths. Public health experts and epidemiologists point to several reasons for the high death rate in the city. Analysis of medical records by the public health department showed that a combination of diabetes and hypertension was the most common risk factor among the deceased. But officials are also increasingly finding more people coming to hospitals with severe symptoms. “As we are seeing a shift in cases to the southern districts, we have been noticing an increase in the number of people with symptoms now compared to initial months. There is also an increase in deaths among patients with no comorbidities,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Deaths were expected to go up. Now, we should also be careful of post Covid complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who is pushing for a registry to monitor 30 day and 90 days morbidity and mortality of patients who have recovered from the infection. The city, officials in the public health department say, has more facilities for testing, hospitals and Covid care centres compared to many other districts. “We are reconciling deaths periodically minimizing chances of errors. Also the number of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension is higher in urban populations compared to rural areas,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Of the 5,609 fresh cases on Monday, Chennai had 1,021 while its three neighbours Chengalpet (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Tiruvallur (332) together recorded 1,185. The region recorded 33 deaths, including 30 in Chennai. An eight-year-old girl with Wilson Disease and acute liver failure admitted to the Institute of Child Health on July 30, died on August 1 after she was tested positive. Among the other northern districts Tiruvannamalai recorded 212 cases and Ranipet 382. Together the northern districts had 3101 fresh cases, 44 deaths and 30,513 of the 56,698 active cases in TN. The ten districts in the south together reported 1,550 new cases and 43 deaths. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 348, and deaths, nine. Western districts logged 502 cases and 12 deaths and central districts 441 cases and 10 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-sees-500-deaths-in-5-days-but-new-virus-cases-decrease/articleshow/77344863.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 4, 2020||Goa||Now, GMC specialists will treat comorbid patients at ESI hospital||PANAJI: Even as Covid-19 deaths and cases continue to rise in the state, attracting the government trenchant criticism from all quarters, the state on Monday decided to overhaul the working of the ESI Covid hospital in Margao. With several patients raising the issue of lack of proper attention for comorbidities such as cancer, the government, in a notification issued on Monday, said that Covid patients with comorbidities will henceforth be treated by superspecialty teams from GMC’s cardiology, oncology, neurology, nephrology, neurosurgery and urology departments. TOI had earlier highlighted the plight of comorbid patients at the state's lone Covid hospital. The government also handed over all administration of the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, to Dr S M Bandekar, who is dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. Till Monday, Dr Ira Almeida, medical superintendent, South Goa district hospital, has overseen the state’s lone dedicated Covid facility. The government created a high dependency unit within the Covid hospital, with bedside ventilators. This facility will be under the supervision of Dr Viraj Namshikar and Dr Deependra C of GMC’s anaesthesiology department, Dr Glenn of the ESI hospital, and Dr Gayatri Kalyanshetty, senior anaesthetist, Hospicio. Also, a treatment protocol committee has been constituted, which shall decide protocols for treatment in consultation with the nodal officer of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria. This committee comprises medical superintendent of the North Goa district hospital, Dr Mohandas Pednekar, Dr Anar Khandeparkar of GMC’s medicine department, Dr Edward De Mello, a senior physician at Hospicio, Dr Vaibhav Gude, Dr Venkatesh Molio and Dr Oscar Rebello. Also constituted is a three-member committee headed by Bandekar, that will deploy doctors, nurses and paramedics for the smooth functioning of the Covid hospital. The two others are director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa and senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr Vishwajit Faldessai. Also, the Covid-positive death cremation committee will be headed by a senior consultant at the department of medicine as nodal officer, besides district collectors. The day-to-day administration of staff and other duties necessary for the smooth running of the hospital will be looked after by a senior GMC doctor. A five-member committee has also been constituted for the smooth functioning of the hospital’s operation theatre. It has also been decided to outsource the handling of bio-medical waste, patients’ diet, laundry service and housekeeping to agencies currently engaged in GMC, and they will function 24x7. Also, the government has asked the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) to appoint a nodal officer for the day-to-day administration of maintenance work at the Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-gmc-specialists-will-treat-comorbid-patients-at-esi-hosp/articleshow/77339786.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court orders suspension of cop for tardy probe in rape case||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court has ordered the suspension of RPS officer Kushal Singh for tardy investigation into the kidnapping and gangrape of a minor under Khushkhera police station in Alwar district in 2019. The investigating officer had left out an accused in the FIR on the basis of his mobile location despite the victim in her statement claiming the accused had sexually assaulted her. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma gave the direction during the hearing of the bail plea of the other accused, Munfed. The petitioner said Munfed’s accomplice Toufik was not made as an accused during the investigation as his mobile location showed his presence in Haryana. This led to the presumption that Toufik was not involved in abducting and raping the girl along with Munfed. The court said, “It is not satisfied with the explanation keeping in view the statement made under Section 164 CrPC by the rape prosecutrix (survivor) wherein she has stated that she was raped by Toufik. It is a case where the investigating officer has attempted to save co-accused Toufik by doubting the statement made under Section 164 CrPC by the prosecutrix. It goes contrary to the provisions of Section 114A of the Indian Evidence Act,” the court said. The court order said the IO could not presume otherwise than the statement which is on record. It also weakens the case against the co-accused. From the perusal of the challan papers, this court finds that the prosecutrix has given the statement under Section 164 CrPC where her age has been mentioned as 14 years. But the IO has also on the basis of some report obtained from the radiologist treated the age of the prosecutrix as between 19 to 21 years which is not possible as her parents in the FIR mentioned that he age as changed from 14 years to 19 years. Apparently, the IO has tried to save the accused persons which is a serious offence. The court said, “The Director General of Police is directed to take departmental action and initiate departmental proceedings for major penalty against the investigating officer after suspending him from service immediately.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-orders-suspension-of-io-for-tardy-probe-in-rape-case/articleshow/77339271.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 4, 2020||Shimla||Work for high-speed internet on in remote Himachal Pradesh areas near China border||MANALI: Many villages close to China border in Spiti valley of Himachal Pradesh are being covered by mobile network and high-speed internet connectivity. Remotest of the Spiti villages like Giu, Komic, Hikkim, Kibbar, Losar, Demul and Mudh are also expected to get high-speed internet very soon. Spiti’s major areas like Kaza, Tabo and Losar were covered by BSNL but it had limited service. The residents had no internet connectivity. All villages of the 13 panchayats of Spiti are now being connected by Reliance Jio, which started its service with three towers in December last year. Work is on to set up more communication towers at the earliest. The company has started its service in Hurling village, barely 15km from the international border as the crow flies. It will benefit the residents of Lapcha and nearby villages. “Earlier residents used to visit Samdo, 8km from here, to make emergency calls. The children can now learn online, without having to move to other areas for study. The residents are extremely happy to get mobile service. It is like dream coming true,” Hurling panchayat up-pradhan Norbu Bodh said. Tribal affairs and IT minister Ram Lal Markanda said entire the valley is being provided with telephone and internet connectivity. “Work on many more towers is underway. As many as 34 towers will be made functional. A tower at Tabo will start relaying signals in a few days. Lahaul valley and Kinnaur will also get more towers to strengthen the connectivity in remote tribal areas of the state,” he said. Many villages in Spiti are just 10-20km from India-China border. These villages will also get high-speed internet service. Giu village, which is popular for its living mummy of a monk, is less than 10km from the border. Markanda said this village will also get mobile and internet connectivity. “All works are now being digitalized. From banking to shopping to applying for various certificates is now online. Be it study, business or work from home, we cannot consider anything without internet. The residents had been complaining of weak telecommunication network in the valley. Network in bordering area will strengthen our security forces as well,” the minister added. Some Jio towers are being set up in Kinnaur district where a large number of villages have no telephone connectivity. Last month when residents of Kunnu and Charang villages of Kinnaur had reported that China is building road towards the border, they had mentioned that the village has no phone connectivity which is important to alert the police and administration in case of such an emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/work-for-high-speed-internet-on-in-remote-hp-areas-near-china-border/articleshow/77339232.cms||Suresh Sharma
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Post-Covid complications leave some short of breath||NEW DELHI: In an example of the extent to which post-Covid complications can continue, a 56-year-old doctor who was diagnosed with Covid-19 two months ago is still requiring oxygen support. He is admitted to an Apollo hospital. According to Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care medicine at the hospital, the patient came with fever and cough in the first week of June and later developed acute respiratory distress, which necessitated oxygen therapy. “He has been in ICU for the last two months. We have been giving him high flow oxygen therapy regularly in addition to medicines to reduce fibrosis in the lungs,” Dr Chawla said. Covid-19 is known to damage the lungs. Dr Arup Basu, senior chest physician at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said even after the infection subsides, scars caused by it remain. “The scars or thickened tissues make it difficult for the lungs to work properly. That’s why oxygen support is needed to keep the patient alive,” Dr Basu said. He added that they have a 22-year-old patient who recovered from Covid-19 a month ago but is still in ICU and requiring high flow oxygen support. Doctors fear that the Covid-19 pandemic may leave behind a number of people with “crippled lung,” the treatment for which is not yet very clear. “In the case of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome also, another outbreak caused by coronavirus in 2003, there were multiple reports of patients continuing to have breathing difficulty up to a year after the infection subsided. Similar post-infection lung damage was noticed in some cases in H1N1 pandemic in 2009, but most of them recovered over the next three to four months,” Dr Basu explained. A 64-year-old businessman from Karol Bagh said he was diagnosed with Covid-19 in May first week and added he was still requiring oxygen support to be able to breathe. “It is difficult to go to the bathroom even,” he added. Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Medanta Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, said lung fibrosis is one of the post-Covid complications. “The long-term effect of Covid-19 on other organs, especially the brain, is also being studied,” he said. Covid-19 is known to affect the respiratory system. But new evidence suggests in some cases the brain may also get affected by the disease. Dr Kameshwar Prasad, professor of neurology at AIIMS, says Covid-19 can affect the brain in multiple ways. “First, the viral infection is known to affect lung function, which can cause lack of oxygen in the body. If the brain doesn’t get enough oxygen, it can get affected too leading to unconsciousness, confusion and even death. Second, Covid-19 is known to cause loss of taste and smell, which means that it affects the olfactory nerve, the shortest of the nerves emerging from the brain. The infection can travel to the brain causing neurological disorders directly through this route. Thirdly, there are theories about Covid-19 leaving a long-lasting effect on the brain, which manifests into clinical symptoms much later,” he added. Dr Prasad stressed the need to monitor neurological problems in Covid-19 patients for timely intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/post-covid-complications-leave-some-short-of-breath/articleshow/77339274.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||‘No decision yet on permitting film shootings’||TUTICORIN: The possibility of permitting film shooting is unlikely to happen in the short run, said information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju said while talking to reporters at Kovilpatti after taking part in various government events on Monday. The government has granted permission for shooting serials with a team of less than 60 people over the last two months as part of the phased unlock in the state. To a question, he told reporters that recently veteran director Bharathiraja and S A Chandrasekhar met him and then the chief minister on separate occasions and sought permission to resume film shooting with a team of 60 to 70 people, as the industry is affected due to the stringent lockdown. “But it is not that easy as many factors have to be taken into consideration,” the minister said. “Serial shooting takes place mostly in a building or a closed premises. For films, shooting is mostly outdoor and crowd gathering is unavoidable when leading stars come,” Raju said and added that the CM has told the directors that he would consult and taken a decision in this regard. Regarding the reopening of cinema halls, Raju said that it looks impossible throughout August as per the guidelines of the Centre and a call will be taken based on the various developments and prevailing circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-decision-yet-on-permitting-film-shootings/articleshow/77339267.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Spurt in crime rate post lockdown relaxation in Madurai district||MADURAI: There is a spurt in the number of crime incidents in both Madurai city as well as rural police limits in the last few weeks after lockdown relaxations. Incidents like theft, robbery, burglary and snatching incidents are being frequently recorded. There was almost no crime incident reported during complete lockdown, police officials said. In a case that happened in mid-July, a woman was hacked to death, when she was alone in her house in SS Colony police limits. Later, it was found that a 28-year-old man had hacked the woman with the aid of two minor boys from Anaiyur for cash and jewellery. A week later, an elderly woman was murdered, when she was working in her agriculture field alone near Peraiyur in rural police limit. It was a suspected incident of murder for gain. In the last couple of weeks, 10 robbery incidents for mobile phones and a burglary incident was reported in Madurai city police limit. Three chain-snatching incidents have also been reported. The latest snatching incident was reported in the South Gate police limit, where a cyclist snatched a gold chain from elderly woman in broad daylight near King Thirumalai Naicker Mahal. Total 12 burglary incidents, mostly targeting residential houses, eight robbery incidents, four bike theft incidents and two cattle theft incidents have been reported in rural police limit in the last two weeks. A police officer from rural police unit said, “We have increased vigilance in crime prone areas. Criminals involved in the recent crime incidents are being tracked and soon incidents will come down,” he said. A higher police officer from city police said that recently action was taken against more than 200 anti-social elements in a special drive. City police commissioner, Prem Anand Sinha has ordered to increase vehicle patrolling to bring down the crime incidents, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spurt-in-crime-rate-post-lockdown-relaxation-in-madurai-district/articleshow/77339290.cms||V Devanathan
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t dispossess farmers: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of the Telangana high court has directed the competent authority of the national highways not to dispossess the farmers till their objections in respect of acquiring their land in Khammam district were heard and attended to under the law. The land was under acquisition for laying a greenfields highway from Khammam to Devarapalli. The farmers’ counsel told the court that the entire highway was passing through the agricultural land, thereby affecting as many as 2,000 farmers. The authorities said that they are proceeding under section 3-A of the National Highways Act. The judge said the same Act provides space for the farmers to raise their objections. “You (officials) have to attend to them first and till then do not dispossess them,” the judge said. He posted the case to three weeks. “File your counters in the meantime,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dont-dispossess-farmers/articleshow/77339293.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||Min marks for CU BCom, BA may stay same as last yr’s||Kolkata: Despite the deluge of marks in HS, CBSE and ISC, colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have indicated they are likely to retain last year’s minimum marks criteria to apply for undergraduate courses in humanities and BCom. Principals, though, admitted that it will mean disappointment for a larger number of students as the cut-off is likely to be higher than last year. Other than a few private colleges, most will distribute application forms from August 10.At Basanti Devi College, principal Indrila Guha said the decision to retain last year’s minimum criteria was prompted by her inability to convene a meeting in the present scenario. At Jaipuria College, too, the 2019 minimum criteria has been retained. Students can apply with 50% aggregate (four best subject scores), along with 45%-50% in the subject, for honours courses in Bengali, English, history and political science .Colleges around Sealdah have also not been able to convene general body meetings as they lie in containment zones. A principal of a prominent college in the locality said the application criteria was being kept the same as last year’s since it would allow the college to select students from a larger pool. “Traditionally, subjects like economics, philosophy, chemistry and Sanskrit don’t have too many takers in these colleges, leading to vacancies. But following the surge of applicants this year, and with many students who would have otherwise opted to study in an institute in another state staying back due to the pandemic, we expect all seats to be filled up. We will hold a governing body meeting on Friday, but a key decision, like a change in the minimum marks criteria, is unlikely since several members have expressed their inability to be present in person,” the principal said. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said the college would also refrain from tinkering with the minimum marks criteria so as to attract a large number of students. “In humanities, mobility is high as prominent colleges and universities take in students even after the Puja vacation, which leaves vacancies in a few subjects. To overcome any such problem, we want to offer the chance of application to a large section of students,” she reasoned.Several others, including Bethune College and Vivekananda College, have decided to keep the criteria same for humanities subjects. “Unlike science subjects, all boards had managed to conduct exams for most of the humanities subjects, which will allow us to evaluate applications on subject marks,” a college principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/min-marks-for-cu-bcom-ba-may-stay-same-as-last-yrs/articleshow/77339236.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 infection on the rise among BSF jawans||Jaisalmer: There has been an increase in corona infection cases among BSF jawans deployed on the border. In last 24 hours, 27 cases have come to light from Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Jodhpur. Maximum cases of 20 have been reported from BSF training centre in Jodhpur.On the other hand, cases are increasing in Barmer and Jodhpur too. In the Monday morning report, Barmer district reported 65 new cases. Despite the district administration running awareness campaigns, the general public is not taking it seriously. The Jaisalmer district administration has formed teams which are continuously making people aware of Covid-19 infection.The increasing cases in BSF are quite worrisome. Although the jawans returning from their holidays are being kept in quarantine the infection is increasing. In Rajasthan Frontier headquarters in Jodhpur, 20 people were tested positive, they included 17 jawans and three local persons who work in the mess. The infected people had come to Jodhpur a few days ago from some other place. The total infected BSF jawans in Jodhpur has reached 79.BSF training centre commandant Yogendra Rathore said that 117 jawans of BSF from different parts of the country were sent to the training centre in Jodhpur to take part. One of the jawans was suffering from high fever and on testing it was diagnosed to be dengue. Later while testing for corona, he was found positive. All the 117 jawans were tested, of which 17 were corona positive. Three employees working in the mess who came in contact with these jawans were also tested positive. Similarly, in Gharsana area of Bikaner sector, six jawans of Battalion 127 tested positive. They have been admitted to the hospital. A jawan of a battalion at Dabla in Jaisalmer was tested positive on Sunday. He is an ambulance driver and around 35 BSF jawans who had come in contact with the corona positive jawan have been kept in quarantine.Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi and SP Ajay Singh in regard to the increasing cases of corona inspected the city and took stock of the arrangements and gave direction to follow the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-infection-on-the-rise-among-bsf-jawans/articleshow/77339289.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Man hangs self after testing +ve for Covid||Hyderabad: A health worker hanged himself to death on Monday, three days after he tested positive for Covid-19. According to Medak police, the 35-year-old was under severe stress after doctors advised him home quarantine. The man was working as a sanitary supervisor in Kamareddy district. He underwent a Covid-19 test as he was feeling unwell. After the test came positive, he moved to his native place in Medak to be in home quarantine on Sunday. Though he did not leave any suicide note, his family suspects that he had resorted to the extreme act due to his illness. According to sources, a few villagers had objected to him staying in the village after he tested positive. However, the local police has denied the claim. “Any incident of a villager objecting to his stay has not been brought to out notice. The family members have also not told us anything about it,” the local police officials said. In the last few days, three persons in the village and surrounding area of the healthcare worker had recovered of Covid-19. An 82-year-old woman in his own household had also recovered. The police has registered a case under section 174 Crpc. In a similar incident, a 60-year-old woman had killed herself in the last week of July by consuming pesticides minutes after she came to know that she had tested positive for Covid-19. The woman as a sweeper in a government department. She had decided to take a test since she was suffering from cold and fever. “An Asha worker had informed her that her test came out positive. The Asha worker had also suggested that she should stay indoors,” a police official had told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-hangs-self-after-testing-ve-for-covid/articleshow/77339301.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Players’ contracts ended on match-fixing suspicion: Goa Football Association||PANAJI: Match-fixing in the Goa Professional League is something most seemed to know, but nobody wanted to talk about. An exclusive report on TOI’s Monday edition that the London-based Sportsradar has red-flagged six matches in the Goa Professional League for suspicious betting patterns indicative of match manipulation – or match fixing, in simple terms – has set the cat among the pigeons. The Goa Football Association (GFA) has now admitted that there were rumours about match-fixing. Of course, no club said anything on record, but the association’s investigations have suggested something was wrong. “Our investigations revealed that the contracts of a couple of players of a football club were terminated on alleged suspicion (of match-fixing),” said GFA general secretary Jovito Lopes. According to sources, the top-flight club playing in the Goa Pro League suspended three players for alleged wrongdoings on and off the field, while two others were let off with a warning. “The role of the players was suspicious. They were either making mistakes in defence, or failing to score from handshaking distance. One of the players admitted that he was offered money to make mistakes,” a club official told TOI. Rumours of suspected match fixers making their presence felt for some games was also doing the rounds. At the Dempo SC ground in Ela, Old Goa, “suspicious” people were said to have quickly disappeared through the gate when the home team asked the security staff to inquire. GFA has also put on record that its secretary visited the police station in Panaji “as there were rumours that a complaint of match-fixing was lodged by a Panaji-based football club.” Lopes met two sub-inspectors and the head constable, and “it was ascertained that no such complaint of match-fixing was lodged.” The GFA said they first received the report from All India Football Federation’s integrity officer, Javed Siraj, on March 3. After conducting an inquiry, the association submitted a confidential report six days later. The letter to Siraj — dated March 9, 2020 — has now been circulated to the media, but the integrity officer said he has not received anything from the GFA apart from a short three para letter on March 6. “I have a GFA letter where they say they will look into the matter. That was an acknowledgment kind of a reply that they have received the report from us. This is the only letter in this matter. There are about four or five sentences,” Siraj told TOI on Monday. “We expect GFA to do a complete investigation. They have to inquire and come to a conclusion. The GFA has said they will conduct an inquiry. If you cannot conclude, there is no point of having an inquiry,” said Siraj, who worked with the CBI and has 38 years of experience in the field of investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/players-contracts-ended-on-match-fixing-suspicion-gfa/articleshow/77339791.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Cops bond with offenders with sacred band||VADODARA: Commuters in Sabarkantha district, who were out of their homes on Monday without face masks, were left confused. Instead of penalizing them, policemen posted at important places and junctions across the district were gifting them masks to put them on. The initiative was planned specially for Rakshabandhan day and christened ‘Khakhi ej raakhi.’ The casual attitude among people about wearing masks is evident from the fact that police distributed 5,000 masks just in one day. Officials said that on Rakshabandhan, as a woman ties ‘rakhi’ to take promise of protecting her, cops gave masks to people and explained them its importance to protect themselves during Covid-19 pandemic. The day was deliberately selected as people come out of their houses in big numbers to visit relatives and celebrate the festival. “The monthly fine that we collect from people for not wearing masks is around Rs 30 lakh. We wanted people to understand the importance of masks and that they should wear it all the time when they are out of their houses, so we planned it with the tagline: ‘Khakhi ej rakhi,” said Sabarkan district superintendent of police Chaitanya Mandlik. In Surat, the nursing staff at the SMIMER Hospital tied rakhis to Covid-19 patients on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. “Neither can the patients go home to celebrate the festival with sisters, nor can their relatives come to hospital. We celebrated the festival so that they don’t feel left out,’‘ said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-bond-with-offenders-with-sacred-band/articleshow/77336393.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nashik||NHAI asks police to close Dwarka flyover||NASHIK: The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Nashik, has written to the city police to close the Dwarka flyover so that it can take up the work of connecting the new flyover, which is being constructed from the opposite side of KK Wagh College to Jatra Hotel, to the Dwarka flyover. The NHAI is constructing a 3 km flyover due to vehicular traffic and accidents on the Mumbai Agra Highway stretch from opposite K K Wagh College and Jatra The construction of the new flyover began in November 2018 and it will be completed by January 2021, said NHAI officials. The elevated corridor over the Mumbai Agra highway starts from Vilholi descending at various locations till Dwarka. The elevated corridor ends at Meena Tai Thackeray Stadium. NHAI officials said that the work of putting slabs on the beams of proposed flyover will be completed soon, following which the process of connecting the two elevated corridors has to be taken up. However, the stretch of the flyover from Dwarka to Indiranagar will remain open for vehicular traffic. Those coming from Mumbai side can descend at Dwarka junction while those who want to take the flyover towards Mumbai can use the other ramp to take the flyover from Dwarka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-asks-police-to-close-dwarka-flyover/articleshow/77336386.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Woman’s body on pushcart, SHRC seeks report||THENI: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the Theni district collector and commissioner of municipal administration (CMA) after taking suo moto cognizance of an incident in which and elderly woman, who died of Covid-19 was denied a vehicle, forcing her son to take a pushcart on rent, to shift the body to the crematorium. SHRC, which took up the case based on a news item that appeared in a vernacular daily, has asked the district administration and CMA to conduct inquiries into the incident. The commission is scheduled to take further proceedings in the matter in four weeks time and sought the report to be filed before it. Sources from the health department said that the woman in her 70s, from a village near Gudalur suffered from diarrhoea six days back and was rushed to a nearby primary health centre. She was treated for two days in the PHC. Meanwhile, swab samples were lifted and sent for Covid-19 test. Results, which came later revealed that she was positive. The woman died in her house within 24 hours of testing positive. Her son called up municipality officials to arrange for a hearse van to shift the body to the crematorium. Although officials promised to arrange a vehicle, it did not turn up even after 10-hour wait. With pressure mounting from locals asking the son to immediately dispose of the body, he took a push cart for rent. A health official from Theni district said that inquiry was already on. They did not divulge any details on the inquiry for now and since a report to be submitted to SHRC, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/womans-body-on-pushcart-shrc-seeks-report/articleshow/77339299.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Lockdown violation cases cross 50,000||MADURAI: Number of people arrested for violating lockdown restrictions in Madurai rural police limits has crossed 50,000 mark with the arrest of 384 people on Sunday. In 38,374 cases registered so far, 50,362 people have been arrested. Violators are booked on charges of disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant and act likely to spread infection under Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act. “Almost all these arrested people were released on station bail without much delay. We focus more on registering cases and less on levying fine as people from rural areas tend to create law and order issue if fine amount is imposed. However, mask violators are taken to task by levying a fine amount of Rs 200 without any leniency,” a police officer said. So far 12,084 vehicles have been seized. Totally, 336 cases were registered on Sunday alone. Fifty-one people were arrested and 681 liquor bottles were seized from them. As many as 9,347 people have been caught for not wearing mask in public places. They were made to cough up 16.8 lakh fine so far. On Sunday alone, 204 people were caught for the violation. “Compared to the city, it is difficult to make people follow the mask rule in rural areas. A large number of people gather in public places in each village and chat without any fear. We are doing our best to create awareness,” the official added. Another police officer said that people in villages are sensitized through police vehicle mounted public address system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-violation-cases-cross-50000/articleshow/77339297.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Demand for emergency drug goes up in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The demand for Remdesivir — the emergency drug that is administered to Covid-19 patients to reduce the viral load — has significantly shot up in the private hospitals. The drug has been advised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid treatment. Currently, around 100 doses of the drug is available with the district health authorities. Each dose costs around Rs 7,000 and every critical patient requires at least three doses. Due to the shortage in the supply and the high cost, the district administration is cautious while using the drug. Currently, the demand is growing from the private hospitals to provide the doses. Over 20 private hospitals have been allowed to treat Covid patients, many of which are involved in the treatment of critically ill patients. Those who are old and have several comorbidities have low immunity to cope up with Covid-19 infection. In such cases, Remdesivir helps bring down the viral load from the body and ultimately contributes in the recovery of the patients. A senior official from the district health department said, “So far, we have used the doses only when absolutely necessary as per the guidelines of the ICMR and the state government. The drug is in short supply. Currently, we have around 100 doses. Now, that there has been a surge in Covid-19 patients, there is a demand from private hospitals to make the drug available.” “It cannot be given upon a mere demand as we have to ensure that the patient cannot make do without the the drug. We are setting up a panel of experts to check the patient’s history before making the drug available to the hospital,” said the official. The official added that the demand for more doses of the drug would be placed before the central procurement authority. Currently, the drug is not even available in the pharmacies across the district. The hospitals are asking the patients to manage the drug on their own. “We have told the hospitals not to ask the relatives of the patients to get any medicine required for Covid-19 treatment. Instead, they should approach us. We will provide them with all the necessary drugs,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/demand-for-emergency-drug-goes-up-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77336371.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara village reports 36 cases in a day||Kolhapur: As many as 139 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Satara district till Monday evening, taking the tally of active cases to 2,146. Of the total cases, 36 cases were reported from Sonapur village in Satara tehsil which is home to around 1,500 people. District civil surgeon Amol Gadikar told TOI that a special team has been sent to Sonapur. The exercise of tracing contacts has already begun. As per official information, of the 36 cases reported from Sonapur, 14 were men, 14 women and eight were children. Two of the eight children who have tested positive are below 10-years-old. The other patients are in the age group of 20 and 65 years. Officials said the most of the patients are relatives and residents of the same area. The other cases were reported from Shahupuri (13), Khatav tehsil (12), Khandala tehsil (15), Phaltan tehsil (11) and Garwadi village (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-village-reports-36-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77336385.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Grievances redressal meet held online||TIRUNELVELI: Petitioners who wanted to represent their grievances to the Tirunelveli district collector directly reached her online from their homes and from the nearest e-seva centres via video conferencing on Monday. Twenty-five petitioners met collector Shilpa Prabhakar Sathish through this mode during the three-hour meeting from 10.30 am. NIC created a platform for online submission of petitions at the district website http://tirunelveli.nic.in. Petitioners had to submit their petitions online and slots were allotted. Based on seniority of petitioners, they spoke to the collector. The collector said that the online submission of petitions and grievances redressal through video conferencing will continue till normalcy returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grievances-redressal-meet-held-online/articleshow/77339310.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Surat||‘Will focus on controlling spread of Covid-19 infection’||SURAT: Ajay Tomar, a 1989-batch IPS officer, assumed office as Surat police commissioner on Monday. He took over the charge from his predecessor R B Brahmbatt, a 1998-batch IPS officer, who has been shifted from the city in nine months. Tomar said containing the Covid-19 outbreak would be his top priority. “I have experience of handling the situation in Ahmedabad where it was very bad.” “We will put our best efforts to ensure that people do not suffer further. Police will take strict actions to enforce various rules related to controlling spread of the disease,” he added. Apart from maintaining law and order Tomar stressed on focusing on controlling economic offences. “The city is a business centre and police will take steps for prevention and detection of economic offences,” he added. He ensured that police will deal strictly against anti-social elements and take steps to stop crime against women. Addressing cybercrime cases quickly is also one of his priorities. Describing his plan to work against the drug-related crimes and nuisances, Tomar explained, “I dealt strictly with drug trafficking during my previous stint with BSF at Punjab. Some steps are required to be taken to control the menace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/will-focus-on-controlling-spread-of-covid-19-infection/articleshow/77337878.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolkata||House clean-up during lockdown unearths treasure trove of Ray’s letters to his mother||Kolkata: Very little is written about Satyajit Ray’s mother Suprabha though it was she, and not Sukumar Ray, who brought him up. During the second round of lockdown clean-up after the ‘discovery’ of the working stills of ‘Pather Panchali’, director Sandip Ray has come across letters his father wrote to Suprabha from Santiniketan. This rare collection of some 50-odd letters, mostly post cards, gives a glimpse into the mother-son relationship, Ray’s interest in cricket and his days as a student under Nandalal Bose at Kala Bhawan. Ray’s grandfather, author Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury, died six years before his birth. His father died when he was two years and four months old. “Thakuma brought up my father,” said Sandip. After her husband’s untimely demise and the failure of the family’s printing business, Suprabha moved to her brother’s place with her son. The first lot of letters dates back to Ray’s stint at Kala Bhawan from 1940-1942. Describing him as a “prolific letter-writer”, Sandip said, “From Santiniketan, he wrote to thakuma about Rabindranath Tagore and Abanindranath Tagore. Many of the letters are about his teacher Nandalal Bose. Baba used to work under him and they shared an interesting relationship. Baba has written about the process of learning and what he was sketching then.” A file photo of Suprabha Ray with son Satyajit RayAccording to Tumpa Mukherjee, who is writing a book on Suprabha, these letters will be of importance for anyone researching on Ray. “A great cook, singer and sculptor, Suprabha also worked as a superintendent of the handicraft department at Vidyasagar Bani Bhawan. These letters shed light on her influence on Ray and their bond,” said Mukherjee, an assistant professor of sociology at Women’s Christian College. One letter mentions having to submit a painting for an exhibition. “Baba confessed to thakuma that the painting he submitted was bad. But since there was no time, he couldn’t draw another one,” Sandip said. Unfortunately, none of Ray’s paintings during the Kala Bhawan period have survived. Though no letters have been found expressing his interest in film direction, there are letters mentioning Ray’s interest in movies. “In one letter, baba has spoken about his interest in watching a film being screened in Kolkata and how he hoped it would still run when he went home after two weeks. However, he hasn’t mentioned the movie’s name,” Sandip said. There are similar references to a cricket match at Eden Gardens and how if he didn’t get to watch it then, it would mean not getting to watch any match of importance that year. Sandip added, “He also requested thakuma to send newspaper clippings of concert reviews.” Another lot of letters have been addressed to his mother from abroad. In 1943, Ray joined a British-run advertising agency, DJ Keymer, as a junior visualizer. “Some were written from a ship. These can definitely be published,” Sandip said. Now the search is on for letters Suprabha wrote to her son. “That would be of great interest too. We still have to go through fifty per cent of the letters,” Sandip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/house-clean-up-during-lockdown-unearths-treasure-trove-of-rays-letters-to-his-mother/articleshow/77339292.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Kin of Sterlite victims seek better government jobs||TUTICORIN: Kin of those killed in the police firing on the 100th day anti-Sterlite protest on May 22 and 23 and those who were badly injured in the police excess, on Monday petitioned the state government, seeking better jobs that match their qualification. In their representation, they termed the menial jobs such as assistant to village administrative officer given on compassionate grounds as an eyewash. They also alleged partiality by the government in the allotment of jobs. They pointed out at the junior assistant job offered to the kin of the Sathankulam police station custodial death victims, P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, based on the qualification of Persis – the daughter of Jeyaraj. Quoting a high court direction regarding government jobs on compassionate grounds they sought reposting based on their qualification. The petitioners also sought a memorial for the victims and steps to ensure that the plant is not reopened again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-of-sterlite-victims-seek-better-govt-jobs/articleshow/77339307.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||State’s testing capacity to be increased: CM||Panaji: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in state has already crossed the 6,500 mark, but the state’s testing capacity stands at just 2,500 samples per day. Moreover, currently the state has a backlog of 1,600 samples for testing. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday held a meeting with health minister Vishwajit Rane and health officials over the Covid-19 situation. Later he said a slew of measures would be undertaken to tackle the situation, including increasing testing capacity and commissioning of a new plasma extraction machine. Rane told reporters that the state’s Covid testing capacity needs to be hiked by at least another 1,500 samples. “I have discussed this with the chief minister and proposed that two to three more testing machines be set up at different places to reduce the load,” he said adding that there is already a backlog of samples for testing. With the state seeing sudden spikes in positive cases, such as 300 cases a day, Rane said it is time to redirect the way the situation is being handled. Stating that a decision has been taken to put a lot of things in order, he said, “You will see the changes within a week.” He also said that with a number of Covid patients dying due to comorbidity, the state is looking at treating these patients differently. On plasma treatment, he said that two Covid-19 patients have already been given the treatment. “One is showing good improvement with regards to saturation of oxygen. We will give the other patient one more dose,” he further added. Rane also clarified that there is no proposal for establishing a second Covid hospital in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-testing-capacity-to-be-increased-cm/articleshow/77339798.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Global body puts India on high alert over ‘seed terrorism’ scare||HYDERABAD: The international Seed Testing Agency (ISTA) has put India on high alert against suspected “seed terrorism” after unsolicited mail packages containing seeds were delivered to homes in the US, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. Although no such deliveries have been received in India, the agency warned that the seeds may have the capacity to harm food production. ISTA vice-president K Keshavulu told TOI that these seeds delivered without being ordered by the recipients, may spread crop diseases and can be poisonous also. They may damage agriculture production and also pose health and environmental problems. “We still don’t know how dangerous these unsolicited seeds are,” he said. “Tests are being conducted in the US and Canada. These seeds are suspected to have originated in China, but the Chinese foreign ministry has said it has no role in it. India needs to be highly vigilant at seaports, airports and all entry points of cargo through road among others.” Keshavulu, who is also the managing director of Telangana State Seeds and Organic Certification Authority (TSSOCA), said people should immediately approach the police if they receive seeds they have not ordered. Preliminary investigations have revealed that these unsolicited seeds are species belonging to morning glory plants, hibiscus, wild rose and Japanese knot beads. “We don’t know about its adaptation, performance. These are non-native varieties imported from a country yet to be identified. They may suppress the food crops and may be difficult to control if they grow vigorously,” he added. Interestingly, Telangana is considered the seed capital of India and exports Rs 10,000 crore worth of seeds annually to Europe, the US, Africa, south and South-East Asian countries, in addition to 12 states in India. The state caters to about 60% of the country’s seed requirement. The highest seed processing capacity at one place in the world i.e., 1,000 metric tonnes per hour is in Greater Hyderabad. “We have put on alert the agriculture department and other agencies, universities, farmers and research organisations in the state too,” said Keshavulu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/global-body-puts-india-on-high-alert-over-seed-terrorism-scare/articleshow/77339312.cms||Roushan Ali
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Notices for labour cess payments of Rs 1,000cr sent, industry seeks amnesty scheme||Jaipur: After the state labour department issued notices to the construction industry for failing to pay workers’ cess, industries bodies have raised the issue with the government to bring in an amnesty scheme to resolve the old cases.The notices sent so far to various companies for payments would be more than Rs 1,000 crore, as per a senior official of the labour department.As per the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Act, 1996, which came into effect in the state in 2009, the construction industry is required to pay 1% of the construction cost of a project as labour cess within 30 days of the completion of the project. Failure to pay the cess attracts an annual interest penalty of 24%.But representatives of the industry said the government did not actively pursue collection of the cess till 2015 and the construction companies were unaware of the liability. As the government became active, the new projects started paying it. But there are many old cases where the payments have not been made to the department.“Since the interest amount is too high, it is difficult for the companies to clear the arrears. We request the government to introduce an amnesty scheme to deposit the cess without interest. In addition, the interest penalty should be reduced to levels of prevailing bank rates,” CII-Rajasthan said.When TOI spoke to Naresh Pal Gangwar, principal secretary, department of industries, he said, “Whatever suggestions have been given by the industry on the labour cess and other issues will be considered at the appropriate competent level.”While some companies have paid the cess with interest and penalties, disputes have surfaced in many joint venture projects. After the completion of projects, JV partners have exited and they are now not willing to pay their part.“There are many cases where the projects have been completed and the partners have left. Because the company executed the project, the liability is on it. It is not easy to collect the cess liability of the project partners who have left,” said a developer preferring anonymity.Labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said, “We have sent notices for payments worth over Rs 1,000 crore and the cases go back to 2009 when the policy was notified.”Recently, the government has also taken contractors in to the ambit of the liability. However, it is not easy to recover the money from people who have built houses worth over Rs 10 lakh.“Construction cost of most houses would be over Rs 10 lakh. The government can send notices to builders, construction companies and contractors, but getting the cess from common people who have built houses will not be easy,” said the developer quoted above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-for-labour-cess-payments-of-rs-1000cr-sent-industry-seeks-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/77339303.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Municipal polls: LSG to attend SEC meet with Covid report today||Jaipur: The state election commission (SEC) has asked the local self-government (LSG) department to be present at the meeting on Tuesday with the latest Covid status report in the 129 municipal bodies (Nagar Palika), where elections are scheduled to be held in August.In reply to LSG department’s letter dated July 27, the state election commission (SEC) had written to the local self-government (LSG) department seeking to know the Covid status - up to July 31 - in the 129 municipal bodies, where elections are scheduled to be held in August.In its letter to the SEC, the LSG department had urged the commission to postpone the elections to the 129 urban local bodies by three months or until the Covid situation normalizes in the state.The SEC secretary and chief electoral officer, Shyam Singh Rajpurohit, in a reply to secretary LSG, stated that Covid report must be submitted in a particular format after collecting the information from the medical and health department.As per the format, it should include the name of the district, name of the nagar palika, the total number of infected people/Covid positive cases in the Nagar Palika, total number of people who have recovered and the total number of active cases.Earlier, the Rajasthan High Court had extended the time for holding the elections to Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota nagar nigams till the end of October.Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the local self-government (LSG) department on July 10 meeting had urged the SEC to postpone the elections to 129 municipal bodies, which are scheduled to be held in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/municipal-polls-lsg-to-attend-sec-meet-with-covid-report-today/articleshow/77339309.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal sets up battalion headquarter at border dist||Pithoragarh: Nepal has set up a battalion headquarter for its Armed Police Force (APF) at Darchula, which borders Uttarakhand’s Dharchula district. On Monday, Nepalese commandant in-charge Narandra Bam took over the charge at the new facility. Nepal’s move is reportedly aimed at strengthening its border security along the Kali river in Darchula. Prior to this, only a company of the APF used to guard its borders in the district. Talking to TOI, Bam said, “The strength of the battalion will be increased after more deployment.”The step comes in the wake of border tensions between the two nations which were fueled after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated thealmost 80-km long Kailash Mansarovar road on May 8. Since then, the Nepal government has been constantly increasing vigilance along the Indo-Nepal border by deploying Armed Police Post and Border Out Posts (BOPs) at several areas like Chhangru, Dumling, Darchula, Jauljibi, Lali, Jhulaghat etc. Sources said that plans are afoot to set up more BOPs along the Indo-Nepal border at Tinkar, Kauwa, Sunsera, and Duttu villages and the groundwork for these is already underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-sets-up-battalion-headquarter-at-border-dist/articleshow/77336397.cms||Prem Punetha
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal districts record 279 fresh cases, eight deaths||Mangaluru: Coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded 279 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday. While Dakshina Kannada district recorded 153 cases to see its total positive cases go up to 6,168, Udupi accounted for the remaining 126 that took the district’s tally to 4,800. While 124 patients were discharged in DK on Monday, the district has 3,138 active cases. Covid-19 related fatalities continued unabated in the two districts with eight deaths reported in DK and Udupi on Monday. While seven died in DK, Udupi reported one death. With this, the death tally of DK increased to 176 and 36 in Udupi. While 2,812 patients were discharged in Udupi so far, the district has 1,952 active cases. Out of 153 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada, 119 were reported in Mangaluru taluk. Meanwhile, Bantwal reported 11 cases, Belthangady six, Puttur four, one from Sullia and 12 from other districts. Risky celebration Meanwhile, in a related development, Dakshina Kannada Mahila Congress president Shalet Pinto, who was also part of KPCC chief DK Shivakumar’s programme on Friday, held a ‘raksha bandhan’ celebration at District Congress Committee office on Monday violating the self-quarantine norm. Shalet was sitting next to former MLC Ivan D’Souza, who has tested positive, during a press conference addressed by Shivakumar at the Congress office on Friday and she was also part of other party programmes of KPCC chief. D’Souza and his wife had tested positive for coronavirus and the former MLC had validated the same in a Facebook post on Saturday. The health department in Dakshina Kannada district has already asked Congress leaders, who participated in DK Shivakumar’s programme and also journalists who covered the press conference to remain in home quarantine after D’Souza tested positive for Covid-19. However, Shalet held a programme by tying a rakhi to District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai on Monday. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said as per established protocols, any person who has been in contact with a person testing positive for the virus for more than 15-minutes and without a mask will be deemed primary contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-record-279-fresh-cases-eight-deaths/articleshow/77337244.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic body warns staff skipping work||Kolhapur: The door-to-door survey in Solapur city to identify vulnerable Covid-19 patients is in trouble because of some civic employees’ non-cooperation. Civic chief P Shivshankar has now warned of stern action against such employees. The civic administration has issued notices to 256 employees, who had been asked to join the survey but had reportedly failed to do so. The senior officials warned them of action under the Disaster Management Act and also administrative action in the form stopping annual increments. The administration has made biometric attendance mandatory even though it is banned elsewhere in the state. Officials said the step was taken to ensure full participation in the survey work. They had earlier issued an order making it mandatory for employees to send a photo from the work site, but that did not work out. The civic body was then forced to reintroduce biometric attendance. 42 new cases, 2 deaths on Monday Meanwhile, the Solapur city recorded 86 new patients over the past two days. On Monday, 42 cases were reported from 30 localities. Two men also succumbed. The deceased were from Anita Nagar, MIDC area, and Vijapur Road area. The city’s overall Covid-19 tally has reached 5,146 cases. There are 1,527 active patients now. The city has recorded 367 deaths and 3,252 people have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-body-warns-staff-skipping-work/articleshow/77336411.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Check swab test charges by pvt labs: Mayor||Kolhapur: The civic administration is going to keep a check on the fee charged for testing swab samples of patients admitted in private hospitals. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has given directions to the civic health authorities to randomly visit hospitals, meet the relatives and check the amount charged by the private laboratories for swab testing. Ajrekar said, “We have learnt that the laboratories are charging as much as Rs 5,000 for swab testing. The state government has fixed the charges. If the swab is collected in the laboratory, the charges should not be more than Rs 2,500. If the swab is collected by making a visit to the suspect’s house, it should not be more than Rs 2,800. Moreover, if swabs of many suspects are being collected at the hospital, the laboratories should offer a discount.” “I have asked the health authorities to keep a check on the laboratories. The private labs should not force the patients to get the testing done from a particular lab. The patient or suspect is free to get the swab tested from whichever lab he/she wishes to,” said the mayor. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai has set up team of 21 officers from various departments, even from KMC, to investigate the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals. Currently, one officer has been appointed for one hospital. Desai said that the number of officers would be increased as more private hospitals would be acquired in the coming days. The charges for the Covid treatment has been fixed by the state government. Recently, corporators had complained that the private hospitals are overcharging. They complained that the additional charges are levied for use of PPE kits and even the ventilators which are inclusive in the charges fixed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/check-swab-test-charges-by-pvt-labs-mayor/articleshow/77336396.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 16 safai workers died on Covid duty, says panel||NEW DELHI: At least 16 sanitation workers have passed away while carrying out Covid-19 duties between May and July, Delhi Commission For Safai Karamchari (DCSK) has claimed in its report submitted to Delhi government. Based on the report, the deputy director of local bodies from the Urban development department has asked the three corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council and Cantonment Board to submit details of all such sanitation workers so that compensation can be granted to their families. The commission has written to the government to include sanitation workers in the Rs 1 crore compensation scheme, arguing that most of them come from economically and socially disadvantaged conditions. The list of 16 workers includes six each from the east corporation and the north corporation, two from the south corporation and two workers who were deployed in hospitals. Maximum four cases are from Shahdara North zone; two cases each from City-Sadar Paharganj, Civil Lines, Shahdara South and Central zones; and one death each has been reported from Karol Bagh and Narela zones. Two sanitation workers had died at Satyavadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital. Almost half of these deaths occurred in June. “We have forwarded the cases to Delhi government for Rs 1 crore compensation. There are two daily wagers in the list too. These were the cases from three corporations, which came to the notice of the commission. Sanitation workers from other local bodies who died on Covid duty will also be considered,” said DCSK chairman Sanjay Gehlot. “Sanitation workers are less educated, but they are putting their lives at stake for the society. They are entering containment zones, cleaning hospitals and are at the forefront of Delhi’s fight against the pandemic. We have appealed to the chief minister to consider them for the compensation,” he added. Local bodies have been asked to send case files with details like name, father’s name, date of death, workplace and status of grant of compensation. A senior SDMC official said that they have already submitted the details. The actual number of sanitation workers, who succumbed to the viral infection, is likely to go further up once cases from other local bodies and hospitals are considered, the official added. Civic bodies have announced an ex gratia compensation of Rs 10 lakh in many such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16-safai-workers-died-on-covid-duty-says-panel/articleshow/77339316.cms||Paras Singh
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 3.0: Breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection key to contain spread of virus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While the state is witnessing a spike in Covid cases, breaking the chain of the infection has become even more difficult for the health authorities. To contain the spread of the virus, the health authorities are taking measures to break the chain of Covid-19 to contain spread of the virus. Despite all efforts, the cases are constantly on the rise as people are moving out and many are not following social distancing norms and not taking other measures to decrease the risk of getting infected. Health department officials have asserted that they are playing their part and the people also need to ensure that they are taking proper precautions for Covid-19 prevention. “In Covid-19, infection spreads from one infected person to other. It actually spreads forming a chain. If we need to contain its spread, we need to break this chain. But, in present scenario, many people are not using face masks, not following social distancing norms and other measures to ward off risk of getting infection from the virus,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur-I. Dr Sharma said that they are taking samples in increasing numbers daily for Covid-19 testing but it has become a challenging task to break the chain of infection. Till Monday morning, Jaipur reported 202 cumulative deaths and 5768 cumulative Covid-19 cases. A senior health department official has also tested positive for Covid-19. It is expected that he might have met more than 100 patients before being diagnosed with Covid-19, generating a new chain of infection. The health department has started the exercise for contact tracing and sample collection to break the chain. End of lockdowns and beginning of unlock phases allowed movement of people to boost economy, has also enhanced chances of fast spread of the virus forming new chains daily. “Majority of the people who are parts of such chains of infections are youths. In the recent trend, it is seen that majority of the people found infected with the virus are youths. It is so because youths are not taking proper precautions while going out of their houses. Breaking chain of infection has become a challenging task now. However, we are conducting more random sampling to check spread of the virus,” said Dr Balwant Manda, CMHO (Jodhpur), which has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Moreover, Bikaner CMHO Dr BL Meena said that it seems that youths have no fear of Covid-19 as most of them are moving freely without taking any precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock-3-0-breaking-the-chain-of-covid-19-infection-key-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/77339318.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 4, 2020||Madurai||More severe Covid-19 cases from districts referred to Madurai||MADURAI: Even as local Covid-19 cases are gradually coming down in Madurai, the district continues to see more severe cases being referred from neighbouring districts, especially Virudhunagar and Dindigul. Madurai, being a hub of quality medical care in south Tamil Nadu, has also become a go-to destination for Covid-19 treatment now. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, one of the state’s largest tertiary care centres for Covid-19 patients, a separate team is co-ordinating all referral cases from other districts. “Now, the number of Covid-19 cases from Madurai district is going down, but still we continue to see referrals from Virudhunagar and Dindigul and are doing our best to treat them,” said Dr J Sangumani. The dean said that through the ICMR portal, Covid-19 results of referral patients could be traced. “We are trying to avoid late referrals. If the referrals are directed to us, there has been no issue. However, some patients are coming to us after going to private hospitals in Madurai. In such cases, there is a definite delay and the patient’s condition can worsen. The triage has also been strengthened so that patients are given oxygen if required immediately on arrival,” said Sangumani. The referrals have so far been a challenge for doctors, ambulance drivers and EMTs alike to handle. “We are being asked to reduce referrals to Madurai and treat patients at hospitals in the district by enhancing local infrastructure. However, referrals are still unavoidable as hospitals in Madurai are better-equipped for treating patients who require high-flow nasal oxygen therapy and ventilators,” said a senior health official in Virudhunagar district. At present, severe Covid-19 patients in Virudhunagar district are being treated at government hospitals in Rajapalayam, Sivakasi, Aruppukkottai and Virudhunagar. Officials at 108 ambulance services said that around 20 Covid-19 patients each are being referred from Virudhunagar and Dindigul to Madurai per day. “Round-the-clock, we are getting referrals. Currently, two separate Covid-19 ambulances each in Virudhunagar and Dindigul are handling the inter-facility transfer cases between the districts. The journey to Madurai roughly takes one hour. For every case handled, one PPE kit is used by the ambulance staff,” said R Prasad, regional manager, Madurai region, GVK-EMRI 108 ambulance services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-severe-covid-cases-from-districts-referred-to-madurai/articleshow/77339320.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Taps to go dry on August 5 in some areas||HYDERABAD: Many areas in Hyderabad will not receive water supply on August 5 due to the junction work being taken up on Krishna Drinking Water Supply Project Phase-III pipeline. The areas to go without water will be Shaikpet, Tolichowki, Prashasan Nagar, Jubilee Hills, Thattikhana, Madhapur, Gachibowli, Golden Heights, Hyderguda and Attapur reservoir. The water supply is expected to be shut for 24 hours, starting 6 am on August 5 to 6 am on August 6. The work is to be taken up between Mailardevapally and Prashasan Nagar pumping main for facilitating the construction of proposed upward ramp for PVNR expressway at Pillar No. 159 and 168. HMWSSB appealed to consumers to use water conservatively to avoid inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/taps-to-go-dry-on-aug-5-in-some-areas/articleshow/77339319.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Registries scam: Suspended revenue officials booked in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Revenue officials, who had been suspended in the alleged registries-without-NOC scam, have now been booked in criminal cases for the violation of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act. Acting on the complaints of district town planners (enforcement), who are the monitoring authorities for cases wherein lands are sold without NOCs, different police stations booked tehsildar Bansi Lal and naib tehsildars Dalbir Singh Duggal (Sohna), Hari Krishna (Badshapur), Jai Prakash (Wazirabad), Deshraj Kamboj (Gurugram) and Jagdish (Manesar) and retired naib tehsildar of Kadipur tehsil Om Prakash. Over 30,000 such registries had been carried out in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar, and other districts of NCR. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has also indicated that officials and in other districts and of other departments would face similar action. Meanwhile, the town and country planning (TCP) and urban local bodies (ULB) departments have started compiling details in Faridabad, Palwal, Sonipat and Jhajjar districts to zero in on officials involved and the registries done in violation of the Act. While Bansi Lal has been booked at Sohna police station, Dalbir Singh Duggal at Sohna police station, Deshraj Kamboj Shivaji Nagar police station, Jagdish Chander at main police station of Manesar, Om Parkash at sector 10 police station of Manesar, Jai Parkash at Sector 56 of Gurugram and Hari Krishan at Badshahpur police station. On April 20, the Haryana government had started the process of registration of sale deeds to give respite to real estate industry. The revenue officials allegedly connived with the local real estate agents and carried out registration of sale deeds in their area without obtaining the NoCs from TCP, ULB departments or any other agency. Sources said suspended officials were allegedly involved in 1,200 such registries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/registries-scam-suspended-revenue-officials-booked/articleshow/77339306.cms||Manvir Saini
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks ban on cattle grazing in Theni forest areas||MADURAI: Madras high court on Monday directed the central and state governments to file a counter to a plea, which sought to completely ban cattle grazing at Megamalai wildlife division and Theni forest division in Theni district. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam sought counter pleas from the Centre and state while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by G Thirumurugan, a resident of Ramanathapuram district. The petitioner stated that there are two forest divisions in Theni district - Theni forest division and Megamalai wildlife division-- which includes Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary. Regular cattle grazing here leads to degradation of forest area and loss of habitat for wildlife, he said. Apart from destruction of grasslands, it also leads to poaching and spread of disease to the wild animals. He pointed out that it has been prohibited at the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary at Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar district. The case was adjourned to August 24 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-ban-on-cattle-grazing-in-theni-forest-areas/articleshow/77339315.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Covering faces won’t help criminals hide their identity||VADODARA: Wearing a mask can no more help any criminal get away from the police clutches. The city police have installed a facial recognition system that can identify a person even if his or her face is half-covered. And once its trials are successful, the system will be installed by the government in all the cities across the state. “Facial recognition systems are an important part of surveillance and criminal investigations in the future. Currently, the system can identify a person with his face completely visible. We did trials to find out if we are able to identify someone wearing a mask,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. “The trials were successful as the system was able to identify a person whose half face was covered. The facial recognition system captures key features of the face and runs it through the database. Someone wearing a mask to hide his or her face too can be identified now,” Gahlaut told TOI. The new system will come in handy in the times when it has become mandatory to wear a face mask in public places. “The government wants to implement facial recognition system across the state and hence it asked Vadodara police to conduct trials. Our trials were successful and we have informed the government about it,” Gahlaut added. The cops are now conducting trials by adding and removing moustache or beard on a face to ascertain if the system can identify any man if he changes his looks. Apart from tracking wanted criminals, this system will be very useful in identifying rioters as well as mischief mongers, who frequently create disturbance in the walled city areas. “The new system can also identify mischief mongers or wanted criminals through live streaming. If images of a wanted person are captured, the system can give out an alarm and alert the cops,” said Sandip Chaudhary, DCP Zone II. The city is already equipped with 750 CCTVs and another 409 will be added in the walled city by the end of this month. After the Vadodara Municipal Corporation gave a grant of Rs 20 crore, the police will be further adding 700 more CCTVs across the city. “And each of this CCTV will be connected with the facial recognition system,” Gahlaut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covering-faces-wont-help-criminals-hide-their-identity/articleshow/77336423.cms||Tushar Tere
August 4, 2020||Ghaziabad||Two Bangladeshis, five others held for armed robbery at house in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Seven, including three women, have been arrested for the armed robbery at a house in Kavi Nagar early on July 28, Ghaziabad police said. The accused were arrested from Lal Kuan area on Sunday after an alleged encounter in which an accused was shot by police while he was trying to escape. Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said that of the seven arrested, two are from Bangladesh and have been living in NCR on forged documents. The gang members are historysheeters and had recruited the women to carry out a recce of the house before the crime. “We had formed five teams to investigate the case. On Sunday, we got information about a gang active in Lal Kuan area, following which our teams were dispatched,” he said. They tried to flee when we approached. “Two men who were on a scooter fled towards Shayama Prasad Mookerjee park but since we had cordoned off the area they were trapped. However, one of them opened fire at us forcing us to retaliate. One accused, Alam, suffered injuries but his accomplice fled,” the SSP said. After interrogation on Monday, police arrested Rais, the kingpin of the gang, and other members. “They said that Rajjak, Rubel Sheikh are Bangladeshi citizens and have been living in NCR for the past 22 years on forged documents while Alam, Sonia, Nazma lived in Delhi’s Rohini and Mukta is a resident of Loni,” he said. Rais confessed that he planned the robbery six months ago but couldn’t commit the crime due to the lockdown. Alam also has a criminal record. He was lodged in Faridabad jail and was out on parole since May this year. They also revealed Shamsher, Prince and Aftab’s involvement in the crime but they are at large. “We have launched a hunt to nab them at the earliest,” police said, adding that they have recovered most of the looted items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/2-bangladeshis-5-others-held-for-armed-robbery-at-house-in-gzb/articleshow/77339317.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer’s body questions legality of Hry’s farm portal||Kurukshetra: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana Charuni group) has questioned the legality of ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ (MFMB) portal, launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2018 to help farmers sell their crops in the market. The farmer’s body has claimed that RTI applications filed on June 24 and 29 had revealed that the portal was implemented without any law or organizational structure. BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Kumar Bains said they would soon move the Punjab and Haryana high court against the portal after consultation with the agriculture lawyers to plead removal of this portal from the market. In the RTI applications, the group had sought information on 17 points regarding legality, objective, and functioning of MFMB from Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB). “In its reply, HSAMB said the portal was implemented without any law. On MFMB’s organizational structure, the board replied that there is no written information about the organizational structure and framework of this portal, which was meant to help farmers dealing in 12 varieties of crops, 17 vegetables and three fruits,” Rakesh added. “The portal has become a major problem for farmers. There is no dispute redressal mechanism and the farmers have to hold protests to seek their rights. The board said it is the responsibility of the farmers to get their crops registered on the MFMB portal, else their crops will not be procured at minimum support price (MSP) and they would have to sell in the open market,” the BKU (Charuni) spokesman said. Rakesh claimed that it has become clear from the information given by HSAMB that MFMB is not for the interests of the farmers and it just is a move to keep them away from MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-body-questions-legality-of-hrys-farm-portal/articleshow/77339294.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Registries scam: Suspended revenue officials booked in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Revenue officials, who had been suspended in the alleged registries-without-NOC scam, have now been booked in criminal cases for the violation of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act. Acting on the complaints of district town planners (enforcement), who are the monitoring authorities for cases wherein lands are sold without NOCs, different police stations booked tehsildar Bansi Lal and naib tehsildars Dalbir Singh Duggal (Sohna), Hari Krishna (Badshapur), Jai Prakash (Wazirabad), Deshraj Kamboj (Gurugram) and Jagdish (Manesar) and retired naib tehsildar of Kadipur tehsil Om Prakash. Over 30,000 such registries had been carried out in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar, and other districts of NCR. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has also indicated that officials and in other districts and of other departments would face similar action. Meanwhile, the town and country planning (TCP) and urban local bodies (ULB) departments have started compiling details in Faridabad, Palwal, Sonipat and Jhajjar districts to zero in on officials involved and the registries done in violation of the Act. While Bansi Lal has been booked at Sohna police station, Dalbir Singh Duggal at Sohna police station, Deshraj Kamboj Shivaji Nagar police station, Jagdish Chander at main police station of Manesar, Om Parkash at sector 10 police station of Manesar, Jai Parkash at Sector 56 of Gurugram and Hari Krishan at Badshahpur police station. On April 20, the Haryana government had started the process of registration of sale deeds to give respite to real estate industry. The revenue officials allegedly connived with the local real estate agents and carried out registration of sale deeds in their area without obtaining the NoCs from TCP, ULB departments or any other agency. Sources said suspended officials were allegedly involved in 1,200 such registries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/registries-scam-suspended-revenue-officials-booked/articleshow/77343361.cms||Manvir Saini
August 4, 2020||Ajmer||Unlock 3.0: Breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection key to contain spread of virus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While the state is witnessing a spike in Covid cases, breaking the chain of the infection has become even more difficult for the health authorities. To contain the spread of the virus, the health authorities are taking measures to break the chain of Covid-19 to contain spread of the virus. Despite all efforts, the cases are constantly on the rise as people are moving out and many are not following social distancing norms and not taking other measures to decrease the risk of getting infected. Health department officials have asserted that they are playing their part and the people also need to ensure that they are taking proper precautions for Covid-19 prevention. “In Covid-19, infection spreads from one infected person to other. It actually spreads forming a chain. If we need to contain its spread, we need to break this chain. But, in present scenario, many people are not using face masks, not following social distancing norms and other measures to ward off risk of getting infection from the virus,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur-I. Dr Sharma said that they are taking samples in increasing numbers daily for Covid-19 testing but it has become a challenging task to break the chain of infection. Till Monday morning, Jaipur reported 202 cumulative deaths and 5768 cumulative Covid-19 cases. A senior health department official has also tested positive for Covid-19. It is expected that he might have met more than 100 patients before being diagnosed with Covid-19, generating a new chain of infection. The health department has started the exercise for contact tracing and sample collection to break the chain. End of lockdowns and beginning of unlock phases allowed movement of people to boost economy, has also enhanced chances of fast spread of the virus forming new chains daily. “Majority of the people who are parts of such chains of infections are youths. In the recent trend, it is seen that majority of the people found infected with the virus are youths. It is so because youths are not taking proper precautions while going out of their houses. Breaking chain of infection has become a challenging task now. However, we are conducting more random sampling to check spread of the virus,” said Dr Balwant Manda, CMHO (Jodhpur), which has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Moreover, Bikaner CMHO Dr BL Meena said that it seems that youths have no fear of Covid-19 as most of them are moving freely without taking any precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/unlock-3-0-breaking-the-chain-of-covid-19-infection-key-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/77343952.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Unlock 3.0: Breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection key to contain spread of virus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While the state is witnessing a spike in Covid cases, breaking the chain of the infection has become even more difficult for the health authorities. To contain the spread of the virus, the health authorities are taking measures to break the chain of Covid-19 to contain spread of the virus. Despite all efforts, the cases are constantly on the rise as people are moving out and many are not following social distancing norms and not taking other measures to decrease the risk of getting infected. Health department officials have asserted that they are playing their part and the people also need to ensure that they are taking proper precautions for Covid-19 prevention. “In Covid-19, infection spreads from one infected person to other. It actually spreads forming a chain. If we need to contain its spread, we need to break this chain. But, in present scenario, many people are not using face masks, not following social distancing norms and other measures to ward off risk of getting infection from the virus,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur-I. Dr Sharma said that they are taking samples in increasing numbers daily for Covid-19 testing but it has become a challenging task to break the chain of infection. Till Monday morning, Jaipur reported 202 cumulative deaths and 5768 cumulative Covid-19 cases. A senior health department official has also tested positive for Covid-19. It is expected that he might have met more than 100 patients before being diagnosed with Covid-19, generating a new chain of infection. The health department has started the exercise for contact tracing and sample collection to break the chain. End of lockdowns and beginning of unlock phases allowed movement of people to boost economy, has also enhanced chances of fast spread of the virus forming new chains daily. “Majority of the people who are parts of such chains of infections are youths. In the recent trend, it is seen that majority of the people found infected with the virus are youths. It is so because youths are not taking proper precautions while going out of their houses. Breaking chain of infection has become a challenging task now. However, we are conducting more random sampling to check spread of the virus,” said Dr Balwant Manda, CMHO (Jodhpur), which has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Moreover, Bikaner CMHO Dr BL Meena said that it seems that youths have no fear of Covid-19 as most of them are moving freely without taking any precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/unlock-3-0-breaking-the-chain-of-covid-19-infection-key-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/77343951.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 4, 2020||Udaipur||Unlock 3.0: Breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection key to contain spread of virus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While the state is witnessing a spike in Covid cases, breaking the chain of the infection has become even more difficult for the health authorities. To contain the spread of the virus, the health authorities are taking measures to break the chain of Covid-19 to contain spread of the virus. Despite all efforts, the cases are constantly on the rise as people are moving out and many are not following social distancing norms and not taking other measures to decrease the risk of getting infected. Health department officials have asserted that they are playing their part and the people also need to ensure that they are taking proper precautions for Covid-19 prevention. “In Covid-19, infection spreads from one infected person to other. It actually spreads forming a chain. If we need to contain its spread, we need to break this chain. But, in present scenario, many people are not using face masks, not following social distancing norms and other measures to ward off risk of getting infection from the virus,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur-I. Dr Sharma said that they are taking samples in increasing numbers daily for Covid-19 testing but it has become a challenging task to break the chain of infection. Till Monday morning, Jaipur reported 202 cumulative deaths and 5768 cumulative Covid-19 cases. A senior health department official has also tested positive for Covid-19. It is expected that he might have met more than 100 patients before being diagnosed with Covid-19, generating a new chain of infection. The health department has started the exercise for contact tracing and sample collection to break the chain. End of lockdowns and beginning of unlock phases allowed movement of people to boost economy, has also enhanced chances of fast spread of the virus forming new chains daily. “Majority of the people who are parts of such chains of infections are youths. In the recent trend, it is seen that majority of the people found infected with the virus are youths. It is so because youths are not taking proper precautions while going out of their houses. Breaking chain of infection has become a challenging task now. However, we are conducting more random sampling to check spread of the virus,” said Dr Balwant Manda, CMHO (Jodhpur), which has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Moreover, Bikaner CMHO Dr BL Meena said that it seems that youths have no fear of Covid-19 as most of them are moving freely without taking any precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/unlock-3-0-breaking-the-chain-of-covid-19-infection-key-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/77343950.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Land rates in new RIICO industrial areas now cheaper by 35%||JAIPUR: In its bid to attract investments, RIICO has further reduced land rates in new industrial areas by another 15%. Earlier, the corporation had made the rates cheaper by 20%. The new rates would be applicable to all the new industrial areas. There are 22 new industrial areas at different stages of development. “Cumulatively, land rates are cheaper by up to 35-40%. The rates are very competitive compared to rates in neighboring states,” said Ashutosh Pednekar, managing director of RIICO. Industry bodies in Rajasthan had been putting pressure on the government to reduce land rates for industry in the state. They cited states like Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh where the rates are lower than Rajasthan. Despite having barren, semi-fertile desert land, high land rates in Rajasthan are cited as a roadblock for new investments. Pednekar said the state is also developing dedicated industrial clusters for manufacturing of medical devices, sports goods, ceramics, etc. He said the corporation is in the process of developing plug-and-play facilities where units can start operations immediately. “Land cost is a big influencing factor for investors. There is now competition among states to outwit others in luring investors to their states by offering higher incentives and cheaper land. Despite having large parcels of unfertile land, Rajasthan could not use the asset to its advantage,” said a factory owner. The RIICO board in its last meeting also allowed revision of land rates in existing slow-moving industrial areas. It defined the slow-moving industrial areas as ones where total allotted plots within one year from the date of opening are less than 5% of the saleable plots on offer. Similarly, if the total allotted plots within two years from the date of opening for allotment and till the date of considering the proposal are less than 10% of the total saleable plots, the rates can be lowered there. The board said in these cases, reduction in allotment rates should be made part of a policy and authorized the managing director to approve such rules, from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/land-rates-in-new-riico-industrial-areas-now-cheaper-by-35/articleshow/77339313.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli dist adds over 2,000 fresh cases in July alone||Kolhapur: Sangli district, which had succeeded in arresting the spread of Covid-19 in the first three months of the outbreak, has recorded maximum number of patients in July. As many as 2,463 new patients, mainly from the jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation, were reported in July alone. As per data released by the administration, the district recorded its first Covid-19 death in April followed by three and eight deaths in May and June respectively. However, 66 deaths were reported from across the district in July alone. The total number of deaths till late Sunday night was 96. Around two dozen patients from Islampur in Sangli district tested positive for Covid-19 in April. The district administration was quick to act and was successful in containing the spread of the infection. Th district was even better off in the subsequent months compared to the neighbouing Solapur and Sangli districts. Officials attribute the rise in number of patients to large scale reverse migration where many people from Pune and Mumbai returned to their native villages. As per data from the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation, the municipal limits which had reported 21 patients till June 30 reported 1,446 positive cases till July 31. The number of positive cases till Sunday night stood at 1,824. The municipal limits reported 268 cases on Sunday—the highest in a single day so far. The number of active patients in the district was 1,641on Sunday, oh which the condition of 117 of them was said to be critical. Official data states 84 of them have been put on oxygen. Six deaths were reported on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-dist-adds-over-2000-fresh-cases-in-july-alone/articleshow/77336431.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 25% of total Covid cases in last 10 days||JAIPUR: The pace at which the Covid is spreading can be gauged with the fact that in the past 10 days the state has reported 25% of the total cases since the first person was found infected on March 3. For the 10th day in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases when 1,145 new infections were detected on Monday taking the cumulative tally to 45,555. Besides, 13 persons died pusing the toll to 719. Rajsamand reported two deaths taking its toll to 7, Nagaur reported its 31st fatality, with six more deaths, Jaipur casualties rose to 206, Ajmer’s death toll reached 50 with three more people succumbing to the disease and Bharatpur reported its 54th death. The cause of worry for health authorities is the rapid rise in active cases which touched a new high of 12,785 breaking Sunday’s record of 12,488 cases. Currently, Alwar has 2,459 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (1774), Jaipur (1558) and Kota (945). Besides, 835 Covid patients have been cured taking the tally of recovered cases to 32,051. Kota became the eighth district which crossed the 2,000-mark in cumulative cases as 130 new infections were reported. The other seven districts which already have reported more than 2,000 cases are Jodhpur (7239), Jaipur (5798), Alwar (4373), Pali (2752), Bharatpur (2692), Bikaner (2146) and Ajmer (2117). Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (141), Alwar (141), Kota (130), Jaipur (124), Sikar (84), Nagaur (78), Bundi (70), Barmer (65), Ajmer (52), Bikaner (38), Bharatpur (35), Udaipur (31), Sawai Madhopur (30), Chittorgarh (25), Tonk (19), Bhilwara (15), Pratapgarh (9), Jhunjhunu (8), Jhalawar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sirohi (5), Dausa (5), Karauli (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dholpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and 20 BSF personnel have also been tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-25-of-total-covid-cases-in-last-10-days/articleshow/77339331.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports 25% of total Covid cases in last 10 days||JAIPUR: The pace at which the Covid is spreading can be gauged with the fact that in the past 10 days the state has reported 25% of the total cases since the first person was found infected on March 3. For the 10th day in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases when 1,145 new infections were detected on Monday taking the cumulative tally to 45,555. Besides, 13 persons died pusing the toll to 719. Rajsamand reported two deaths taking its toll to 7, Nagaur reported its 31st fatality, with six more deaths, Jaipur casualties rose to 206, Ajmer’s death toll reached 50 with three more people succumbing to the disease and Bharatpur reported its 54th death. The cause of worry for health authorities is the rapid rise in active cases which touched a new high of 12,785 breaking Sunday’s record of 12,488 cases. Currently, Alwar has 2,459 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (1774), Jaipur (1558) and Kota (945). Besides, 835 Covid patients have been cured taking the tally of recovered cases to 32,051. Kota became the eighth district which crossed the 2,000-mark in cumulative cases as 130 new infections were reported. The other seven districts which already have reported more than 2,000 cases are Jodhpur (7239), Jaipur (5798), Alwar (4373), Pali (2752), Bharatpur (2692), Bikaner (2146) and Ajmer (2117). Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (141), Alwar (141), Kota (130), Jaipur (124), Sikar (84), Nagaur (78), Bundi (70), Barmer (65), Ajmer (52), Bikaner (38), Bharatpur (35), Udaipur (31), Sawai Madhopur (30), Chittorgarh (25), Tonk (19), Bhilwara (15), Pratapgarh (9), Jhunjhunu (8), Jhalawar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sirohi (5), Dausa (5), Karauli (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dholpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and 20 BSF personnel have also been tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-25-of-total-covid-cases-in-last-10-days/articleshow/77342390.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid patients can now use mobiles in ICUs, wards||JAIPUR: The health department has allowed the use of mobile phones by Covid patients admitted to ICUs and wards while undergoing treatment. The step will help patients ease their mental stress. Besides, CCTV cameras will be installed in dedicated Covid hospitals for monitoring the care of patients by hospital staff. One of the concerns raised by patients’ attendants is that they have to depend on hospital staff to know how their patients are doing. Since patients have to stay in hospitals for a long duration, they often complaint of stress and depression. Keeping it in mind, the health department has taken the deicision to allow gadgets such as mobile phones and tablets in ICUs and wards for Covid patients. “Orders have been issued for the purpose. A patient will also be allowed for video conferencing with the family members,” said a senior health department official. Currently, 150 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in ICUs and around 6,000 others are admitted to Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals, while the rest are under home isolation. Keeping in mind the nature of the disease, the hospitals have strict rules for preventing patients meeting their relatives in ICUs and wards. The duration of the use of mobile phones will be decided by the hospital administration. Also, sanitizing of mobile handsets and tablets will be done regularly to prevent spread of infection. Covid patients are at higher risk of mental stress and depression. “Significant psychological impacts have been observed ranging from anxiety, fear, sleep problems, uncertainty and depression. In extreme cases, it may sometimes lead to hopelessness, helplessness and suicidal tendencies,” said Dr Akhilesh Jain, head of the department (psychiatry), ESI Model Hospital. With the decision of the health department, the patients will be able to communicate with the families directly through video conferencing to ease their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-patients-can-use-mobiles-in-icus-and-wards/articleshow/77339336.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Land for poor fitting tribute to PV Narasimha Rao: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress has sought to advise the ruling TRS that distribution of land to the poor would be a fitting tribute to former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao whose year-long birth centenary is being celebrated by the state government. Referring to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s plans of inviting former US presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton and former British PM John Major for a programme to be organised in honour of Rao, AICC secretary and former MP V Hanumanth Rao said real tribute to the great leader and icon of Telangana is to follow his ideals. “Narasimha Rao introduced land reforms in the undivided AP and also convinced then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to do so in the country. But, the TRS government is snatching away the land of the poor,” said Hanumanth Rao, citing the case of a farmer who committed suicide in Gajwel constituency recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-for-poor-fitting-tribute-to-pv-cong/articleshow/77339337.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Dehradun||All cages at Haridwar leopard rescue centre full; staff says no space if more leopards are brought in||Dehradun: The leopard rescue centre at Chidiyapur in Haridwar, which has cages to house 10 big cats, is now filled to its capacity. The latest entrant is a man-eater leopard from Pauri, who was brought in a few days ago, making it a “full house” at the leopard rescue centre, which is among the five such facilities in the state. A source in Haridwar forest division told TOI that out of the ten leopards currently housed in the facility, one is kept inside a ‘squeeze cage’ — a small cage, where an animal is squeezed in, thereby restricting its movement. “There are just nine cages here and the squeeze cage or ‘squeezer’ is only used for keeping the animal when it requires any kind of treatment, otherwise it is not advisable to keep an animal there as it might increase its stress levels,” said the source. The veterinarians at the rescue centre meanwhile are claiming that they have already brought the issue to the notice of senior officials. “We are concerned that if an extra leopard requiring attention happens to appear in the region, we will not be able to treat it or keep it due to the unavailability of space and therefore, we have already put forth a request for more cages to the divisional forest officer (DFO). It’s time that the department starts sending these leopards to the other centres in Almora, Dehradun, Ranibagh and Corbett,” said Dr Amit Dhyani, senior veterinarian at Chidiyapur rescue centre. Haridwar DFO Neeraj Verma, meanwhile, when queried on the matter, said that they have “taken the decision to not allow any new leopard in the rescue centre” owing to lack of space. “All the leopards being brought here are mostly declared dangerous to human life or have suffered some kind of injury which requires attention, treatment, and space. Thus, on the entry of a new leopard, we cannot leave any of the previous leopards into the wild. Currently, we are out of space and therefore, we will not be able to keep any new leopard here,” he said, adding that “a proposal has been moved for four more cages in the centre.” Incidentally, majority of leopards at Chidiyapur rescue centre have some physical ailment or the other. A source in the forest department, said, “One of the leopards housed in the centre is blind, another doesn’t have a leg, some have very disintegrated canines, while some are very old and unable to hunt.” It is worth mentioning that more than a dozen people have been killed in leopard attacks in the state this year. Besides, Uttarakhand forest department has already declared five leopards as “man-eaters” this year. Among these, one each has been shot dead by shooters deployed by the department in Haridwar, Narendra Nagar, Almora, and Chamoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-cages-at-haridwar-leopard-rescue-centre-full-staff-says-no-space-if-more-leopards-are-brought-in/articleshow/77336452.cms||Shivani Azad
August 4, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports 25% of total Covid cases in last 10 days||JAIPUR: The pace at which the Covid is spreading can be gauged with the fact that in the past 10 days the state has reported 25% of the total cases since the first person was found infected on March 3. For the 10th day in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases when 1,145 new infections were detected on Monday taking the cumulative tally to 45,555. Besides, 13 persons died pusing the toll to 719. Rajsamand reported two deaths taking its toll to 7, Nagaur reported its 31st fatality, with six more deaths, Jaipur casualties rose to 206, Ajmer’s death toll reached 50 with three more people succumbing to the disease and Bharatpur reported its 54th death. The cause of worry for health authorities is the rapid rise in active cases which touched a new high of 12,785 breaking Sunday’s record of 12,488 cases. Currently, Alwar has 2,459 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (1774), Jaipur (1558) and Kota (945). Besides, 835 Covid patients have been cured taking the tally of recovered cases to 32,051. Kota became the eighth district which crossed the 2,000-mark in cumulative cases as 130 new infections were reported. The other seven districts which already have reported more than 2,000 cases are Jodhpur (7239), Jaipur (5798), Alwar (4373), Pali (2752), Bharatpur (2692), Bikaner (2146) and Ajmer (2117). Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (141), Alwar (141), Kota (130), Jaipur (124), Sikar (84), Nagaur (78), Bundi (70), Barmer (65), Ajmer (52), Bikaner (38), Bharatpur (35), Udaipur (31), Sawai Madhopur (30), Chittorgarh (25), Tonk (19), Bhilwara (15), Pratapgarh (9), Jhunjhunu (8), Jhalawar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sirohi (5), Dausa (5), Karauli (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dholpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and 20 BSF personnel have also been tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-25-of-total-covid-cases-in-last-10-days/articleshow/77342393.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Madurai||Schools begin distribution of textbooks, bags||MADURAI: All government and corporation schools in Madurai district have started issuing textbooks and schools bags to primary and middle school students for the next academic year from Monday. District education officials said that schools are distributing the textbooks and school bags in a phased manner for Classes I to IX throughout the course of the week to minimise crowding. Only 20 students are allowed to collect their books and bag every hour. All students and parents have been asked to strictly sanitise their hands, wear masks and maintain social distancing. “Students were excited to come to school even if it was for a short time. With these books, they would be able to begin learning from home,” said the headmaster of a government middle school. Every school had scheduled time for students to come and collect their books. However, with many parents still apprehensive about their children stepping out, not all turned up. In some cases, schools also allowed parents to collect, especially for primary classes. Schools also issued students their uniforms as per norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-begin-distribution-of-textbooks-bags/articleshow/77339335.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cases in Vadodara may cross 5,000-mark today||VADODARA: Covid-19 cases in Vadodara is set to cross the 5,000 mark on Tuesday. By Monday evening, the city and the district had registered 93 new cases taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 4,945. Since quite some time, Vadodara is witnessing an average increase of 90 cases a day. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Sunday also declared two more deaths due to Covid-19 taking the official death toll to 94. The fresh cases are results of 883 samples that were tested in 24 hours from Sunday evening. The new cases have been reported from Chhani Road, Sudamapuri, Waghodiya Road, Tandalja, Vadsar, New VIP Road, Tarsali, Subhanpura, Gorwa, Akota, Vasna Road, Manjalpur, Gotri, Fatehpura and Karelibaug areas within the VMC limits. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been reported from Dabhoi, Padra, Karjan, Karkhadi, Por and Sevasi. The number of patients under treatment, also termed as active cases, remained above 1,000 for second consecutive day. Currently, as per VMC’s medical bulletin, there are 1,073 active cases in the city and district. Of these, condition of 877 patients is said to be stable while 155 are being treated on oxygen and 41 others are on ventilator. Sunday witnessed 28 discharges of which 16 were from private hospitals and 12 from home isolation. At present, 2,190 individuals are under quarantine. Of them, 2,152 are under home quarantine, 20 at under quarantine at private facilities while 18 are under quarantine at government facilities. VMC’s North zone which has been worst hit due to the pandemic continued to witness a spike in cases. With addition of 30 new cases within 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 cases in this zone has now reached 1,421. The south zone saw addition of 11 new cases taking the total to 978 while the east and west zones witnessed 10 and 15 new cases taking the total number of cases to 918 and 655 respectively. Vadodara rural which too is witnessing a rise in number of cases has recorded 27 new cases taking the total number of positive cases in rural areas of the district to 946.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cases-in-vadodara-may-cross-5k-mark-today/articleshow/77336446.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports 25% of total Covid cases in last 10 days||JAIPUR: The pace at which the Covid is spreading can be gauged with the fact that in the past 10 days the state has reported 25% of the total cases since the first person was found infected on March 3. For the 10th day in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases when 1,145 new infections were detected on Monday taking the cumulative tally to 45,555. Besides, 13 persons died pusing the toll to 719. Rajsamand reported two deaths taking its toll to 7, Nagaur reported its 31st fatality, with six more deaths, Jaipur casualties rose to 206, Ajmer’s death toll reached 50 with three more people succumbing to the disease and Bharatpur reported its 54th death. The cause of worry for health authorities is the rapid rise in active cases which touched a new high of 12,785 breaking Sunday’s record of 12,488 cases. Currently, Alwar has 2,459 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (1774), Jaipur (1558) and Kota (945). Besides, 835 Covid patients have been cured taking the tally of recovered cases to 32,051. Kota became the eighth district which crossed the 2,000-mark in cumulative cases as 130 new infections were reported. The other seven districts which already have reported more than 2,000 cases are Jodhpur (7239), Jaipur (5798), Alwar (4373), Pali (2752), Bharatpur (2692), Bikaner (2146) and Ajmer (2117). Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (141), Alwar (141), Kota (130), Jaipur (124), Sikar (84), Nagaur (78), Bundi (70), Barmer (65), Ajmer (52), Bikaner (38), Bharatpur (35), Udaipur (31), Sawai Madhopur (30), Chittorgarh (25), Tonk (19), Bhilwara (15), Pratapgarh (9), Jhunjhunu (8), Jhalawar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Sirohi (5), Dausa (5), Karauli (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dholpur (1), Rajsamand (1) and 20 BSF personnel have also been tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-25-of-total-covid-cases-in-last-10-days/articleshow/77342392.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Terminal delay: Covid-19 latest of setbacks in Delhi's IGI Airport expansion plans||NEW DELHI: With construction activities in the city heavily impacted due to several roadblocks since mid-2019, including anti-pollution measures and the Covid-19 lockdown, Indira Gandhi International Airport’s expansion project is also expected to be hit in a big way. IGI’s timeline for expansion under Phase 3A of the master plan is likely to be impacted by the lockdown and shortage of workers that resulted from it. Sources said that while at least 5,000 workers were needed on the ground, less than 2,000 were working at present. Therefore, the deadline may shift from mid-2022 to the end of 2023, a source said. While construction was completely halted during the lockdown, the migrant labourers returning to their home villages and social distancing at work sites also resulted in slow progress after the restrictions were lifted. The expansion plans, which include a new Terminal 1 with nearly double the capacity (40 million passengers per annum), a new fourth runway and an elevated cross-taxiway on the lines of Changi Airport (Singapore) — allowing motorists to drive their vehicles underneath a tunnel with the plane taxiing above them — are all expected to be delayed. Airport officials, however, said the exact delays are yet to be ascertained. A Delhi International Airport Ltd spokesperson said, “Work has resumed post lockdown. However, it is moving at a reduced pace due to labour shortage.” Under the expansion plan, both the departure and arrival sections of Terminal 1 will come under one roof. The T1 apron will be demolished and a new expanded structure constructed, which will increase the number of aircraft parking stands on it from 55 to 82. The total area of T1 will also nearly triple, increasing from the present 64,140 sq m to 192,985 sq m. The integrated terminal will employ newer technologies like facial recognition, automated tray retrieval system, individual carrier systems and self-bagdrop kiosks, among others. Once the expansion works are completed, Indira Gandhi International Airport will become the first in the country to have four functioning runways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/terminal-delay-covid-19-latest-of-setbacks-in-igis-expansion-plans/articleshow/77339324.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Dams release water, red alert in Satara on Aug 5||Kolhapur: Incessant rainfall over the past two days has prompted the officials to start releasing water from the dams. In two days, the collective water levels in the dams in the region had gone up from 65% to 75%. On Sunday, the rate of water discharge from the Koyna dam in Satara district was around 900 cusec. It has now increased to 1,200 cusec. Almatti dam along the Krishna river in Karnataka is 90% full and discharge of around 6,000 cusec has been initiated there. While the catchment areas of the Koyna dam have received inflows of 4,518 cusecs while catchments of the Almatti dam have received 8,251 cusec. In Kolhapur district, the Jambre dam, which has a capacity of 24 MLD, is 100% full. As per IMD-Mumbai, heavy rain will continue to lash Kolhapur and Satara districts till August 6. The Panchaganga river water level rose by 1 foot on Monday to reach 12 feet. In the Satara district, a red alert has been issued for August 5. Extremely heavy rainfall is expected in the district on that day. On Sunday, the Kolhapur district received 152 mm average rainfall. So far, around 9,550 mm rainfall has occurred in the district. The district disaster management department has issued an alert to the tehsil offices to ensure that the heavy rainfall does not cause the roads to shut down in the rural areas. On the barrage along the Panchaganga river at Ichalkaranji is already submerged. There the river water is at 35 feet there. In comparison to last year, the catchment areas of the dams in Kolhapur district have reported lighter rainfall this year. Last year, at this time, around 4,200 mm rainfall had occurred in the catchment areas of all dams. However, since June 1 this year, the catchments have received 2,781mm. Also, Kolhapur city has reported 50% less rainfall than last year when around 900mm rainfall had occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dams-release-water-red-alert-in-satara-on-aug-5/articleshow/77336462.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||‘Contact tracing and epidemic control measures must for reopening of schools’||NAGPUR: According to two separate studies published in The Lancet Child & Adolescent Health journal, effective contact tracing and epidemic control measures are essential for safe re-opening of schools. Though these studies are focused on UK and Australia, doctors say the same parameters will apply to India as well due to perceived increased risk for children. Modelling the impact of UK schools reopening in September, the first study suggests that a second Covid-19 wave could be avoided in the UK, if accompanied by a test–trace–isolate programme. The study says that assuming 68% of contacts could be traced, 75% of individuals with symptomatic infection would need to be diagnosed and isolated if schools return full-time in September. Dr Jasmina Panovska-Griffiths, UCL/Oxford, who lead the study said, “Without sufficient coverage of a test-trace-isolate strategy, the UK risks a serious second epidemic peak either in December or February. Therefore, we urge the government to ensure that test-trace-isolate capacity is scaled up to a sufficient level before schools reopen.” Paediatrician Dr Rajiv Mohta said, “This is basically a concept similar to herd immunity. But we need to scale up this testing to a much higher level, identify infected people and start treatment. This will make it relatively safer for the remaining ones.” Dr Vagish Katariya, a paediatrician whose family also runs a school, says kids have fortunately got a buffer. “Their vaccination schedule which covers MMR and Elphantitis, has boosted their chances of fighting off the infection. The 75% stated in the study is just a number and can’t be considered as benchmark of safety. Though school reopening must be delayed till it’s completely safe, I feel the danger is more for those who come to drop the kids,” said Dr Katariya. The second study from Australia, analysing data collected between January and April 2020 in New South Wales (NSW), finds low levels of transmissions in schools and nurseries when control measures are in place. Of the total of 1.8 million children in NSW, the study identified only 98 children who were infected, accounting for 3.2% of total Covid-19 infections, confirming low rates of disease in this age group. In India, physical school reopening has not yet been given the green signal by the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contact-tracing-and-epidemic-control-measures-must-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/77337973.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||More govt depts start e-offices||Hyderabad: Eight more departments in the secretariat at the BRKR Bhavan and two heads of departments (HoDs) offices commenced implementation of the e-office system on Monday. In all, the state government has now operationalised paperless offices in 15 departments. Plans are afoot to expand the system to the remaining departments before August 15, said chief secretary Somesh Kumar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-govt-depts-start-e-offices/articleshow/77339338.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||90 Camrabhat CCP workers to resume work||Panaji: After almost a month, around 90 workers of Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) from Camrabhat will resume duties this week. As most of them are door to door garbage collectors, they were instructed to stay home following the Covid-19 outbreak in their locality. With the lockdown period for Camrabhat residents scheduled to end on Tuesday, the CCP workers who reside there will be asked to rejoin duties on Wednesday. As these CCP workers were confined indoors owing to the containment zone, their garbage collection duties were assigned to some drivers and other CCP staff engaged in road cleaning so that Panaji residents are not inconvenienced, mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “The workers will be resuming work after a gap of 28 days. Staff who were covering for these workers will be relieved of their additional duties,” he said. He also informed that there have been no fresh Covid-19 cases being reported from Camrabhat for over two weeks. However, CCP workers from St Inez bandh and Chimbel have been asked to continue staying home until further notice. On Monday, CCP compelled a few families to undergo testing for Covid-19 after the report of one person, who tested positive, arrived after six days. “The person from St Inez was seen roaming everywhere for the last six days and has forced many people to go on home quarantine, including the ex-mayor of Panaji and his wife who is a CCP corporator,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/90-camrabhat-ccp-workers-to-resume-work/articleshow/77340318.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Rs 8 lakh cash, jewellery stolen from builder’s house||VADODARA: Burglars targeted the house of a builder on New Sama Road on Sunday to steal gold ornaments, cash and other valuables worth Rs 7.9 lakh.According to police, thieves broke into the house of Divyesh Patel, who lives in Anandvan Society, through the terrace in the wee hours of Sunday. Burglars went to Patel’s bedroom which he had not been using lately as the air-conditioner there is not working. Since the safes and cupboards were always kept unlocked, it became easy for thieves. The family did not realize about the burglary until Patel noticed the terrace door open and a hole in it. “Thieves had closed the cupboard and safes as they were kept and did not scatter any belongings, so the family did not find anything unusual. It was only after they opened and checked, they noticed that jewellery and cash was missing,” said a police official. Gold and diamond jewellery including necklaces, bangles, earrings and rings worth Rs 6.9 lakh, Rs 90,000 cash and a wristwatch worth Rs 10,000 were stolen. An offence of burglary was registered by Patel at Sama police station on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rs-8l-cash-jewellery-stolen-from-builders-house/articleshow/77336464.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Police personnel begin Covid awareness in their families||NAGPUR: Personnel from the city police have started spreading Covid awareness among their family members on the premises of their official quarters to ensure that they report symptoms at the earliest and help stop the spread. At present, 43 from the department and 13 members from their families have tested Covid positive with no casualty. In the state, 104 police personnel have died so far. In the city, 7,800 cops live with their families among whom the awareness campaign would be conducted. On Monday, city police hospital’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sandeep Shinde and his team conducted an awareness programme for all the ‘line dafadars’ who are in-charge of the newly-constructed 450 residential units in Gittikhadan. They were instructed to promptly report any family member or members of police personnel with symptoms. Families of police personnel were also contacted by Dr Shinde’s team and asked to alert authorities if anyone at home or from the neighbourhood is unwell. “We plan to send auto-rickshaws fitted with public announcement systems to create awareness, including city police chief BK Upadhyay’s appeal urging people to report symptoms at the earliest to stop deaths. Family members of police personnel are also exposed to the Covid threat as they too step out of the house for various reasons,” said Dr Shinde. It’s learnt that CP Upadhyay has issued instructions to his medical team to conduct awareness programmes at the police quarters so that their family members follow Covid prevention guidelines. It’s also learnt that testing of police personnel and their high risk family members are being conducted on a regular basis. Around 36 persons were tested on Monday following which two cops and one of their family members were found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-personnel-begin-covid-awareness-in-their-families/articleshow/77337958.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||On Raksha Bandhan, woman’s plea to save brother moves many||Hyderabad: With tears rolling down her eyes, a woman at the government hospital in Sircilla pleaded with doctors on Monday that her ailing brother be attended to urgently. Latha from Vemulawada even made an appeal to municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, who represents Sircilla in the assembly, to help her brother Vavilala Pochaiah get treated. She brought her brother to the hospital as he was suffering from a kidney ailment. Following the minister’s intervention, Pochaiah was shifted to Osmania General Hospital. Latha took out a printout of her appeal to KTR and held it aloft at the hospital premises. She said she was informed by the hospital authorities that the doctors were busy with the minister’s visit to the hospital and her brother could not be treated. “We are poor people. We have no money to go to private hospitals. How can we be denied medical care?” she said while speaking to reporters. KTR, who noticed Latha, met her and spoke to her about her problem. After she explained about her brother’s plight, KTR instructed DMHO Dr S Suman Mohan Rao and hospital superintendent Dr Muralidhar Rao to see to it that Pochaiah gets the best medical treatment. After examining Pochaiah, the doctors put him on oxygen. As he needed better medicare since he is a diabetic and suffers from other health issues, the doctors advised that Pochaiah should be shifted to OGH. This was explained to the minister and Pochaiah was shifted to Hyderabad. Later, a doctor clarified that there was no disruption of out-patient services even at the time of the minister’s visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-raksha-bandhan-womans-plea-to-save-brother-moves-many/articleshow/77339341.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||No tech hurdle for tribal childrens’ education now||VADODARA: Children of Haripura-Vadeshiya, a non-descript village of Chhota Udepur district, will no longer be deprived of home learning classes. After reading a TOI report on how a farmer Shivji Rathwa got a broken old television repaired and bought a DTH set to ensure his daughter’s education, an Ahmedabad-based woman has donated an LED television and DTH set to the village. Children of the village which has a population of around 1,000 were deprived of online and home learning classes in absence of proper mobile connectivity and television sets that remain unaffordable for the majority of 150 houses. Keen on getting his daughter educated, Rathwa had purchased the TV with the money he had saved for fertilizer and seeds for his farm. Most of the children in this village had started helping their parents either with household chores or farming. “I read the article and since I have been funding education for children in different places in Gujarat, I decided to donate the TV and DTH so that the children in the village can gather at one place and study,” said Anju Modi, a resident of Navrangpura and a retired consultant. “I believe that the money I spend for people’s education should not stop. After educating themselves, the same people should educate others,” said Modi. She also donated Rs 7,400 to Rathwa so that he can buy fertilizer and seeds. The amount also includes Rs 3,100 which Rathwa had spent on old television and DTH. The television reached the village on July 31 and the gram panchayat has decided to install it either at a hall or at the school in the village. “The school has classes till grade IV but students can gather there and watch the classes on Doordarshan,” said sarpanch Prabhu Rathwa. “Many children from our village have got themselves educated and are doing respectable jobs now. This television will contribute to continue that legacy even in these difficult times,” the sarpanch said. Talking to TOI, Rathwa said, “I was hesitant to take the money, but eventually accepted it. I have not met the woman and she doesn't know me. Yet, she helped me. No matter how much I thank her, it will not be enough,” said Shivji. Modi plans to do more for the villagers. “I have done research in solar power for many years. I wish to start with that once the situation normalizes,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-tech-hurdle-for-tribal-childrens-edu-now/articleshow/77336490.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray may skip mandir ceremony at Ayodhya||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may not attend the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Sena leader, MP Sanjay Raut indicated that Thackeray would visit the temple town later. Raut denied that Thackeray not receiving an invitation to attend the function was an issue and added that “being present at the function should not be politicised”. He said the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh was a “medical emergency”. “In the backdrop of the pandemic, it has been recommended that there should be minimum movement of VVIPs. UP minister Kamal Rani lost her life and three ministers have been infected. The priest of Ram temple and security guards have been quarantined. Many leaders such as L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uddhavji are not attending due to some reason. BJP leader Uma Bharti will be in Ayodhya but will not be at the venue,” Raut said. He said his party was happy the temple was being built. “Sena had brought down Babri mosque, and BJP, VHP and Sangh Parivar accepted it. Temple would not have been possible had Babri mosque not been pulled down by Shiv sainiks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-may-skip-mandir-ceremony-at-ayodhya/articleshow/77338530.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Prisoners on parole fear returning to jail, cops trying to trace 52 inmates||VADODARA: In March when lockdown came into effect, they were given the freedom to be with their families and protect themselves from contracting the coronavirus. But thanks to the number of coronavirus cases building up, especially in Vadodara Central Jail, the inmates are not returning even as their brief period of freedom has ended. In just one month till August 2, jail officials lodged offences against 52 prisoners for not returning after their parole or bail ended. When the lockdown came into effect several prisoners were granted parole for two months according to recommendations of Gujarat high court so that there remains no risk of coronavirus within the jail premises. The parole period for different inmates were extended by some more days through orders of judicial magistrates. However, of the several inmates who were released, 52 did not return. These 52 inmates include undertrials as well convicts involved in the cases like murder, attempt to murder, rape, assault, culpable homicide not amounting to murder among others. “Among these there are also some who were granted interim bail by the high court or were given bail or parole for a week or two weeks for finishing some important family businesses,” said a jail official. “In the past, too, prisoners have jumped bail or parole, but never in such a large number,” one of the jailers said. “One reason could be the rising cases of coronavirus in jail or probably the inmates have taken the pandemic as an opportunity to evade the law,” said jail superintendent Baldevsinh Vaghela. Currently, the number of cases of coronavirus among the inmates is 75. Vaghela added that the prisoners who return to jail after their bail period end must compulsorily take the coronavirus test and remain in isolation for two weeks. “But there have also been instances that when the second test is done on the last day of isolation, the prisoners have tested positive,” he said. All 75 inmates who had tested positive were asymptomatic. The inmates, who are currently being treated, have been kept under isolation at Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s community hall in Lalbaug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/prisoners-on-parole-fear-returning-to-jail-cops-trying-to-trace-52-inmates/articleshow/77336511.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 4, 2020||Nashik||ICMR approves RTPCR test conducted in Nashik lab||NASHIK: The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved the results of the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPRC) tests conducted in Nashik Civil hospital’s new laboratoryAfter setting up all the machinery at its Covid-19 RTPRC test laboratory, the Nashik civil hospital had sent the test results to ICMR for approval. Though antigen tests are also being conducted, the RTPCR tests are more reliable in detecting Covid-19 patient. At present, the throat swab samples are sent for RTPCR testing to MVP Medical College in the city, Dhule government medical college and also in Pune’s Armed Force Medical College. Considering the increase of Covid-19 cases, the decision to set up the RTPCR lab at Nashik civil hospital was taken. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said the work of the laboratory has been completed and the first test was done on Saturday. Following which, the results were sent for its perusal and it matched with the tests conducted by ICMR. He said it is a matter of time that the civil hospital will get the nod of ICMR to conduct the tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/icmr-approves-rtpcr-test-conducted-in-nashik-lab/articleshow/77336506.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Most Covid deaths due to Mundhe, govt: BJP||NAGPUR: BJP leaders on Monday alleged that most Covid-19 deaths in the city were due to mismanagement of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and apathy of state government. So far over 150 Covid patients have died in Nagpur. Mundhe and divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar have refuted all the allegations. Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari said there was a delay of 48 to 72 hours in hospitalization of positive patients after their family members informed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). “This delay claimed many lives. Ramesh Jain was hospitalized 60 hours after NMC was informed. He died after another 60 hours. Shekhar Ghatate was taken to hospital 48 hours after his family members informed NMC. Same was the case of Mr Masand,” he said while addressing a press conference. “You can ask any patient about the delay in hospitalization. On Sunday, there were 2,160 active patients, of which as many as 873 were awaiting hospitalization. What if some of these 873 patients die due to lack of hospitalization? Who will be responsible?” said Tiwari. According to the BJP leader, Mundhe’s mismanagement did not end here. “Asymptomatic patients are admitted to dedicated Covid hospitals while serious patients were being put up in Covid care centres,” he said. Tiwari alleged that Mundhe had told revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat that NMC staffers were contacting 29,000 persons every day in Nagpur. “This number is heavily inflated,” he said. Turning to the state government, MLC Girish Vyas said a large number of beds were unoccupied in Mayo Hospital and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) but patients were awaiting hospitalization. “This is because the two hospitals are understaffed. There are simply not enough doctors and nurses to take care of patients. The government has done nothing to fill up vacant posts. NMC had sought permission to fill up 650 health department posts but the government asked it to manage with existing personnel,” he added. “Mayor Sandip Joshi had sought Rs15 crore from State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) but the government sanctioned only Rs5.30 crore. NMC’s GST grant has been reduced by 40%. How will it run the city and fight Covid?” said Vyas. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar refuted all allegations levelled by BJP leaders and said there was no shortage of manpower. “It may arise in future but we have prepared a plan for tackling it,” he told TOI. Repeated attempts to contact Mundhe for his version were unsuccessful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-covid-deaths-due-to-mundhe-govt-bjp/articleshow/77337991.cms||Ashish Roy
August 4, 2020||Chennai||Excuses are aplenty, find way to give kids eggs: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Ridiculing the Tamil Nadu government for its stand that eggs cannot be distributed to children enrolled under mid-day meal scheme since it would affect social distancing norms, the Madras high court wondered if the state would shutdown Tasmac liquor outlets too for the same reason. Quoting former chief minister K Kamaraj, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha asked the state not to give reasons for not distributing eggs but to try and find a viable solution to provide them. The authorities can utilise the services of school teachers, anganwadi staff and village health nurses to assess the number of families and their children who require raw eggs, it said. The bench made the observation while hearing a plea moved by advocate R Sudha, seeking direction to the state to ensure supply of nutritious food during lockdown to children who are enrolled under the mid-day meal scheme. The petitioner also wanted the state to ensure government school students had access to menstrual napkins during lockdown. When the plea came up for hearing, additional special government pleader Muthukumar submitted that about 71.59 lakh sanitary napkins have been distributed to 23.86 lakh girls and post-natal mothers through primary health centre (PHC) nurses between April and July. As to the supply of eggs, there are some practical difficulties like social distancing norms, he added. Refusing to accept the same, the bench said, “We are a welfare state, it might incur financial burden, but children have to be provided with necessary nutrition, they are the future of the country.” Since the pleader requested the court to grant a day’s time to get instructions from the authorities concerned, the court adjourned the plea to August 4 for passing detailed orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/excuses-are-aplenty-find-way-to-give-kids-eggs-hc/articleshow/77337998.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||City gets its 1st woman joint commissioner of police||Ludhiana: Ludhiana has got joint commissioner of police, Ludhiana rural, Kanwardeep Kaur as its first female official on a senior post. Prior to the new posting, this 2013 batch IPS officer, was AIG counter intelligence. The 31-year-old officer was also the state nodal officer of 112 emergency helpline. Kanwardeep was also awarded with the DGP honour for exemplary sewa to society in April. Earlier, in 2014, Nilambari Jagdale had served as deputy commissioner of police. However, after her no female cop has served in Ludhiana commissionerate on a senior post. An engineering graduate from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, the joint commissioner of police believes to be techno savvy. She shared that during her posting in Patiala, she introduced a mobile application for traffic violation, which was later adopted by other districts also. Besides, on her proposal the cyber investigation and technical support unit (CI & TSU) was implemented in the state. While speaking to TOI, Kanwardeep said, “In the present scenario, especially with the outbreak of Coronavirus, we must adopt technology. I will certainly come up with the system of making the best use of technology for efficient functioning.” She added that, “As joint commissioner of police, I will be heading zones-II and IV of Ludhiana commissionerate, which comprise a total 14 police stations. Basically, Ludhiana commissionerate now has been divided into two parts.” While sharing her priorities, the official said, “My priority of course is enforcement of Covid guidelines. Then curbing the menace of drugs and illicit liquor. On Sunday only, as many as nine FIRs have been lodged against illicit liquor smugglers in zones-II and IV. Besides, my focus will also be on speedy investigation of pending complaints.” “One thing I am asked about the most, being a female officer, is the approach towards female complainants. I believe that there should be a system in which a person does not have to think about the gender of an official while approaching. I believe in having the same approach for all complainants,” she added. Besides, the official has also done her research work on ‘Problem of Drug Abuse: Response to Criminal Justice System in India and Scope for Improvement’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-gets-its-1st-woman-joint-commissioner-of-police/articleshow/77337984.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vet from Down Under helps Gujarat donkeys rise up||VADODARA/ ANAND: Residing on the outskirts of Anand’s Bakrol village, Sanjay Vanzara, a nomadic tribal, employs a drove of 10 donkeys to earn him a livelihood from the nearby brick kiln. But he was clueless as why his herd kept falling sick frequently. However, that was until two months ago. Sanjay has now started noticing that the health of his beast of burden improve considerably, after a project has been providing them nutritious yet cheap green fodder. Unfortunately, donkeys, the animals that carry the burden of human livelihood, but are often overlooked in the equestrian world. However, in the rural heartland of three districts of Central Gujarat, these donkeys, often at the receiving end of many a cruel joke, are getting their due. The hydroponic project that has kicked off with 50 families who own nearly 400 donkeys in Anand, Kheda and Vadodara districts has started yielding results. In Gujarat, Ode, Vanzara, Vadi and Kangasia communities are major donkey rearing families. These communities, which are nomads, work at brick kilns. Since, such kilns are often located in the interiors, most of the time, donkeys are fed dry fodder and waste of rice bran. “During summers, due to use of rice bran, equine start suffering from colic, metabolic disorders and infection in intestine. The animals suffer from abdominal pain which at times can also be fatal. In some cases, they die within 2 to 3 hours,” said Dr Kaushal Suthar, who after completing his bachelor in veterinary science and animal husbandry from Anand Agriculture University (AAU) had gone to Australia to finish masters in animal science from Charles Sturt University. “In cities, you can locate ten clinics if your pet falls sick. But finding a veterinarian is a tough task for donkey owners. Many of them are ready to pay Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per visit. But, since they work at brick kilns, some even 20 km away from villages, the veterinarians are not ready to pay such visits,” said Suthar. Unlike his batchmates, who just wanted to get government jobs, Suthar had returned to his native to work as a veterinarian in rural Gujarat that is facing dearth of experienced hands. As project head of Brooke India, which works for welfare of equines and the community, the 33-year-old started the hydroponics fodder promotion project. “My team started providing them trays and maize seeds. They had to simply soak the seeds, spread them inside the trays, sprinkle water frequently and within seven days the fodder would be ready,” said Suthar. As donkey owners, mainly from Anklav taluka of Anand district, started seeing improvement in health of their animals, more farmers have started replicating this practice. “Our target is to cover 5,000 animals under this project next year,” said Suthar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vet-from-down-under-helps-guj-donkeys-rise-up/articleshow/77336530.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 4, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 cases continues to spike in Athwa||SURAT: Surat city recorded 198 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the first time in a week that the daily new cases have gone below the 200-mark. On the same day, six people succumbed to the virus. City’s posh Athwa zone continued to report the the highest number of cases with 40 on Monday, followed by 33 in Rander, 29 in Varachha (B), 24 in Central zone and 19 in Varachha (A), said an official of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). “In Athwa, cases are rising because the medical staff working in different hospitals are living in this zone. Besides this, businessmen and industry leaders, who come in contact with their office staff and workers at their place of work also add to the case tally,” said a senior SMC official. In Surat city, 151 patients were discharged after they were recovered from the infection on Monday. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 60 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cases-continues-to-spike-in-athwa/articleshow/77337986.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Death toll up to 56 as three more succumb||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 56 on Monday after three persons — all having comorbid conditions — died of the infection. Goa’s active tally also shot up to 1,884 with the discovery of 286 new cases and 208 recoveries. A 71-year-old man from Merces and a 70-year-old woman from Sanguem died at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, while a 68-year-old woman from Vasco died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The detection of 286 new cases on Monday meant that in the past six days along, over 1,500 new infections have been reported in the state, with a daily average of well over 200. Panaji saw seven new cases, including police personnel residing at the Altinho quarters. Also, a fruit vendor from Bhatlem but who operated his stall in Porvorim, also tested positive, said mayor Uday Madkaikar. The city’s other cases were deteced in various residential complexes, and the mayor said that a 20-year-old student from Caranzalem was one of the day’s fresh cases. Madkaikar also expressed his frustration over the delays in test results. “Two cases found in Panaji,” he tweeted. “Both reports came after six days. Now whom to blame? The Panaji health centre or patients?” Also, for the first time after the state enhanced its testing capacity, the pendency of test results has reduced to less than 1,000. Over the past few days, the pendency ranged between 3,000-4,000 cases a day, and it even breached the 5,000-mark. Porvorim saw three more cases, taking its total to 46, while Mapusa saw four fresh cases. In Colvale, which has seen a spike in cases, the panchayat has requested the collectorate to seal the building where cases were found. The industrial estate at Karaswada, which is around 5km from Colvale, has several of its workers residing in the village. While most cases so far have been detected on the village’s outskirts, locals are still worried. Meanwhile, Sakhali, which has seen several new cases every day over the past few weeks, is witnessing a dip. “To our relief, we have seen a drop in numbers during the past few days,” said Dr Ulhash Desai of the community health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/death-toll-up-to-56-as-3-more-succumb/articleshow/77340324.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Research may slowly resume at IIT-B||MUMBAI: While classroom teaching will remain suspended, research activities will gradually resume at IIT-Bombay, an order passed by the institute registrar stated on Monday. Academic and non-academic staff are expected to resume office as per directions of heads of department, but by following physical distancing norms. The order said staff may be called in rotation based on work requirements. The semester will run in online mode, as decided by the institute senate earlier. The institute plans to commence research activities in a phased manner. TOI earlier mentioned that PhD scholars in final stages of research could be told to resume first. The order said staff staying outside campus and having a higher risk of infection may be allowed to work from home in Mumbai. The institute also released entry/exit norms for staff coming from outside the campus. Staff have been advised to use private vehicles for commuting to the institute, and those using public transport will be issued certificates by HODs, if required. The order was in accordance with state and central government directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/research-may-slowly-resume-at-iit-b/articleshow/77338537.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: Despite spike, Karnataka had fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh in July||BENGALURU: Karnataka added more than a lakh Covid-19 cases to its tally in the past four weeks alone, setting daily records along the way, but despite this massive surge, the state reported fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh among states with more than a lakh cases in July. Delhi was the only state among the top five that reported fewer cases than Karnataka. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which had a slow start and had not even crossed the 20,000-mark at the beginning of July, posted their highest daily averages during the month, but it was still less than Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. While Karnataka, on average, had 3,512 new cases per day, Delhi had less than this. The other three states had a daily average of more than 4,000 with Maharashtra reporting the most cases every day. An analysis of the data for the month shows that all the states except Delhi posted the highest number of new cases in the last 10 days of the month — between July 22 and 31, while the national capital had the highest number of cases in the first week. “While July has been a bad month, we should understand that Karnataka is among the big states in the country with a large metropolis whose density of population makes it difficult to contain the spread without restrictions,” an expert on the state Covid-19 task force said. “Just as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, our capital city has had the highest burden. Now, recoveries have started to grow, which is a positive sign, and our focus continues to be on curbing the spread.” Another indication of how alarming the July spike has been for the top five states is borne by the fact that July has accounted for a significant percentage of the total cases in each of these states. As on August 2, Maharashtra had 4.4 lakh cases, while Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka had 2.5 lakh, 1.5 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 1.3 lakh cases respectively. Of the total number of cases, July cases accounted for only 35% of all cases in Delhi, while it was 78% and 79% for Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, respectively. The other two states – Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- were in between these two extremes. Andhra, in fact, ended June with a much lower caseload than Karnataka and had fewer cases than its neighbor even until the third week of July. Cases just sky-rocketed in the last leg of July and Andhra now has more total cases than even Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/despite-spike-ktaka-had-fewer-cases-than-maha-tn-ap-in-july/articleshow/77341332.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Despite spike, Karnataka had fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh in July||BENGALURU: Karnataka added more than a lakh Covid-19 cases to its tally in the past four weeks alone, setting daily records along the way, but despite this massive surge, the state reported fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh among states with more than a lakh cases in July. Delhi was the only state among the top five that reported fewer cases than Karnataka. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which had a slow start and had not even crossed the 20,000-mark at the beginning of July, posted their highest daily averages during the month, but it was still less than Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. While Karnataka, on average, had 3,512 new cases per day, Delhi had less than this. The other three states had a daily average of more than 4,000 with Maharashtra reporting the most cases every day. An analysis of the data for the month shows that all the states except Delhi posted the highest number of new cases in the last 10 days of the month — between July 22 and 31, while the national capital had the highest number of cases in the first week. “While July has been a bad month, we should understand that Karnataka is among the big states in the country with a large metropolis whose density of population makes it difficult to contain the spread without restrictions,” an expert on the state Covid-19 task force said. “Just as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, our capital city has had the highest burden. Now, recoveries have started to grow, which is a positive sign, and our focus continues to be on curbing the spread.” Another indication of how alarming the July spike has been for the top five states is borne by the fact that July has accounted for a significant percentage of the total cases in each of these states. As on August 2, Maharashtra had 4.4 lakh cases, while Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka had 2.5 lakh, 1.5 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 1.3 lakh cases respectively. Of the total number of cases, July cases accounted for only 35% of all cases in Delhi, while it was 78% and 79% for Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, respectively. The other two states – Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- were in between these two extremes. Andhra, in fact, ended June with a much lower caseload than Karnataka and had fewer cases than its neighbor even until the third week of July. Cases just sky-rocketed in the last leg of July and Andhra now has more total cases than even Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/despite-spike-ktaka-had-fewer-cases-than-maha-tn-ap-in-july/articleshow/77341331.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Despite spike, Karnataka had fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh in July||BENGALURU: Karnataka added more than a lakh Covid-19 cases to its tally in the past four weeks alone, setting daily records along the way, but despite this massive surge, the state reported fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh among states with more than a lakh cases in July. Delhi was the only state among the top five that reported fewer cases than Karnataka. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which had a slow start and had not even crossed the 20,000-mark at the beginning of July, posted their highest daily averages during the month, but it was still less than Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. While Karnataka, on average, had 3,512 new cases per day, Delhi had less than this. The other three states had a daily average of more than 4,000 with Maharashtra reporting the most cases every day. An analysis of the data for the month shows that all the states except Delhi posted the highest number of new cases in the last 10 days of the month — between July 22 and 31, while the national capital had the highest number of cases in the first week. “While July has been a bad month, we should understand that Karnataka is among the big states in the country with a large metropolis whose density of population makes it difficult to contain the spread without restrictions,” an expert on the state Covid-19 task force said. “Just as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, our capital city has had the highest burden. Now, recoveries have started to grow, which is a positive sign, and our focus continues to be on curbing the spread.” Another indication of how alarming the July spike has been for the top five states is borne by the fact that July has accounted for a significant percentage of the total cases in each of these states. As on August 2, Maharashtra had 4.4 lakh cases, while Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka had 2.5 lakh, 1.5 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 1.3 lakh cases respectively. Of the total number of cases, July cases accounted for only 35% of all cases in Delhi, while it was 78% and 79% for Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, respectively. The other two states – Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- were in between these two extremes. Andhra, in fact, ended June with a much lower caseload than Karnataka and had fewer cases than its neighbor even until the third week of July. Cases just sky-rocketed in the last leg of July and Andhra now has more total cases than even Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-spike-ktaka-had-fewer-cases-than-maha-tn-ap-in-july/articleshow/77338021.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: Despite spike, Karnataka had fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh in July||BENGALURU: Karnataka added more than a lakh Covid-19 cases to its tally in the past four weeks alone, setting daily records along the way, but despite this massive surge, the state reported fewer cases than Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh among states with more than a lakh cases in July. Delhi was the only state among the top five that reported fewer cases than Karnataka. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which had a slow start and had not even crossed the 20,000-mark at the beginning of July, posted their highest daily averages during the month, but it was still less than Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. While Karnataka, on average, had 3,512 new cases per day, Delhi had less than this. The other three states had a daily average of more than 4,000 with Maharashtra reporting the most cases every day. An analysis of the data for the month shows that all the states except Delhi posted the highest number of new cases in the last 10 days of the month — between July 22 and 31, while the national capital had the highest number of cases in the first week. “While July has been a bad month, we should understand that Karnataka is among the big states in the country with a large metropolis whose density of population makes it difficult to contain the spread without restrictions,” an expert on the state Covid-19 task force said. “Just as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, our capital city has had the highest burden. Now, recoveries have started to grow, which is a positive sign, and our focus continues to be on curbing the spread.” Another indication of how alarming the July spike has been for the top five states is borne by the fact that July has accounted for a significant percentage of the total cases in each of these states. As on August 2, Maharashtra had 4.4 lakh cases, while Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka had 2.5 lakh, 1.5 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 1.3 lakh cases respectively. Of the total number of cases, July cases accounted for only 35% of all cases in Delhi, while it was 78% and 79% for Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, respectively. The other two states – Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- were in between these two extremes. Andhra, in fact, ended June with a much lower caseload than Karnataka and had fewer cases than its neighbor even until the third week of July. Cases just sky-rocketed in the last leg of July and Andhra now has more total cases than even Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/despite-spike-ktaka-had-fewer-cases-than-maha-tn-ap-in-july/articleshow/77341333.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 4, 2020||Hyderabad||New 2BHK houses as isolation centres: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Monday said that the newly constructed double-bedroom houses for the poor may be used as isolation centres, if necessary, in Rajanna Sircilla district. He also ruled out the possibility of another lockdown being imposed in the state. On a tour of the district, KTR said construction of 1,200 houses had been completed and if the situation demands, all the houses will be used as isolation centres. There are 6,000 people in isolation in Rajanna Sircilla district. Those who have no facilities for isolation at home can be shifted to these centres, he said. KTR also inaugurated a 32-bed isolation facility at the local agricultural polytechnic college. If necessary, the strength of the facility may go up to 80. The minister also said testing in the district can be ramped up to 1,000 tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-2bhk-houses-as-isolation-centres-ktr/articleshow/77339342.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Halwara airport: AAI yet to give nod for boundary wall||Ludhiana: The prestigious Halwara international airport is facing delay as the state agency is waiting for approval from the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for construction of a boundary wall and terminals, etc. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had recently said that the estimate for the construction of a 4km long retaining wall and road leading to the airport had been forwarded to the state government. The PWD (buildings and roads (B&R)) authorities said that they were waiting for the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) approval for the construction of a boundary wall and terminal structure. Executive engineer (B&R), Ludhiana, Rakesh Garg said that they had sent the length of the boundary wall and estimate for construction of the same two months ago and were waiting for approval from them. He added that once they get approval from the AAI, they would start the execution of the project. The officer said that the construction of the terminal might start simultaneously with the boundary wall. He added that they expect that they might get the approval for the works in August. “Once we get approval from the AAI, we will invite tenders and work would be started by the agency selected for the purpose without any delay,” said a PWD source. He added that after work was allocated to an agency it would take at least nine months to complete the boundary wall construction as it was a 4km-long wall. Local AAI officials said that they were keen that the construction work starts at Halwara international airport. “Though the AAI board has already approved the construction of boundary wall but the chairman has to clear the file. I am not sure whether he has signed the file or not. As far as porta cabin (temporary structure for making airport operational) is concerned, the board will have to approve that as well and that is already at an advanced stage,” said an AAI source. He added that they too want that construction work starts at Halwara soon so that they can shift operations from Sahnewal to the new airport as the latter has an edge because of latest technology for landing and a long runway, etc. On July 22 during a review meeting of the project, DC Varinder Sharma had said that the estimate of Rs 21 crore for construction of the 4km-long retaining wall and the road leading to the airport had been forwarded to the state government. He had said that once this estimate got cleared, the construction work in this regard would start soon. He had also said that the retaining wall would be constructed around 161.2703 acres acquired for the construction of the civil terminal of Halwara airport. The DC had added that 26 acres had been earmarked for the construction of a taxi stand, food court, a five-star hotel, two-storey shops, besides other amenities, while 135 acres would be used for constructing the civil terminal. He had informed that the road leading to the airport site would also be widened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/halwara-airport-aai-yet-to-give-nod-for-boundary-wall/articleshow/77337995.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's PGI finalised for clinical trial of ‘Covidshield’||CHANDIGARH: The PGIMER, Chandigarh, has been finalised as one of the 17 sites for Covid-19 vaccine candidate ‘Covidshied’, developed by the Oxford university and Astra Zeneca. The Serum Institute of India, which has collaborated with the university, has hired Contract Research Organisation (CRO), Pharmaceutical Product Development, for the project. “I was asked by the CRO about our interest in the trials, to which I was more than keen. Of course, we await the nod from our institute’s ethics committee for the same,” said Prof Madhu Gupta, vaccinologist and principal investigator for the trials in PGI. The trials are expected to begin in August third week. For the trial, the PGI will recruit 250 healthy volunteers, excluding expectant mothers or those who are planning pregnancy. “The recruitment will continue for a month. We will test them for Covid. Also, none from their family should have had the virus. A volunteer can be any adult who is healthy. We can also consider those who have controlled diabetes and hypertension. The subjects will be selected after a rigorous medical check up,” added Prof Gupta. As there will be a combined trial for phase 2 and 3, the ICMR will decide whether the same site will be allowed to continue for efficacy. “There are some sites which will test the safety and the immunogeneticity – antibody response of the vaccine. At the moment, we will test the safety and do not have information for the immunogeneticity testing,” said the principal investigator. “We have already started getting calls already for participation.” Once selected, the volunteers will be called for test. After their Covid reports come in, those eligible for trial will be contacted and given an appointment for the vaccine. “But before that, they will be given a consent form and a participation form, which will share all the results of the trial with them. If they agree, they will be given a time slot for the vaccine,” said Prof Gupta. “We will have field workers to track the volunteers for six months after the shot. The subjects will be given a dairy to record any adverse event –fever, rash, etc. They will also be required to note day to day health monitoring. In case anyone develops Covid or is even asymptomatic, they will not be eligible anymore and the PGI will ensure their treatment free of cost,” Prof Gupta added. “As the results of the trials will have a far reaching impact, we will strengthen our capacities, wherever required, for tangible outcomes. A core group will be constituted to work out modalities and comprehensive plan along with timelines to meet the desired expectations of Drugs Controller General of India and contribute towards containing the pandemic to the best of our abilities,” said PGIMER director Prof Jagat Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-finalised-for-clinical-trial-of-covidshield/articleshow/77339358.cms||Shimona Kanwar
August 4, 2020||Goa||KTC sees drastic drop in passenger count as public prefer own vehicles in Goa||PANAJI: Owing to the rising number Covid-19 cases, people prefer not to travel by public transport and the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) is feeling the hit. The buses which are supposed to run at 50% capacity are operating with only 25% passenger strength, KTC officials said. For one people are beginning to heed the stay at home advisory and those that have to move out are opting to travel by their personal vehicles, the officials said. “People are not getting out much these days. On an average we have ten passengers in each bus. This is only in the peak hours. During the rest of the day, we see fewer passengers. On Saturdays, the number is even lesser since there aren’t any government officials commuting,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. Only 175 to 180 buses have been running each day, he said. Prior to the lockdown, KTC would operate up to 350 buses, many of which were on the interstate route. The bus service was opened for daily use after government employees resumed work after weeks under lockdown. As more restrictions started being lifted in Goa, the bus service gradually began allowing general passengers aboard as well. Even after almost a month of doing so, the KTC is still running at less than 50% of its fleet. “We are operating the buses only on routes where there is a demand ever since the use of public transport reduced drastically due to Covid19. We are just operating at 25% of the capacity as a result,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. Though there is poor response on this front, the KTC buses find themselves engaged on the frontline to ferry passengers from the Goa airport to their respective cities in the neighbouring states. “We must make do with whatever resources we have. The drivers and conductors have been reporting to duty and they are given the task as per availability,” Furtado further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-sees-drastic-drop-in-passenger-count-as-public-prefer-own-vehicles/articleshow/77340327.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Residential realty market muted in Q2: Survey||AHMEDABAD: The residential real estate market across the country continued to remain muted in terms of new launches, sales and prices during the second quarter of 2020. Real estate players, however, expect the next six months to be moderately better, states a recent real estate sentiment index survey for the April-June quarter. Although the residential real estate market was subdued in the second quarter, about 50% of the industry stakeholders surveyed opined that the situation for new launches of residential projects will either improve or remain the same in the next six months. The survey was conducted by the real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank, National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci). With respect to sales, 31% of the stakeholders were of the opinion that residential sales will get better in the next six months. “In all, 49% of the respondents feel that prices will weaken further in the next six months, while the remaining 51% think that prices will continue to remain around the current levels or increase in the next six months,” added the survey. The survey pegged the current real estate sentiment at its lowest level of 22 for the second quarter. According to the survey, a score of 50 represents a ‘neutral’ view or status quo and a score above 50 demonstrates a ‘positive’ sentiment. A score below 50 indicates a ‘negative’ sentiment. The survey indicated that the ‘future sentiment score’ of the stakeholders, though still in the pessimistic scoring zone, has seen an improvement at 41 in Q2 2020 against 36 in Q1 2020. This is attributed to an expected improvement in macroeconomic indicators and the adoption of new business models shaping the recovery in the next six months. The survey covers key supply-side stakeholders including developers, private equity funds, banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). “With some of the macroeconomic indicators showing a marginal improvement and with the impending festive season in the second half of the year, the stakeholders have shown improved sentiments compared to the previous quarter, though they have remained in the pessimistic zone,” said Shishir Baijal, CMD, Knight Frank India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/residential-realty-mkt-muted-in-q2-survey/articleshow/77338038.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Delhi||Parliamentary panel to explore uniform speed limit in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A parliamentary committee on Tuesday will deliberate on the need to bring uniformity in speed limits across the national capital. “In parts of Delhi, the limit is 70km/hour, but it changes to 50km/hour at some places with no warning or announcement,” a senior parliamentarian, who is part of the committee, told TOI. “The subordinate legislation committee has powers to scrutinise the matter and propose rules and sub-rules to the Lok Sabha,” another member said. The Delhi Police commissioner is likely to attend the meeting. The move comes amid no substantial dip in speeding challans in Delhi during the Covid-19 lockdown. Between March and June, 72,800 people were fined for speeding despite the traffic volume being at 10-15% of the routine number, a Delhi Police source said. Most of the accidents reported were hit-and-run incidents attributed to speeding by police. Speeding in Delhi attracts a fine of Rs 1,000-2000 for light vehicles, Rs 2,000-4,000 for medium commercial vehicles and impounding of a vehicle along with the seizure of licence for repeat offences. The meeting has been convened by Andhra Pradesh YSR Congress MP Kanumuru Raghu Rama Krishna Raju. The 14 other members include DMK’s A Raja, BJD’s Pinaki Misra, Congress’ Uttam Kumar Reddy and BJP’s Ram Kripal Yadav and Ajay Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parl-panel-to-explore-uniform-speed-limit/articleshow/77338115.cms||Rohan Dua
August 4, 2020||Nagpur||Low check-ins: Hotels forced to shut down again||Nagpur: Hotels that reopened on July 8 as part of the unlock phase are shutting down again as travel restrictions have kept business low. Sources said that 40% of the hotels in the city had reopened last month and now, almost half have shut down again. It’s difficult to meet the operational expenses with negligible check-ins, say hoteliers. The government’s offer for hotels to operate as Covid care centres (CCCs) too has got a poor response. Last month, the government had allowed private hotels to operate as CCS to take in asymptomatic patients. With two properties coming up with the new service, a majority of the hoteliers are wary about the safety of their staff. The association had held a virtual meeting in which members were asked to enter into deals with hospitals for working as CCCs with enough caution.Tejinder Singh Renu runs Hotel Pritam at Central Avenue. The hotel was shut down again a couple of days ago. “I had only nine guests since the hotel reopened. Most of them had come for medical purposes. As travel restrictions remain, not many are coming to the city. During normal times, guests who would check-in at hotels came by trains or buses which have not begun operations in a full-fledged manner. Not everyone can afford road trips,” he said.Deepak Khurana, who runs Woodland Hotel, said, “Hotels are allowed to operate at 33% of the capacity. A hotel like ours with 25 rooms can only operate eight, which is too less to recover fixed expenses like power and staff salaries.”He said the hotel also had issues with an aggregator company that had stopped paying the minimum amount committed since March. Finally, Khurana took back possession to run the property on his own. Khurana was also sceptical on running the hotel as a CCC due to the risk involved.Afzal Mitha of Orient Group, who is running his properties as a CCC and a quarantine centre each, said there is no other source of business at present. He said staffers who have to provide hospitality services have been trained. In case they catch an infection the treatment will happen in the same facility. An insurance cover of Rs50 lakh in case of death has been also assured, he said.Renu is also the president of the Nagpur Residential Hotels’ Association (NRHA). In the virtual meeting on operating as CCCs, hoteliers were asked to carefully go through the terms and conditions. Concern was also raised about the staffers’ health. “We cannot force our employees to work in risky conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-check-ins-hotels-forced-to-shut-down-again/articleshow/77338066.cms||Shishir Arya
August 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Decide on paralympian Girraj’s plea for Group-A post, HC tells Haryana||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government to decide on appointing noted paralympian Girraj Singh on a Group-A post in the state sports and youth affairs department under the category of outstanding sportsperson. Haryana’s first paralympian, Girraj Singh is recipient of the prestigious Major Dhyanchand Award and state’s highest honour in sports — Bhim Award. He had won a bronze medal in 2002 Asian Games in 800 metres and was finalist in 400 metres event in the paralympics held in Athens. HC’s Justice Lalit Batra has passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by Girraj. “This is a petition to consider petitioner’s claim for appointment under group-A as per Haryana Outstanding Sports Persons (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018. Counsel for petitioner contended that the petitioner has already served legal notice dated June 10 to the state but still no action has been taken. In view of the above, the present petition is disposed of with the direction to state to look into and decide legal notice dated June 10 in accordance with law while passing a speaking order within six weeks positively from the date of receipt of copy of this order,” the HC has ordered. Girraj is presently posted as senior coach, a Group-B post, and posted at Faridabad. He is also general secretary of para-sports association Haryana. In his plea before the HC, Girraj had advertised schedule-I of the state rules to assert that a participant in Olympic/Paralympics at the quarter finals or above stage is entitled to be appointed as Group-A (other than HCS or HPS). In support of the claim, he had produced a certificate reflecting his participation in the XII Paralympics Games, from September 17, 2004 to September 28, 2004 at Athens (Greece) in which he ran the Men’s 400 Meters Race and secured 8th place. He had sought directions from the HC to appoint him on a Group-A post in accordance with the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/decide-on-paralympian-girrajs-plea-for-group-a-post-hc-tells-haryana/articleshow/77339359.cms||Ajay Sura
August 4, 2020||Goa||3 more test positive in Candolim, 6 in Betim||Calangute/Saligao: Three more people residing at Orda, Candolim, have tested positive for Covid-19, while six new cases have come to light at Betim. Medical officer at the Candolim primary health centre (PHC) Dr Roshan Nazareth, said the three people from Orda had got themselves tested on July 27 at a government hospital in Mapusa, and their results returned positive on Sunday night. The patients include a mother-daughter duo and a man from the same locality. They have now been quarantined at the Covid care centre in Calangute. A part of Orda ward continues to be a restricted area after some positive cases were detected around 10 days ago. The new cases, however, are from a different part of the same ward. Nazareth said they’re still trying to determine the source of the new infections. Meanwhile, the six fresh cases in Betim are all contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient residing in a housing complex in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-more-test-positive-in-candolim-6-in-betim/articleshow/77340331.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Patiala: 100-year-old swaroop missing from gurdwara, SGPC begins probe||PATIALA: The Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) has initiated a probe into disappearance of a 100-year-old Guru Granth Sahib from Gurudwara Ardaspur Sahib in Kalyan village of Patiala district. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal reached Kalyan on Monday and interacted with the gurdwara management, after which he demanded that a thorough investigation be carried out into the disappearance of the holy book. The SGPC has already initiated an internal probe into the matter by constituting a five-member team to look into the circumstances in which the 1-inch by 1.5-inch Guru Granth Sahib went missing from Gurdwara Ardaspur Sahib last week. The probe team led by Giani Pranam Singh, head granthi of Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, visited Kalyan on Sunday. During its five-hour stay at the village, the team interacted with the gurdwara management and a number of villagers. The team comprising Nabha gurdwara manager Karnail Singh, additional manager Karnail Singh, and Parwinder Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Benat Singh from SGPC’s dharam prachar (religious propagation) committee, had also recorded statements of the gurdwara management committee and local residents. However, there has been no headway in the matter. The committee had later submitted a preliminary report to secretary of dharam prachar committee. On Monday, Longowal along with Punjab former cabinet minister Surjit Singh Rakhra visited the Gurdwara, where the former demanded that an investigation should be launched into the matter and the culprits be brought to book. Baba Nichhabar Singh, chief sewadar of gurdwara sahib, said there were 25 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib. The miniature Guru Granth Sahib was brought by Baba Kirpal Singh. It can only be read with the help of lenses. Meanwhile, the scrutiny of CCTV camera footage has not yielded any result so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sgpc-begins-probe-as-100-yr-old-guru-granth-sahib-goes-missing/articleshow/77339361.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Unable to explain wife’s blood on clothes, engineer gets life||MUMBAI: A 40-year-old engineer’s inability to explain how his dead wife’s blood appeared on clothes he was wearing the day she was bludgeoned to death at their Mulund home in 2017 has led to his conviction and life sentence. A sessions court recently found Jayesh Mhadlekar guilty of murdering his estranged wife, Shreya (33), after suspecting her of having an affair. Jayesh absconded after her death and returned few days later. He denied involvement and claimed he was in Hyderabad at that time. The court refuted his defence and said there was no railway ticket. Shreya, employed with a private hospital then, had been a victim of repeated domestic violence, with Jayesh even hitting her with a pressure cooker once and ripping out her hair. Describing the murder as “cold-blooded”, judge A M Khan said, “The prosecution succeeded in establishing the accused had motive to commit the offence as relations with the deceased wife were strained, and there were instances of his assaulting her prior to the present crime.” The couple had eloped in 2003 and their son was born in 2005. Shreya’s mother, a prosecution witness, told court Jayesh always doubted her character, would drink and repeatedly harass and assault her. Police complaints were made and subsequently police would get back together. The mother said around a month before the murder on January 26, 2017, she had moved back home with her son. She submitted that at around 10am that day Jayesh came to take Shreya back but she refused to go. The mother said that Jayesh left at 10.30am and within few minutes Shreya too left. The mother said she saw Jayesh in the passage. She recalled that Shreya told her that she would accompany him till the ground floor. When the victim did not return, the mother said she assumed she had left for work. But later, when the family called the hospital, they were told she had not reported to work. After a frantic search, when Shreya’s sister and mother went to her marital home, they found her motionless with severe head injuries. The accused could not be reached on his phone. The prosecution submitted that the accused killed her after taking her home. Among 14 other witnesses were those who had seen Jayesh in Shreya’s building and others who saw them leave together. A neighbour from their marital home had seen Shreya arriving at that building. “The prosecution proved the deceased was last seen with the accused soon before death. The prosecution proved all circumstances pressed by them against the accused to prove guilt of the accused,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unable-to-explain-wifes-blood-on-clothes-engineer-gets-life/articleshow/77338547.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Of 1 lakh target, Jharkhand govt tests 50k samples in 3 days||RANCHI: The Jharkhand health department’s ambitious plan to test one lakh Covid-19 samples across the state during a three-day special drive between July 31 and August 2 has failed to achieve its target with the health workers collecting and testing only about 50,000 samples. However, the state chapter of the National Health Mission (NHM said it is content with the number of samples collected and tested. Talking to TOI, NHM state director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the state’s daily testing rate has seen considerable improvement compared to the past because of the special push. Health department sources maintained that non-timely arrival of kits, lack of manpower and faulty collection of samples could be some of the reasons for not achieving the target. He said, “The information we received so far from different districts is that 50,000 samples have been collected/tested during the special drive. Data entry of 30,000 samples has been completed while the rest are in the process of being registered which will start reflecting in the official data soon.” Shukla further said, “Our daily testing rate now is more than double than earlier, touching an average mark of around 15,000 tests per day compared to about 6,000-7000 earlier.” He also clarified that NHM’s daily Covid-19 bulletin is not reflecting the tests done through rapid antigen test kits. He said, “We had distributed around 35,000 antigen testing kits in all 24 districts and are being used vigorously for Covid-19 testing besides TrueNat and RT-PCR machines. The daily bulletin is taking into account the two latter forms of tests currently.” The state government is also working overnight to expand the testing facilities to cover large sections of the population, he added. Earlier this week, chief minister Hemant Soren had launched an RT-PCR machine at Palamu Medical College Hospital lab, adding to the existing labs at Rims and Itki in Ranchi, MGM in Jamshedpur, PMCH in Dhanbad and HMCH in Hazaribag. Private hospitals like TMH in Jamshedpur and Gurunanak super speciality hospital in Ranchi along with four private labs have been empowered to test the samples. Speaking to reporters a few days back, Soren had announced that the government will begin testing at the block levels, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/of-1-lakh-target-govt-tests-50k-samples-in-3-days/articleshow/77322929.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 4, 2020||Patna||Vehicles now ply on Mahatma Gandhi Setu with ease||PATNA: Thanks to the inauguration of the renovated western flank of the Mahatma Gandhi Setu on July 31, people can now travel from Patna to North Bihar and vice versa easily. The old concrete superstructure of the bridge has been replaced with steel decks. Vehicular traffic was quite normal on Monday as it took less than 20 minutes for the commuters to across the bridge. There was no report of traffic congestion, which was a regular feature from both ends of the bridge, earlier. “Crossing the setu was no less than a nightmare. There would be traffic jam on Patna and Hajipur-ends despite the Covid-19 lockdown,” Prashant Kumar, a banker, told this reporter. Monday was the first working day for office-goers after the western flank of the bridge was opened for public. They heaved a sigh of relief due to the smooth flow of vehicles. “It was a pleasure to cross the bridge without any hurdle,” said Chandra Bhushan Mishra, a businessman.Meanwhile, with the opening of the western flank, the prices of building construction materials have reduced in North Bihar region. “There has been a substantial fall in the prices of sand, bricks and stone chips due to the opening of one flank after its repair,” Narendra Singh, a building developer of Hajipur, said. The SHO of Ganga Bridge police station, Kaushal Raj, pointed out, “The pressure on the bridge has eased as vehicles are plying on both the flanks now. The commuters may have to face problems after the repair work on the eastern flank starts.” A senior police officer, who looks after the traffic management on the Gandhi setu, said, “The flow of vehicles will increase after the lockdown comes to an end. We will have to prepare for the situation in advance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vehicles-now-ply-on-setu-with-ease/articleshow/77337291.cms||Ramashankar
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||BIT Sindri’s 3-day national hackathon starts today||SINDRI: Nearly 40 teams from various engineering colleges across the country have been selected for the first round of the three-day ‘Nav–Ujjwal E-innovation Hackathon’, organised online by BIT Sindri from Tuesday. Akash Kumar, a member of the organising committee, said, “A problem statement based on the current difficulties being faced by mankind will be given to the participating teams and they will have to come up with practical solutions within the stipulated time frame.” He added, “A team of experts from internationally acclaimed organisations will guide the participants. The team will test their skills, their approach towards solving a problem and the students’ attitude in a stressful environment where they have to complete a task on time.” On the first day, the teams will present their respective solutions to the problem. The teams will need to explain their respective plans for creating an economically viable hardware or software prototype by the end of the hackathon to the experts. “In accordance with the experts’ evaluation and discretion, the top 20 teams will make it to the second round which will be held on Wednesday,” Kumar said. In the next step, all the 20 teams will present their respective progress reports made in the last 24 hours of their work to the experts. “Of the 20, only 10 teams will make it to the third and final round where the experts will judge the economic viability, efficiency and user-friendliness of the prototype developed by the students based on which the results will be announced on August 9,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bit-sindris-3-day-natl-hackathon-starts-today/articleshow/77339873.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||TrueNat lab closed after three staff test Covid positive in Bokaro||BOKARO: Covid testing through the TrueNat machine at the Bokaro sadar hospital stopped on Monday after three staff of the hospital manning the laboratory tested positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said it will take 48 hours to reopen the lab after a thorough sanitisation. He said, “Two technicians and a supervisor deployed at our lab in sadar hospital tested positive, following which the TrueNat test and sample collection remained suspended from today as the laboratory is being sanitised. It will open after 48 hours.” A total of eight employees are deployed at the laboratory, which is the lone facility in Bokaro. The lab has three TrueNat machines and about 100 samples are tested daily. One Truenat machine was installed at the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) last week but it is yet to become fully functional. Simultaneously, the district sends samples to the RT-PCR lab of PMCH in Dhanbad but the results are often delayed. Currently, more than 2000 are pending at PMCH, officials said. “In urgent and critical cases like pregnancy and injuries, we depend on the TrueNat laboratory for speedy results,” an official said. Till Monday morning, Bokaro district had 283 total cases of Covid-19 of which 140 are active and two patients have died from the viral infection. The district has also recorded 141 recoveries, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/truenat-lab-closed-after-three-staff-test-positive-in-bokaro/articleshow/77339805.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Muslim yoga teacher accuses police apathy, Marandi says DGP is lax towards women’s safety||RANCHI: A young city-based Muslim yoga teacher on Monday said that she and her family are living under constant threat and facing an unending ordeal of harassment for many months because of her profession. Speaking at a press conference in the presence of BJP leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi on the occasion of Rakshabandhan, Rafia Naaz (23) said the state government and the police have not provided any security cover to her despite several pleas. Marandi also accused the state government and the police, in particular acting DGP M V Rao, for their “irresponsible attitude towards women’s safety”. Making a reference to an audio clip of an alleged conversation between Rafia and Rao, Marandi said, “When this girl calls the DGP for help, he disconnects the call after rudely reprimanding her by saying ‘dimag mat kharab karo’. With this attitude of the state’s senior-most police officer, we wonder how safe Jharkhand is for women today.” Taking a dig at CM Hemant Soren, Marandi, who became Jharkhand’s first chief minister after the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000, added, “On Twitter, he (Hemant) and his officials say they will not tolerate any crime against women, but in reality, this is what happens when a woman approaches the police to report a crime or seek help. No wonder that with such attitude of the DGP and the entire state machinery, officers in-charge of police stations brutally beat girls in public.” His remark was in reference to an incident that took place in Barhet police station last week. Rafia, who has won several laurels for her proficiency in yoga, said “rogue elements” in her community have been trying to force her to stop doing yoga and harassing her for years and there has even been attacks and abuses on several occasions. She said, “The erstwhile government (the Raghubar Das-led BJP regime) in 2017 provided security to me and my family, but it was withdrawn in March this year and the harassment —physical and mental – started again. I will never stop yoga. I am not afraid of anything, but I am worried for my family,” she said. Marandi questioned the mahagathbandhan government’s decision to withdraw the woman’s security cover. “Will the CM take responsibility if anything happens to this girl?,” Marandi asked, saying he has also written to the CM and is sending copies of the letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/muslim-yoga-teacher-accuses-police-apathy-marandi-says-dgp-is-lax-towards-womens-safety/articleshow/77339850.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad to add 175 new Covid beds this week: DC||SINDRI: The Dhanbad district administration on Monday said it will soon add 175 beds for Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of such beds in the district to 500. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the administration also plans to increase the beds at the Covid care centre of the Dhanbad sadar hospital to 120 from the existing 100. He said, “The Covid care centre at the hospital is equipped with tele-conferencing facilities and doctors can advise the patients from their homes. The patients can also get information from the para-medical staff during a fixed time slot. This will go a long way in answering the concern of the Covid patients.” The measure comes in the wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district. As of Monday morning, Dhanbad has a total of 684 cases of which 469 are active and 14 people have died of the viral infection. Singh said, “A 50-bed Covid care centre will start functioning at the BCCL regional hospital in Bhuli from Tuesday. The centre will also have a 100-bed isolation unit at the zonal training centre of railways at Bhuli and will be functional by August 5.” The DC informed that a proposal for starting a Covid care centre at the Nirsa Polytechnic is also under consideration. Meanwhile, employees of SBI Dhanbad branch and railways are in panic after reports of several of their colleagues getting infected. Nearly 40 staff of the SBI branch have tested positive last week. Similarly, nearly 40 railway employees have reportedly come in contact with Dhanbad DRM A K Mishra, who tested positive on Sunday. The DRM office has started functioning from Monday after sanitization and ways are being devised to ensure that only a minimum number of employees are present at one place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-to-add-175-new-covid-beds-this-week-dc/articleshow/77339836.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Under stress, Rims Covid task force members keen to quit||RANCHI: Members of the Covid-19 task force at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here have asked to be relieved of their duties and responsibilities citing mental and physical stress amid the growing criticism against the committee’s functioning from various quarters. Dr Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the task force and an associate professor at the department of dermatology in Rims, on Sunday wrote to the hospital director Dr Manju Gari and requested relief for the entire team. Pointing out that its members are working for four months, Kumar, in his letter on behalf of the task force, wrote: “We tried our best to manage all aspects in the management of Covid patients. It caused us a lot of mental and physical stress. I, on behalf of the working task force, request you to kindly relieve us (from the work of the task force).” Constituted on April 1, the task force was designed for screening, testing and admission of Covid-19 patient and for their treatment and arranging for medication, nutrition and equipment, marshalling of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff in Covid-19 duty and all other aspects. Alongside Kumar, the committee has nine members from the hospital’s departments of medicine, surgery, microbiology, anesthesia, critical care medicine, preventive social medicine, pathology and superspecialty anesthesia. Rims has set 172 beds for the Covid-19 patients. However, the task force came under scanner on several occasions for negligence off duty after a Covid-19 patient died of injuries after collapsing in the bathroom, where he had gone unattended. Several patients had sent out videos from the hospital’s Covid-19 ward drawing attention to the poor facilities and dismal state of affairs. A probe conducted by the Ranchi administration also claimed that the Covid-19 task force failed to monitor the infrastructure and help given to the patients. Following Kumar’s letter, the director called the task force members and the heads of departments in the hospital for a meeting in the evening. In the meeting, the task force was asked to stay on. “We were asked to continue since this task force has been looking over the affairs from the start. However, we demanded for distribution of responsibilities and more manpower to manage the growing number of patients,” Kumar told TOI. Rims management said a formal application will be sent to the state department of health, medical education and family welfare for the availability of 100 nurses and 50 more paramedical staff for the management of Covid-19 patients. At present, there are approximately 240 Covid-19 patients in the hospital against its sanctioned strength of 172, the doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/under-stress-rims-covid-task-force-members-keen-to-quit/articleshow/77339787.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Nearly 300 devotees throng Babadham temple on last Somvari||DUMKA: Nearly 300 devotees on Monday thronged the Baba Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar on the occasion of Purnima and the last Somvari in the month of Shravan. This is the first time in nearly five months that the temple opened its doors for the devotees — although only for a day — following a directive by the state government on Sunday. The government directive came in the wake of a recent ruling by the Supreme Court that advocated for the restricted entry of devotees. The court gave its ruling while hearing a PIL filed by Godda MP Nishikant Dubey against the closure of the temple. The state government will take a call on the full-fledged reopening of the temple later, officials said. Meanwhile, all the senior administrative officials, including Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad Singh and SP Piyush Pandey, were seen monitoring the premises since early in the morning to ensure that social distancing and other safety norms were being followed. The DC said, “Although, we had earlier planned to keep the temple open for only an hour (from 5.30am to 6.30am), we later decided to extend the timing beyond noon considering the special day today.” He added, “Only those with masks were allowed inside the temple and we made sure that they maintained a distance of at least three feet when inside.” The devotees welcomed the decision of reopening the temple. “Once I got to know that around one hundred devotees will be allowed to visit the sanctum sanctorum of the Babadham temple on Monday, I couldn’t sleep on Sunday night as I was eagerly waiting for daybreak,” said Prakash Singh of Krishnauri locality. He was among the few first of the devotees to enter the temple. Bar practitioner Mukesh Kumar Pathak said, “Although, we did not touch the Shivlingam following the administration’s orders, we are happy to have got a glimpse of Mahadev (Lord Shiva).” Meanwhile, Deoghar district has witnessed a massive spike in coronavirus cases in the last three days. Of the total 500 infections, 307 have been diagnosed in just three days since Friday, state government data released on Monday morning said. The district has 414 active cases while 84 persons have recovered and two have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nearly-300-devotees-throng-babadham-temple-on-last-somvari/articleshow/77339772.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||Bizman sanitises autorickshaws in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: Businessman Vivek Roongta along with his team on Monday sanitise autorickshaws at several stands of the three-wheeler in the city. Roongta said the drive is taken up to check the rising Covid cases in the city area. He added that the target is to sanitise around 600 autorickshaws per day for five days to break the transmission chain through the public service vehicles. The Steel City businessman further said his team is also distributing face masks and sanitizers among the autorickshaw drivers. Awareness programmes are also conducted for the drivers so that they can follow the protocols laid down by the government to control the pandemic. As of Monday morning, East Singhbhum has a cumulative virus caseload of 2,169 cases of which 1,512 are active. A total of 37 people have also died in the district from the viral disease. Meanwhile, the district administration served notices to a branded garment showroom in Bistupur main road to follow the virus protocols, failing which action will be taken against them. On Sunday, a team of district officials conducted a surprise check of the showrooms and those found not following the protocols, including their customers, were served notice. Special teams are also keeping a close watch on those in home quarantine even as the district health department started rapid antigen testing in containment zones across the city. Around 28 people were tested through the method on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bizman-sanitises-autorickshaws-in-steel-city/articleshow/77347441.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||After doctors on deputation return to Ranchi, HMCH faces severe crunch||HAZARIBAG: Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH), one of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the district, is facing an acute shortage of doctors for the last two days, HCMH’s medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha said. This happened after three doctors on deputation returned to their original posting in Ranchi on July 31. Sinha said, “The state government had sent three doctors — Dr Aman Kumar, Dr Sati Parda and Dr Mardi — to HMCH on a one-year bond which expired on July 31. Now, they have returned to their actual posting at Ranchi sadar hospital. After their departure, I am left with only three assistant professors of medicine. It is very difficult for only three doctors to discharge their duties in all three shifts.” HMCH has a sanctioned strength of eight doctors. As per Sunday morning’s Covid bulletin, the district has recorded a total of 647 cases of which 328 are still active. Of the total active cases, 47 are undergoing treatment at the sadar hospital while 15 are being treated at HMCH. Sinha added that he has written to the state health department for taking necessary steps immediately to prevent chaos. “We are waiting to hear back,” he said, adding that though many patients often allege of medical negligence on our part, “everyone here is doing their work with utmost sincerity”. “We are trying our best to provide quality treatment to the patients as a result of which so far nearly 350 have recovered fully and have been discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-docs-on-deputation-return-to-ranchi-hmch-faces-severe-crunch/articleshow/77339859.cms||Abhijit Sen
August 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||7 Covid deaths in Jamshedpur, 941 new cases in state’s biggest spike||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded seven Covid deaths (all from East Singhbhum district) and 941 new infections in the biggest 24-hour spike in fresh infections until 9pm on Monday. While 323 cases were reported overnight, 618 were detected from the 6,255 samples tested on Monday. The Covid tally in Jharkhand has now crossed the 13,000-mark. The state has a total of 13,500 cases, of which 8,581 are active, 4,794 have recovered (including 112 on Monday), and 125 have died, the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) said in a bulletin released on Monday night. Health officials of East Singhbhum district said five of the deceased were admitted to the Covid-19 ward of Tata Main Hospital. Among the dead are three men (residents of Kadma, Sakchi and Jugsalai localities in Jamshedpur) aged 46 years, 76 years and 86 years respectively. Two are women aged 77 and 65 from Mango and Kadma. “All of them were admitted in between July 26 and August 1 and had other ailments,” an official in Jamshedpur said. Ranchi reported 130 new cases on Monday. The district administration said positive cases were reported from Project Building, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Hotwar, Kadru and Meurs Road. Ranchi now has 1,832 active cases. Khunti reported 92 new infections followed by Hazaribag (90) and Ramgarh (54). East Singhbhum reported 43 new cases while Jamtara reported 41. Sahibganj reported 34 new infections followed by Latehar (31), West Singhbhum (25), Gumla (23), Seraikela-Kharsawan (13), Pakur (12), Deoghar (9), Bokaro (8) and Dhanbad (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/7-covid-deaths-in-jamshedpur-941-new-cases-in-states-biggest-spike/articleshow/77347683.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||7 Covid deaths in Jamshedpur, 941 new cases in state’s biggest spike||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded seven Covid deaths (all from East Singhbhum district) and 941 new infections in the biggest 24-hour spike in fresh infections until 9pm on Monday. While 323 cases were reported overnight, 618 were detected from the 6,255 samples tested on Monday. The Covid tally in Jharkhand has now crossed the 13,000-mark. The state has a total of 13,500 cases, of which 8,581 are active, 4,794 have recovered (including 112 on Monday), and 125 have died, the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) said in a bulletin released on Monday night. Health officials of East Singhbhum district said five of the deceased were admitted to the Covid-19 ward of Tata Main Hospital. Among the dead are three men (residents of Kadma, Sakchi and Jugsalai localities in Jamshedpur) aged 46 years, 76 years and 86 years respectively. Two are women aged 77 and 65 from Mango and Kadma. “All of them were admitted in between July 26 and August 1 and had other ailments,” an official in Jamshedpur said. Ranchi reported 130 new cases on Monday. The district administration said positive cases were reported from Project Building, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Hotwar, Kadru and Meurs Road. Ranchi now has 1,832 active cases. Khunti reported 92 new infections followed by Hazaribag (90) and Ramgarh (54). East Singhbhum reported 43 new cases while Jamtara reported 41. Sahibganj reported 34 new infections followed by Latehar (31), West Singhbhum (25), Gumla (23), Seraikela-Kharsawan (13), Pakur (12), Deoghar (9), Bokaro (8) and Dhanbad (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-covid-deaths-in-jamshedpur-941-new-cases-in-states-biggest-spike/articleshow/77339763.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||Of 1 lakh target, Jharkhand govt tests 50k samples in 3 days||RANCHI: The Jharkhand health department’s ambitious plan to test one lakh Covid-19 samples across the state during a three-day special drive between July 31 and August 2 has failed to achieve its target with the health workers collecting and testing only about 50,000 samples. However, the state chapter of the National Health Mission (NHM said it is content with the number of samples collected and tested. Talking to TOI, NHM state director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the state’s daily testing rate has seen considerable improvement compared to the past because of the special push. Health department sources maintained that non-timely arrival of kits, lack of manpower and faulty collection of samples could be some of the reasons for not achieving the target. He said, “The information we received so far from different districts is that 50,000 samples have been collected/tested during the special drive. Data entry of 30,000 samples has been completed while the rest are in the process of being registered which will start reflecting in the official data soon.” Shukla further said, “Our daily testing rate now is more than double than earlier, touching an average mark of around 15,000 tests per day compared to about 6,000-7000 earlier.” He also clarified that NHM’s daily Covid-19 bulletin is not reflecting the tests done through rapid antigen test kits. He said, “We had distributed around 35,000 antigen testing kits in all 24 districts and are being used vigorously for Covid-19 testing besides TrueNat and RT-PCR machines. The daily bulletin is taking into account the two latter forms of tests currently.” The state government is also working overnight to expand the testing facilities to cover large sections of the population, he added. Earlier this week, chief minister Hemant Soren had launched an RT-PCR machine at Palamu Medical College Hospital lab, adding to the existing labs at Rims and Itki in Ranchi, MGM in Jamshedpur, PMCH in Dhanbad and HMCH in Hazaribag. Private hospitals like TMH in Jamshedpur and Gurunanak super speciality hospital in Ranchi along with four private labs have been empowered to test the samples. Speaking to reporters a few days back, Soren had announced that the government will begin testing at the block levels, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/of-1-lakh-target-govt-tests-50k-samples-in-3-days/articleshow/77328127.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||After 5 weeks, wedding emerges as super-spread event in Simdega village||GUMLA: Five weeks after he organized his son’s marriage reception in violation of the lockdown norms, an FIR has been filed against a senior BJP functionary in Simdega district after more than 50 persons who attended the event or came in contact with those who were present were infected with the novel coronavirus. On Sunday evening, Simdega police booked the saffron party’s Kolebira block president Chintamani Kumar, accusing him of starting “samudaik sankraman (community transmission)” of the virus and creating an infection cluster in Kanjoga village by organizing the reception on June 30, a day after the marriage ceremony took place. As per state government data, Simdega had 353 Covid infections on June 30 and just 26 of these were active cases. For the next couple of weeks, the number of active cases kept falling with the number of new cases being reduced to a trickle and the number of active cases at less than 10. On July 13, the first Covid case linked to the reception emerged when Kumar himself tested positive for the virus. Since then, 50 persons in the village of 120 households have tested positive and the reception has been identified as their source of infection, officials said. On Monday morning, the district had 550 Covid cases, of which 157 are active. The district administration had also initiated a probe to find out the reasons behind the sudden spurt in cases in this village. An investigation conducted by Simdega additional collector Amrendra Kumar Singh and SDO Kunwar Singh Pahan found that by a large number of people attended the reception even though the authorities had allowed Kumar to invite only 20 people, officials said. Simdega district Covid nodal officer S Parwez on Monday said the village has emerged as a concern in recent weeks and they have launched a mass testing drive of everyone in the area. “As we are conducting more tests, more cases are surfacing from this pocket. The marriage turnout seems to have led to the spread,” he said. Kolebira police station in-charge Rameshwar Bhagat said, “BDO Akhilesh Kumar has filed an FIR against Kumar under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act (DMA) after a probe. The FIR states that seems to be ‘samudaik sankraman’ (community transmission) in this area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-5-weeks-wedding-emerges-as-super-spread-event-in-simdega-village/articleshow/77339796.cms||K A Gupta
August 4, 2020||Ranchi||Bizman sanitises autorickshaws in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: Businessman Vivek Roongta along with his team on Monday sanitise autorickshaws at several stands of the three-wheeler in the city. Roongta said the drive is taken up to check the rising Covid cases in the city area. He added that the target is to sanitise around 600 autorickshaws per day for five days to break the transmission chain through the public service vehicles. The Steel City businessman further said his team is also distributing face masks and sanitizers among the autorickshaw drivers. Awareness programmes are also conducted for the drivers so that they can follow the protocols laid down by the government to control the pandemic. As of Monday morning, East Singhbhum has a cumulative virus caseload of 2,169 cases of which 1,512 are active. A total of 37 people have also died in the district from the viral disease. Meanwhile, the district administration served notices to a branded garment showroom in Bistupur main road to follow the virus protocols, failing which action will be taken against them. On Sunday, a team of district officials conducted a surprise check of the showrooms and those found not following the protocols, including their customers, were served notice. Special teams are also keeping a close watch on those in home quarantine even as the district health department started rapid antigen testing in containment zones across the city. Around 28 people were tested through the method on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bizman-sanitises-autorickshaws-in-steel-city/articleshow/77339868.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 4, 2020||India||India taking no chances in Eastern Ladakh, prepares for long haul||NEW DELHI: India is looking to restart the stalled troop disengagement process in eastern Ladakh with China, but is clearly taking no chances by also constructing insulated shelters and procuring foreign and domestic specialized clothing and gear for its soldiers for the long winter deployment ahead. The high-powered China Study Group (CSG), which includes national security advisor Ajit Doval and foreign minister S Jaishankar, will meet on Tuesday to examine the fresh modalities and timelines for troop disengagement discussed in the fifth round of military dialogue between the two sides. At the over 10-hour long meeting between 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin on Sunday, India reiterated its demand for completing the disengagement at Pangong Tso and Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14) in Gogra. “But the final approvals have to be given by the political leadership on both sides,” said a source. The overall mood in the Indian security establishment remains grim, especially with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) yet to withdraw from the 8-km stretch it has occupied from `Finger-4’ to `Finger-8’ (mountainous spurs jutting into the lake) on the north bank of Pangong Tso since early-May. With even disengagement yet to fully take place at two of the four immediate face-off sites, the de-escalation and de-induction of troops from other sectors, including the strategically-located Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO), simply does not figure on the horizon as of now. Consequently, the Army has kicked off massive “advance winter stocking” for rations and other essential supplies for its well over 30,000 forward deployed troops in eastern Ladakh, as was reported by TOI last month. Sources on Monday said construction of insulated habitats for troops, including pre-fabricated huts, arctic tents and large containers, is also now underway, while adequate supplies of diesel, kerosene and aviation fuel have been “moved up” in the high-altitude region. Similarly, the Army has started getting initial deliveries under multiple contracts inked with domestic and foreign manufacturers for around 45 products, which includes specialized winter clothing and other personal gear like snow goggles, layered gloves and socks for soldiers. “Domestically, there is capability to manufacture such clothing and gear for temperatures up to minus 30-35 degree Celsius. Four to five items required for even lower temperatures, like `down’ jackets, trousers and sleeping bags, are being imported from Switzerland, Germany and Italy…they should begin arriving next month,” said a source. Emergency arms purchases from countries like the US, France, Russia and Israel are also concurrently in progress, with acquisition proposals ranging from “Spike Firefly loitering munitions” and additional “Spike” anti-tank guided missiles from Israel to small hand-launcheddrones and 72,000 more SiG Sauer assault rifles from the US. All these preparations for the long haul come in face of China’s continuing intransience in de-escalating the over 90-day long military confrontation along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh, from DBO in the north down to Demchok in the south. India, of course, has undertaken “mirror deployments” of troops, artillery, armour and other weapon systems to “more than match” the PLA build-ups. Though the ongoing military dialogue has focused more on disengagement at the “friction points” in Pangong Tso, Gogra-Hot Springs and Galwan Valley areas, the deep PLA intrusion in the Depsang Plains area to block Indian soldiers from going to their PPs-10, 11, 12 and 13 remains another major concern. India has deployed additional brigades (each has around 3,000 troops) and T-90S main battle tank regiments in the Depsang plateau, which located at an altitude of 16,000-feet provides access to the DBO advance landing ground and the critical Karakoram Pass in the north. “But the immediate focus is on disengagement at Pangong Tso and Gogra,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-taking-no-chances-in-eastern-ladakh-prepares-for-long-haul/articleshow/77340900.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 4, 2020||India||Give India another go to get Jadhav a lawyer: Pak court||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: The Islamabad high court on Monday ordered the Pakistani government to make another offer to India to appoint a lawyer for its national Kulbhushan Jadhav who was sentenced to death by a secret military court in April 2017 for alleged spying. The case will now come up for hearing on September 3. However, while the court wants India to join the review process, the problem for India, according to official sources, is the lack of cooperation from Pakistani authorities. After Pakistan didn’t allow India to hire a lawyer from outside the country, India had approached a Pakistani lawyer for filing a review petition in Islamabad HC. The plea still couldn’t be filed in the absence of power of attorney and also because Pakistan, as India had earlier said, refused to share the case files, including the FIR, with him. India had then distanced itself from the review process calling it farcical and accusing Pakistan of closing all avenues for justice to Jadhav. On July 22, the government had filed a petition in the Islamabad HC requesting appointment of legal representative for Jadhav. Hearing the plea, a two-member special bench comprising Islamabad HC Chief Justice Athar Minallah and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb said another chance should be given to the Indian government for arranging a lawyer. Pakistan’s attorney general Khalid Javed Khan assured the court that the government was ready to make the offer again, and would contact India through the foreign office. Official sources said for the review to be credible, it was important for Pakistan to allow India to engage Jadhav on his legal rights by providing unimpeded access to him. Speaking to reporters after the hearing in Islamabad, the AG said the court had not yet considered whether Indian lawyers would be allowed to represent Jadhav or assist the Pakistani legal team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/give-india-another-go-to-get-jadhav-a-lawyer-pak-court/articleshow/77340947.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
August 4, 2020||India||Three-day puja begins at Ramjanmabhoomi, Saryu ghats lit with diyas||AYODHYA: The three-day puja began at Ramjanmabhoomi on Saturday afternoon ahead of ‘bhoomi pujan’ amidst blowing of conches and lighting of diyas at temples and houses and along Saryu banks even as chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Ayodhya and reviewed preparations for the prime minister’s visit. Rituals at Ramjanmabhoomi began with the worship of Lord Ganesha and ‘Chhoti Devkaali’, kul devi (deity of the dynasty) of Sita and ‘Badi Devkaali’, kul devi of Lord Rama by 21 priests. This will be followed by special prayers at Hanumangarhi temple on Tuesday. Legend has it that when Sita married Ram in Janakpur, she carried the idol of her ‘kul devi’ and established the deity in Ayodhya. Likewise, there is a temple of ‘Badi Devkaali’ established by King Sudarshan in ‘dwapar yug’. Member of Ram Mandir Trust, Bimlendra Mishra, said, “the worship of Lord Ram will begin in Hanumangarhi temple on Tuesday morning and a special ‘nishaan puja’ will also be held. The chief minister, who held a review meeting in Ayodhya, said, Covid protocols will be strictly implemented during the bhoomi pujan and said only those received invites should attend the bhoomi pujan. Ayodhya town was sealed on Monday evening, keeping in view the security of the prime minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-day-puja-begins-at-ramjanmabhoomi-saryu-ghats-lit-with-diyas/articleshow/77340949.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 4, 2020||India||Court to ‘molester’: Get rakhi tied by complainant||A judge of Indore bench of MP high court has ordered a molestation accused to get himself a Rakhi tied from the complainant, while granting him bail on a bond of Rs 50,000. Justice Rohit Arya ordered the accused, Vikram Bagari, to visit the complainant’s house with a rakhi and a box of sweets at 11am on August 3 and request her to tie it on him and promise to protect her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-to-molester-get-rakhi-tied-by-complainant/articleshow/77340956.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||All non-essential shops in Mumbai can open daily from Wednesday||MUMBAI: From Wednesday, shops in Mumbai can stay open on all days of the week and those on all sides of the road can stay open at the same time. Liquor shops, too, can sell across the counter, the BMC has said in a circular issued on Monday on revised guidelines for the ‘unlocking’ phase. Non-essential shops on either side of a road were allowed to open only on odd-even days in the city since the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ took off in June, and liquor shops had only been allowed home delivery. Even when the state government had said, at the end of July, that further relaxations would be granted from August 5, there had been no mention on shops on both sides of a road or liquor shops. Liquor shops can continue with home deliveries too “in strict observance of Covid-19 national directives on masks and social distancing,” and if the directives are violated, an FIR would be lodged against the shop owner and the person flouting rules and strict action initiated, the BMC said. The order comes as a big relief for shopkeepers who said the alternate days rule had hit their businesses hard. Shops and also malls and market complexes can operate from 9am to 7pm. Theatres, food courts and restaurants in malls will not open but their kitchens will be allowed to operate and only home delivery through aggregators allowed. Shop locally, don’t go far, says BMCAt the same time, the civic body circular has said that for shopping purposes, people are expected to use only nearby/neigbourhood markets, and long-distance travel for non-essential items would not be permitted. As stated by the state at the end of July, while outdoor nonteam sports like golf and tennis are allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures with effect from August 5, swimming pools will remain shut for now. Viren Shah, the president of Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association , welcomed the order on shops. He said, “There are more than three lakhs shops in the city whose owners will heave a sigh of relief. The earlier order had allowed shops to remain open on alternate days and shop owners did not find it practical to open up at all as they had to pay wages to staff and rent to landlords, with business already low. We have told all shop owners to maintain distancing norms and use sanitisation and take all precautions on their premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-non-essential-shops-in-mumbai-can-open-daily-from-wednesday/articleshow/77340954.cms||Richa Pinto
August 4, 2020||India||Nepal armed police battalion HQ set up across U’khand border||PITHORAGARH: Nepal has set up a battalion headquarter for its Armed Police Force (APF) at Darchula, which borders Uttarakhand’s Dharchula district, reports Prem Punetha. On Monday, Nepalese commandant in-charge Narandra Bam took over the charge at the new facility. Nepal’s move is reportedly aimed at strengthening its border security along Kali river in Darchula. Prior to this, only a company of APF used to guard its borders in the district. “The strength of the battalion will be increased after more deployment,” Bam told TOI. The step comes in the wake of border tensions between the two nations which were fueled after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the almost 80-km long Kailash Mansarovar road on May 8. Since then the Nepal government has been constantly increasing vigilance along the Indo-Nepal border at several areas like Chhangru, Dumling, Darchula, Jauljibi, Lali, Jhulaghat etc. Sources said that plans are afoot to set up more border outposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-armed-police-battalion-hq-set-up-across-ukhand-border/articleshow/77340963.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Raipur||Raipur: Maoist gives up arms to keep sister's Rakhi wish||RAIPUR: A Maoist platoon commander, carrying a bounty of Rs 8 lakh, surrendered in Dantewada on Monday after his sister told him she would tie him a rakhi only when he quits the insurgent outfit and returns home for good. His sister’s love melted Malla, a hardcore Maoist who had left his home in Palnar village at the age of 12 after being taken away by the insurgents. It was his first visit home in 14 years, coinciding with Rakhshabandhan, and his sister Langa refused to let him go back to the world of violence. After a lot of persuasion by his sister, Malla gave in and she immediately led him, by hand, to police to surrender. She tied him a rakhi at the police station. Dantewada SP Abhishek Pallava told mediapersons that Malla has been arrested and since he was a platoon commander, it is possible he was involved in some of the major incidents of Maoist violence in the last decade. He is entitled to benefits of ‘Lon Varratu’ scheme, the state’s surrender policy, he added. Police are looking into his time with the Maoists to find out which attacks he was involved in. Malla, 26, has told police that after being led away by Maoists, he rose up the ranks and became a platoon commander in 2016. He led the group associated with Bhairamgarh Area Committee. SP Pallava said the administration would help Malla get a means of livelihood under Lon Varratu scheme. Some are given jobs, and some join the District Reserve Guards and spearhead anti-Maoist ops. Those who don't want to take up the gun again are helped to set up self-help groups for farming. Watch Naxal carrying reward of Rs 8 lakh surrendered in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada on sister’s appeal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/maoist-surrenders-to-keep-rakhi-date/articleshow/77340966.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: Health teams to test vulnerable citizens across Karnataka||BENGALURU: After starting fresh door-to-door health surveys in Bengaluru, the state government has decided to test vulnerable groups of citizens for Covid-19 across Karnataka. The effort will focus on the elderly, pregnant women, people with comorbidity and those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). Rapid antigen testing kits will be used. In Karnataka, there are 48.3 lakh households with at least one member aged above 60, 4.1 lakh pregnant and lactating women and 1.5 lakh households with comorbidity, according to the data from the state Covid-19 war room. The data was updated in May. The testing plan is yet another move to check the spread of Covid-19, especially in Bengaluru where cases have shot up. In the past two days, health teams of BBMP have been racing to identify vulnerable groups of citizens through door-to-door surveys. “We have drawn up a booth-level action plan. Each booth has 200 to 250 houses. Once a survey is conducted, booth workers will have the list of vulnerable citizens, who will be then tested with antigen kits,” said a BBMP health officer. In the first phase, the civic body is targeting mostly clusters of apartments, large resident welfare associations (RWA) and slums. It will then cover independent houses and layouts. State health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said testing had begun in containment zones and the effort would be gradually extended to the entire city. “For now, the decision is to test those living in containment zones and buffer zones as they are a priority. Outside these zones, we are identifying vulnerable sections and trying to test as many as possible. This will be a continuous process,” he said. Testing at-risk sections of the population was planned earlier, but a shortage of diagnostic kits delayed the process. “Until about 15 days ago, rapid antigen kits were not available. Now, there are sufficient kits to expand the process,” said a health officer with BBMP. The government has also ordered tests for vegetable vendors and traders as they operate in crowded areas. “District deputy commissioners have been given the mandate to test all those who are out in large crowded areas,” Pandey said. Some ministers are concerned about lack of coordination. “Testing has become ad hoc. MLAs ask officials to test people in their areas, while officials have orders to visit a different location. We need a strategy where ILI cases are identified quickly and primary contacts are tested on priority. This will help save lives and improve tracking of patients,” said a minister, who is on the Covid-19 task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/health-teams-to-test-vulnerable-citizens-across-karnataka/articleshow/77343466.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: Health teams to test vulnerable citizens across Karnataka||BENGALURU: After starting fresh door-to-door health surveys in Bengaluru, the state government has decided to test vulnerable groups of citizens for Covid-19 across Karnataka. The effort will focus on the elderly, pregnant women, people with comorbidity and those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). Rapid antigen testing kits will be used. In Karnataka, there are 48.3 lakh households with at least one member aged above 60, 4.1 lakh pregnant and lactating women and 1.5 lakh households with comorbidity, according to the data from the state Covid-19 war room. The data was updated in May. The testing plan is yet another move to check the spread of Covid-19, especially in Bengaluru where cases have shot up. In the past two days, health teams of BBMP have been racing to identify vulnerable groups of citizens through door-to-door surveys. “We have drawn up a booth-level action plan. Each booth has 200 to 250 houses. Once a survey is conducted, booth workers will have the list of vulnerable citizens, who will be then tested with antigen kits,” said a BBMP health officer. In the first phase, the civic body is targeting mostly clusters of apartments, large resident welfare associations (RWA) and slums. It will then cover independent houses and layouts. State health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said testing had begun in containment zones and the effort would be gradually extended to the entire city. “For now, the decision is to test those living in containment zones and buffer zones as they are a priority. Outside these zones, we are identifying vulnerable sections and trying to test as many as possible. This will be a continuous process,” he said. Testing at-risk sections of the population was planned earlier, but a shortage of diagnostic kits delayed the process. “Until about 15 days ago, rapid antigen kits were not available. Now, there are sufficient kits to expand the process,” said a health officer with BBMP. The government has also ordered tests for vegetable vendors and traders as they operate in crowded areas. “District deputy commissioners have been given the mandate to test all those who are out in large crowded areas,” Pandey said. Some ministers are concerned about lack of coordination. “Testing has become ad hoc. MLAs ask officials to test people in their areas, while officials have orders to visit a different location. We need a strategy where ILI cases are identified quickly and primary contacts are tested on priority. This will help save lives and improve tracking of patients,” said a minister, who is on the Covid-19 task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/health-teams-to-test-vulnerable-citizens-across-karnataka/articleshow/77343468.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Health teams to test vulnerable citizens across Karnataka||BENGALURU: After starting fresh door-to-door health surveys in Bengaluru, the state government has decided to test vulnerable groups of citizens for Covid-19 across Karnataka. The effort will focus on the elderly, pregnant women, people with comorbidity and those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). Rapid antigen testing kits will be used. In Karnataka, there are 48.3 lakh households with at least one member aged above 60, 4.1 lakh pregnant and lactating women and 1.5 lakh households with comorbidity, according to the data from the state Covid-19 war room. The data was updated in May. The testing plan is yet another move to check the spread of Covid-19, especially in Bengaluru where cases have shot up. In the past two days, health teams of BBMP have been racing to identify vulnerable groups of citizens through door-to-door surveys. “We have drawn up a booth-level action plan. Each booth has 200 to 250 houses. Once a survey is conducted, booth workers will have the list of vulnerable citizens, who will be then tested with antigen kits,” said a BBMP health officer. In the first phase, the civic body is targeting mostly clusters of apartments, large resident welfare associations (RWA) and slums. It will then cover independent houses and layouts. State health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said testing had begun in containment zones and the effort would be gradually extended to the entire city. “For now, the decision is to test those living in containment zones and buffer zones as they are a priority. Outside these zones, we are identifying vulnerable sections and trying to test as many as possible. This will be a continuous process,” he said. Testing at-risk sections of the population was planned earlier, but a shortage of diagnostic kits delayed the process. “Until about 15 days ago, rapid antigen kits were not available. Now, there are sufficient kits to expand the process,” said a health officer with BBMP. The government has also ordered tests for vegetable vendors and traders as they operate in crowded areas. “District deputy commissioners have been given the mandate to test all those who are out in large crowded areas,” Pandey said. Some ministers are concerned about lack of coordination. “Testing has become ad hoc. MLAs ask officials to test people in their areas, while officials have orders to visit a different location. We need a strategy where ILI cases are identified quickly and primary contacts are tested on priority. This will help save lives and improve tracking of patients,” said a minister, who is on the Covid-19 task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/health-teams-to-test-vulnerable-citizens-across-karnataka/articleshow/77340938.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 4, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Health teams to test vulnerable citizens across Karnataka||BENGALURU: After starting fresh door-to-door health surveys in Bengaluru, the state government has decided to test vulnerable groups of citizens for Covid-19 across Karnataka. The effort will focus on the elderly, pregnant women, people with comorbidity and those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). Rapid antigen testing kits will be used. In Karnataka, there are 48.3 lakh households with at least one member aged above 60, 4.1 lakh pregnant and lactating women and 1.5 lakh households with comorbidity, according to the data from the state Covid-19 war room. The data was updated in May. The testing plan is yet another move to check the spread of Covid-19, especially in Bengaluru where cases have shot up. In the past two days, health teams of BBMP have been racing to identify vulnerable groups of citizens through door-to-door surveys. “We have drawn up a booth-level action plan. Each booth has 200 to 250 houses. Once a survey is conducted, booth workers will have the list of vulnerable citizens, who will be then tested with antigen kits,” said a BBMP health officer. In the first phase, the civic body is targeting mostly clusters of apartments, large resident welfare associations (RWA) and slums. It will then cover independent houses and layouts. State health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said testing had begun in containment zones and the effort would be gradually extended to the entire city. “For now, the decision is to test those living in containment zones and buffer zones as they are a priority. Outside these zones, we are identifying vulnerable sections and trying to test as many as possible. This will be a continuous process,” he said. Testing at-risk sections of the population was planned earlier, but a shortage of diagnostic kits delayed the process. “Until about 15 days ago, rapid antigen kits were not available. Now, there are sufficient kits to expand the process,” said a health officer with BBMP. The government has also ordered tests for vegetable vendors and traders as they operate in crowded areas. “District deputy commissioners have been given the mandate to test all those who are out in large crowded areas,” Pandey said. Some ministers are concerned about lack of coordination. “Testing has become ad hoc. MLAs ask officials to test people in their areas, while officials have orders to visit a different location. We need a strategy where ILI cases are identified quickly and primary contacts are tested on priority. This will help save lives and improve tracking of patients,” said a minister, who is on the Covid-19 task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/health-teams-to-test-vulnerable-citizens-across-karnataka/articleshow/77343465.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 4, 2020||Mumbai||‘Nearness to equator and warm climate may explain India’s low Covid deaths’||MUMBAI: Providing an explanation for India’s “lowest across the globe” mortality rate for Covid-19, doctors from Tata Memorial Hospital, the country’s premier cancer care facility, said “geography” and “seasonal variation” could be helping it. India has registered 38,135 deaths in the past four and half months compared to, say, 1.5 lakh in the US. India’s case fatality rate is 2.2%, said the union health ministry a few days ago, crediting its “test, track, treat” strategy for the low numbers. Tata doctors, who have been treating cancer patients infected with Covid-19, said deaths rather than cases should be used to study the virus’s effects. Their viewpoint has been published online in the Indian Council for Medical Research’s website and will feature in the Indian Journal of Medical Research’s third special edition on Covid-19 in India. "While the number of cases is dependent on the number of tests performed and hence is unreliable for comparison, the number of deaths in various countries can be more reliably compared despite concerns about underreporting in some locations,” said Tata Memorial Centre’s director Dr Rajendra Badwe, who is the lead author of the piece. On Monday, Dr Badwe told TOI: “India has a population of 1.3 billion (130 crore) and has registered 35,000 deaths, which works out to roughly 30 deaths per million (10 lakh) population. The US has one-fourth our population, but its death per million figure is almost five times of our rate.” The paper said studies from China, US and Europe indicated venous thromboembolism —a condition in which blood clots form in deep veins of the leg, groin or arm—as an important cause of Covid-19 deaths. The authors further observed venous thromboembolism is lower in warmer climates and also in higher latitudes. India is closer to the equator and has a warmer climate, lessening the incidence of venous thromboembolism as compared to colder nations. They said seasonal and geographic variation in venous thromboembolism could be due to a predisposing factor—levels of naturally occurring antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). “Covid-19 induces levels of aPLs to go up, worsening the risk of a bleed,” said Dr Badwe. As Indians live in warmer climate, the likelihood of aPLs increasing to dangerous levels to cause bleeding is lower. Doctors said lower chances of clotting have led to a lower overall death rate among Indians. “The striking difference in mortality in the Indian versus the western world provides an opportunity for gaining insights into pathophysiology of Covid-19 and possible solutions. It can be entirely due to differences in age, comorbidity, etc. Variation in aPL prevalence in countries with low versus high Covid-19 population mortality should also be explored,” said Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi, one of the co-authors of the paper. Dr Shashank Joshi, an endocrinologist who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, though, said he doesn’t agree with the theory as the clinical finding in India is that thromboembolism occurs in Covid-19 patients here as well. Dr Kedar Toraskar, intensivist with Wockhardt Hospital, Byculla, a member of the state task force, said, “I have observed thrombosis in 25-30% of severe cases admitted to the ICU... We have conducted biomarker tests to double-check as well. To say Covid-19 is not thrombogenic is wrong,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nearness-to-equator-and-warm-climate-may-explain-indias-low-covid-deaths/articleshow/77340973.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 4, 2020||India||HC bats for freedom of press, gives journo relief||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court has said it is the fundamental right of a reporter to publish news of “any illegal” activity “in an honest way”, and “proper reporting” can help the administration act against the offenders. A division bench comprising Justices Bibek Chaudhuri and Soumen Sen made this observation while granting anticipatory bail to a journalist from the Birbhum district whose report on illegal sand mining prompted three FIRs against him at three police stations. Times ViewThe alarming incident highlights the kind of roadblocks journalists face, especially in small towns. The HC’s observation can against the Birbhum police, which cannot seem to distinguish between a whistleblower and a criminal, is heartening. A 2019 NGO report showed that 40 journalists were killed and 198 attacked in India between 2014 and 2019. Honest journalism is fundamental to democracy and needs to be protected.The HC also added that it felt a case was registered “to stifle” the reporter’s voice. It also directed the Birbhum SP to probe the registration of FIRs against the reporter, investigate the bribery incident mentioned in the report and “take appropriate action against the offenders”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-bats-for-freedom-of-press-gives-journo-relief/articleshow/77340976.cms||---
August 4, 2020||India||Cong MPs slam Punjab govt, call for CBI, ED probe||CHANDIGARH: Two Congress parliamentarians targeted their party-led government in Punjab on Monday over the spurious liquor tragedy, which has claimed over 100 lives, and petitioned the governor for probe by the CBI and the ED into the “illegal” trade in alcohol. RS MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo alleged “clear-cut failure” on the part of the state administration and claimed the tragedy could have been averted, had CM Amarinder Singh acted in time on their complaints about illegal liquor businesses. The death toll in the tragedy rose to 105 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-mps-slam-punjab-govt-call-for-cbi-ed-probe/articleshow/77340978.cms||---
August 4, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur: Panel formed to start plasma therapy||BHAGALPUR: A six-member committee has been formed at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here to form the modalities and to procure necessary medical equipment to start plasma therapy at the hospital. The committee headed by head of the department of medicine, Dr Binay Kumar, comprises head of surgery department Dr Mrityunjay Kumar, associate professor and nodal officer for Covid-19 at JLNMCH Dr Hem Shankar Sharma, Dr P B Mishra, department of medicine, head of the pathology department, Dr Satyendra Kumar, and blood bank incharge Dr Rekha Jha. Earlier, JLNMCH doctors had raised the issue related to starting plasma therapy when principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit had reached here on July 31 to review the facilities at the hospital and nearby government hospitals. Later, Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar organized a meeting with JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha, college council members, senior doctors and the superintendent on Sunday. Special officers, who have been deputed by the state government to oversee and monitor the treatment of Covid patients at Bhagalpur region, Deepak Mishra (IAS) and Bharat Soni (IPS) were also present in the meeting. Recently, the Bhagalpur chapter of India Medical Association (IMA) also sought attention of the state government to start plasma therapy at Bhagalpur. IMA secretary Dr Birendra Kumar Badal, also made an appeal to the patients, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, to donate plasma in order to save the lives of people from the deadly disease. The JLNMCH principal said the committee has been formed to frame modalities for starting plasma therapy at the earliest. “Plasma (extract from blood) of the patients, after their recovery develops antibodies. The plasma on being transfused to other critically ill Covid-19 patients helps in developing antibodies in the suffering patients and fight against the deadly disease,” he said. He added, “We hope to start plasma therapy, as per the guidelines of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). It will help in saving lives of patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panel-formed-to-start-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77336774.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gyms set to reopen with focus on safety||BENGALURU: After four months of lockdown and financial pain, gyms and fitness centres will reopen in Bengaluru on Wednesday under new health-safety guidelines that advise people to wear a visor while exercising and maintain 6-ft distance, even from trainers. It’s a completely new reality for an industry that was characterised by close physical contact, group setting and shared spaces before the coronavirus pandemic erupted. Gym owners are happy that they can finally restart their business in Unlock 3.0, the third phase of resumption of economic and public activities nationwide. But they are worried if customers will return and how much operating costs will increase because of new safety arrangements and precautions. “We are preparing for the August 5 reopening. Finally, we will be able to operate; it will help us clear debts,” said fitness expert Vinod Kumar R, who owns Golden Arrow Gym. “We were forced to keep the gym shut for nearly five months because of the pandemic, but we still had to pay the rent.” Vinod has sent personal messages to his members, requesting them to carry their own water bottles, gloves, visors and sanitisers. “We will have a sanitiser dispenser, but we urge people to be understanding and responsible as we have incurred huge losses,” he said. Suraj M, who runs a gym on New BEL Road, shared a similar view. “We are trying to limit additional costs, considering we have taken a financial hit,” he said. To ensure safety, Suraj’s gym will allow only 15 people on the premises at a time, down from 25 earlier. “Each member will be allotted 50 minutes of workout time. Personal training has been halted for now,” he said. Prasad Kumar, general secretary of the Karnataka Gym Owners’ Association, described the industry sentiment as a mix of relief and concern. “I thank the state and central governments for this decision, which gives gym owners a shot at survival. But we are also worried about the health of our members,” he said. There are 3,200 gyms in Bengaluru, according to a survey conducted by the association. About 2,700 are fully equipped and spread over at least 1,000sqft. The rest are small centres. “In gyms spread over an area of less than 1,000sqft, only 10 people should be allowed at a time. In larger outlets, 15-20 people should be allowed,” Prasad said. On Monday, he received over 50 enquiries on gym reopening. Shodhan Rai, an internationally acclaimed natural bodybuilder and Ekalavya awardee, said everyone would have to write down their contact details and address before entering fitness clubs. Gym-goers are glad that they can resume their fitness routines and shed the extra weight they put on during lockdown. “Earlier, I used to work out for nearly two hours every day. I was getting into shape for my marriage, which was supposed to happen in April. The pandemic affected the schedule and my weight,” said software engineer Punith Partha, who lives in Banaswadi. “The wedding will take place in October now, and I hope to regain fitness by then.” Whitefield resident Leela Shivakumar is excited about hitting the gym again, but at the same time, she is worried about coronavirus. “In enclosed spaces, the risk of infection is higher. In a gym, people breathe harder and sweat more,” she said. “Working out while wearing a visor is going to be a challenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-gyms-set-to-reopen-with-focus-on-safety/articleshow/77340953.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Prompt hospital admission after positive antigen test: BBMP||BENGALURU: People whose rapid antigen test turns positive will be immediately shifted to a hospital, officials said after a key meeting on Monday. Until now, such people were allowed to go home and wait for instructions on hospital admission, a process that took time. BBMP officials, members of a hospital bed management team and senior IAS officers involved in Covid-19 battle discussed ways to speed up the process of providing treatment to patients. “The number of patients who face a wait for beds has increased. Delays cause panic among those around them. To prevent this, we have changed our approach,” BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told TOI. “Earlier, those with a positive antigen test were sent home and made to wait for a hospital bed. Now, a 108 ambulance will promptly take them to the nearest hospital where a bed is available.” Allotting a bed to a patient has been a time-consuming process. The person’s details are sent to the ICMR’s portal, after which a unique patient ID is generated at the district level. It’s a nearly eight-hour procedure. “These eight hours are important. In some cases, patients with comorbidity become critical by the time they reach the hospital. We’ve taken the hospitalisation decision to prevent this,” said a BBMP official. Under the new system, once a person tests positive, the details will be sent to the zonal officer, who will check for bed availability and monitor the patient’s condition till they reach the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/prompt-hospital-admission-after-positive-antigen-test-bbmp/articleshow/77340945.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 4, 2020||India||Ghaffar Khan kin moves HC to take aunt to Pak||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on a plea by a Pakistan national to appoint him guardian of his aunt, who is a Canadian citizen but has been living in India since 1983. He wants to take his ailing aunt to Pakistan to look after her. A resident of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (NWFP), Mashal Khan (40) and his aunt Zarin Ghani Walsh (76) are the great-grandson and grand-daughter respectively of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the Pashtun leader who worked to end British rule in India and was nicknamed Frontier Gandhi. After Partition, Khan’s family became Pakistani nationals. Zarin, who resides at Breach Candy, is daughter of his eldest son, Abdul Ghani Khan. Born on April 11, 1944 in Simla, Zarin married Stanley Walsh, a Canadian, in 1975. The couple moved to India in 1983. Stanley died intestate in March 2013. Zarin’s family comprises the widow of her brother and his three children, including Mashal, who live in Pakistan. According to the petition, in November 2019, Zarin was certified as suffering from Alzheimer’s “since 7 to 8 years” and doctors recommended that she must live with relatives. The judges said the plea is “novel” as the nephew has directly petitioned HC. They said the Centre’s response is required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ghaffar-khan-kin-moves-hc-to-take-aunt-to-pak/articleshow/77341001.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Uddanam needs spl care amid pandemic||Visakhapatnam: Uddanam in Srikakulam district is known for the wide prevalence of kidney disease in the area. The World Health Organization (WHO) recognises Uddanam among three most kidney disease-prone areas in the world. As such, there was active concern about the area as the Covid-19 pandemic rages through the world. According to Srikakulam district health officials, a total of 2,080 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the area of which less than 10 suffer from kidney disease. Fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju, who hails from Uddanam, said that the government mobilised five dedicated vehicles for dialysis of people suffering from kidney disease in the area in March when the lockdown began. He added that nearly 200 kidney patients of Uddanam travel to Srikakulam town as well as Visakhapatnam every day to get dialysis. “Fortunately, not many kidney patients have been infected with Covid-19. We have decided to keep a separate ward so that patients with kidney troubles and Covid-19 so that they can receive simultaneous treatment for both at the Covid-19 hospital in Srikakulam,” the minister said. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “One thing that we have done is that we are testing all dialysis patients for Covid-19.” He added that Covid-19 patients requiring dialysis are being sent to Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) on a special vehicle every day. Yaradi Krishna Murthy, a local doctor who has been researching the kidney ailments in Uddanam said that the government must take special care as Covid-19 has started spreading to villages in Uddanam region now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/uddanam-needs-spl-care-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77337504.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 4, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Ward, village secretariats to get oximeters||AMARAVATI: The state government has decided to supply pulse oximeters to ward and village secretariats. The ANMs and volunteers attached to the secretariats would check oxygen levels of Covid-19 patients at regular intervals in order to shift them to hospitals on time. “We noticed that many deaths are taking place since most patients were reaching hospitals in a very critical condition. We will supply oximeters to secretariats to monitor their health status,” said Covid-19 special officer B Rajasekhar. With many people unable to buy oximeters, the government has decided to give them to ANMs at ward and village secretariats. The government had initially promised to give oximeters to all patients along with the Covid-drug kit for those at home isolation. It later dropped the plan as the metres cost Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 per unit. Rajasekhar has directed the Guntur district administration to give at least two oximeters to each secretariat to enable the staff and volunteers to visit Covid-19 patients at home and check oxygen levels. The ANMs and volunteers would be directed to focus on patients of high risk category and those with co-morbidities to reduce mortality rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ward-village-secretariats-to-get-oximeters/articleshow/77337511.cms||Samdani MN
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Mandal-level control centres in Krishna||Vijayawada: Krishna district continues to see a rise in Covid-19 cases. Around 1,000 new cases are being reported every day and the death rate is going up. Rural parts of the district too are reporting as many cases as their urban counterparts. In a bid to handle the spurt, the district administration has decided to set up mandal-level Covid-19 control rooms and isolation wards. Mandal development officers (MDOs) and Mandal Revenue Officers (MROs) have been appointed nodal officers. The officials will organise health camps in villages and identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. Arrangements are being made to test such people immediately and provide medical assistance at a local level. The district administration has directed the health wing to begin treatment of all patients displaying Covid-19 symptoms without waiting for test reports. “Early detection can help reduce the death rate among Covid-19 patients,” said Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz. He added: “We have three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and 11 other hospitals to deal with high-risk cases. Similarly, our mandal-level nodal officers will take measures to provide treatment to patients in rural areas. Isolation wards are being prepared and health wing officials are procuring necessary medicines.” Krishna district registered 240 new Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the district’s tally to 7,819. There are 2,626 active cases while 5,015 patients have recovered. Three deaths were reported in the district on Monday, taking the death toll to 178.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mandal-level-control-centres-in-krishna/articleshow/77337523.cms||Venu Lanka
August 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru hospital accused of not releasing body over Rs 3.5 lakh bill||BENGALURU: The daughter of a Covid-19 patient, who died last week, has alleged that St John’s Medical College and Hospital did not release his body for two days over bill payment issues. The hospital rejected the allegations, saying the body was handed over to the family on Monday. Nyamath Pasha, who lived in Subashnagar and owned a driving school, complained of breathlessness on July 21. He had asthma. The family admitted him to St John’s hospital. “On the day of the admission, doctors said my father had tested negative for Covid-19 and he would be shifted to the general ward in a couple of days. The next day, they said he had tested positive,” Nyamath’s daughter, Amreen Taj, claimed in a video that was widely shared online on Monday. “We asked the doctors to continue the treatment. We paid Rs 1.5 lakh as per their direction.” She alleged that doctors didn’t share any further information about Nyamath’s condition and kept saying he was recovering. “Around 3.30pm on Saturday, we received a call informing us that he had died. When we reached the hospital, the staff said we needed to pay Rs 3.5 lakh, the remaining amount, to take the body. We asked about his medical reports, but they refused to give them,” Amreen alleged. Unable to pay the sum, she sought the government’s help. “Nyamath tested positive on July 22, but the report reached BBMP only on Saturday (August 1) and that too after we approached BBMP and asked them to check. Isn’t it inhumane for hospital officials to refuse to hand over the body over a bill?” said Amreen’s neighbour, Saleem Pasha. Medical education minister K Sudhakar took note of the incident, criticising the hospital. “Humanity is bigger than money... the woman’s video has come to my notice... the hospital’s stand to not release the body for non-payment of money is inhuman. I have asked officials to resolve the woman’s problem,” he tweeted. But Dr Sanjiv Lewin, chief of medical services, St John’s hospital, denied the allegations. “The person was brought to the hospital with fever, cough and breathing issues on July 21. A rapid antigen test turned negative. However, a RT-PCR test was also done and the next day, the report came positive. The patient had severe diabetes and other complications, and died on Saturday,” Dr Lewin said. He added: “On Sunday, a group came to the hospital and created a ruckus, and police had to intervene. On Monday, the body was handed over to the family. It is our policy that we never hold back a body for payment reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-hospital-accused-of-not-releasing-body-over-rs-3-5-lakh-bill/articleshow/77340948.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Muted Rakhi as Covid fear looms large||Vijayawada: The Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on yet another festival. This year’s Rakshabandhan celebrations remain joyless for siblings as well as for rakhi vendors in Vijayawada. In normal circumstances, Besant Road is flooded with women of all ages gathered to buy rakhis this time of the year. But this time, the busy street in Vijayawada is deserted and hardly anyone is taking a glance at the silk and cotton rakhis. “This pandemic has ruined our business. Previous years, we used to make at least Rs 200 an hour during the peak season. But now, we are simply shutting shop as there is no hope after a certain point in the day,” says Ramakrishna, a roadside rakhi vendor. Meanwhile, women who would otherwise courier rakhis to their brothers living in other parts of the country complain that the price of private courier service has turned twice or thrice the cost of the rakhi itself. 34-year-old Vijaya Lakshmi, who teaches at a private school in the city said, “A courier to my cousin in Tamil Nadu costs Rs750. If I take the government-run postal service, the lack of trains has made even speed-post deliveries slower.” Another trend that has caught up is the sending of virtual rakhis over social media, which costs nothing, although, the liveliness of the festival has taken a beating. Dharitri, another school teacher said, “I have asked my brother to make a simple rakhi and tie it himself. There is no way we can visit each other at this time. Fear of contracting the virus runs deep.” The reluctance to celebrate the festival has spelt doom for vendors like Ramakrishna. “Last season, I sold over 500 rakhis. This year, I doubt if I will even touch a 100,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/muted-rakhi-as-covid-fear-looms-large/articleshow/77337557.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
