August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||City’s fitness enthusiasts sport masks, shields and gloves as gyms reopen||Unlock 3.0 has brought in a much needed respite for the fitness industry, with gyms, yoga centres and fitness classes getting the go ahead to reopen, with conditions attached, of course. Fewer clients with staggered appointmentsAshwini Jaisimha of A3 Performance says, "We record temperature and oxygen level of patrons. Wearing a face shield is mandatory during a workout. Whether or not masks also have to be worn is still being debated. We are encouraging everyone to carry their own towels, bottles and other equipment. We're looking at reduced appointments for every hourly session to ensure not more than 50% of clients are at the premises at a given time." Some centres are encouraging clients to carry towels and sanitisers to clean the equipment that they've used, while others have sanitisation stations for the same. Amith Gowda of Haute Fitness says, "After every hourly session, common areas will be thoroughly cleaned for half an hour." Trainers remain onlineAmith says, "Group sessions will be reduced to a maximum strength of, say, 10-15 people in a batch, with training imparted over a digital screen. We will consider the physical presence of a trainer later, considering that they normally work at multiple centres.” No shower or steam sessionsWhile restrooms and wash basins are accessible, showers and steam rooms will continue to be off bounds. Exclusive aerobics and yoga studios will wait and watchFitness entrepreneur Wanitha Ashok of Moving Body says, "We are not going to reopen just as yet. It will be hard to have aerobics classes with distancing and other measures. We want to ensure the clients are also free of any sort of inhibitions, before we throw open our doors." Most of these studios are continuing their classes online. Common measures being followed- Temperature and oxygen level checks - Mandatory use of masks, shields and gloves - Cleaning of equipment before and after use - No use of showers or steam rooms Watch Gyms in Bengaluru gear up to reopen in Unlock 3.0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/citys-fitness-enthusiasts-sport-masks-shields-and-gloves-as-gyms-reopen/articleshow/77354871.cms||Sunayana Suresh
August 5, 2020||Bhopal||Govt rolls out ‘paid’ Covid-19 treatment in Bhopal, without cap on charges||BHOPAL: Without a cap on pricing, Covid-19 patients are being given the option for private medical care in the state capital. The move in Bhopal, marks a departure from previous state government policy set in February this year. Under that policy, all dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, were covered under Ayushmaan Bharat 'Niramayam' Madhya Pradesh scheme. The new policy has been in effect in two private hospitals authorised for Covid-19 treatment in Bhopal. The controversial move has raised questions as the district administration has not set a cap on hospital charges. “At the moment there is a mutual understanding and currently there is no pricing ceiling set (for how much a hospital can charge for Covid-19 treatment),” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. “The patient has an option to opt for free Covid-19 care in identified hospitals. Others seeking premium hospitalisation can opt for authorised private hospitals,” he added. The district administration's move comes in the backdrop of rising complaints and criticism over the inflated bills by private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in other states. \ It forces many state governments to cap the price for treatment of coronavirus infection. In the last few days, the district administration offered paid hotel quarantine. Madhya Pradesh was one of the first states to offer free Covid-19 treatment for all, which included those who were not covered under Ayushman Bharat scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-rolls-out-paid-covid-19-treatment-in-bhopal-without-cap-on-charges/articleshow/77358964.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Netas with new profile on 'bhoomi pujan' of Ram temple in Ayodhya||BHOPAL: As the entire nation gears up for the Ram temple 'bhumi pujan', prominent leaders in Madhya Pradesh took to social media sites to express their faith amid celebrations across the world. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was also enthusiastic to replace his twitter profile photo with the picture of Lord Ram and the tag - Aham Agatosmi - I am coming. Not only Chouhan, to everybody's utter surprise, senior Congress leader Kamal Nath also changed his profile picture installing himself in a saffron attire. Chouhan's profile also carried a catchphrase - Dharma Eva Hato Hanti Dharmo Rakshati Rakshitah which means, `Dharma only destroys (those) that destroy it. Dharma protects those that protect it. Hence, Dharma should not be destroyed.' The chief minister, whois recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital and likely to be discharged very soon, also expressed his emotions on the Ram temple construction. "I salute to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel. The entire country is with you. We are fortunate that this resolution is being fulfilled in front of us," tweeted Chouhan. Recalling the Ram Janmbhoomi movement, Chouhan further said, "When the movement of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi was going on, a `rath yatra' took place under the leadership of BJP's senior leader Shri LK Advani. Many of us were involved in this movement. We were arrested on the border of Uttar Pradesh in front of `Hanumna' while moving towards Ayodhya for Karseva in 1991. We were kept in Jaunpur jail. Rajnath Singh ji was also with us there. The atmosphere was full of devotion." Chouhan also praised PM Modi and said, "We are fortunate that tomorrow the construction of the Ram temple will begin. Millions of Ram devotees struggled 500 years for this happy moment. Due to the determination of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the sacrifice of millions of Shriram devotees, this virtuous task is beginning." During the last two days, Chouhan has been appealing to the people to light lamps in the house, celebrate `deepotsav' and recite `Sunder Kand' or `Hanuman Chalisa'. BJP state president VD Sharma has also changed his twitter profile with the poster of Lord Ram. Sharma shared his memories of Ramjanmbhoomi movement. "After 500 years of struggle, Lord Shri Ram will reside in Ayodhya tomorrow. I am proud that I was a member of Ramakrishnanagar Karseva Committee of Gwalior and had the privilege of doing Karseva. May the whole of India be 'Ramamayi' from today. All activists and Ram devotees change their DPs and headers with me. Historic day for every Indian.The wait for years is over," tweeted Sharma. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotirsditya Scindia also joined the chorus and tweeted,"The whole country is ready to welcome Lord Shri Ram. Shriram was always with us..tomorrow, even today, and will last for ages. Wishing all the people of India on the foundation stone laying ceremony of the grand temple of Lord Rama." BJP Lok Sabha member Pragya Singh Thakur said, "Modi Raj main fir se aaya Ram Rajya, (Once again Ram Rajya came during Modi's rule)."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/netas-with-new-profile-on-bhoomi-pujan-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77359047.cms||Rajendra Sharma
August 5, 2020||India||India, Russia look to shore up cooperation with physical meetings||NEW DELHI: Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Russian deputy foreign minister Igor Morgulov Tuesday discussed the possibility of restarting physical meetings to provide a leg-up to bilateral ties. They discussed the likelihood of having physical BRICS and SCO summits that Russia is looking to host in St Petersburg later this year, sources here said. Physical meetings for Indian diplomats and leaders have remained suspended since March because of the Covid-19 situation. Moscow, however, has been insisting that the summits be held with physical presence of leaders. It has proposed the SCO and BRICS foreign ministers visit Moscow on September 10 for meetings in the run up to the summits. "Shringla and Morgulov discussed how to take bilateral agenda forward on Russian Far East, trilateral track 2 dialogue with Japan, Russian investments in infrastructure in India and Indian investment in oil and gas and coal sectors in Russia," said an official source. The 2 sides also discussed collaboration in the UN and multilateral fora, including Russia joining the ISA. "Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov held a telephonic conversation today that inter alia covered high-level exchanges between both sides; forthcoming calendar of high-level meetings in the framework of BRICS and SCO; and interactions and meetings at various levels preparatory to the India-Russia Summit later in the year," said the government in an official statement. "The Foreign Secretary and the Deputy Foreign Minister also exchanged views on various regional and international issues of mutual interest reflecting common ground and approaches. Both sides agreed to maintain regular contacts," it added. The SCO and BRICS ummit meetings have been delayed this year because of the novel coronavirus. An Indian delegation is also expected to participate in Russia's International Military-Technical Forum Army-2020 in the last week of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-russia-look-to-shore-up-cooperation-with-physical-meetings/articleshow/77359700.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Nimrat Kaur: Having female symbols in traffic signages is a great step||In a bid to promote gender equality, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently introduced female symbols — signs as well as signal faces — at the pedestrian crossings on the stretch from Siddhivinayak temple (Dadar) to Mahim. The move aims at reducing the unconscious bias that reinforces stereotypes on a daily basis, and is being hailed as significant at a time when topics on female representation and equality of sexes are dominating global discussions. Bollywood actress Nimrat Kaur has hailed the move Among those who have welcomed the move is actress Nimrat Kaur, who has been part of movies like 'The Lunchbox' and 'Airlift'. Talking to BT, she said, “I feel that Mumbai stands apart in every way. It offers a great level of freedom and safety. And, this move by BMC adds another feather in the city’s cap. Having female representation in the traffic signages at Dadar is a great step. It’s a wonderful feeling to look at these signs when driving past the road; it’s sure to put a smile on every girl's face.” Mahabanoo Mody-Kotwal, actor-director of 'The Vagina Monologues', a play that added its voice to the topic of female empowerment, added, “It may be small, compared to what can be done, but it’s a step in the right direction. That said, you can put up women’s pictures everywhere, but until the mindset changes, it won’t have the right impact. We need to start thinking right.” Women across the city have lauded the BMC for this step. Author and Bandra-based lawyer, Vandana Shah, shared, “It’s high time we have more women symbols. As of now, people look at androgynous symbols and just assume it’s male. So, I feel anything that moves the needle a bit, helps.” BMC SPEAK: A SMALL GESTURE TOWARDS GENDER EQUALITY The signage is part of the new urban infrastructure and design of MumbaiKiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner, BMC, said that the initiative is part of BMC’s ‘Culture Spine’ project, which also includes footpath beautification. He said, “We have replaced the pedestrian crossings — signs as well as signal faces — with female symbols on the stretch from Siddhivinayak to Mahim. It’s part of the new urban infrastructure and design that becomes a medium to showcase the nature or character of the city, which is about respecting women and supporting gender equality. It may not be a major step, but we are sending out a message globally with this gesture.” GLOBAL SIGN O’ THE TIMESGeneva replaced its crosswalk man with the cartoon figure of ‘Ampelfrau’ or woman at traffic light. The Netherlands city of Amersfoort introduced ‘Sofie’ a ponytailed female traffic light figure in 2000. Melbourne in Australia featured female traffic lights in 2017. New York also started ‘Men and women at work’ signs to denote gender equality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nimrat-kaur-having-female-representation-in-the-traffic-signages-is-a-great-step/articleshow/77358604.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 5, 2020||Noida||Afraid of losing domestic helps amid COVID pandemic, Noidawallahs offer pay hike, bonuses for their services||Over the last six weeks, as various stages of unlock have been gradually put in effect, residential societies across Noida have eased restrictions on the visit and movement of outsiders. Apart from other conveniences, they've allowed the entry of domestic helps into societies and homes after months. Many residents, who were balancing work and taking care of the house by themselves, breathed a sigh of relief at the development. But most residents are wary of having their house helps visit other homes as well. Hence, they are offering them them perks such as pay hikes and other benefits, resulting in a bidding war for their services to keep helps away from other homes. Scared of losing house helps, Noida residents offer them higher payPrashant Shukla, a software developer, who lives in a society in Noida Extension, says, "My house help used to do most of my work – cooking, cleaning, and washing clothes. When she resumed work, society members objected, saying that she is going to other societies, too, and that's risky. When I asked her how much money she needs to stop going to other houses, she said Rs 3,000, because other societies are offering her Rs 2,000 extra. I agreed, and now I’m paying her Rs 6,000." Unlike Gurgaon, where many RWAs and societies have set restrictions on the number of houses domestic helps can work at, in Noida, the restrictions are largely imposed by the residents. They tell us that it's more of an informal agreement between the apartment owner associations and residents, with people asking their house helps to work in just their society and not in others. To compensate for the loss, they are paying them extra. Sanjana Labh, a homemaker, who lives in Greater Noida West, says, "My house help told me that several societies objected to her working in more than two homes. The thought of her leaving was scary. So I asked her how much the other families are ready to pay, and I told her mai do-teen hazaar aur de doongi, tu bas yahin kaam kar." Offering perks to house helps such as smartphones for their kids' online classesPerks don't stop with pay hikes. Ravi Singh, a resident of Noida Extension, says, "My neighbour bought smartphones for his house help's kids so that they could study at home since their school has online learning, apart from paying her Rs 1,000 extra every month. Naturally, she chose to work there and left another house." Most residents say that they found it challenging to maintain the house and take care of the cooking while balancing their office work for four months. Mohammad Ayub, a resident of Sector 58, tells us, "I found it impossible to survive without my house help. For three months, I managed somehow, but it was a relief when she resumed work. I knew she was a little apprehensive herself, given the COVID scare, and that other houses didn't want her working at my place, so I gave her a Rs 5,000 bonus apart from a flat raise of Rs 2,000." For house helps, the choice of which house to select is usually a combination of loyalty and monetary benefit. Saudamini, a house help, says, "I had three families and two bachelors' homes for all the chores. After lockdown, when I went back for work, all of them said that I shouldn't work in other houses. Family waalon ne bola hum Rs 500-1,000 zyada de denge, But both the boys said Rs 2,000-3,000 zyada le lo, so I picked them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/afraid-of-losing-domestic-helps-amid-covid-pandemic-noidawallahs-offer-pay-hike-bonuses-for-their-services/articleshow/77357741.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
August 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Afraid of losing house helps amid COVID pandemic, Gurugrammers offer perks to make them stay||Over the last six weeks, as various stages of unlock have been gradually put into effect, residential societies across Gurgaon have eased restrictions on the visit and movement of outsiders. Along with other conveniences, they've allowed the entry of domestic helps inside societies and homes after months. Many residents, who had been balancing work and taking care of the house on their own, breathed a sigh of relief at the development. However, the relief was short-lived. Many societies have set restrictions – both formal and informal – on the number of houses a domestic help can work in. This means the domestic helps choose which households they want to work at, resulting in a bidding war for their services with residents offering them raises, perks, and weekly offs. Afraid of losing staff, Gurgaon residents pay morePrakash Gupta, an IT professional who lives in Sector 54, says, "Our society is allowing house helps to work in only three houses. Many of them worked in six-seven houses before the pandemic. So, now they're telling some homes they won't be able to come. Conversely, these people are offering them extra money so they drop other houses instead." What complicates matters is that there's no limit to the pay hike Gurugrammers are willing to offer, to retain their helps' services. Sector 34 resident Aarti Roy says, "My help told me last week that other houses object to her going to multiple places, so she was thinking of not working at my house. I'm working and dependent on her for everything – from cooking to cleaning. So, I said I'll pay her Rs 3,000 extra if she continues to work at my place. It has worked, but now I hear some residents are willing to offer her even more." Offering perks like bonuses, kids' educationThe perks don’t stop with pay hikes. Most residents say they've found it tough to maintain the house and take care of cooking while managing work for four months. So, they're willing to do a little extra to make sure the domestic help is there to make their lives comfortable. Sudhir Gautam, who lives in a society on Sohna Road, says, "I work in consulting and my workload has increased amid the pandemic. Same goes for my wife. We can't afford to not have help at home. So, when our help said that she couldn't continue, we told her we would fund her kid's education this year and give her a raise." Other residents have offered weekly offs, flexible timings and bonuses in order to make their house helps stay. For domestic helps, the choice of which house to work at is usually a combination of loyalty and monetary benefit. Malti (name changed), who works in Sushant Lok, tells us, "Some houses I worked at payed me during lockdown, even though I couldn't go to work. I asked them when I should resume, and didn’t ask for a pay hike. Unhone apni taraf se hi bola jab unhe pata chala kaafi ghar chhorne padenge."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/afraid-of-losing-house-helps-amid-covid-pandemic-gurugrammers-offer-perks-to-make-them-stay/articleshow/77357573.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
August 5, 2020||India||Masks made of leaves saved forest-dwellers from virus||When people faced mask shortage as Covid struck, these tribals in Andhra and Telangana delved into their traditional knowledgeHow about wearing a face mask with medicinal properties, but at no cost? Tribal groups across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have prepared face masks using leaves from plants with medicinal properties to keep Covid-19 at bay. And the innovative idea of the poverty-hit tribals has paid off. They have almost no cases of novel Coronavirus. While people in urban areas virtually ran from pillar to post for masks in the initial period of Covid-19 spread, primitive tribal populations, inhabiting the dense forests of AP and Telangana, developed their own face masks. Unlike city folks, the tribal groups did not wait for the government to augment the supplies. All they did was to select a few trees with medicinal value, pluck their leaves and make improvised facial coverings. S Balaraju, director of Nature, an NGO, said around 15,000 people are using leaf masks in various tribal pockets of north coastal Andhra. “Many of them belong to the primitive vulnerable tribal groups of the Eastern Ghats,” he added. It all began with the tribals living in the thick forests of Bhadrachalam on the AP-Telangana border. From the Bhadrachalam forests, the idea soon caught up with the tribals in the Nallamala, Yerramala and Araku in Andhra Pradesh and in the forests of Adilabad, Khammam and Warangal in Telangana. The tribals ranging from the most primitive Chenchus to Konda Reddys, Gonds, Gutti Koyas, Bondas, Parangiporaja, Muliyas, Kodhu, Gadabas, Savaras and Yanadis sported leaf masks. The variety of leaves used change from habitation to habitation – from masks from leaves of teak and sal to palm or pongamia leaves. Others wore castor leaves. The Gutti Koya tribals of Bhadrachalam forests in Telangana used locally available large leaves that can stay fresh and provide protection for as long as five hours. Nadala Butki, former sarpanch of Iragai, Araku Valley mandal, said, “The traditional leaf masks are mainly made from Pongamia. Traditionally, Pongamia leaf bowls are popularly used here. The bowls are converted to masks after attaching them to natural fibre strings”. Korra Addu, a tribal youth leader from Ganella said, “Though the government distributed masks, we switched to the leaf masks after exhausting them. Each of us got three masks from the government.” (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Covid-19: Masks made of leaves saved forest-dwellers from virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/masks-made-of-leaves-saved-forest-dwellers-from-virus/articleshow/77357914.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Fitness trainers look forward to work in a safe gym||Yoga centres and gyms are gearing up to open its door soon for the fitness enthusiasts in the city. We spoke to a few fitness trainers on what to expect from these centres in this new normal. According to Neeraj Surana, strength and conditioning trainer, and movement and mobility coach, "It must be great news for fitness and health enthusiasts, trainers and other gym staff that the gyms and yoga institutes will be allowed to open from August 5. While we are waiting for the SOP from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the real hard work begins now. Gym owners, gym-goers, and trainers will have to ensure that the safety measures are strictly maintained once it reopens." Neeraj's guidelines for a safe workout routine: 1. Every gym should be working on a 60-90mins slot, depending on the size of the gym. The number of people including staff to be allowed inside the gym should be 8 to 10 per slot which will change according to the space of the gym so that social distancing is maintained. 2. Thermal temperature checking and sanitizing of hands of every staff and every member at the time of entry. 3. Prevent members to hang around in the facilities after finishing their workout. 5. The use of a mask is a must. However, while performing an exercise, I would suggest taking the mask off. 6. Sanitizing gym equipment after every use. Members and trainers should be encouraged to sanitize the equipment personally before and after usage, to be double sure. The gym should keep sanitizers handy but also encourage members to carry their own. 7. Encouraging members to carry their towels, mats, and sippers. If a member is using a machine, the other member is advised to use a machine leaving one. 8. No shower and steam facilities. 9. Members should come in their workout clothes. 10. Members who are suffering from flu or have symptoms like fever, cough, breathlessness, etc stay home. Members above 65 years should be restricted to hit the gym now. Meanwhile, According to bioprint practitioner and strength coach, Anwar Wahhab, the gym will look different from usual with the new measures of social distancing. “Wel,l I am expecting a chain of measures that would be taken by the owners to ensure members are safe and sound, and enjoy a great workout .” Anwar's guidelines for a safe workout routine: 1 . Be ready to be greeted by your trainer pointing the thermometer gun at your head at the entry point . 2. Gyms will probably have a new look in terms of machines as half of the cardio machine will be gone or every alternate cardio machine will have power on or if in a spacious gym it would be placed 2 meters apart . 3. There won’t be any luxury service of handing towels any more you have to carry your own . 4. 50% members entry rule record will be maintained with forms of Check in and check out being recorded 5. There will not be any waiting and sitting facility with old coffee bar which will be sealed by yellow tape so that no assembling of crowd happens 6. The personal training room will be sanitised the equipment after every use . Sanitary wipes will be spread around for members to use . 7. No body will be allowed to do high fives or chest thumping after a great lift only muffled exchange of words behind a face mask 8. Mask N95 ,cloth or high altitude mask members will be wearing . Breathing regulator mask will be best for training 9. Water bottles with a sipper will be seen around with the members to avoid touching around the cap . 10. The disciplined one will carry their own sanitisers and will be sanitising their work space after every use . 11. Gyms will be alert with their rules as they are aware any cases found its back to square one . 12. Gyms will have stickers “ maintain safe distance & stay healthy ..( though most gyms will flaunt the word “IMMUNITY “ 13. Members can’t share their spot or steal someones 14. Workout time would be one hour .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fitness-trainers-look-forward-to-work-in-a-safe-gym/articleshow/77354479.cms||Ruman Ganguly
August 5, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank picks veteran 'Change Agent' Sashidhar Jagdishan as CEO||The Reserve Bank of India has cleared the appointment of Sashidhar Jagdishan as MD & CEO of HDFC Bank. He will succeed Aditya Puri, who retires in October this year. Jagdishan (55), who has been with the bank since 1996, is a group head for several functions and was appointed “change agent” in 2019. He was the bank’s chief financial officer for over a decade. HDFC Bank, in a statement on Tuesday, said the RBI had, in a letter dated August 3, approved the appointment of Jagdishan for three years from the date of his taking charge — October 27, 2020. The bank’s board will meet soon to approve the appointment. “I fully recognise that Puri’s are huge shoes to fill. But I’m confident that with the support of my colleagues, the board, other stakeholders, and indeed God’s grace, I’ll be able to live up to the faith that Puri, the board, and the regulator have reposed in me. I’ll leave no stone unturned to carry forward the rich legacy,” said Jagdishan. Jagdishan’s appointment signals continuity. He is widely seen as Puri’s choice given that the bank had recommended two internal names, Jagdishan and Kaizad Bharucha, who is already an executive director on the board of the bank. Sunil Garg, CEO of Citibank, was the external candidate. Reacting to the appointment, Puri, the only CEO the bank ever had, said he was delighted that the bank is in safe hands with someone who has the right skills. “Sashi has been working with me for 24 years and far more intensively since he became the change agent. He is humane, he cares about people, he is motivational and people in the bank love him. We have a team where I was the first among equals. We now have a new first among equals who people respect,” said Puri. Sashi, a bank veteran, was unanimous choice: Parekh“Sashi was the unanimous choice. There was no argument, discussion, or anything. Everyone agreed he was the first choice,” said Deepak Parekh, chairman of HDFC. “He is a good finance person and has been working very closely with Aditya Puri. International investors have interacted with him for many years and there is comfort all around. For such a big bank an insider is far better suited than a rank outsider. But because it is such a large organisation and listed in the NYSE, we thought let us do a global search and appointed Egon Zehender, who also decided he is the right candidate,” he said. Jagdishan has been a part of HDFC Bank since 1996 and had joined from Deutsche Bank, Mumbai, where he was a senior officer in the country’s financial control division. He became business head (finance) in 1999 and was appointed as chief financial officer in 2008. “Sashi brings to the table a rare combination of IQ and EQ. Given his understanding of the business, coupled with a strong people connect, we’re confident that he’ll take the bank to the next level,” said Shyamala Gopinath, chairperson, HDFC Bank. The succession at the country’s second most valuable bank was widely tracked because HDFC Bank plays a dominant role in retail and is a market leader in several segments, including auto, cards and personal loans. Its performance affects most investors as besides its weightage in the sensex, it is a part of the portfolio of most mutual funds. Watch Sashidhar Jagdishan to be Aditya Puri's successor at HDFC Bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-picks-veteran-change-agent-sashidhar-jagdishan-as-ceo/articleshow/77361412.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 5, 2020||India||Prashant Bhushan regrets, but refuses to apologise||NEW DELHI: Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan refused to tender an apology to the Supreme Court on Tuesday for his 2009 statement that half of 16 former CJIs were corrupt, but expressed complete faith in the judiciary while regretting that his remarks, meant to attribute "lack of propriety" to them, were misunderstood as accusations of financial corruption. "In my interview with Tehelka in 2009, I used the word corruption in a wide sense. I did not mean only financial corruption or deriving any pecuniary advantage. If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same," Bhushan later said in a media statement. During the video-conference hearing, the cameras went blank and a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari chose to hold a teleconference with senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan (for Bhushan), Kapil Sibal (for Tarun Tejpal of Tehelka magazine) and amicus curiae Harish Salve to find a solution to clashing issues — protection of free speech and not lowering the prestige & dignity of the judiciary. After much discussion over the tone and tenor of statements to be issued by Bhushan and Tejpal, the former finally agreed to express regret and that he never meant to lower the prestige of the judiciary, especially the SC, while Tejpal tendered an apology. The bench reserved its verdict on the 2009 contempt proceedings, which could have two outcomes — the SC can accept the regret/apology and close the proceedings or fix a date to begin contempt case trial against the duo. Before the proceedings went off camera, the bench said, "We are for freedom of speech. But there is a thin line between freedom of speech and contempt of court. Can you (Dhavan) as an officer of the court solve this puzzle — save freedom of speech and save the grace & dignity of the judicial system? Can you suggest a way out of this rigmarole? The system does not curtail freedom of speech." After the hearing got over, Bhushan's office said, "In the hearing of the 2009 contempt matter against Prashant Bhushan, the bench, instead of an open court hearing, spoke to the counsels for the respondents, Dhavan and Sibal, over WhatsApp calls. The judges told the counsel that they wanted to put an end to the matter to protect the dignity of the court and of the judges. They, therefore, asked the parties to issue statements tendering their apologies. Bhushan refused to tender an apology." Bhushan's statement, annexed to the release, said, "I unreservedly state that I support the institution of the judiciary and especially the Supreme Court of which I am a part, and had no intention to lower the prestige of the judiciary in which I have complete faith. I regret if my interview was misunderstood as doing so, that is, lower the reputation of the judiciary, especially the Supreme Court, which could never have been my intention at all." "When Justice Mishra indicated that he may pass an order holding that any statement of corruption in the judiciary would amount to per se contempt, he was told by Dhavan that such a finding cannot be and should not be rendered without hearing the parties. The earlier discussion over WhatsApp was only regarding whether the proceedings could be dropped in the light of the statements. Therefore, Dhavan told the court [that] if the court wanted to render any finding on whether the interview amounted to contempt or not, they would have to hear the parties fully, on facts and law. The court thereafter reserved judgment." For Tejpal, Sibal was more reconciliatory and said though the court could not give a finding of fact in the contempt proceedings without hearing the parties, allegations of corruption could not be made loosely. He said the court could accept the apology/regret and at the most, say that prima facie the statement could have amounted to contempt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prashant-bhushan-regrets-but-refuses-to-apologise/articleshow/77361590.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 5, 2020||India||Pakistan map claims J&K, Ladakh, parts of Gujarat; India calls it ‘political absurdity’||NEW DELHI: Seeking to raise the ante on the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the Imran Khan government on Tuesday released a new political map of Pakistan showing the entire erstwhile state, now organised into two Union Territories, in Pakistan. India reacted quickly and called it an “exercise in political absurdity”, which only confirmed the reality of Pakistan’s obsession with “territorial aggrandisement” supported by cross-border terrorism. “We have seen a so-called ‘political map’ of Pakistan that has been released by PM Imran Khan. This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian state of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and of Ladakh,” the government said in a statement, adding that these ridiculous assertions had neither legal validity nor international credibility. Like with some earlier formal maps, Pakistan’s new “official map” also included Junagadh and Manavadar in Gujarat. “The new map has only brought to the fore the contradiction in Pakistan’s position, between calling Kashmir an unfinished agenda of partition and its right to self-determination rhetoric,” TCA Raghavan, former diplomat who served as India’s high commissioner to Pakistan, said. “The (Pakistani) government has to show that it’s moving mountains on the first anniversary of the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir. It also has to do with their domestic issues,” he added, while calling it another case of misguided aspirations. Leaving the frontier “undefined” on the Ladakh border with China in the new map, while describing J&K as disputed territory, Islamabad said the final status would be decided in line with “relevant” UNSC resolutions. It also showed Siachen in Pakistan. Ensuring ambiguity by leaving the frontier undefined in the map, Pakistan said the actual boundary in the region would “ultimately be decided by the sovereign authorities concerned after the settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute”. Khan was quoted as saying in the evening, as he unveiled the map, that the federal cabinet had approved the map on Tuesday and it was now going to be used in schools and colleges. “We will do political struggle, we don’t believe in military solutions. We will remind the UN again and again that you had made a promise (to the people of Kashmir) which you did not fulfil,” the Pakistani PM said, adding that the map reflected the aspirations of the people. According to Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, the map made it clear that Siachen belonged to Pakistan and that it also rejected India’s claims on Sir Creek. “We have said that our border is towards the eastern bank, India had claimed that it goes towards the west,” Qureshi said, accusing India of capturing Pakistan’s exclusive economic zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-map-claims-jk-ladakh-parts-of-guj-india-calls-it-political-absurdity/articleshow/77361760.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 5, 2020||Patna||‘My top priority is to ramp up corona testing in Bihar’||PATNA: A week after assuming charge as state health department principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit tells Arunima Lal about the steps being taken to curb the coronavirus pandemic in the state. Excerpts: What is your topmost priority? The most fundamental thing is to ramp up the testing facilities, keeping in view Bihar’s high population density. It will mitigate the fear among people. What is the testing capacity, as of today? We are testing on an average 38,000 samples per day. Nearly 4800 tests are done through RT-PCR and TrueNAT and the rest 33,000 through rapid antigen kits. More than 750 private labs have RT-PCR testing facility. How to ramp up the testing in state? We are in the process of starting RT-PCR and TrueNAT tests at the Madhepura, Bettiah and Pawapuri government hospitals. Once it is done, the testing capacity will increase by 1500 per day. According to the Medical Council of India guidelines, it is mandatory for private medical colleges to set up RT-PCR facilities. So, private medical colleges in Katihar and Kishanganj will start testing from August 15 and in Madhubani, Bihta and Saharsa from August 20. There have been complaints about test results taking a long time? There is no reason why the test results should take more than 24 hours. The delay also paves way for the virus spread. As far as RT-PCR test is concerned, my priority is to make the result available to the patient within 24 hours. I have already spoken to the DMs and will have a videoconference with the testing labs on Wednesday. What is the status of rapid antigen tests in state? It has the advantage of giving results immediately. Till last week, we were conducting 16,000 rapid antigen tests per day. Now, we have crossed 33,000 antigen tests per day. However, we are working continuously to ramp it up by making sure that there is no shortage of testing kits in the supply chain. We have also started rapid antigen tests in relief camps and community centres set up due to floods. Non-covid patients in hospitals are at risk of contracting the virus. What steps are being taking in this regard? I had a meeting on Monday with superintendents and professors of all medical colleges. They have been told to get antigen test done on non-Covid patients visiting other wards. This will prevent the virus spread to a great extent. Also, starting today, 100% rapid antigen tests will be conducted in all the containment zones. What about improved hospital management and facilities to healthcare workers? We are maintaining a health bulletin app to provide crucial information about the patient to the attendant. We are also ensuring toilet cleanliness inside the Covid-19 wards. Attendants will have separate facilities such as television and beds so that they can rest sufficiently. And most importantly, we are ensuring 24x7 availability of doctors and nurses in Covid wards and ICUs. We are also making sure that elementary things such as oximeters, basic medicines and quality food should be given to medical colleges in time. Any steps to communicate with people and educate them about the pandemic? We have a 24x7 toll-free number for every district. People can call on the helpline and avail medical advice, ambulance facilities and get information about testing centres. Our aim is to increase the communication between the government and the people. Your appeal to people amid pandemic? I request them not to be afraid. This war has to be fought together. People in Bihar have always responded well to any crisis. We have received tremendous support from people during the phase-1 of Covid-19 and I would request them to have faith in us. Together we shall combat this disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/my-top-priority-is-to-ramp-up-corona-testing-in-bihar/articleshow/77357750.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Business||Be ready to roll up your sleeves in a startup||By Ronesh PuriIndia is now the third-largest startup ecosystem in the world with thousands more born every year. We have over 9,000 operating in technology alone in India, with as much as 1,900 added in just 2019. We have 30 unicorn Indian startups (valued at over $1 billion each) and there is a good chance that the numbers will continue to grow. Hiring the best candidate is never easy. Statistics reveal that more than 50% of the hiring is ‘mis-hiring’ in any industry. For a startup, this percentage is even higher because the demands are very different. Some time ago, I met an owner of a well-known startup on a flight. When I told him that I was a headhunter, he started sharing his disappointment on the vast percentage of his key hiring going wrong in spite of using well-known large international search firms. He bemoaned the fact that he hired candidates with stellar track records, and yet they failed to deliver. The candidates either left him or he had to fire them, leading to a huge waste of money and time. The owner had hired candidates who had excelled in structured organisations with great systems and processes, but were just not suitable to working in ambiguity and an environment that was 24/7 and required rolling up of sleeves. Great candidates with impressive credentials and track record sometimes are just not suited for a startup ecosystem as their DNA is very different. Fact of the matter is that no one, however great, can be successful in all environments. Both the candidates as well as organisations must look at compatibility of the individual with a very different ecosystem that has different rules and demands. The first thing to remember is that candidates must figure out whether they would enjoy working in a startup culture, as a wrong move can set a career back by years. A number of candidates are struggling today because of making wrong career choices. Here is a checklist to keep in mind: * Working in ambiguity: First, you need to enjoy working in ambiguity and getting energy from forging ahead in chaos. Just don’t expect well laid-out systems and processes along with a discipline to adhere to it. Expect chaos and fast-changing priorities. If you are not cut out for it, do not enter this ecosystem as the startup world will not change to accommodate your mindset. Sure, the degree of chaos and ambiguity will differ from what phase of evolution the organisation is in. However, you are most likely to encounter this to some degree. Some candidates thrive in working in such environments, and for them it is great place to work and grow, as rewards on great performance are truly much more. * 24/7 world: If you are a 9-to-6 person, forget startups. They require a person who is truly passionate, workaholic and for whom work is worship. It is a high-energy and intense environment where you can expect a high degree of self-actualisation. However, you must forget work-life balance as the hours as well as timings can be crazy. You will get frustrated if you get energy from pursuing other interests as your calendar can go crazy at the worst of the times. Yes, rewards are tempting, and being part of making history is heady and satisfying. If the company flourishes, you may make more money than you can spend. But like most things in life, it comes with a cost. * Working in a flat structure: The startup world does not believe in layers and layers in an organisation. It believes in keeping the team lean and mean. If your mindset is all about span of control — the number of employees reporting to you, how many layers of organisation do you oversee, or how much respect your designation and title carry — then, my friend, the startup world is not made for you and you are not made for the startup world. Some candidates get frustrated when, in a startup world, even a new entrant can challenge your brilliant idea and offer a better solution. Some get frustrated as they view this as a challenge to their seniority or authority and find the culture devoid of hierarchy, hitting their self-respect. You will enjoy working in a startup if you do not need to showcase your power and authority and love a close-knit environment where you enjoy the lack of frills. Yes, you will also be expected to roll up your sleeves as anything and everything is your responsibility and everyone’s job is equally important for the team. * Problem-solving: You also need to be great at problem-solving. Some of us truly enjoy it and it gives us a lot of energy to solve problems. If you flourish in such an environment, you will get a lot of opportunity to showcase your talent as you do need to fix more things normally in a startup. The job satisfaction is, therefore, much more if you are compatible with a startup ecosystem. In addition, you do need to think on your feet as speed of decision-making is relatively faster and you will normally find that your bosses are short of time. It works best when you cut the crap and get to the main point, solution or idea — without too much of an introduction. * Self-actualisation: The startups provide possibly the best opportunity to attain self-actualisation, and a huge number of candidates love this opportunity. The potential to give vent to your ideas is huge, as startups are very hungry for ideas, challenging old paradigms. The acceptability for new game-changing ideas is huge. In addition, decision-making is very fast, so you do not encounter bureaucracy or love of status quo from colleagues or your bosses. The rewards for your game-changing performance can also be huge. In addition, the culture is informal and friendly and, generally, you will notice that employees are very passionate and young with big dreams in their eyes. In short, a perfect environment to implement your ideas and make history. The reality is that most human beings can work better in certain cultures/environments and will struggle in some that are not suitable to their mindset. It is a misconception to suppose that we can do equally well in any environment as we are adaptable. To play to your inherent strengths is prudent as is knowing what plays to your strengths and what does not. I have noticed a lot of brilliant candidates make the mistake of making career decisions that were just not prudent as they were simply not cut out for the environment, culture or compatible with working with certain mindsets. Remember, a wrong move can push your career southwards just as a wrong hire can result in an organisation losing crores as mis-hiring is atrociously expensive and yet unfortunately very common. To attain your dreams, choose opportunities that play to your strengths and work in environment that you are compatible with. (The writer is MD, Executive Access - India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/be-ready-to-roll-up-your-sleeves-in-a-startup/articleshow/77361224.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Covid lockdown hits silk weavers||BHAGALPUR: The Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown badly hit more than 10,000 weavers and their families in the district, known for manufacturing world-class tussar silk. They used to work in more than 200 handloom and power loom units in Nathnagar, the hub of producing acclaimed Bhagalpuri ‘tussar silk’ for the last more than 200 years. Earlier, the Bhagalpur silk industry was coping with the problems of shifting to technology and competition from Chinese silk yarn. “Lately, the lockdown has worsened the situation for thousands of weavers and their families as well as exporters of tussar silk and garments,” said Alim Ansari, secretary of Resham Bunkar Khadi Evam Gramodyog Sangh (RBKEGS). Ansari said silk products manufactured in Bhagalpur were sold elsewhere in India and exported to various foreign countries. “Annual volume of business had been over Rs600 crore. However, manufactured products of more than Rs100 crore are lying dumped here. Also, revenue from exports stopped due to the lockdown,” he said. Alok Agarwal, general secretary of Eastern Bihar Industries Association (EBIA), said the weaving community is struggling for survival due to closure of local markets and non-supply of products to exporters due to the lockdown. The silk industry is labour intensive and hence costly, he added. “Non-payment has resulted in starvation-like situation for the weaving community and their families, besides those engaged in silk and other related businesses. The state and central government should work out specific modalities for the revival of silk industry as it has vast potential to engage migrant workers and skilled silk artisans,” Agarwal said. The EBIA general secretary said the country earned high foreign revenue to the tune of more than Rs250 crore each year from the tussar silk exports from Bhagalpur. “Right now, the export to the UK, USA and Germany among other countries is zero,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-lockdown-hits-silk-weavers/articleshow/77357986.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 5, 2020||Patna||12,000 shawls, stoles sent to Ayodhya||BHAGALPUR: Saints and devotees at Ram Janmbhoomi in Ayodhya will drape yellow coloured ‘Bhagalpuri dull’ chunri (stole) and chadar (shawl) on the occasion of ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple on Wednesday. Nearly 12,000 ‘chadars’ and ‘chunris’ have been sent to Ayodhya for distributing it to the devotees of 160 ashrams. “The ‘chadars’ and ‘shawls’, on which verses written in praise of Lord Ram have been printed, were recently manufactured from staple cotton yarn on orders by selected weavers ,” said a member of the Devraha Baba Ashram Samiti (DBAS) here adding, “All the weavers were from the minority community and they were very happy to manufacture it.” The DBAS members, who oversaw the manufacturing and the dispatch of ‘chunris’ and ‘chadars’ to Ayodhya included Ramadhar Singh, Dr D P Saha, Suman Kumar, Girsih Chandra Jha and others. The expert weavers, who were engaged in the manufacturing included Md Babloo, Md Parvez, Md Munna and others. “Staple cotton ‘chadar’ is manufactured from natural yarn and can be used throughout the year. It will be presented to the saints and devotees reaching Ayodhya by the DBAS team. “We also intend to make our handloom products popular among the devotees,” said social activist Grish Chandra Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12000-shawls-stoles-sent-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77358129.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Second sero survey to track spread of coronavirus starts soon in Pune||PUNE: The BJ Medical College in the city is set to carry out the second Covid-19 sero-surveillance study in Pune to check for herd immunity among health workers and the general population. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, who made the announcement, said the new study will be carried out in association with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). The first study was initiated by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Its results are expected by August 15. The BJ Medical College's microbiology department, which will undertake the survey, said it is awaiting final clearances from the ethics committee. Its officials said work will start within a week.  “We are applying for ethical approvals for a study among healthcare workers. We will participate in any sero-surveillance suggested by the district administration,” an official from the college told TOI on Tuesday. While the main focus is on frontline healthcare workers, the survey will also look for exposure levels in containment zones. High herd immunity levels in a particular area would mean reduced transmission of the virus. The first study is expected to be completed by August 15, said Aarti Nagarkar, director of the Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences at SPPU. “We did face an issue with phlebotomists. But we are nearing the end of the survey. We are currently tallying the data,” she said. Phase 1 of the sero survey of the city covered only high-risk areas where the proportion of cases to the population was high. Officials selected five wards — out of the 11 high-risk ones — at random. From these wards, 61 locations were identified from where data was collected of 25 individuals above the age of 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-sero-survey-to-track-spread-of-virus-starts-soon/articleshow/77360327.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Train services yet to resume on Darbhanga-Samastipur section||SAMASTIPUR/KHAGARIA/DARBHANGA/BAGAHA: Flood situation continued to remain grim in the low lying areas of as many as 14 districts in north Bihar. In Samastipur, train operations could not be resumed on Darbhanga-Samastipur section as 107 villages under six blocks were either fully or partly submerged under Burhi Gandak floodwaters. Altogether 71,155 halogen tablets have been distributed along with 128 packets of bleaching powder. In Khagaria, seepage in Burhi Gandak embankment near Jalkaura village under Khagaria block on Monday created panic. ADM Shatrunjay Mishra with a team of engineers rushed to the spot and the seepage was plugged. Although Kosi and Bagmati rivers were receding, flood situation remained grim. According to official sources, around 97,000 people in 116 villages under 39 panchayats were reportedly affected by the floods. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said community kitchens were being run at seven places for 19,374 affected people. In Darbhanga, 18.71 lakh people in 911 villages under 15 blocks were flood affected. The district administration is running 519 community kitchens. The receding floodwaters in nine blocks of West Champaran district have left a trail of misery as crops in around 38,443 hectares of land were damaged. “Farmers are facing starvation-like situation,” said Ramchandar Bind of Shripatinagar of Semra Labdeha panchayat under Piparasi block. Yogendar Rai of the same block said even though water receded, the land will not be conducive for cultivation due to the huge deposit of sand and silt by the swollen rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-services-yet-to-resume-on-dbhanga-samastipur-section/articleshow/77358204.cms||S K Jain
August 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sitamarhi put on alert ahead of ‘Bhumi Pujan’ in Ayodhya||PATNA: The Sitamarhi district administration has sounded an alert ahead of the ‘bhumi pujan’ celebrations in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Sitamarhi, known as the birthplace of ‘Janki’ (Sita), has been decked up for the celebrations even as the mood is subdued due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic and floods in north Bihar. “Though the main function is scheduled to take place at Ayodhya, Sitamarhi is closely associated with it for being the birth place of Goddess Sita. So we have cautioned the police officers concerned and asked them to remain on alert on the occasion of the ‘bhumi pujan’,” Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said. The district has a history of communal flare ups. Close to the India-Nepal border, Sitamarhi had seen riots in the early 90s during RJD rule in which several people had lost their lives. Last year also, the situation turned volatile during an idol immersion procession. On Monday, a meeting of the members of the peace committee was held in which it was decided that the members will help the district authorities in maintaining communal harmony. Soil and holy water from five places associated with the goddess have already been sent to Ayodhya for the foundation day celebrations. A Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) functionary Ram Vinay Kumar said, “Mini diwali will be celebrated at Punaura Dham with lighting of ‘diyas’ here. A ‘rangoli’ has been created at the Janki Sthan Mandir where earthen lights will be lit by devotees. However, people have been asked to light ‘diyas’ at home and not to violate the lockdown.” Another district associated with lord Ram is Buxar. Several places such as the Vishwamitra Muni Ashram, Ram Rekha Ghat, Ram Chabutara will be decked up. “Here is Guru (saint) Vishwamitra Ashram where Ram as a child got education and training in archery. We have collected holy water and soil from those places,” said Jagdish Chandra Pandey, a member of the Ramayana Circuit in Buxar. Pandey left for Ayodhya with the collected holy water and soil from temples and other religious places in the district on a motorbike. “I will hand over the materials to the chief priest of the Ram Janam Bhumi Tirth Kshetra trust,” Pandey said, adding that Buxar is also credited with having the first temple set up by lord Rama after his victory. Tourists visit places associated with ‘Ahilya Uddhar’ and ‘Tadaka Badh’ in Buxar. Weavers of Nathnagar in Bhagalpur have donated specially designed ‘chadar’ to be gifted to the seers and priests at Ayodhya. A silver brick weighing 1.25 kg with ‘Ram Charan’ inscribed on it has been donated by the residents of Bodh Gaya after performing rituals at Vishnupad temple. Deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has urged people to celebrate ‘bhumi pujan’ at Ayodhya by lighting ‘diyas’ at their homes on Wednesday evening. BJP state chief Sanjay Jaiswal described the day as historic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sitamarhi-put-on-alert-ahead-of-bhumi-pujan-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77358095.cms||Ramashankar
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Tree park on northern slope of Chamundi Hills raises activists’ hackles||MYSURU: A slew of development projects have chipped away at the sanctity of Chamundi Hills as a pilgrimage centre, and caused untold damage to the fragile ecology. Now a new initiative undertaken by the forest department to develop a tree park with a wide walking path has understandably upset environmentalists and conservationists. Activists fear it will only lead to more damage to the environment, in addition to depriving hundreds of birds and animals of their natural habitat. The ‘Alanahally Vruskshodyana’ that the forest department is developing on the northern slope of Chamundi Hills near Lalithadripura is coming up on 24 acres of forest land, much to the chagrin of environmentalists. Ironically, the initiative was taken up by the forest department to raise awareness on the need to conserve and protect greenery in the district. However, many environmentalists have pointed out that having a 10-foot wide walking path covering 2km, along with an open-air gymnasium and a small amusement park for children, defeats the purpose. Environmentalists have pointed out that residential layouts in the immediate vicinity of the hills, educational institutions and religious organisations that have been built at the foot of the hills have already eaten into the green cover, and the park will only create another dent in the verdant surroundings. Member of Mysore Nature Group S Shylajesh told TOI that scores of people from the residential layouts at the foot of Chamundi Hills already had ample spaces for their morning and evening strolls, thereby rendering the need for a new one moot. “When there is human intervention, birds and animals in the area will either not survive or they will be forced to move away. The buffer zone around the Chamundi Hills has already suffered enough damage and now the surviving forest area too is being threatened,” Shylajesh said. In addition to the forest being home to specimens of 150 species of birds, there were leopards and deer roaming in the woods, he said. Environmentalist Shivaprakash A said that wild habitat must be left untouched. “ The forest department must develop a walking path in vacant spaces, outside of the forest area. Chamundi Hills is the last refuge of wildlife in Mysuru. People must stop asking for development projects and picnic spots in forests,” Shivaprakash told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tree-park-on-northern-slope-of-chamundi-hills-raises-activists-hackles/articleshow/77357850.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 5, 2020||Patna||Small businesses face existential crisis amid pandemic in Patna||PATNA: With the extension of the Covid-19 lockdown till August 16, medium and small enterprises in the state capital are grappling with uncertainty and struggling to survive. Alok Kumar Singh, whose Kankarbagh-based firm provides shared workspace to unicorn start-ups, told this newspaper that all their centres were shut. “All our three centres in Kidwaipuri, Kankarbagh and Patliputra Colony are closed. We faced huge losses after some of our clients pulled out. It has become difficult for us to maintain operational costs,” Alok claimed. The hospitality industry, which was once a booming sector, has also received a severe blow because of the Covid-19 crisis. Despite precautionary measures in place, small cafés, eateries and restaurants are finding it difficult to attract customers. “Most of our customers were youngsters, many of whom went back to their hometowns after the closure of colleges and schools. The locals, on the other hand, stopped visiting us. It is a tough time for us,” rued Yasheel Singh, the owner of a café on Boring Road. The wedding industry is another sector that has been hit by the pandemic. Wedding planners, photographers and caterers are out of business due to the lockdown. Tauseef S, a wedding photographer, claimed, “Weddings that were to be solemnized between April and July were either cancelled or postponed due to the lockdown, as a result of which we lost a great deal of money. The next wedding season is slated to start from November, but we are not receiving enough inquiries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/small-businesses-face-existential-crisis-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77357874.cms||Arunima Lal
August 5, 2020||Pune||Chakan auto parts firm resumes operations||PUNE: The temporarily closed multinational auto component maker at the Chakan industrial estate resumed its operations on Tuesday with limited manpower, said a senior executive of the company. The company had suspended its operations on Saturday night after 120 of its employees tested positive for Covid-19. “We are operating in two shifts with about 25% of manpower. We shall have to work in this manner till the situation normalizes, which will take at least two to three weeks,” the senior executive of the company said. The firm has purchased pulse oximeter to check the oxygen-level of its employees at the firm’s entrance. “We are monitoring the containment zones so that no employee from these zones reports to work. We are also taking self-declaration from them,” he said, adding that all the employees testing Covid-19 positive were fine. A senior official from the health department of Khed tehsil said they inspected the affected sections of the company on Monday. “The company has sanitized all sections as per the government’s protocol and can run operations with available manpower,” said BB Gadve, the health officer of Khed tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chakan-auto-parts-firm-resumes-operations/articleshow/77360337.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Students assist government personnel in fight against pandemic||MYSURU: A group of students of professional courses in Mysuru, keen to do their bit for the welfare of the public in these testing times, have voluntarily decided to assist the district administration in its fight against Covid-19. These youngsters are working a whopping 12 hours a day to help arrest the spread of the pandemic in the district. Esha KV, a Mysuru resident studying at the Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, is among those who is volunteered her services as a member of the tele-verification team. Her duties include inquiring into the condition of those patients who have opted for isolation at home, and report the findings to the officials concerned. “I did not want to miss this opportunity to do what I could for society,” said Esha, who said that she takes care of her college assignments in the evening, once she has dicharged her duties. Anirudh S, a student of civil engineering, has been working in the control room, ensuring that any complaint of violation of quarantine norms in containment zones are attended to within a day or twp. Anirudh and Esha are only two of the dozen students who are supplementing the efforts of the indefatigable corona warriors in the Chamaraja and Narasimharaja assembly constituencies in the city. While four of these young volunteers are engineering students, the remaining are pursuing various undergraduate courses. Yashas, a BCA student who is also a scout, is working with a group that is responsible for the shifting of patients. “We receive a list of patients to be shifted from the district health officer, following which we have to coordinate with other officers in the department, and with ambulance drivers too. We have to ensure patients are admitted to the Covid Care Centres in Mandakalli or Udayagiri or any of the empanelled hospitals,” Yashas said. Vishal M Peshwa is another student who is working alongside Yashas in performing this key task. Mysuru City Corporation health officer Dr DG Nagaraj said that the efforts of the students had considerably eased the burden on the government staff involved in fighting the pandemic. “Their service deserves appreciation, and we are proud of them,” he said. Their parents are understandably proud of their children for their service to humanity. Youngsters do their bit Members of team for shifting of patients: Vishal M Peshwa, Lakshmi Narasimha, Ravi Prasad, Vivek, Yashas, Amogh P Gowda, Sachin, Mallapp and Gagan Tele-verification process: Spandan, Esha KV, Rakshith, Roopa, Kiran V, Nithin, Sathish, Niranjan and Sachin Raj Control room: Kemparaju, Anirudh S, Anirudha A, Neha M, Dhanush, Sanjay, Harshitha and Sanjan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-assist-govt-personnel-in-fight-against-pandemic/articleshow/77358264.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Red alert sounded for Karnataka coast||MANGALURU: The Karnataka coast on Tuesday received heavy rainfall with gusty winds throwing normal life out of gear — widespread power outages happened due to tree fall and minor landslides at many areas of the coast. Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological department has sounded a red alert for Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts from 8.30am on Wednesday. Uttara Kannada received at 91mm rainfall (the highest), followed by Udupi at 75mm and Dakshina Kannada at 73mm. The highest rainfall of 241mm was recorded at Castlerock in Supa taluk of Uttara Kannada district. In the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Tuesday, the DK district received an average of 73mm rainfall, with Sullia and Belthangady taluks receiving 95mm and 93mm rain, respectively. Puttur, Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received 73mm, 40mm and 64mm rainfall, in that order. KSNMDC bulletin stated that widespread moderate to heavy rain, associated with strong surface winds at times and isolated very heavy to extreme heavy rain, is likely over Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. It also stated that wind speeds in 50-60kmph is forecast along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar, warning fishermen not to venture into the sea. Mescom bore the brunt of the downpour in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada. At the last count, 148 electric poles, 23 transformers and 65km conductor wires were damaged due to tree falls and landslides. Traffic was affected on Charmadi Ghat on the Mangaluru-Chikkamagaluru route due to tree falls near the second hairpin bend. On Monday, landslides near Kottigehara of Chikkamagaluru district had badly affected the traffic. Though normalcy has been restored there, locals fear more landslides due to continuous downpour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/red-alert-sounded-for-karnataka-coast/articleshow/77358425.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Business||RBI blocks NBFC plans of Mauritius-funded startups||BENGALURU: Indian startups will have to wait longer to own their non-banking financial company (NBFC) licence since the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has returned the applications of several of them, some of which are top-funded. These include Sequoia-backed BharatPe, Google Capital-backed CarDekho, and digital banking startup Jupiter, backed by Sequoia and Matrix Partners, three sources aware of the matter said. The move follows recent geopolitical developments that have spurred tighter scrutiny of Chinese capital coming into local startups via tax havens like Mauritius, where most venture capital (VC) and private equity (PE) funds are registered. Second, money coming from funds registered in Mauritius, which is on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) grey list, is being seen as capital from a jurisdiction with weaker norms to counter money laundering. This has resulted in the RBI returning these applications, the sources added. India has been making multiple moves to boycott Chinese influence in the Indian economy since the Ladakh border conflict that started in May. According to sources aware of the regulator’s thinking, the scrutiny of these applications has also increased owing to the involvement of limited partners, or LPs — who invest in VC funds — with origins in China. Most of these startups who applied for a licence and have raised VC funding will have to wait longer, at least for the rest of the year because of the current situation, before there is a change in the RBI’s stance, people aware of the matter said. “Mauritius being in the grey list was a concern for the RBI. But recent political issues have made it more sensitive. The regulator has not rejected these applications, but has indicated the applicants have to wait longer before a review,” a person aware of the matter said. In May, the Indian Private Equity and Venture Capital Association (IVCA) had written to the RBI, raising the concern. “We are being told to wait for at least a quarter or more before they take another look,” a senior executive of one of the affected applicants said. This would delay the monetising plans of the lending operations of startups through their own NBFCs as that will have a lower cost of capital, among other advantages, than partnering with others. In fact, owing to the pandemic, demand for credit among consumers and small businesses is higher, sources added. When contacted, BharatPe co-founder Ashneer Grover and Jupiter founder Jitendra Gupta declined to comment. The RBI said it has nothing to comment on the matter, while an email sent to CarDekho did not elicit any response. The NBFC sector has been reeling since the payment default of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS). Since the virus outbreak, the government and the RBI have been trying to ease the liquidity shortage for this sector. “Access of capital to small businesses is critical in current times to ensure business recovery and they (startups) are hoping they get to have their own play leveraging technology with regulatory clearance,” one of the people mentioned earlier added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-blocks-nbfc-plans-of-mauritius-funded-startups/articleshow/77360368.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Two from Kolkata in UPSC top-20; CA ranks 13th on third try, techie at 20th spot in first bid||KOLKATA: Two civil service aspirants from Kolkata have made in to the top-20 merit list of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) on Tuesday. Raunak Agarwal, a chartered accountant, has secured the 13th rank while electrical engineer Neha Banerjee has ranked 20th. This is the first time in several years that candidates from Kolkata have featured so high in the Union Public Service Commission examination merit list. Agarwal tasted success on his third attempt, but Banerjee managed to crack it at the first try. Agarwal’s aspiration for civil services were triggered by his grandfather, who often spoke highly about the “steel frame of India that caters to the neediest citizen and enjoys a lot of satisfaction in return”. “I am from a family of businessmen and my grandfather would often talk to me about the administrative service. That planted the seeds of aspiration in me since childhood and I was determined to give IAS a shot,” said Agarwal. Fond of reading and writing poems, the youth has chosen the Indian Administrative Service over Indian Foreign Service as he wants to work for the country. Agarwal graduated in commerce and ranked fifth in the Indian Chartered Accountants of India exams. “CA was my back-up plan. But I needed to complete that before I started preparing full time for the UPSC exams,” he said. A student of St Xavier’s College in Kolkata, Agarwal started preparing for the UPSC three years ago. He could not clear the mains in the first two attempts, but refused to give up. This perseverance was rewarded in the third try. “There is no template when you prepare for an exam like this. You choose your target, find your weak spots and strengths and work on them accordingly. Everyone has his own pace of study,” he said. On the other hand, Banerjee studied for the UPSC exams while working a 10am-5pm job. “It happened over the past year, but the journey really began in May 2018, when I was in the final year in IIT-Kharagpur. It was then that I decided to join the civil services,” she recounted. After she passed out of IIT, she received several lucrative job offers, but turned them down to pursue her dream. “I was convinced that IAS was my call,” she said. After interning with a global firm, Banerjee started working with Adobe Systems in Noida. “While most of my friends aspired to join MS abroad and later earn a PhD, others became techies and later accepted on-site offers abroad. But I didn't want to leave India and was committed to pursuing a career that would allow me to serve the nation,” she said. “But UPSC is not like a board exam. One has to know social, political and environmental developments and also have awareness. My selection proves that rote learning is not an option to succeed,” the Carmel High School and South Point School alumna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-from-city-in-upsc-top-20-ca-ranks-13th-on-3rd-try-techie-at-20th-spot-in-first-bid/articleshow/77359391.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 5, 2020||Mangaluru||MLAs dissenting note puts spoke in plans of Mangalore University to continue BASLP course||MANGALURU: The move by conventional state universities, including Mangalore University, to retain the right to admit students for Bachelor of Audiology and Speech Language Pathology (BASLP) course from forthcoming academic year saw two BJP MLAs record their ‘dissenting note’ at the special meeting of the academic council of the city based university on Monday. The academic council had earlier adopted a resolution to this effect. A directive from the state government had mandated Bengaluru-based Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to handle affiliations and regulate admissions of colleges offering the course in the state. These included five colleges in the city that are offering the course under the science faculty of Mangalore University. Following the directive, these colleges had sought permission to continue admissions at the institutions under the university itself. Incidentally, the Syndicate of Mangalore University had agreed to a request from these colleges to remain with the university citing various administrative challenges that the global pandemic posed in getting affiliated to RGUHS. P S Yadapadithaya, VC who piloted the agenda said the five colleges will be allowed admit students for the current academic year as a special case and no fresh affiliation given to other colleges to start this course under it. Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA and former syndicate member of RGUHS and his Kaup counterpart Lalaji Mendon said a specialised course like BASLP conventionally should be administered by a health university. Dr Shetty said these courses, full of potential, are administered by health universities in Maharashtra and Kerala and the government directive was borne out of the need to ensure that the course got its due under RGUHS. Dr Shetty requested registrar Raju Mogaveera to record Mendon’s and his dissenting note to approval that the council gave to the agenda. VC said the resolution to retain the five colleges offering BASLP course under it for the forthcoming academic year will be sent to the government. Incidentally, additional chief secretary (higher education), in a letter dated June 1, had directed conventional universities offering this course to seek affiliation from RGUHS. Colleges affiliated to Bangalore University, University of Mysore, Karnatak University, Kuvempu University, Gulbarga University and Mangalore University are offering the BASLP course. The June letter categorically directed these universities to desist from doing so. The course has been recognised by the Rehabilitation Council of India that standardised the course curriculum in the field of disability rehabilitation and regulated training centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mlas-dissenting-note-puts-spoke-in-plans-of-mangalore-university-to-continue-baslp-course/articleshow/77358438.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Faulty PPE kits were given to KIMS staff by donors: District administration||HUBBALLI: The district administration has issued a clarification regarding the supply of poor quality safety gear to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) hospital. A clarification letter issued by the district administration stated that high quality PPE kits were provided to doctors and nurses working at the Covid ward in KIMS. Based on the reports appearing in newspapers and on the direction of deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, nodal officer of health-related procurement committee Sharada Kolkar visited the KIMS hospital and submitted a report after verifying the kits and checking the documents. In the report, Sharada said the PPE kit model that appeared in the press were given by donors, and she also verified the medical equipment storage documents and found that these kits were being used in non-Covid wards by the doctors and staff. DC Nitesh Patil said companies supplying safety kits should follow all the guidelines and protocols of the government. The companies should be eligible to supply the items, and there should not be any compromise on the quality of the safety equipment supplied to the institution, he said. He directed officials of the committee to take care of it. He said that if any low-quality materials are supplied, they should be returned back immediately, and no payment should be made to the supplier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/faulty-ppe-kits-were-given-to-kims-staff-by-donors-dist-admin/articleshow/77358392.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bidding junked over China links, new Ganga bridge gets seven fresh bids||PATNA: The ministry of road transport and highways has received seven fresh bids for the construction of a four-lane bridge parallel to the Mahatma Gandhi Setu. The previous tender was cancelled over the involvement of some Chinese firms in the bidding process in the aftermath of the Ladakh standoff. While technical error was officially cited as the reason for the cancellation of the previous bidding process, sources said five of the total seven firms, which qualified for the bidding, had Chinese partners. “The bids received under the fresh tender process will undergo technical and financial evaluation and a firm will be finally selected by ministry of road transport and highways for constructing the bridge. The 5.6 km bridge parallel to Gandhi Setu will be constructed over a period of three and half years,” state road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav told TOI on Tuesday. He added, “The bridge is a part of PM Narendra Modi’s special package for Bihar and it is proposed to be constructed utilizing funds to the tune of Rs2926.4 crore, out of which, Rs 2411.5 crore will be spent on construction.” The bridge will be run parallel 32m west of the Mahatma Gandhi Setu. Officials claimed that the length of the new bridge from zero mile in Patna to Ramashish Chowk in Hajipur is 14.5km out of which the length of the bridge structure will be 5.6 km. Earlier on July 31, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari lauded the plan to build the new bridge while inaugurating the rehabilitated western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu. “Construction work on the bridge will start in October and we have targeted to finish it by March, 2024. It will be the first-of-its-kind bridge to have a 242m-long span. It will be the longest span of any bridge and ships will be able to pass underneath the bridge,” Gandkari said. Road construction minister Nand Kishor said an estimated 4.4 hectare is required for the bridge project and acquisition is in the final stages. “The new bridge is proposed to be constructed using the extra-dosed cable-stayed technology,” Nand Kishor said. The minister claimed that the existing approach road of Gandhi Setu will also be developed into four lanes in order to provide eight lane- connectivity to both bridges. “The construction of the new bridge will further smoothen vehicular movement between north and south. The life span of the bridge will be 100 years,” Nand Kishor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bidding-junked-over-china-links-new-ganga-bridge-gets-7-fresh-bids/articleshow/77358166.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 500 special lights adorn Mahabodhi Mahavihara||GAYA: The especially designed 500 monument lights have been installed at the world famous Mahabodhi Mahavihara with the expenditure of over Rs 6 crore. The nearly 1500 years old shrine symbolizes Buddha’s enlightenment. The lights have been designed to illuminate the shrine without causing any radiating effect on the monument, which is a world heritage site. The custom-made LED lights, focusing on the structure to provide brilliant illumination, add to the attraction of the shrine that usually witnesses heavy footfall in October-February period. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said 200 more such lights would be installed in the coming months. “The adjustable lighting system has been designed to give a new glow to the shrine without compromising with the serenity of the place,” he said. Besides the monument lights, a 3km-long underground cabling work is also being executed on the shrine premises. A Himachal Pradesh based group of Buddha followers is bearing the entire cost of illumination and underground electrical cabling. On its completion, the project is estimated to cost Rs 9 crore. As per information provided by the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC), the complete lighting design has been prepared by a Thai company. As per the terms of agreement, the company engaged for the project’s execution will have to offer free maintenance for a period of two years. “The project would be competed by the end of 2020,” said the DM, who is also the ex office chairman of BTMC. A few years back, the shrine had got a 300kg golden dome from Thai Buddhists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/500-special-lights-adorn-mahabodhi-mahavihara/articleshow/77358249.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Patna: Online classes take a toll on kids’ health, claim health experts||PATNA: Prolonged online classes are taking a toll on the health of schoolchildren. Many of them have complained of burning sensation, watery eyes and headache, claim health experts. According to ophthalmologist Dr Anil Kumar, constant exposure to laptops and computers for long hours puts a lot of stress on the eyes. “Increased screen time can cause sedentary behaviour in children and teens, decreased metabolism, disturbance in sleep cycle, and distractibility,” he told this newspaper. Former eye surgeon Raghubir Ojha also pointed out that online classes put too much strain on children’s eyes. “We call this condition Computer Vision Syndrome. Sitting in one posture for long hours makes blood circulation in the brain stagnant and the oxygen supply reduces, which leads to pain and burning sensation in the eyes. I, therefore, request parents and teachers to give a 20-minute break to the students during online classes,” he added. An Anadpuri resident claimed that her daughter, a Class VI student, had been complaining of severe headache and constant irritation in the eyes for a week. When she consulted an ophthalmologist, he asked her to “avoid prolonged exposure to computers, cell phones and laptops”. Nageshwar Prasad, a senior citizen living in Kadamkuan locality, said, “My grandson, who studies in Class II, keeps staring at the cell phone and often rubs his eyes. Before the lockdown, we made sure he did not use mobile phones, but online classes have forced him to do so.” Indian Public School teacher Sujata Chandra admitted that some children complained of headache and irritation as well as lack of concentration after their online classes. “The retaining capacity of students also reduces after continuous exposure to the mobile screen,” she added. The school’s director Vinayak Yasraj, however, claimed that each class was held only for 35 to 40 minutes and a 10-minute break given to the students. A St Joseph’s Convent High School teacher said classes were conducted in such a way that students did not need to stare at the computer screens for long. “I ask them to open their books and explain different topics to them in simple language,” she added. Criticizing virtual classes, PU psychology department head Iftekhar Hossain said, “Online education is just a formality and is not going to benefit students much. In the long run, their academic performance will deteriorate. The practice of reading and writing develops only in classrooms where children study in groups in the presence of teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-classes-take-a-toll-on-kids-health-doctors/articleshow/77357832.cms||B K Mishra
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||Six accused cops hiding in interior part of Gir forests||Vadodara: Over the last few days, a team of cops from the city has been camping in the interiors of Gir forests in Saurashtra region. Whenever they see any hutment in the deep jungle, they check it and move on to other human settlements hoping to catch hold of the six policemen accused in the custodial death case at Fatehgunj police station. A senior police official said that the team has been trying hard to track the accused cops who have gone missing since nearly a month now. “We have information that the accused cops are hiding in Gir forest. They have been staying in cottages located deep in the forest. It is very difficult to track them and one has to trek to access these cottages,” said a senior police official.“Our team is visiting the remotest areas of the forest, hoping to track down the accused, most of whom are from Saurashtra region,” the official told TOI. The police said that it had also intercepted some phone calls in the region and investigations revealed that the accused cops were camping in the Gir forest.“The phone calls we tracked in Saurashtra region were made to the relatives of the accused cops. We contacted them to get further clues of the accused who have now started making internet calls. They make few calls and then switch off their phones,” the official added. The six cops who were posted in Fatehgunj police station are accused of causing the custodial death of Sheikh Nishar Babu and then disposing of his body in December last year.During the police inquiry, the accused including police inspector Dharmendrasinh Gohil’s who is from Palitana, PSI Dashrath Rabari from Kheda, LRD Yogendrasinh Jilansinh from Sabarkantha, Rajesh Savjibhai from Morbi, Pankaj Mavji from Amreli and Hitesh Shambhu from Bhavnagar maintained that Sheikh had left the police station.But investigations revealed that Sheikh, who was detained over suspicion of theft, never left the police station. The city police filed a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the six cops last month but the Gujarat high court directed the police to add murder charges. “We have got enough evidence against the accused cops and they will be held soon,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, the outgoing police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-accused-cops-hiding-in-interior-part-of-gir-forests/articleshow/77357430.cms||Tushar Tere
August 5, 2020||Patna||Construction of Gaya cultural centre likely to be delayed||GAYA: With the extended deadline approaching fast, the multi-crore cultural centre project in Bodh Gaya is unlikely to be completed as per the revised schedule. As per the original schedule, the state-of-the-art cultural centre was to be ready for use before August last year. While laying the foundation of the project entailing an estimated outlay of Rs 145crore on February 1, 2018, CM Nitish Kumar wanted it to be completed in 18 months. The deadline was subsequently extended. As per the extended schedule, the job was to be done by the end of August 2020. Spread over an area of 13 acres to the northwest of the world famous Mahabodhi Mahavihara, the 2000 capacity cultural centre will also have six smaller auditoriums each with a seating capacity of 500 and a 1000 capacity banquet hall. The centre will have facilities like rain harvesting, sprinkling facility for fire-fighting, fire alarms, sewerage treatment and an eco-friendly lighting system. Besides the centrally-funded cultural centre, CM Nitish also approved the construction of a 100-bed guest house with five star facilities to be built near the cultural centre. The state government is committed to fund the guest house project. Asked about the progress in the execution of the ambitious project, Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh, who is also the ex-officio chairman of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) said the execution job has been hit by the lockdown and other Covid-related hazards. Conceding that the schedule was unlikely to be maintained, the DM said that all efforts are being made to complete the job within the ongoing calendar year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/construction-of-gaya-cultural-centre-likely-to-be-delayed/articleshow/77358280.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||BJP MLA accuses police of slackness||PATNA: BJP MLA Asha Devi on Tuesday expressed her unhappiness as police have failed to arrest the killers of her aide and Sarari PACS chairman Kavindra Yadav, who was gunned down at Shivala chowk under Shahpur police station in western Patna on August 1. The MLA from Danapur said police nab people without helmet and licence, but not those who roam around with pistols. Yadav used to look after her election management. He was also close to Asha’s husband Satyanarayan Sinha, who had been murdered in Khagaul way back in 2003. That time he was a ward councillor. Asha is also from Sarari. Earlier, ward councillor Deepak Paswan, who is also close to Asha, was shot at by bike-borne criminals in Khagaul on July 8. He, however, survived. “Yadav’s murder should get investigated by the CBI,” she told TOI over the phone. The MLA also said Yadav’s killing was a big setback for her, especially in view of the upcoming state assembly elections. Asha said she had met SP (west) Ashok Mishra. He had assured me to arrest Yadav’s killers within 24 hours. “Nothing happened even after more than 48 hours,” she said. “The day police decide to send every criminal behind bars one by one, no one would escape. Such incidents can’t take place without the slackness on the part of police,” she alleged. “Since my husband got murdered, my rivals had always tried to damage me. They would always want to damage me,” she feared. Meanwhile, Shahpur police station SHO Dheeraj Kumar said unknown persons had been made accused in the FIR lodged in the Yadav’s murder case. “No one has been arrested. Investigation is going on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-mla-accuses-police-of-slackness/articleshow/77358221.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 5, 2020||Business||Axis Bank launches Rs 10,000 crore QIP||MUMBAI: Private lender Axis Bank on Tuesday evening launched a Rs 10,000-crore (about $1.3-billion) fund-raising offer, through the qualified institutional placement (QIP) route. The base offer size is pegged at Rs 8,000 crore with a green shoe option of another Rs 2,000 crore. The indicative price for the offer is just over Rs 420 per share, while the stock on Tuesday closed at Rs 429 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-launches-rs-10000-crore-qip/articleshow/77360274.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Business||Franklin MF gets Rs 4,280 crore till July-end||MUMBAI: In what could come as a relief to investors in Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s six closed debt schemes, the fund house on Tuesday said that in the last three months it has received Rs 4,280 crore from bond issuers. Though the amount is ready to be distributed, investors will get the money only after the Karnataka HC allows the fund house to do the same. When the funds were closed on April 26, the schemes had assets worth nearly Rs 26,000 crore, invested mainly in several corporate bonds and some government entities. Over the last three months, the fund house has been making efforts to recoup money from every available source. “The six schemes have received Rs 893 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments,” between July 16 and July 31, the fund house wrote to its investors. “This takes the total cash flows received since April 24 to Rs 4,280 crore,” it said. It also said borrowing levels in four of the six funds continue to decline, with two — Low Duration Fund and Credit Risk Fund — closer to becoming cash-positive. However, it added that “the e-voting and unitholders meet continue to remain suspended” till it gets further directions from Karnataka HC. “This is very crucial as active monetisation of assets of the schemes and distribution of investment proceeds to the unitholders will be possible only after successful e-voting,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-mf-gets-rs-4280cr-till-july-end/articleshow/77360315.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Patna: Regular use of sanitisers, soaps can cause eczema, claims report||PATNA: A team of medical researchers, including one from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), has claimed in a study that frequent use of soaps or sanitisers for handwash to keep away the Covid-19 infection may lead to hand eczema. A first observational report of an ongoing research work came online last week in the Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology, the official journal of the International Academy of Cosmetic Dermatology. Dr Swetlina Pradhan, the head of department of dermatology at AIIMS-P, said the clinical observations was based on about 100 patients, who contacted the department through phone, WhatsApp or other means for medical suggestions. It was found that frequent handwash with soaps, detergent or chemical sanitisers led to skin problems in their hands. Most of them did not have any skin-related ailments before repeated use of soaps, detergent or sanitisers to wash hands. “Frequent handwashing disrupts natural hydro lipid mantle of the skin, leading to changes in intercellular lipid by causing their depletion or reorganization. After damage to lipid barrier, the chemicals present in soap, detergent or sanitisers may easily penetrate the skin, causing deeper damage and leading to contact dermatitis or eczema,” Dr Pradhan said. Soon with the coming of the Covid-19 pandemic, the medical experts and even governments issued guidelines asking people to adopt at least three measures — use of mask, social distancing and frequent handwash — after getting in contact with any other person or open surface for protection against the viral infections. Handwashing thus became a desirable exercise not only at homes but also in offices and commercial places. But now, medical researchers are busy probing its impact on dermal health. “The researchers have now started examining the hand skin of health workers, including hospital staff, who have to frequently wash their hands in course of looking after the patients in the dedicated Covid wards,” she said. Pradhan said, handwashing with alcohol based sanitisers caused lesser damage than soaps and detergents. She, however, warned that alcohol based sanitisers can also dissolve the lipid layer of skin. Other researchers associated with this work are George Kroumpouzos of Medical School at Jundiai in Brazil and Mohamad Goldust of the University Hospital at Basel in Switzerland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/regular-use-of-sanitisers-soaps-can-cause-eczema-study-report/articleshow/77357677.cms||VK Tripathi
August 5, 2020||Patna||Caste factor turns Sushant Singh Rajput death into emotive issue ahead of Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: The controversy over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has turned into a political issue ahead of the Bihar assembly polls due at the end of this year. Patna boy Sushant’s massive fan following in the state, especially among the youth, coupled with his dominant Rajput caste background, has all major political parties in the state trying to cash in. RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav was among the first to meet his parents and demand for a CBI probe, followed by LJP’s Chirag Paswan raising the issue with the Centre for a CBI probe. JDU (U) too joined the chorus with Sushant’s MLA cousin Neeraj Bablu along with other party MLAs raising demand for a CBI probe at the assembly’s monsoon session on Monday. A day after, the government led by Nitish Kumar, who also holds the home portfolio, recommended a CBI probe on Tuesday. Politicians cutting across party lines vouched for the case to be handed over to the CBI for “fair” and “impartial” investigation. At stake is the sizeable Rajput vote, which accounts for nearly 4% of the total 15% upper caste votes in Bihar and also plays a decisive role in the 40 assembly constituencies. “This could be gauged from the fact that in the 243-member assembly in the state, there are 19 MLAs from Rajput castes alone,” political analyst Pramod Kumar said. However, the CBI probe recommendation has obviously not gone down well in Maharashtra, a non-NDA state. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala as well as Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut have both attacked CM Nitish Kumar for sending a police team to Mumbai for interfering into another state’s jurisdiction. “Nitish ji ko phir se Bharat ka samvidhan padh lena chahiye (Nitish ji should go through the Constitution of India once again). The law and order is a state subject in the federal set up. And if the police of a state will interfere into the jurisdiction of another, it will lead to anarchy,” Surjewala said. Yet, the issue is so divisive that the Bihar Congress has welcomed a CBI probe into the case. “We hail the move of the state government. We have urged CM Nitish Kumar to ensure that the recommendation is accepted by the MHA. We raised the issue in the House, which led to the recommendation sent by the state government today,” Congress MLC Premchand Mishra said. The Congress is an ally of RJD in the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar and it joined hands with Tejashwi on the issue of the CBI investigation. “In fact, local issues dominate the scene in the state polls more. So we have a different stand on the issue here compared to the national one,`` a senior Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity. Earlier, Congress incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil had defended the Maharashtra government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caste-factor-turns-sushant-death-into-emotive-issue-ahead-of-assembly-polls/articleshow/77357958.cms||Ramashankar
August 5, 2020||Patna||57% patients put under home isolation in Patna district recovered||PATNA: About 4,100 patients (57.5%) out of the 7,100 people, who tested positive for the virus and opted for home isolation in Patna district since July 8, have recovered as their subsequent test results came negative as on Monday. Altogether 2,980 Covid patients remained under home isolation in the district as on August 3. The state government, on July 7, had allowed Covid patients with no or mild symptoms to be at home. According to the data provided by the district authorities, 10,510 people tested Covid positive in Patna and 7,011 of them recovered. Out of the 3,445 active cases, 465 were under treatment at the health facilities. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday that people, who opted for home isolation, were doing well with the constant help provided by the ‘Covid care management cell’. “The team daily contacts every person in home isolation. The team members also help those who are in need of immediate medical attention. There are a few who shifted from home isolation to health facilities after breathlessness or developing other symptoms. On Monday, one patient was shifted to Covid dedicated hospital after his health condition deteriorated,” Agarwal said. He added: “Besides the medical advice, the testing centres and Covid cell have started giving medical kit (including medicines like paracetamol, Vitamin C and D and antibiotic) to Covid patients. When required, we are sending the medical kits to patients through posts.” The health department has issued dedicated emergency numbers for each district, so that a Covid patient in case of developing symptoms like fever, fatigue and breathlessness should consult the doctors. For speedy recovery, the experts have stressed on eating habit, exercise or yoga, drinking kadha and milk with turmeric once a day. Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar chapter, secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said, “Asymptomatic Covid patients are not considered to be infection spreaders, but they should take extra precautions. Taking kadha of tulsi leaf and black pepper and turmeric milk is compulsory for all Covid patients. They should also gurgle with hot water and salt,” he said. Dr Diwakar Tejaswi said exercise or yoga and positive thoughts are important for speedy recovery from the virus. “People should only eat lukewarm food and take medicines like Vitamin C, D and zinc. They should at least check their pulse rate thrice a day by oximeter to avoid any cascading effects. If the pulse rate goes down 95 then they should immediately consult a doctor,” he said. “Even the family members of a Covid patient should wear mask and maintain social distancing. The Covid patient room should be ventilated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/57-patients-put-under-home-isolation-in-patna-district-recover/articleshow/77357797.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 5, 2020||Business||Tractor industry grows 35% in July||Chennai: Tractor sales in the country have clocked over 35% year-on-year growth in July on the back of robust agricultural activities.Top manufacturers like Mahindra & Mahindra and Sonalika have recorded about 28% and 72% growth respectively, while Escorts saw nearly 10% growth, despite supply constraints. Tractor marketers said the July figures prove that the spike seen in June was not just pent-up demand but a sentiment revival.Market leader Mahindra recorded its highest ever July sales this year with 25,402 tractors sold (including exports) compared to 19,992 units in July 2019.“Mahindra Tractors recorded a July domestic sales growth of 28% over the previous year (24,463 units). This is due to positive factors related to good cash flow with farmers, a strong Rabi output, higher procurement and price realisations, timely monsoons, which is 2% higher than the LPA end of July and 18% higher Kharif sowing (as on end of July). We expect this demand to continue and remain buoyant in the coming months,” said Hemant Sikka, president — farm equipment sector, Mahindra. Sonalika too recorded its highest ever monthly sales growth of nearly 72% with export and domestic sales of 10,223 tractors in July. Domestic sales nearly doubled to 8,219 units from 4,788 last July. “Our cumulative domestic growth (April-July) is at nearly 18%. We have been consistently growing amid the prevailing situation with 25% growth (deliveries) in May, 55% growth (billings) in June and 72% growth (billings) in July. We expect the uptick in demand to continue our growth momentum in the forthcoming festive season as well,” said Raman Mittal, executive director, Sonalika Group.Even companies that faced supply hiccups managed to do well. Escorts reported 10% increase in tractor sales to 5,322 units in July, up from 4,860 units last July. Of this, it sold 4,953 tractors in the domestic market, up nearly 10% over the 4,505 sold in July 2019. The company said that it could operate only at 50% of its capacity due to supply chain challenges and expected to return to peak capacity by mid-August.Tractor marketers say the sales growth is not just agri-related but also because there is more money in the rural economy. “Agricultural as well as non-agricultural rural spending by the government both at the Centre and the state are on the positive side,” said Mahindra’s Sikka. “These include employment generated under MGNREGA scheme, which doubled over the corresponding month of previous year,” he added. All of these had an impact on tractor demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tractor-industry-grows-35-in-july/articleshow/77338321.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 5, 2020||Rajkot||Minor among two blackmailed of rape||Rajkot: An amount of Rs 50 lakh was demanded from a 26-year-old man and a minor boy from Junagadh who were lured into having sexual relationship with a woman and were later threatened of police case. The victim Vijay Pataviya and the minor boy were trapped with the offer of relationship with the woman by Dilavar Aslam Qureshi and Hiten Rawal in Manavadar on Monday night. The duo took Pataviya and the boy to Upleta in a black coloured car where they met the unidentified woman. Pataviya told police that after a brief conversation with the woman and taking a few selfie photos, three unidentified men reached the spot. Trio identified themselves as cops and started asking questions. Pataviya and the boy were also allegedly beaten up by them and asked to cough up Rs 50 lakh. Police said that the accused threatened them to register a rape case if they don’t pay the amount. The duo was then dropped back to Manavadar and was asked to pay the money as early as possible. On reaching home, Pataviya told his family members about the incident after which they registered an offence against the six people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-among-two-blackmailed-of-rape/articleshow/77357401.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Business||Can create another middle-class in rural: HDFC Bank founder CEO Aditya Puri||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Aditya Puri, the founder CEO of HDFC Bank, will hand over the reins to his colleague Sashidhar (Sashi) Jagdishan in October. In an interview to TOI, Puri speaks of what he sees as the way forward and the highpoints of his term. Excerpts: What’s behind the choice of Sashidhar Jagdishan? I was only an adviser on the search committee, which set out the criteria. To take the bank to the next level, we said we would look internally and at candidates from all across the world. The internal candidate would have some advantage as he knew of the working of the bank. We needed someone who has handled scale and has an understanding of issues relating to technology, the future of banking and also macroeconomic conditions to get an idea of opportunities and dangers if we went in the wrong direction. As a change agent, Sashi has been instrumental in implementing the fundamental shift where we compete with tech platforms rather than banks and use technology to grow the under-penetrated market in India. To implement this, you need the whole bank committed to it because they believe in it and something coming from the top would not work. At this point, does the bank need a CEO who is more cautious or growth-oriented? HDFC Bank has a culture of being very cautious. We get growth because the market opportunity is available. But when we see an opportunity, we do not bet the bank but test it out first. Whether it was the closed user group for stock exchanges, the 10-second loan, or expanding to semi-urban and rural India — we test, test, test. It is a misnomer that it is run by one person. We have a lot of delegation and empowerment and a culture that allows people to speak. If we were not conservative, our NPA levels and our costs to revenue would not be where it is. Do you feel this is the time to grow business? It’s a great time to grow. But grow recognising that we are a fiduciary organisation and have to return the depositors’ money. The opportunity for us is the way India will lead in digitisation, where the basic framework is already in place. We have broadband and mobile phones all over, but we have to fix the nuts and bolts like e-signature and e-documents. In semi-urban and rural India, GDP per capita just crossed $2,000, and 60% of the country lives there. So, you can actually create a middle class that is equivalent to the current middle class in the country. HDFC Bank has stayed away from project loans. Can you continue to do so? Today, our corporate book is larger than the retail book and infrastructure is also 15- 20% of our book. We are among the top three in financing in toll roads and debt capital markets, which are a source of funds for infrastructure. We want infrastructure projects to be structured in such a way that, of the risk we take, the performance risk is on the contractor, the cash flow risk on the sponsor, and force majeure & owner risk — where it’s a government project — is on the government. How do you see the relationship with HDFC evolving? The bank has been distributing and buying home loans for HDFC. Some people have been seeing a merger as an eventuality... For now, it is a win-win situation for both. Unless something changes fundamentally, we do not see any reason to change that. Because we originate loans by using our distribution capability and we buy back 70%, that gives us a lot on the priority sector side, which we would not be able to do on our own. So, we are quite happy with the arrangement. And I don’t see why this should not continue. Why did you choose to sell your holdings in the bank? The shares were acquired under ESOPs, which is approved by the RBI, along with base salary and given at market price. So, you have to factor in the purchase price and the tax. Higher the value of the share, the more money I need to exercise the option and pay tax. Also, I am 70, and should I not think about my life? There has been speculation that you may join a business group to help them with financial sector plans... I have a large customer base, some of whom are my largest customers. So, interacting with them is part of my current job. Now, there are all kinds of rumours and I do not want to comment. Nobody has approached me yet. If they do, I will look at it. If you are asking me if I am going to sit at home, the answer is no. There are two areas where I plan to do something. One is where good healthcare can be extended to a large section of the population at an affordable price. I am also looking at education in elective courses to make students job-worthy. We can also do a lot more in the uneducated but skilled category. But that doesn’t mean that if a damn good offer comes my way, I will not examine it on its own merits. When you started out in 1995, did you set out to build what the bank has become? We had the ambition to build a world-class bank — we have surpassed our ambition. We were from a bunch of middle-class families who worked hard and had worked in multinationals. Multinationals are also very bureaucratic and we had come here because of the entrepreneurial spirit. Like one minister said, HDFC Bank was the first startup. There was a time it could have got taken over by multinationals, but that did not happen because of regulation. God has been kind and it has been beyond our expectations. Despite its size, HDFC Bank has steered clear of going global. Do you feel this approach should continue? There is so much opportunity in India that we need not look outside, not just for the next five years but for much longer. Today, we are in the best position to pole vault into the digital age. the basic foundation is there. We are the cheapest in telecommunication and broadband. In the next two-three months, you will hear that we are partnering the top three in digital in the world. This will be a major demand-changer and will create models that can be taken overseas. Semi-urban and rural India will create an unbelievable middle market, which will create demand and give scale to local companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/can-create-another-middle-class-in-rural-hdfc-bank-founder-ceo-aditya-puri/articleshow/77360389.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 5, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Awaiting BMC response on IPS officer’s quarantine, says Patna IG||PATNA: The state police is awaiting response from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) over its demand to exempt Patna City (central) SP Vinay Tiwari, who has been quarantined citing Covid-19 protocol for flyers arriving in Mumbai. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh, who has written a letter to the BMC commissioner at the direction of DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, on Tuesday told TOI that no response had been received from BMC till Tuesday evening on Tiwari’s release. He is in ‘home quarantine’ at a Maharashtra Police guest house in Goregaon since Sunday evening. The letter was written highlighting a clause in the Maharashtra government’s SOP on Covid-19 that “local district/municipal administration will be authorised to give exemption in home isolation for contributing to an office for other important work after checking the passengers”. “Due to the prevailing scenario in Mumbai, the four-member team of Patna police is also not moving out for any investigation work as they are waiting for the SP’s quarantine issue to be sorted out,” Singh said. Reacting to the state government’s move to recommend CBI probe, the IG said the police can continue to carry out investigation in Sushant’s case until the federal agency takes it over after registering its own FIR. He added that the Patna police team has gathered bank statements of at least four years of accounts belonging to the late actor. DGP Pandey on Tuesday also alleged before mediapersons that around Rs 50 crore was withdrawn from the bank accounts of Sushant. The DGP also claimed that all communication channels have been closed by the Maharashtra government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/awaiting-bmc-response-on-ips-officers-quarantine-ig/articleshow/77358041.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 5, 2020||Patna||UPSC exams: Shrestha of Bhagalpur secures 19th rank||PATNA: Shrestha Anupam of Bhagalpur has secured All India Rank (AIR) 19 in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC)civil services examination 2019. The results were declared on Tuesday on the basis of the main examination and personality test. Shrestha (23), who cleared the final exam in his second attempt, told this newspaper that he wanted to become an IAS officer since childhood. “I have seen poverty, social discrimination and various problems while living in Bhagalpur. That is what motivated me to become a bureaucrat. Bihar cadre is my first choice. I would try to give my best,” he said. Born to Dilip Kumar Amar (operational head of a non-government organization) and Asha Devi (treasurer of an NGO), Anupam had been a bright student since his school days and always believed in social transformation. He had scored 98.6% in ICSE from St Joseph’s School and completed his graduation in chemical engineering from IIT-Delhi in 2018. “I appeared for the UPSC exam in 2018, but couldn’t clear the prelims. I joined coaching classes in Delhi, but also devoted substantial time to self-study,” he said. Pradeep Singh from Gopalganj, who shares his name with this year’s topper from Haryana, ranked 26. He had already cleared the civil services exam in 2018 and ranked AIR 93. He got Indian Revenue Services (Income Tax) and is presently a trainee. Pradeep was overwhelmed as he achieved his goal this time. “I had missed the opportunity to become an IAS officer. But even after getting IRS, I maintained a balance between my studies and training. Now, I will resign from IRS and join the IAS training,” he said. Pradeep (23) completed his schooling and higher education from Indore as his father Manoj Singh used to work at a petrol pump there. He recounted how his father sold their home in Indore for his coaching classes. “All the sacrifices made by my family further motivated me to become an IAS officer,” he said. “My first priority is Bihar cadre as my grandfather Ramashish Singh lives at Mirganj in Gopalganj. All the relatives and family members live in Bihar,” he added. Altogether nine aspirants from Bihar are among the top 100 rank holders, including Shrestha, Pradeep, Dipanker Choudhary from Sitamarhi (AIR 42), Om Kant Thakur from Samastipur (AIR 52), Ashish Kumar from Saran (AIR 53), Mukund Kumar from Madhubani (AIR 54), Priyank Kishore from Patna (AIR 61), Divya Shakti from Saran (AIR 79) and Anupama Singh from Patna (AIR 90).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/upsc-exams-shrestha-of-bhagalpur-secures-19th-rank/articleshow/77357922.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 5, 2020||Patna||SSR case: Bhagalpur residents hail recommendation for CBI probe||BHAGALPUR: The recommendation for a CBI probe in the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s case has been hailed by people from cross section of the society here. Many criticized the Mumbai police for not cooperating with their Bihar counterparts in the investigation in the alleged suicide of the actor. While criticizing the Mumbai police, senior lawyers here termed the activities of Mumbai police as violation of the provisions enshrined in the CrPC. Senior Supreme Court lawyer and special panel counsel for CBI and Chandigarh (UT) administration Ashok Kumar Thakur, who also is a resident of Bhagalpur, told this newspaper over phone from Delhi that the action of Mumbai police has maligned the police image besides violating the CrPC provisions. “Section 91 read with sections 100, 161, 165 and 166 of CrPC provides that a police officer or a court, under certain circumstances, may issue an order or a summon for the production of any document or object if such production is necessary or desirable for the purpose of any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceedings under the CrPC. The motive of Mumbai police is not trustworthy and it appears that they are out to save some influential persons,” Thakur alleged. He hopes that the CBI would now take up the case. “After the CBI accepts and takes over the SSR case, a notification under sections 5 and 6 of Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act of 1946 will be issued and the CBI will take over the investigation,” Thakur added. Residents also assailed Patna City SP (central) Vinay Tiwari’s ‘forcibly home quarantine’ in Mumbai by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, while he was on official duty. Eastern Bihar Industries Association (EBIA) general secretary Alok Agarwal, Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries Association (EBCCI) president Ashok Bhiwaniwala, District Bar Association general secretary Sanjay Kumar Modi, IMA member and ex-general secretary Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, social activist Syed Zeejah Hussain and several others have common reservations against Mumbai police and BMC. All of them are seeking a CBI inquiry into Sushant’s case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssr-case-bhagalpur-residents-hail-recommendation-for-cbi-probe/articleshow/77358063.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 5, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank, RIL help sensex gain 748 pts||Mumbai: Led by strong buying in Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank, the sensex on Tuesday rallied 748 points, or 2%, to close near the 36,700 level. In the process, the index also reversed a four-session losing streak during which it had shed about 1,550 points. According to Ajit Mishra, VP — research, Religare Broking, supportive global cues on the back of above-expectation US manufacturing data and gains in tech stocks boosted investor sentiment in the early trade. “As the day progressed, healthy buying in auto, banking and energy stocks further extended the rally,” Mishra wrote in a note. Going forward, the market is expected to take cues from corporate results, the RBI policy later this week, developing global factors including the next economic package being discussed in the US and the rising number of Covid-19 infections, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-ril-help-sensex-gain-748-pts/articleshow/77360328.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Fear & social stigma preventing people from getting tests, early treatment?||Nagpur: While entire health machinery in Vidarbha is on a mission to stop Covid-19 deaths, the region has reported 91 deaths in just four days of August. This could be a major jolt to the entire plan and preparations of the region that is expecting the projected peak by second and third week of August. However, doctors who are on duty in Covid hospitals, and those who are treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals said most of the patients who died reached in critical condition and their prior health condition was aggravated due to the virus. Experts also said fear of disruption, stigma and quarantine for the entire family is leading to late presentation of cases becoming a non-clinical cause of mortality. Comorbidities and late referrals too are major concerns. Due to stigma and fear of Covid-19, people are not willing to go to hospital at early stage even after having health issues. In villages, many patients of chronic illnesses are being tested through rapid antigen test and getting hospitalized. People having cardiovascular complications are suffering from stress due to Covid-19 and at times leading to cardiac arrest. “If we avoid stigma and fear of Covid-19, we can save many from dying,” said Dr KS Ghorpade, dean of Government Medical College, Akola. ““Coronavirus infects respiratory track first and then advances into lung damage. If reported in first five days of infection, doctors can stop further lung damage clinically and save patient. But saving a patient having six-lobe involvement is difficult,” he said. Lungs have six lobes each and if all of them get infected, it becomes difficult to reverse the infection. Fear of Covid-19 after being admitted to hospital is another major cause of cardiac arrest during treatment. Reports of at least 42 of the 93 deaths reported in first four days of August show that they had cardiac arrest. “My father used to take one pill a day for high BP which is quite common for people of his age these days. But, since he got admitted in hospital after testing Covid-19 positive, his BP shot up severely and he could not recover. He was 55,” said Anvita Diwadkar, whose father died in Nagpur. Many people living with multiple comorbidities suffer aggravation of these diseases during hospitalization for Covid-19. “Many people lose their control on sugar levels during hospitalization. This is not always due to medication, but due to stress too,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, member of Covid-19 task force in Nagpur. Another important cause of Covid-19 deaths at young age is addiction. Doctors have observed that addiction to liquor, smoking is on the rise due to uncertainties of Covid-19. Nagpur city has reported at least eight such deaths of chronic alcoholics and smokers who later got infected and suffered from respiratory problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fear-social-stigma-preventing-people-from-getting-tests-early-treatment/articleshow/77360345.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 5, 2020||Surat||Better vital parameters raise hope||Surat: Even as Surat saw a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in June-July, an analysis of the data provided by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) indicates that there is a silver lining.According to the data, the doubling time of cases has improved and the daily average growth rate has came down in 20 days (July 9 to July 29). This daily average growth rate in the 20 days has fallen from 3.23 % to 2.73 % and further down from 2.72 % to 2.36 % as on July 29.SMC has also ramped its testing in the last 15 dayṣ. "Till July 15, we were conducting around 110 tests per day per million, which has now been increased to 1,200 per day per million,” said Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health), SMC.“We started rapid antigen tests July 15 which has increased the testing numbers. So, we are conducting around 6,000 tests per day in the city,'' Dr. Naik added.Covid-19 cases started peaking in Surat after June 1 when the four-month long lockdown was relaxed and industrial activities were permitted by following the guidelines. Diamond and textiles, the two main industries that run Surat’s economy, saw a spurt in cases with the two sectors now accounting for nearly 4,000 of the total cases over 11,000 cases in the city.While diamond industry employs around 5.5 lakh people, nearly 12 lakh, mostly migrants, work in textile units that include markets, powerlooms and embroidery units.“All diamond units have central air-conditioning but very poor ventilation. As a result, workers are more prone to infection even if one is infected with the virus. Similarly, in embroidery units, it’s difficult for artisans to maintain social distancing due to space constraint. Moreover, textile markets are extremely cramped for space. All these factors, lead to the spike in cases in the last two months,” Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, told TOI. As on July 21, there were 523 patients on oxygen support which reduced to 257 as on August 2. The number of patients detected with acute respiratory infections (ARI) have also dropped from 3,500 on July 6 to 1,500 on July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/better-vital-parameters-raise-hope/articleshow/77357690.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 5, 2020||Pune||Guard threatens jailer over duty||Pune: A jailer at the Yerawada temporary prison on Monday night accused one of the jail guards of allegedly threatening to kill his family following a dispute over being deployed at the Sassoon General Hospital. Two jail inmates were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the hospital and needed vigilance, the jailer, Chandramani Indurkar (55), said. — Asseem Shaikh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-threatens-jailer-over-duty/articleshow/77360343.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 5, 2020||Pune||Over 1k from outside PCMC limits recover||Pimpri Chinchwad: More than 1,000 Covid-19 patients from outside Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, being treated at various government and private hospitals in the twin township, have recovered fully. A PCMC health department report put the figure of such patients at 1,065 and said that another 316 patients from outside PCMC limits are still under treatment at hospitals in the twin township. The report further mentioned that of the total deaths reported in PCMC limits, 97 hailed from outside PCMC areas. A civic body official said that patients come for treatment in the twin cities from rural or other areas. Even residents from PCMC limits are being treated in other parts of the state. There are 49 such people who are being treated in Pune and other corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1k-from-outside-pcmc-limits-recover/articleshow/77360347.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar government recommends CBI probe into Sushant’s death case||PATNA: Hours after Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said his government will recommend a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the state home department made the formal request to the Centre for an investigation into the FIR lodged by the late actor’s father K K Singh at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna. Ahead of the release of the formal notification, Nitish, in a tweet, said, “The state government has sent its recommendation for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh.” Through the notification, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey has been asked to hand over all papers related to the case to the central investigating agency. The Bihar government’s recommendation for CBI probe came just a day before the Supreme Court is slated to hear the petition of Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, an accused in the FIR filed in Rajiv Nagar police station, seeking transfer of the case to Mumbai, where an investigation in the matter is already on. The state governments of Bihar and Maharashtra have already filed separate caveats in the apex court seeking to be heard before any order is passed on Chakraborty’s plea. The late actor’s father Singh too has filed a caveat in the SC. Before the day’s developments unfolded, the late actor’s father spoke to the DGP Pandey in the morning and gave his consent for the CBI probe recommendation. Later in the day, the CM told media persons, “I was informed that Sushant’s father talked to the DGP in the morning and requested for a CBI investigation into the FIR lodged with Rajiv Nagar police station. Accordingly, the process has been initiated and a formal recommendation for the same will be sent to the Centre.” He added, “Everybody has been demanding a CBI probe in the actor’s death case. The matter was also raised in the Bihar assembly on Monday and some MLAs demanded a CBI probe. After seeing the lack of cooperation from Mumbai police in investigation by Patna police, I am also of the view that CBI should conduct an inquiry in the case.” The relevant part of the formal notification issued by home department special secretary Sunil Kumar stated, “Governor of Bihar is pleased to accord his consent to…the members of Delhi Special Police Establishment to investigate/ supervise and inquire into the Rajiv Nagar (Patna district) police station case no- 241/ 2020, dated- 25.07.2020, under Sections 341/342/380/406/420/306/506/120(B) IPC, which are related to death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.” Copies of the notification were sent to the Centre’s ministry of personnel, public grievances & pension and the director of the CBI along with a copy of the FIR, for necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-into-sushants-death-case/articleshow/77358990.cms||Madan Kumar
August 5, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Covid recovery at home but under hospital watch||GHAZIABAD: Covid-19 patients under home isolation in the state could soon be able to avail care packages through private hospitals, on the lines of the ones in Delhi, Gurugram and other cities. A policy to this effect is being formulated and is likely to be ready in a couple of days. It will be issued by the additional chief secretary (health), said senior officials. “We are chalking out details of the guidelines. We have taken guidance and packages from hospitals in several cities in this regard,” Pranjal Yadav, UP special secretary for medical, health and family welfare, told TOI. Currently, the private hospitals in other cities are providing customised home-care packages for a duration of 10 to 15 days. The cost ranges from Rs 8,000 to Rs 15,000. As part of the package, telemedicine facilities and counselling sessions with psy-chologists are provided for a fixed charge. “We have launched the facility in Mumbai, Gurugram and Mohali, among other cities. Patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms can avail this facility from the comfort of their homes,” Ajey Maharaj, head of corporate communications, Fortis Healthcare, said. The 17-day remote home isolation package in the other cities includes app-based self-monitoring of temperature and other symptoms, tele-assistance and training on home isolation protocols, video consultation with a doctor on the seventh and 15th days, besides two additional video consultations. Moreover, consultations with a dietician and a psychologist are also provided, he added.The hospitals also provide round-the-clock medical assistance and kits comprising hand sanitisers, gloves and thermometer, among other things, on demand, Maharaj said. Officials in Ghaziabad said that Unicef will conduct an assessment of the homecare facility. The health department has been directed to depute an additional CMO to support the organisation for this purpose. A meeting of Ghaziabad officials and Unicef representatives in this regard was held on Tuesday evening, they said. On July 20, the Uttar Pradesh government had allowed home isolation for all asymptomatic patients in the state. According to the state health department’s estimates, nearly 80% of Covid-19 patients in the Uttar Pradesh are asymptomatic. According to the state’s guidelines, a Covid-19 asymptomatic patient below 60 years is eligible for home isolation if the set norms are fulfilled. The patients are also required to give an affidavit that they will adhere to the prescribed dos and don’ts. Among key criteria for home isolation are the availability of ample space (a separate room and a separate toilet), presence of a caregiver and procurement of a Covid kit comprising pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, sodium hypochlorite solution and immunity boosters. The Ghaziabad administration has deputed six rapid response teams and six teams at the integrated control room to ensure smooth functioning of home isolation. As of Tuesday, 221 patients were in home isolation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-recovery-at-home-but-under-hospital-watch/articleshow/77360319.cms||Aditya Dev
August 5, 2020||Surat||SMC should test daily wagers: Traders||Surat: While the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked textile industry to bear the cost of getting migrant workers’ rapid antigen and antibody tests, its traders have demanded the civic body to instead make separate arrangements in Dhanvantri Raths to test daily wagers in the markets.The Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) and Textile Yuva Brigade (TYB) have submitted a memorandum to the municipal commissioner, labour department and the State health department with their demand in this regard. Stating that the daily wagers are not registered with the traders and so they will not bear expense of the tests suggested by the department under the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) guidelines. Lalit Sharma, president of TYB told TOI, “Daily wagers are not the liability of textile traders. The traders are doing the antibody and rapid antigen tests of their staff members coming from other states. However, the daily wagers are left in the lurch and that they may be the super-spreaders in the textile markets.”Sharma furher said that daily wagers who are earning less than Rs 500 per day are unable to spend hefty charges for the antibody and antigen tests. Champalal Bothra, secretary of FOSTTA said, “There are over 25,000 daily wagers in the markets post-lockdown. Traders won’t be able to spend money for testing the daily wagers. IF they continue to roam around in the markets without tests, there is a fear of the Covid-19 infection spreading fast among the traders community. We have requested the corporation to facilitate the testing of the daily wagers free-of-cost”A senior health officer in SMC said, “We are yet to take any decision on the testing of the daily wagers. About 121 Dhanvantri raths are deployed across the city and over 40,000 people are checked on daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-should-test-daily-wagers-traders/articleshow/77357719.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||228 new cases take dist’s tally to 5,688; 233 recover||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 228 new cases of novel coronavirus on Tuesday, even as 233 patients recovered and were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. While the district’s Covid-19 tally has touched 5,688, active cases now stand at 1,685. The district also recorded seven deaths, taking the toll to 85. A vernacular daily photographer and his family members were among the new cases. He is the first one from the media field to contract the virus in the district. The Annur police station was closed for the second time after seven officers tested positive for the virus. It was closed for fumigation in April when a sub-inspector tested positive. RS Puram reported 10 new cases. While six of them, including a one-year-old baby, were from Srinivasa Raghava Street, the remaining were from Venkataswamy Road, Periyasamy Road and Kannuswamy Road. Uppara Street at Townhall, where a 67-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman tested positive for the virus, was completely cordoned off on Tuesday. Lakshmipuram at Peelamedu also continued to see new cases, with three men testing positive for the virus from Chinnasamy Layout. Neighbouring Gandhimanagar also saw a case. The remaining cases were spread across Selvapuram, Chetti Veedhi, Saibaba Colony, Seeranaickenpalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam and Puliyakulam, among other areas. Among the dead was an 85-year-old man from Madurai who died after three days of hospitalization. Three others died within 24 hours of hospitalization in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). They comprise a 40-year-old woman, who came with seizures and severe breathing difficulty on Sunday and died the same day, a 75-year-old man who got admitted on August 2 and died the same night, and a 65-year-old man who was hospitalized on August 1 at 8.28pm died the next day at 8.15am. CMCH also saw two more deaths - a 72-year-old man who was admitted on July 31 and died on August 2 and a 62-year-old man, who died of pneumonia on Sunday, a day after his hospitalization with breathing difficulty. One patient succumbed to the virus in the ESI Hospital. He was a 69-year-old man with diabetes. He was admitted to the hospital on July 22 with breathing difficulty. He died on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/228-new-cases-take-dists-tally-to-5688-233-recover/articleshow/77360359.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune’s 24-hour discharged count exceeds new cases||PUNE: A total of 2,710 people were discharged from hospitals in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, which was more than its 24-hour tally of 2,098. With this, as many as 66,640 people have been cured and allowed to go home in the region so far. Overall, the total caseload in PMR increased to 94,978 in the last 24 hours. Besides, 56 more patients succumbed to teh infection in the last 24 hours, pushing its toll up to 2,185. Among the fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits added 1,192, while PCMC areas recorded 629, stated a press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. The rural and Cantonment areas added 277 fresh cases on Tuesday, the statement added. Out of the 57 deaths, 29 were recorded in the PMC areas, 14 in PCMC limits and 14 in rural and Cantonment areas together. As per latest PMC data, as many as 1,312 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours. Since March, 41,251 people have been cured and discharged in the PMC limits. The active patients count in the PMC areas has gone down to 16,833 in the last 24 hours. According to the daily report published by PMC, the critical patient count admitted in hospitals across municipal areas was 656, of whom 404 were on ventilator support. Among the deaths, majority of the patients suffered from other serious health issues like respiratory diseases, heart failure, high blood pressure and diabetes. Nearly 70 of the deceased were senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-24-hour-discharged-count-exceeds-new-cases/articleshow/77360374.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Mass Covid testing begins in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Mass testing for Covid-19 is going on in Gadchiroli as a precautionary measure as the district hopes to keep cases from spreading to interior parts. Even in remote Bhamragarh, which is one of the worst affected taluka due to Naxalite activity, authorities are making sure that all frontline workers are tested. District collector Deepak Singla confirmed that these mass tests were indeed a precautionary step. “We are conducting testing on everyone who is involved in Covid relief like doctors, police, employees and teachers. Also, we are testing people like kirana shop owners, journalists etc,” said Singla. The local education department is also very keen to get all of its staff tested as the district prepares for an eventual physical re-opening of schools. A teacher employed at the Zilla Parishad (ZP) school told TOI that everyone wants to be “in the clear” for the reopening. “I have already undergone the test and every day, a list is being prepared for those who have to report for it. Nobody is avoiding it. In fact, people are very keen to get tested so that they can be assured of safety,” the teacher said. His colleague at ZP, who works at a different school in Bhamragarh, said, “I have been asked to report for the test at the panchayat samiti office on Wednesday. It’s really good that the authorities have started mass testing as this will help us to ensure safety at the school later on.” On Tuesday, TOI had reported about two studies published in The Lancet, a renowned medical journal, about how mass testing is key for safe reopening of schools. Gadchiroli and neighbouring Chandrapur district were the only districts in the entire state to physically reopen schools in July. That initiative was however short-lived and they all closed down to comply with central government orders which have not yet given the green signal for schools’ reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mass-covid-testing-begins-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/77360376.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 5, 2020||Pune||Corporation to buy 8k Remdesivir vials||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will buy 8,100 Remdesivir vials for its civic-run hospitals to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. A proposal to this effect is likely to receive priority nod at the civic standing committee meeting scheduled on Wednesday. The civic body will buy the drug from Bengaluru-based pharmaceutical company Mylan Laboratories Limited for Rs2.75 crore at a cost of Rs3,392 per vial. Remdesivir, a drug with the potential to bring down viral load in patients and expedite recovery, is being administered to critically ill Covid patients. The Union health ministry had accorded approval for emergency use of Remdisivir and Tocilizumab for treating Covid-19 patients. The PCMC is planning to buy 1,080 vials of Tocilizumab at Rs30,870 per vial for Rs3.33 crore and 5,400 strips of Favipiravir tablets at Rs1,999 per strip for Rs1.07 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporation-to-buy-8k-remdesivir-vials/articleshow/77360350.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||15-year-old white tiger Raja dies of old age at Nahargarh Bio Park||JAIPUR: Fifteen-year-old white tiger, famously known as ‘Raja’, died at the Nahargarh Biological Park on Tuesday. With the death of ‘Raja’, no white tiger is left in the park. Another white tigress Sita died last year. The big cat was kept on fluid therapy in isolation for the past two months as its kidney and liver were not functioning properly. An official said, “The tiger died due to old age. It was on fluid therapy for the last two months.” Preliminary investigation has ruled out leptospirosis, a bacterial infection, which was a reason for other death of other big cats at the park. Five tigers died in the last nine months at the park. On September 27, 2019, a white tigress died here at the park. On September 19, 10-year-old Asiatic lioness Suzanne, which came to the park from Gujarat, died. Two days later, nine-month-old tiger cub Ridhi, born to tigress Rambha, died before the vets could attend to it. “If death continues to occur, it would jeopardise the Rs 4 crore safari project at the biological park, which was started with much fanfare two years ago,” sources said. At present, there are 11 big cats at the park, including three tigers, five leopards and three Asiatic lions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-year-old-white-tiger-raja-dies-of-old-age-at-nahargarh-bio-park/articleshow/77360381.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||City bizman moves HC for CBI probe into Sushant Rajput’s death||Nagpur: Even as a controversy continues over Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, a city businessman and lawyer has approached Bombay high court demanding either constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) or inquiry by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the entire affair. The PIL was listed for hearing on Tuesday, however, due to heavy rains in Mumbai, the court administration faced severe staff shortage and therefore all hearings were deferred till Thursday. Terming the actor’s suicide at his Bandra home on June 14 as “suspicious”, Sameer Thakkar of Lakadganj here, through counsel Raspal Singh Renu, sought directives from the judiciary for free, fair and impartial investigation into the case. Stressing on a probe by either SIT, CBI or any other investigation agency outside Mumbai, the petitioner contended that the death of the actor was untimely and tragic, involving national and international ramifications with complex issues. According to him, those involved are high profile and powerful people with political and underworld connections, therefore, crucial and material evidence is being compromised with each passing day. Government of India secretary, state home department principal secretary, CBI director in Delhi and joint director in Mumbai, commissioner of police (CP) in Mumbai and Bandra police station officer, are the respondents. Praying for immediate action against erring police officers trying to hash up the matter, Renu contended that deliberate and undue delay on police’s part is leading to wiping out evidence on a daily basis. “It has been more than 40 days, but not a single crucial witness has been summoned. What stopped them from collecting CCTV footage of the actor’s building immediately after his death, and why was it retrieved after nearly a month. They’re only following rituals of investigating a crime in a shoddy manner, but nothing has been done to show results on ground.” Alleging nexus of Bollywood bigwigs with the underworld, politicians and police, the petitioner said in Rajput’s case same big names had systematically sidelined and ruined him to force him to end his life. “What happened with the actor when he was preparing for a big venture ‘Paani’ is public. He was promised seven big movies and at the last moment it was called off. Another big venture ‘Drive’ was released on OTT platform without any promotions, with the preconceived notion that the movie would fail. Six months before his death, the actor was seen begging the public to watch his film, apprehending that the bigwigs will throw him out,” the petitioner claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-bizman-moves-hc-for-cbi-probe-into-sushant-rajputs-death/articleshow/77360391.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 5, 2020||Varanasi||BHU to promote startups, to set up BioNEST||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University is all set to play a key role in promoting and invigorating entrepreneurship and startups in the areas of life sciences, biotechnology, healthcare, agritech, food technology and allied areas. It has geared up to set up BioNEST (Bioincubator for Nurturing Entrepreneurship for Scaling Technologies) facility, which will provide support to startups in these areas. The director of the Institute of Science, BHU Prof. Anil K. Tripathi said that for this purpose, the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a public sector enterprise of Department of Biotechnology, has sanctioned Rs 6 crore to InnoResTech Foundation, BHU for starting a BioNEST facility. BIRAC has released Rs 3 crores as the first grant to start the program, which will be operated in the building of Central Discovery Centre (CDC), BHU. According to Tripathi, the InnoResTech Foundation, BHU, is a not-for-profit company created under the aegis of Institute of Science, BHU, to promote science-based innovations in technologies to empower academia, entrepreneurs and industry. The program will be operated in the building of Central Discovery Centre (CDC), BHU. Under the program, BioNEST-BHU will create space and facilitates to incubate 15 incubatees and provide them the opportunity and environment to pursue their translational ideas with commercialization potential towards successful outcomes. Availability of Atal Incubation Centre and an upcoming DST-SATHI program in the CDC building are expected to create an ecosystem to nurture start-ups in realization of their goal of self-employment through entrepreneurship, which is also one of the main objectives of the recently announced New Education Policy 2020. He said that the BHU-BioNEST will groom young incubatees and faculty members. It will organize awareness programs and connect startups with the inventors/developers of the technologies ready for transfer with the industry as well as hospitals to provide initial mentorship to the start-ups. It will also create a single window advisory for entrepreneurs and start-ups about equipment facility, technology and expert portfolio of BHU, and the government schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-to-promote-startups-to-set-up-bionest/articleshow/77357726.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covaxin trials: With 55 volunteers given dose, city ranks 2nd in India||Nagpur: The first part of the first phase of the human trial of the made-in-India Covaxin was completed in India on August 4 with 375 volunteers across the country receiving the first dose of the vaccine. Out of these, 55 were from Nagpur city. It means that after PGI Rohtak, where 81 volunteers were administered this vaccine, Nagpur stood second in the country.All the 55 volunteers are residents of various parts of Nagpur and none of them had any complications after being administered the first dose. All will report on their respective 14th day of trials and will be administered the second dose. “We had more than 100 participants interested to be a part of this trial. Out of them, 60 were shortlisted after the initial check-ups and their blood samples were sent for the critical screening. Remarkably, 55 of them were found eligible for the trials. We have successfully administered the first dose of 0.3ml vaccine to all of them between July 27 and August 4,” said Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, director of Dr Gillurkar Hospital and Research institute, one of the 12 trial sites for this vaccine in India. Dr Gillurkar specially mentioned that more than 100 residents from Nagpur approached him to be a part of the test and most of them mentioned that they came to know about it through TOI. “Thanks to the well-informed news in TOI, we received a very good response. But not everyone can be a part of this trial. The participating criteria is strict. I hope we will have more participants in the second phase which has a sample size of 750,” he said. Interestingly, two Nagpurians were rejected during the final screening as they already had antibodies developed in their blood. This means they were already infected but cured on the basis of their own immunity. Two of them were having diabetes, but were unaware while one was having hepatitis. Nagpur’s Dr Gillurkar Hospital is one of the 12 trial sites in country and only one in Nagpur was selected for the Covaxin trials. After administering the first dose to 55 people, Dr Gillurkar was quite optimistic about the results.“We are constantly following up with the participants and all of them are doing well. None of them had any sort of complaint till date. This is a good sign. The first participant will report at our centre on August 11 and samples will be collected for testing the same day. After the initial tests, the second dose will be administered,” he said. COVAXIN SHOWS POSITIVE SIGNS * Three volunteers administered first dose on July 27 * Four more got the dose of 0.3ml on July 28 * 48 others got the dose subsequently up to August 4* Nagpur second highest in country when it comes to number of participants* Second dose will be administered from August 11 onwards * Second phase of trials expected in last week of August * Results of first part of first phase expected by August 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-trials-with-55-volunteers-given-dose-city-ranks-2nd-in-india/articleshow/77360379.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Numismatist claims rare 12th century coin having Lord Rama’s image||Nagpur: As the nation is all set to celebrate the historic moment of bhoomipuja of Lord Ram Mandir in the holy city of Ayodhya on Wednesday, a numismatist from the city claims he has a rare gold coin from the 12th century depicting the most revered deity of India.According to Ashoksingh Thakur, convener of the Chandrapur branch of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) and a member of Indians Coins’ Society, only two such coins are available in the world, dating back to the rule of the Chahmanas of Sakambhari (Sambhar) during reign of Vigraharaj – IV, who ruled from 1153-1163 AD.“The observations about this extremely rare coin say that it has a nimbate figure of Lord Ram standing and facing to the left holding a bow and an arrow in each hand. “Sri Ra Ma” is written in Deonagari on both sides. It has a floral border with decorative motifs of lotus flowers and a bird (Hans) around. It weighs 4.02 grams,” Thakur told TOI.He added that the Devanagari script was encrypted in three lines – ‘Shri Madvigra / harajade / va’ on both sides of the coin. “This depicts the earliest labelled numismatic portrait of Lord Ram. Its design and decoration follow a monumental style comparable to architectural depictions seen in temples,” Thakur said, while refusing to divulge information on its source.Over four centuries later in 1585, Moghul King Akbar had introduced gold coins having images of Lord Ram and wife Sita inscribed on them, which became popular among the masses at that time. “Many of those coins are available at various museums, but those introduced by Vigraharaj–IV are only two of its kind in the world. The other is at the Mumbai museum,” said Thakur, having a vast collection of such rare and ancient coins numbering about 27,000.Explaining the reason behind sharing information on the rare coin, the veteran, who’s into the hobby of collecting such coins since over two decades, said since the 500-year- old dream of a Ram Temple at his birthplace in Ayodhya was all set to become reality after Wednesday’s bhoomipuja, he thought that it would be an appropriate moment to share facts about it as it had the deity’s image inscribed on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/numismatist-claims-rare-12th-century-coin-having-lord-ramas-image/articleshow/77360385.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 5, 2020||Pune||Aundh hospital to receive 50 beds||Pune: The Aundh Chest Hospital is set to get 40 high-flow nasal oxygen beds and 10 intensive care unit beds (ICU), outgoing district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. The hospital currently has eight ICU beds and 30 beds with oxygen support. Ram, who visited the hospital on Sunday, said, “We are ramping up the facilities across all hospitals in the district to ensure adequate availability of beds for Covid-19 patients.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aundh-hospital-to-receive-50-beds/articleshow/77360386.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 waste increases by eight fold||COIMBATORE: Biowaste generation has dropped in the district and neighbouring Tirupur, but there is a spike in Covid-19 waste, including masks, gloves, gowns and other protective equipment that could be possible virus carriers, raising a concern. In a bid to control the Covid-19 waste, the pollution control board has directed hospitals to handle food waste and general garbage from Corona wards separately and hand them over to local bodies. They are now included in Covid-19 waste. Data available with Teknotherm, which handles biowaste incineration for around 600 hospitals, primary health centres and clinics in government and private sectors, shows biowaste handled by them has reduced to 2 tonnes a day in July from 2.5 tonnes in January and February. Sudhakar, managing partner, Teknotherm, says, “While Covid-19 cases have increased, the caseload in bigger hospitals is only 40%. Many have completely stopped taking on elective surgeries and procedures too. Many smaller clinics have shut down too. This might be the reason for the drop in biowaste generation.” However, the Covid-19 waste, which has to be collected and handed over separately, had increased to 800kg-900kg a day in July from 100kg-150kg in April, which is an eight-fold increase. “The national average waste generated for one Covid-19 bed is 250gm a day,” Sudhakar said. However, 800kg waste from 1,700 inpatients take the average waste generated per bed in the district to 400gm. A public health department official said, “We also add personal protection equipment kits used by 108 ambulance drivers and staff, who go to the field to collect samples and run fever camps. They are not part of any healthcare facilities with inpatients. So, in the district too, the Covid-19 waste will be only 250gm per bed a day.” The central pollution control board has ordered the people running hospitals, quarantine centres and home care facilities to segregate waste from Covid-19 patients into general solid waste, personal protective equipment waste and biowaste. “General solid waste, which include food waste, packaging material, waste papers, waste plates, dust, water bottles and tetra packs, should be collected in bags and handed over to the municipal solid waste collector,” says a notice that was issued to them on June 21. “Only used masks, swabs, tissues, gloves, syringes and medicines should be considered biomedical waste.” Once this is implemented, a Teknotherm official says, the Covid-19 waste should reduce to around 500kg a day in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-waste-increases-by-eight-fold/articleshow/77360382.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Surat||Engineer clears UPSC exam twice, betters rank this time||SURAT: Kartik Jivani, 25, has cleared the UPSC civil services exam for the second time with a higher rank. After being ranked 94th in 2018 and selected for IPS he always aimed to become an IAS. He thus appeared again in 2019 and stood 84th, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. Interestingly, Kartik is likely to get selected for IAS at this time of global pandemic and his inspiration lies in the epidemic that the diamond city fought through in 1994. Kartik, wanted to become an IAS as he grew up reading the work of S R Rao, an IAS and former city municipal commissioner, who restructured the city after the plague. Rao got nationwide recognition for his efforts as he brought the city on top and one of the cleanest cities in the country after the epidemic. “I wanted to become an IAS so I took leave from IPS training and fortunately my rank improved this time. I missed the opportunity in the last exam by two ranks,” Kartik told TOI. Kartik studied at a Gujarati medium school till Class VIII and then went to an English medium school. He got admission at IIT Mumbai and completed his Bachelor of Technology in mechanical branch in 2016. “I decided in my final year of engineering to focus only on the civil services exam,” he added. He prepared for the exam at his home in the city and took learning from online courses. Kartik used to spend 10 hours daily for preparation. “He slept during the day and read throughout the night. I made tea and snacks for him a few times. But I am happy that he could perform well in the exam,” said Hansa, Kartik’s mother. His father Dr Nagjibhai is a pathologist and runs his clinical laboratory. The family is from Gariyadhar village in Bhavnagar district and settled in the city for many years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/engineer-clears-upsc-exam-twice-betters-rank-this-time/articleshow/77357759.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 5, 2020||Pune||Walk-in recruitment of doctors for corona work||PUNE: Doctors and other medical staffers can visit the PMC headquarters from 10am to 2pm every Monday or Thursday for Covid-19 duty’s walk-in recruitment. The doctors’ salary would range from Rs60,000 to Rs2.25 lakh per month and the nurses and medical officers’ salary would range from Rs20,000 to Rs30,000 per month. The PMC administration on Tuesday issued an advertisement for recruitment. As per PMC’s plan, the doctors and medical staffers would be appointed for six months. Over 150 posts would be filled up on a temporary basis. “The PMC has planned to use the vacant civic hospitals across municipal limits. We have appealed to doctors and medical staffers to join the services at these medical facilities,” Vikram Kumar, the Pune municipal commissioner, said. Nearly eight hospitals across the city have remained unused because of lack of manpower. A civic official said around 400 hospital beds would be available if all these hospitals were converted into Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/walk-in-recruitment-of-doctors-for-corona-work/articleshow/77360377.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 5, 2020||Surat||Ganesh Mahotsav to be low key affair this year||Surat: This years Ganesh Mahotsav will be a low key affair as those installing the idols will have to immerse it at their homes itself. The city police is likely to issue notification in this regard soon.After prohibitory orders by National Green Tribunal two years ago against immersion of idols in river Tapi, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had prepared artificial ponds for immersion. Large idols were, however, immersed in sea near Hazira and Dumas. Surat Shaher Ganesh Utasav Samiti (SSGUS) has already started preparations to create awareness about not organising the festival that begins August 22 in a grand manner. “We are preparing to create awareness among people and ask them not to install idols more that two-feet tall. Further, there will be no public immersion of the idols,” said Anil Biscuitwala, president of SSGUS. SSGUS is also encouraging citizens to install clay idols that can be immersed easily at home. “Immersion of POP idol is difficult at home hence we have provided details of 71 centres on our social media pages where clay idols are available,” Biscuitwala added. Leaders of SSGUS Swami Ambrishanandji and others have held meetings with district collector and police commissioner. “We met the new city police commissioner Ajay Tomar today and have requested him to issue notification at the earliest so that we can start awareness among people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ganesh-mahotsav-to-be-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/77357733.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||More rain needed to replenish waterbodies||COIMBATORE: With rain lashing western ghats, water gushed down the Noyyal river in the district on Tuesday, bringing waterbodies along the way alive. Environmentalists say the waterbodies in the district will fill up only if rain continues to lash for more than two weeks. As on Tuesday, water has reached Kurichi Kulam, Pudhu Kulam, Kolarampathi tank and Sottaiyandi Kuttai tank. R Manikandan, a representative of Kovai Kulangal Padhukaappu Amaippu, said, “Water from the rain on Monday has reached the waterbodies. It would take another 20 days of rain for them to fill up.” Kovai Kulangal Padhukaappu Amaippu is a forum that has been working to preserve the waterbodies in the district. However, there were hinderances for water to reach some waterbodies. The Vellalore tank didn’t initially receive water, as the public works department (PWD) workers had paced construction materials on the water channel that feeds it. Manikandan said officials should give top priority to waterbodies getting filled. When contacted, a PWD official said they have instructed the workers to remove construction materials and let water into the tank. “The work would be paused to let water reach tanks, as it is more important. At some places, due to the presence of water hyacinth, inflow to tanks was slow. We have taken steps to clear them. As on Tuesday evening, all tanks have been receiving water.” Meanwhile, a mud causeway across the Noyyal at Perur was washed away due to strong water current. The causeway was erected by the rural roads wing of the state highways department as the old bridge was demolished for reconstruction. When contacted, officials said the causeway was not meant for the public and that was set up for the contractor to transport materials. Public have been asked to use the main road. It is to be noted that a mud causeway across the river at the same place was washed away around the same time last year. At some places such as Sunnambu Kalavai canal at Kuniamuthur, water frothed, indicating the presence of effluents from the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-rain-needed-to-replenish-waterbodies/articleshow/77360399.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac staff seek special allowance||COIMBATORE: Tasmac workers from the district staged a protest on Tuesday seeking a special allowance of Rs 7,500, as they feel that they have been braving various risks and working during the pandemic. Members of the CITU Tasmac Workers Union, who staged the protest, also sought that the workers be given Covid-19 tests and proper safety gears. They said the families of Tasmac workers who had died due to Covid-19 be given a solatium of Rs 5 lakh and one member from the family of the deceased be given a job. They said the state should conduct Covid-19 tests for all Tasmac workers, and if found positive, the state should bear the treatment cost. They also sought quality personal protective equipment. The protest was held at the Tasmac manager’s office at Peelamedu. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-staff-seek-special-allowance/articleshow/77360390.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||With 22 deaths, fatality rate of Vidarbha is moving upwards||Nagpur: For the fourth time in row on August 4, Vidarbha region reported more than 20 Covid-19 deaths taking the total death toll of the region to 480. With 93 deaths reported just in 4 days of August, the case fatality rate of region increased to 2.72%. This rate was well in control in July despite of a surge in deaths. To be precise, the CFR was below 2.6% since July 22 and reached above 2.7% for the first time since then on August 4. The increase is just in some decimal points, but becomes a matter of grave concern when the graph of CFR of Maharashtra as well as national average is going down daily and Vidarbha is showing an upward trend. More serious is that 63 of the 93 deaths in August are reported from Nagpur district alone. Even on Tuesday, 17 deaths were reported from the district. Yavatmal reported 2 deaths while one patient died in Wardha and Akola each. Another death that happened on August 3 was reported in Wardha district on August 4. Vidarbha region in this way, reported 22 deaths. Nagpur recorded 340 cases in a day, highest in August so far. With Amravati (135), Yavatmal (58), Buldhana (52), Washim (32), Chandrapur (28), Bhandara (16) Gadchiroli (13), Akola (10), Wardha (09), and Gondia (2) – total 688 cases were reported on Tuesday. This took Vidarbha’s total cases above the 17,000-mark. Vidarbha is now reporting 1000 cases every two days. Recoveries, despite being constant, are not increasing as rapidly as compared to new cases. On Tuesday, 422 patients recovered from Vidarbha. They were from Nagpur (120), Amravati (83), Yavatmal (80), Buldhana (53), Akola (34), Chandrapur (24), Wardha (11), Washim (11), Gondia (3), and Gadchiroli (2). Recovery rate of the region remained around 66.5%. Amravati: Recording its second highest single day spike of 135, the district took its Covid count to 2598 on Tuesday. With 83 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1830. This left 698 active cases, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt also posted its highest single day count of 80 to take its tally to 606.The Nandgaon Peth MIDC experienced a Covid blast of 27 cases, 12, nine, eight and six came from Chandur Railway, Dhamangaon Railway, Achalpur and Chandur Bazar tehsils. Mahuli Jehangir posted three and Anjangaon Surji posted four cases while two cases each came from Karanja Lad in Washim district, Teosa, Bhatkuli and Rahatgaon. Daryapur, Masod, Bodna, Morshi and Kekatpur reported a case each.In the city, the highest 11 cases came from Badnera which took its own tally to 212. New Ambedkar Nagar reported four cases while three each came from Sarojnagar and Itwara. A brace each came from Frezerpura, Chilam Chhaoni, Belpura, Bhovate Layout and Tirupatinagar. Twenty-two other localities reported a case each.Yavatmal: With 2 Covid-19 deaths and 58 new cases, Yavatmal has seen a record 80 patients recovered in a day on August 4. A 65-year-old woman from Patipura area in Yavatmal city and a 55-year-old from Fulwadi area in Digras died on Tuesday. This took the total Covid-19 death toll of Yavatmal to 36. Now, Yavatmal has total 1286 cases, including 810 of them recovered and 36 deaths. Total 440 patients are under treatment in the district. Akola: Only 10 patients tested positive out of 82 test reports received on August 4 while 34 patients got discharge. A 50-year-old man from Murjizapur died in Akola. He was under treatment since July 31. The man was admitted in a critical condition. With this, the total death toll in Akola reached 121. Total number of cases in Akola reached 2708, including 2243 discharged and 121 deaths. Akola has 344 patients under treatment. Wardha: Two deaths due to Covid-19 on August 3 and 4 respectively were reported from Wardha taking the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the district to 8. Spike in new cases continued with 9 positive patients in the district on Tuesday. Four men and five women are among the positive and they are from Arvi (3), Wardha (5) and Talegaon (1). Total 12 patients got discharged after recovering. With 8 deaths and 226 recoveries, Wardha has 26 patients under treatment at present. Buldhana: In all, 346 tests were done in Buldhana district on August 4 out of which 52 new positive patients of Covid-19 were detected. Now, the total number of cases in the district is 1539. Recoveries also continued with 53 discharged on Tuesday. Now, 940 out of 1539 have recovered in Buldhana and the recovery rate surpassed the 60% mark. Buldhana has recorded no death in the last two days. With 30 deaths reported earlier, 569 patients are under treatment at present. Bhandara: With one more double digit increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, Bhandara recorded 16 new patients on August 4. The number of total cases surged to 305. Only one patient recovered and got discharged, taking the total to 215. With 2 deaths reported earlier, total 88 patients are under treatment in Bhandara. Out of these, six have been referred to Nagpur. Washim: Total 32 new patients were detected while 11 patients got discharged on August 4 from Washim district. This took the total number of cases to 785 and recovered patients to 459. With 17 deaths and a suicide reported earlier, the total number of patients under treatment is 308 in Washim.Chandrapur: The district registered a rise of 28 Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking the total to 625. Chandrapur also crossed the mark of 600 patients. The last 100 came in a record four days. A total of 24 patients were discharged during the day taking the tally of cured patients to 396. This has left 227 active patients who are under treatment. District has registered two deaths so far.Chandrapur has witnessed a steep rise of over 500 patients in the last 33 days. The spurt of infection had baffled the administration forcing it to go for a lockdown in Chandrapur city and surrounding hotspots to contain the spread. The district administration also increased the Covid tests manifold and had launched massive antigen testing of suspected people to identify the patients.The first coronavirus patient in Chandrapur was found on May 2. It took 61 days to reach the mark of 100 patients (July 2) in the district. The 200 patient mark came within 12 days on July 14. The 300 and 400 mark came within six days, on July 20 and July 26 respectively. The next 100 patients came in the next five days on July 31, taking the district caseload above the 500 mark. However, the next 100 came in only four days, taking the total tally past the 600 figure. New patients on Tuesday include 12 from Chandrapur city, five from Ballarpur town, three each from Bramhapuri and Bhadrawati tehsils, two each from Sindewahi and Rajura tehsils and one from Mul town.Gadchiroli: The district witnessed 13 new cases. One patient was discharged on Tuesday. Now, 500 patients out of 644 total cases in Gadchiroli have recovered and have been discharged. The district has 143 patients under treatment. Gondia: While two new patients were found positive, three recovered from Gondia district on Tuesday. The district has seen 142 new patients in the last 5 days. Gondia district has tested 10,000 on the RT-PCR machine and 2782 via rapid antigen tests till date. Reports of 125 tests are still awaited from the VRDL lab in GMCH Gondia. Presently, 156 patients are under treatment in Gondia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-22-deaths-fatality-rate-of-vidarbha-is-moving-upwards/articleshow/77360395.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Non-Covid hospitals must help shift patients to Covid units in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Health establishments that do not have Covid treatment facilities cannot leave suspected coronavirus patients to fend for themselves but have to arrange for ambulances to shift them to the right facilities. If they can’t do so, they have to contact the state health department or Kolkata Municipal Corporation to get an ambulance and seek directions on where to refer the patients. State home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, also Kolkata’s nodal officer for Covid, held a meeting with senior KMC, police and health department officers on Tuesday and decided to augment the number of ambulances in the city to facilitate easy transport of patients. Abhijit Chowdhury, a member of the state’s Covid expert panel, also attended the meeting, where several decisions were taken. According to what was decided, private hospitals and nursing homes will be asked to contact either the health department or the KMC health department to make arrangements for ambulances to transfer Covid suspects or positive patients so that private agencies running ambulance services can’t fleece the patients’ families, as have allegedly been going on. Bandopadhyay on Tuesday took stock of city’s ambulance fleet for Covid-positive patients. Later, the state home secretary said though both the state health department and the KMC were in the process of adding to the fleet, there was no reason for patients to panic. “We now have a fair number of ambulances and there is no need for panic. It is true that from time to time, we need to augment the fleet, but that does not mean Covid patients will have to pay exorbitant fares for the services to private agencies in times of need,” he said. The state home secretary pointed out that while the state health department had a fleet of 110-115 ambulances, the KMC was steadily adding more vehicles. “The state and the KMC together have around 145 ambulances for the city that can be used for transporting serious Covid-positive patients to hospitals and those with mild symptoms to safe houses,” he said. According to a KMC health official, the civic body’s ambulances have GPS. . “ We need to track their movements to ensure the ferrying of no Covid patient is delayed. We are augmenting our fleet by temporarily taking back ambulances from clubs and NGOs, which were given those vehicles under MP or MLA LAD schemes,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/non-cov-hosps-must-help-shift-patients-to-cov-units/articleshow/77359049.cms||Saikat Ray
August 5, 2020||Pune||Eight medical staff dead in PMR, 216 have recuperated||PUNE: A total of eight frontline healthcare workers — three doctors, two nurses and three attendants — succumbed to Covid-19-linked complications in the Pune Metropolitan Region between March 31 and July 4. During the same period, a total of 216 medical staff who contracted the virus — 105 doctors, 49 nurses and 62 attendants — went on to make successful recoveries. The data on deaths and recoveries among hospital staff here was revealed in a report by the district administration. It estimates that the case fatality rate (CFR) among frontline workers in the region is now 3% — slightly higher than the national average of about 2.5%. “The healthcare workers who succumbed to Covid-19-linked complications had underlying conditions. All of them were above 50 years of age,” a district official said. Infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag said the data mirrors global trends. “Worldwide, the CFR among healthcare workers, especially doctors, has been higher than the general population’s. That has been true in India too,” he said. He added, “One possible reason could be the large viral load doctors may be developing after contracting the virus. Stressful work hours and lack of adequate rest also increase vulnerability.” Delayed treatment has led to casualties as well. Many health workers, in protective overalls, continued to carry out duties despite symptoms. “This delay may have triggered complications later ,”Prayag added. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said there could be over 5,000 healthcare workers currently treating patients across hospitals in the PMR, which includes PMC, PCMC and Pune rural limits. "Going by this data, the positivity rate among them is less than 5%. It shows that these workers, who obviously face a higher risk of infection than the general population, can keep Covid-19 at bay if they exercise precautions,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-medical-staff-dead-in-pmr-216-have-recuperated/articleshow/77360393.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 5, 2020||Patna||Covid tally in state crosses 62k-mark, toll rises to 349||Patna: The number of Covid-19 cases mounted up to 62,031 in Bihar on Tuesday, with 2,464 fresh cases and 13 more deaths reported across the state in the last 24 hours. The Covid toll in the state has mounted up to 349. Patna reported 393 fresh cases, taking the tally to 10,510 in the district on Tuesday. So far 54 patients died and 7,011 have been discharged while there were 3,445 active cases in the district. Other districts with a large number of cases included Muzaffarpur (197), Katihar (120), Saran (97), Vaishali (85) and Sitamarhi (84). Altogether 40,760 patients in state have recovered as their subsequent test results came negative. There were total 20,922 active cases as on Tuesday. Bihar’s recovery rate is now at 65.71% as 2,254 people recuperated in the last 24 hours. As per the data shared by the health department, the maximum five deaths were reported from Patna, three from Rohtas and one each from Arwal, Bhojpur, Madhepura, Samastipur and Sheikhpura. Health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the number of Covid tests in the state increased to 38,215 on August 3 from 36,524 on August 2. “Altogether 6,87,154 people have been tested in Bihar so far,” he said. AIIMS-Patna recorded five deaths on Tuesday. All were the residents of Patna. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the deceased included a 29-year-old man from Ashiana Mor. “The man was admitted on July 30 after he complained of breathlessness. The Covid infection hampers the oxygen uptake by lung tissues. He was on the ventilator for the last couple of days,” he said. Among the other deceased was a 54-year-old woman from Shastri Nagar, three men aged 55, 68 and 70 years from Nasreeganj, Sheikhpura and Boring Canal road areas respectively. A 30-year-old man from Rupaspur, who had tested Covid positive on July 31, died of cardiac arrest at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, the nodal officer of Covid at NMCH, confirmed the death and said 22 patients were discharged from the hospital while nine more were admitted on Tuesday. Covid chart: Fresh cases: 2,464 Total cases: 62,031 Recovered: 40,760 Active cases: 20,922 Deaths: 349 (including two suicides)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-in-state-crosses-62k-mark-toll-rises-to-349/articleshow/77359052.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 5, 2020||Varanasi||BHU, NHAI sign MoU, to improve quality of roads||VARANASI: Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University) is going to play an important role in improving the quality of roads in India. The experts of the Institute will conduct a research work on the development of performance based mix design process for bituminous mixtures. For this, an MoU has been signed between IIT (BHU) and the National Highways Authority of India. This research work will be carried out under assistant professor in the Department of Civil Engineering Nikhil Saboo as the principle investigator and Ankit Gupta of as the co-principal investigator. According to Saboo, the surface layer of the flexible pavement is the costliest component, which bears most of the vehicular loading in the highway. The current methods involved in the mix design of bituminous mixtures has certain deficiencies and cannot assure performance of the surface layers in terms of resistance to rutting and fatigue cracking. He said that it is envisaged that this study will come up with more logical guidelines on rational practices for developing mixes which can sustain heavy vehicular loading in Indian highways. Such optimized mix design will reduce the variability associated with the performance of bituminous mixes and will serve as an economical guideline for the long-term performance of flexible pavements. This project is aimed towards construction of durable and long-lasting roads in India. It will also help in reducing the life cycle cost by delaying the need of frequent maintenance. The outcomes of this project will be implemented through construction of test sections in collaboration with NHAI. These roads will be evaluated periodically to understand the applicability of the developed methodology. This will help to gain more confidence in adopting the developed technology for construction of durable roads in India. “This Industry-Academia relationship is anticipated to open further opportunities for exchange of ideas and expertise which will lead to sustainable development of infrastructure in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-nhai-sign-mou-to-improve-quality-of-roads/articleshow/77357753.cms||Binay Singh
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Exempt industries from e-pass: MSMEs||COIMBATORE: Representatives of micro, small, and medium enterprise (MSME) associations have reiterated their call to abolish e-pass system for industries. They said many of them who had applied for e-passes, have not yet received the passes, because of which, they have not been able to travel between districts for essential industrial functions such as post-sales service, erecting machines and marketing. Industrialists say the e-passes they have applied of late were pending for too long or have been denied outright. “I have applied two passes, and the portal shows that the passes have been rejected as the Covid-19 cases were increasing,” said S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa), and a coordinator of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia). Workers of MSME units here, who have to travel for business-related issues to other districts have been affected because of this, said J James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT). “We seek that the e-pass system be abolished for industries, at the time of this crisis,” he said. Focia representatives on Tuesday submitted a representation to the chief minister seeking relaxations. In that they sought that the state abolishes the e-pass system for industrial travel between districts. “Also, for our suppliers from other states to come here, we seek that the state provides them with business e-passes, which wouldn’t require quarantine period,” they said in their memorandum to the chief minister. When contacted, Coimbatore district revenue officer (DRO) D Ramaduraimurugan said the maximum number of industrial passes — around 25,000 —had been given in the district through the district industries centre (DIC). But as the pass system was being misused by some, they had stopped it. “MSME associations represented the issue. We have asked the associations to bring genuine pass requests of their members directly to the collectorate, so that we can approve them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/exempt-industries-from-e-pass-msmes/articleshow/77360410.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Cops reject permission for Ram temple gatherings||Nagpur: City police has rejected permission to saffron parties for festive gatherings for Ram temple’s bhoomipuja on Wednesday. BJP and VHP are nevertheless going ahead with their programmes. They are celebrating the bhoomipuja at 26 places in the city with the main event at Badkas Square. City police chief BK Upadhyay said BJP and others have been told to avoid public places and roads as rules and regulations related to the pandemic are in force. “We feel there is a general enthusiasm among the masses even then we have personally appealed to the concerned parties to avoid public places and avoid breaking rules. Strong bandobast has been planned and forces would be deployed accordingly,” said the top cop. Joint CP Nilesh Bharne said there is no question of permission to any political outfit for processions or rallies or assembly of more than five at a time at any place as section 144 of criminal procedure code (CrPC) and the Epidemic Diseases Act are in force due to the outbreak of Covid. “Putting up flags and festoons may not attract penal action but if there is any procession or rally or assembly of more than five persons then an offence would be immediately registered against the concerned party or outfit whoever it may be,” he said. City BJP president Pravin Datke said that it was unfortunate that the police had rejected permission. “We will celebrate the event observing social distancing and follow all norms. If police physically try to prevent us we will protest through democratic methods,” he told TOI. Shrikant Aglave of VHP, however, said that festivities would go on whether police permits them or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-reject-permission-for-ram-temple-gatherings/articleshow/77360412.cms||Ashish Roy
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Malls gear up to welcome customers||Nagpur: You may be eagerly awaiting the opening of malls so that you can hang out there in the evenings but the atmosphere will be quite dull initially. Many restaurants have decided not to open up as they feel home delivery is not viable. Some shops will open after a few days as they are busy cleaning and tidying. Meanwhile, mall owners are busy making arrangements for maintaining safety of their customers inside the premises. Every nook and corner is being sanitized and circles are being drawn in front of shops. Sanitizer dispensers are being installed at various places. Jeevan Shivnani, a furniture store owner in Trilium Mall, said that he would open his shop after two to three days. “Right now I am busy getting it cleaned as it was closed since months. I hope I get a good flow of customers. People are going to the markets so they should come to malls too. We will install sanitizer dispensers inside the outlet. It is a spacious shop and social distancing will be automatically maintained,” he told TOI. Saurabh Atlani of Yellow Chili restaurant said that he would not be doing home deliveries. “The rent and staff salary expenses are too high. I won’t be able to meet it through home deliveries only,” he added. Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) will however, do home deliveries, he further said. Hitesh Waswani of Robo 2.0 restaurant said that he would start home deliveries after Diwali as he does not expect much business now. McDonalds has however, decided to do home delivery and parcel delivery from Wednesday. Yogesh Kale of Trilium Mall said that all preparations have been made for opening up the premises. “Sanitization of mall and parking premises at regular intervals by will be done by sodium hypochloride. As soon as you get down from your vehicle in the parking area, your temperature and oxygen level will be checked. This will be done at the entrance also. Circles will be drawn in atrium. You can stand here only. Circles will be drawn in front of shops also,” he added. Ashish Barai of Eternity Mall also said similar preparations had been done. “A distance of two to three steps will have to be maintained on the escalator. Lift will have only five persons, including the operator. Continuous announcements will be made regarding social distancing. No entry inside malls without masks and foot operated sanitizer dispenser will be there at every corner,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/malls-gear-up-to-welcome-customers/articleshow/77360498.cms||Ashish Roy
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Ashok Gehlot announces social security board for unorganised workers||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the formation of a state social security board for unorganised workers with an aim to help lakhs of workers. The primary task of this board will be to form the outline of social security schemes for these labourers. The move came during a review meeting of the labour department and the department of skill, employment and entrepreneurship through video conference by Gehlot from his residence on Tuesday. The programme will streamline the delivery of schemes relating to workers. Gehlot also decided to launch a state-wide campaign for the registration of construction labourers/workers who are not seeking the benefit of any social security schemes. The officials will reach out to the building and other construction workers welfare board. “Gehlot directed the labour department officers to go to construction sites and places where labourers gather to get jobs and motivate them to register themselves,” said the official release. The move is likely to benefit lakhs of labours who returned from across the country during lockdown. Highlighting the importance of skill training, Gehlot directed officials that youths should be trained to the demand of industries in order to link them with employment. “Largescale training programmes should be conducted for this. Many ongoing schemes for skill development should be integrated and simplified so that the youths can easily take advantage of it,” said the release. Minister of state for skill, employment and entrepreneurship Ashok Chandna said the state has a network of 229 government and more than 1,700 private ITIs. He said syllabus should be prepared at these institutes as per the needs of industries and markets. Besides this, total attention should be paid on its quality and regular inspection should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-announces-social-security-board-for-unorganised-workers/articleshow/77367101.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Varanasi||Army jawan’s family alleges police atrocity||VARANASI: The alleged harassment of an army personnel, his ex-serviceman brother and seven family members by Nagsar police in Nurpur village of Ghazipur district on July 26 night has taken political colours. The incident came to light on July 30 when ex-serviceman Ajay Pandey made a video alleging police harassment and posted it on social media and appealed for justice. The video drew comments of a caste being targeted specifically. DM Ghazipur took cognizance of the video and ordered a magisterial probe. The medical examination of the family was conducted by a three-member panel. The CM’s office also took note of the incident and sent minister Anand Swaroop Shukla to meet the family on August 2. Shukla assured proper probe and justice to the family. SO Nurpur Ramesh Kumar and a sub-inspector were attached to police lines. DM Ghazipur Omprakash Arya told TOI on Tuesday, “I have ordered a magisterial probe in the incident and further action would be taken after the report is submitted.” Pandey claimed he and his brother KK Pandey, army jawan posted in Uri sector, were finalising arrangements for the ‘terahnvi’ rituals of their mother on July 26 night when cops entered their house in civil dress and took them to police station where they were brutally thrashed. Police officials however rebutted the allegations. ASP (rural) AK Jha said a police team had nabbed a criminal Vijay in Nurpur when some villagers attacked police team injuring three constables and enabled the criminal to flee. Police arrested nine persons of the family for attack on cops and produced them before court on July 27, he said. “On July 30, the family claimed harassment. The family was also involved in setting a train on fire in 2000,” Jha added. Reacting to police allegations, Pandey claimed the train was set ablaze by a mob of students and one of his brothers had died in police firing. “Police booked us for burning the train. They are now using the old case to divert attention,” said Pandey. As the family was not satisfied with the initial medical examination conducted at district hospital on July 27, another examination was conducted by a panel of three doctors. On Monday, former MP Rajesh Mishra and UP Congress Committee member Vishwavijay Singh visited Nurpur and met the family. Mishra said the incident has again proved that the state government is anti-Brahmin. He said a report would be submitted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/army-jawans-family-alleges-police-atrocity/articleshow/77357772.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Ashok Gehlot announces social security board for unorganised workers||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the formation of a state social security board for unorganised workers with an aim to help lakhs of workers. The primary task of this board will be to form the outline of social security schemes for these labourers. The move came during a review meeting of the labour department and the department of skill, employment and entrepreneurship through video conference by Gehlot from his residence on Tuesday. The programme will streamline the delivery of schemes relating to workers. Gehlot also decided to launch a state-wide campaign for the registration of construction labourers/workers who are not seeking the benefit of any social security schemes. The officials will reach out to the building and other construction workers welfare board. “Gehlot directed the labour department officers to go to construction sites and places where labourers gather to get jobs and motivate them to register themselves,” said the official release. The move is likely to benefit lakhs of labours who returned from across the country during lockdown. Highlighting the importance of skill training, Gehlot directed officials that youths should be trained to the demand of industries in order to link them with employment. “Largescale training programmes should be conducted for this. Many ongoing schemes for skill development should be integrated and simplified so that the youths can easily take advantage of it,” said the release. Minister of state for skill, employment and entrepreneurship Ashok Chandna said the state has a network of 229 government and more than 1,700 private ITIs. He said syllabus should be prepared at these institutes as per the needs of industries and markets. Besides this, total attention should be paid on its quality and regular inspection should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gehlot-announces-social-security-board-for-unorganised-workers/articleshow/77367102.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Ashok Gehlot announces social security board for unorganised workers||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the formation of a state social security board for unorganised workers with an aim to help lakhs of workers. The primary task of this board will be to form the outline of social security schemes for these labourers. The move came during a review meeting of the labour department and the department of skill, employment and entrepreneurship through video conference by Gehlot from his residence on Tuesday. The programme will streamline the delivery of schemes relating to workers. Gehlot also decided to launch a state-wide campaign for the registration of construction labourers/workers who are not seeking the benefit of any social security schemes. The officials will reach out to the building and other construction workers welfare board. “Gehlot directed the labour department officers to go to construction sites and places where labourers gather to get jobs and motivate them to register themselves,” said the official release. The move is likely to benefit lakhs of labours who returned from across the country during lockdown. Highlighting the importance of skill training, Gehlot directed officials that youths should be trained to the demand of industries in order to link them with employment. “Largescale training programmes should be conducted for this. Many ongoing schemes for skill development should be integrated and simplified so that the youths can easily take advantage of it,” said the release. Minister of state for skill, employment and entrepreneurship Ashok Chandna said the state has a network of 229 government and more than 1,700 private ITIs. He said syllabus should be prepared at these institutes as per the needs of industries and markets. Besides this, total attention should be paid on its quality and regular inspection should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gehlot-announces-social-security-board-for-unorganised-workers/articleshow/77367103.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot announces social security board for unorganised workers||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the formation of a state social security board for unorganised workers with an aim to help lakhs of workers. The primary task of this board will be to form the outline of social security schemes for these labourers. The move came during a review meeting of the labour department and the department of skill, employment and entrepreneurship through video conference by Gehlot from his residence on Tuesday. The programme will streamline the delivery of schemes relating to workers. Gehlot also decided to launch a state-wide campaign for the registration of construction labourers/workers who are not seeking the benefit of any social security schemes. The officials will reach out to the building and other construction workers welfare board. “Gehlot directed the labour department officers to go to construction sites and places where labourers gather to get jobs and motivate them to register themselves,” said the official release. The move is likely to benefit lakhs of labours who returned from across the country during lockdown. Highlighting the importance of skill training, Gehlot directed officials that youths should be trained to the demand of industries in order to link them with employment. “Largescale training programmes should be conducted for this. Many ongoing schemes for skill development should be integrated and simplified so that the youths can easily take advantage of it,” said the release. Minister of state for skill, employment and entrepreneurship Ashok Chandna said the state has a network of 229 government and more than 1,700 private ITIs. He said syllabus should be prepared at these institutes as per the needs of industries and markets. Besides this, total attention should be paid on its quality and regular inspection should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-announces-social-security-board-for-unorganised-workers/articleshow/77360404.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||Work on gold plating of Shiva idol at Sursagar lake to begin||Vadodara: The work on gold plating of the 111 foot magnanimous statue of Lord Shiva in the heart of Sursagar lake will formally begin on Wednesday.The statue, said to be the tallest Shiva idol in the country when erected, was dedicated to the city in 2002. Work on the statue began 1996 and when ready, it was christened Sarveshwar Mahadev. The Satyam Shivam Sundaram Samiti floated by Manjalpur MLA and minister of state for Narmada and urban housing, Yogesh Patel, had taken up the project. Patel floated the Suvarna Sankalp Foundation earlier this year with an aim to plate the idol with gold. The statue had a concrete core with copper plates fit on it from outside. It was formally handed over to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) after it was erected. NRI philanthropist Dr Kiran Patel donated Rs 4.5crore for the gold plating work even as others have also donated handsomely. Patel had also visited the US to meet NRIs and seek their contributions for the project. Scion of the royal Gaekwad family Samarjitsinh Gaekwad and his wife Radhikaraje Gaekwad will perform the rituals on Wednesday for beginning the work. Several other spiritual leaders, political functionaries as well as officials will remain present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/work-on-gold-plating-of-shiva-idol-at-sursagar-lake-to-begin/articleshow/77357502.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||South Kolkata condos, slum shed containment-zone tag; lens on Baghajatin-Patuli||KOLKATA: While south Kolkata neighbourhoods seemed to recover well, pockets down further south did not appear that fit.  Hours before Bengal went in for total lockdown, containment zones in the city increased from 37 to 40. Among the 40 zones, eight are complexes and only three are slums. All others are either houses or smaller apartments. While nine new premises and stretches entered restriction zones, six shed their containment zones. Of those six, five areas are located in south Kolkata, one of the addresses being in Alipore and two others being condos on Elgin Road and Panditiya Road. But for both KMC and police, the biggest relief was to see Gobindapur Rail Colony walk out of the containment list as they feared major virus spread from there to Jodhpur Park. Further south though, several new areas in Baghajatin-Patuli and Mukundapur came under containment. The densely populated G Block of Baghajatin has been one of the worst hit with two containment zones covering the entire block. Police attributed the cause of the spike to the area’s proximity to hot spots, like Patuli and Baghajatin Place, and the huge number of people visiting the Baghajatin market. In Mukundapur, though one area has shed its containment tag in the past four days, four more were added, taking the total number to 13, the highest in the city. Two popular south Kolkata addresses — Rainey Park that connects Gurusaday Road with Ballygunge Circular Road and Gauriya Math off Asutosh Mukherjee Road—are now on the containment list. A new entrant to the list is Chapel Road in Hastings. The containment zones in Ballygunge and Alipore, along with the Mukundapur-Patuli-Baghajatin, will see strict lockdown. Though proper Alipore does not have any containment zone, Raja Santosh Roy Road, owing to its proximity to Majerhat that has two containment zones, has again found a place on the list. East Behala’s three restricted areas saw no change. In north Kolkata, almost all 10 out of the 11 containment zones in Beliaghata-Kankurgachhi-Phoolbagan continue to be on the list. While Chaupatty Road is no longer a restricted area, a portion of Biplabi Barin Ghosh Road is. Posta and Beniapukur, two of the worst-hit areas in initial days, managed to stay clean. KMC and police are worried about Suren Sarkar Road in Phoolbagan that has remained on the list for weeks now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-condos-slum-shed-c-zone-tag-lens-on-baghajatin-patuli/articleshow/77359093.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 5, 2020||Surat||Stalwarts to boost confidence of trade, industry||Surat: With moral of Surat’s trade and industry already down due to poor demand, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has taken up a task to boost the confidence of the entrepreneurs in Surat and south Gujarat region across all sectors.Known as the knowledge series, the SGCCI is posting ‘Letters of Confidence’ written by the trade and industry leaders to its 9,000-odd members to revitalize their confidence to fight the battle against Covid-19. According to SGCCI office-bearers, coronavirus pandemic has dealt a major blow to the industrial activities in Surat and south Gujarat region, which is the hub of the textiles, diamonds and gems and jewellery. While the diamond industry is operating at less than 30% of its capacity, the man-made fabric (MMF) sector is the most hard-hit with industrial production down to 15%. “Industry leaders from various sectors including diamonds, textile, chemicals, engineering etc. have been shortlisted for writing, letters addressed to the entrepreneurs. In the letters, industry leaders would talk about the current situation developing around coronavirus pandemic, plague epidemic in the past, devastating floods and how every time the trade and industry rose like a phoenix,” said interim president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya. “More than the government’s support, industries need the emotional support of their leaders in such turbulent times. They need to be told not to lose hope and tide over the Covid-19 pandemic and look towards growing their businesses,” he added.Chairman of Venus Jewels, Sevanti Shah, who is the first in the industry to write ‘Letter of Confidence’ said, “I am a witness of the devastating floods of 1969, the bubonic plague of 1994, the devastating 2006 floods and the global economic downturn in 2008. During all these calamities, I have seen the industries rise like phoenix despite all the odds. Same is going to happen after the coronavirus pandemic, I am confident of that.”Box: Letter WritersSevanti Shah, chairman, Venus JewelsGirish Luthra, chairman, Gujarat Eco-Textile Park (GETP)Neeraj Choksi, chairman, NJ India groupGovind Dholakiya, chairman, Shree Ramkrishna Export (SRK)Pramod Chaudhary, chairman, Pratibha Textile GroupKetan Zota, chairman, Zota PharmaceuticalsVallabh Thummar, chairman, Alidhra Textile Machinery GroupRajnikant Bachkaniwala, president, Vankar Sangh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stalwarts-to-boost-confidence-of-trade-industry/articleshow/77357777.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||BJP MLA junks Ayodhya trip as aide tests positive||KOTA: BJP legislator from Ramganjmandi and party’s state general secretary Madan Dilawar’s dream of participating in much-awaited bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram temple shattered when one of the party workers travelling with him to Ayodhya tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Dilawar decided to return to hometown to quarantine himself. Dilawar, along with five workers left for Ayodhya from Kota on Monday. The report of samples of the BJP MLA and others collected before they left for Ayodhya were received on Tuesday morning, confirming one of the five as corona positive. “One of companions with us has tested positive in the report in Tuesday morning following which we decided not to go to Ayodhya for participation in bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram temple and to quarantine us at hometown,” Dilawar said. Dilawar reportedly took with him a pot containing soil from Haldighati to offer it for bhoomi pujan. Dilawar had vowed not to accept garland till the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya and had actively participated in rath yatra and kar seva in early 90s. Dilawar had also vowed to sleep on the ground till the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. Meanwhile, 84 fresh cases were reported in Kota on Tuesday. The building of Commerce College was shut down for sanitization after one of the employees from non-teaching staff tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-junks-ayodhya-trip-as-aide-tests-positive/articleshow/77360415.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Tribal youths turn teachers for their community kids||COIMBATORE: Until a few years ago, 13-year-old V Dinesh from Vepparai tribal settlement in Kaliyapuram panchayat used to attend school only twice a week, was scared of his teachers and struggled to comprehend lessons. Whenever his parents asked him to attend school, he made one excuse or another. Three years later, Dinesh is a changed person, is a regular at school and takes his studies seriously. The sea change in his attitude towards studies is thanks to 21-year-old M Kanagasabapathy, a final year diploma student from the settlement, who teaches tribal children during evening hours on weekdays amid his tight schedule. “Kanagasabapathy is more like a friend to us. Apart from teaching the school syllabus, he also tells us stories. Sometimes, he would get us a cake which all of us eat together. Not just me, most of the children in the settlement just love him,” he said. Just like Dinesh, scores of children from tribal settlements in Anaimalai region in rural Coimbatore are being encouraged by a group of youths determined to educate them. The group of motivated young teachers include Kanagasabapathy, D Sridha, 18, from Mudaliarpatti settlement, Arul Kumar, 23, from Chellapillaikaradu settlement and several others. Kanagasabapathy said many tribal children drop out of their studies due to multiple reasons such as unfriendly teachers, no attention from parents and faraway schools.“I want to change this and want our children to get better career opportunities,” he said. Arul, a daily wage labourer after completing his Class XII, has been teaching children in his settlement for the past one year. Despite his tight schedule, he spends at least two to three hours every day with the children clearing their doubts and helping them with their homework. “To ensure that children are not pressured, I conduct drawing or games competitions once in a while and give them prizes. During daily classes, I tell them stories from different books and ask them to repeat to analyse how much they have understood.” Sridha, another teacher, said, “We can now see a marked improvement in these children. Even those who are irregular to schools have been coming to us regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-youths-turn-teachers-for-their-community-kids/articleshow/77360416.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 5, 2020||India||Signs of thaw in Rajasthan as Congress sends out feelers to Pilot camp||Amid its ongoing confrontation with Sachin Pilot, conciliatory signals have emerged from Congress with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the Rajasthan former deputy CM can return to the fold if he gives up BJP’s “hospitality” and “security” of Haryana police. The remarks come even as talks with the rebel faction — holed up in Haryana — have resumed in recent days. Though at a nebulous stage, the opening for compromise is a marked departure from the estrangement that looked imminent amid mounting court battles and CM Ashok Gehlot’s sharp comments in response to the demand for a change in leadership in the state. The talks can still go either way, it is felt in Congress quarters, with sources in the rebel camp making it clear the issue needing discussion is leadership change. Pilot has said his rebellion was provoked by a “vindictive” police probe against him over allegations of horse-trading, blaming it on Gehlot and pointed to FIRs against him and other MLAs in his camp even while underlining his claim to the CM's post. On Tuesday, the two camps squared up again. Congress, when asked about talks with rebels, said, “The legislators should first give up the Haryana police's security, the friendship and hospitality of BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place.” A couple of days earlier, Gehlot had said that he would not stand on prestige if the party forgives the dissidents. In retaliation, the Pilot camp upped the ante with three MLAs demanding a change in leadership and attacking Gehlot in strong words. Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh said it was a fight for “self respect and against the dictatorial attitude of Gehlot”. They said they will remain in Congress and were only opposing the CM. Gehlot has accused Pilot of plotting against his government in league with rival BJP though he has softened his posture. Following the political crisis kicked off by Pilot’s rebellion, Rajasthan assembly will meet from August 14 during which a trust motion by Gehlot is a likelihood. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur. But the session will also test the Congress state government as it just has the numbers to prove majority in the House. The rebels feel the CM's numbers have declined and are also awaiting the results of proceedings in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan High Court. A couple of other developments can have some impact on the floor test. While the Speaker and Congress both have challenged the high court stay on disqualification notice to rebels, a petition by BJP challenging the merger of 6-MLA BSP into Congress will come up for hearing in the HC on August 11. If a compromise has to happen, it will have to settle the rehabilitation package of rebels to their satisfaction somewhat. Besides, Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he left Jaipur with his contingent of supporting MLAs on July 11 and a proper role for him will have to be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/signs-of-thaw-in-rajasthan-as-congress-sends-out-feelers-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/77361866.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Climbing positivity rate in Kerala raises concern||KOCHI: Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) that was below 2 in June, increased to 3 in July and is currently at 4.7. The average TPR (from beginning of the pandemic to date) has also increased from 1.5 to 3, raising concerns that the present tests per day – 19,000 to 25,000 – is not enough and the state needs to ramp up its testing urgently. Experience of other countries that contained the pandemic shows that TPR of 2 or less is good. TPR is a measure of adequacy of tests and indicates what percentage of tests turn positive. A TPR of 4.7 means that more than 4 persons out of 100 tested are positive. “Kerala should double the number of tests urgently. Currently, we are compensating the tests by increasing lockdowns or containment zones. These stringent measures required to control pandemic is inversely proportional to the quantum of testing. We need to increase testing and relax the lockdowns and containments as it is not a sustainable option, either socially and economically,” said Dr Padmanabha Shenoy, who has been analysing the data on TPR in Kerala from the beginning of the pandemic. TPR can be calculated in two ways one is average TPR which calculates TPR from the beginning of the pandemic and the other one is period TPR which calculates the TPR for a specific period. To know adequacy of the current testing period TPR (in this case monthly TPR) is better. Experts said that one reason for the increase in TPR is that now everyday many new clusters are coming up and contacts of these Covid-positive persons in these clusters are also testing positive. It is in such times that there is an urgent need to go by WHO’s dictum: “Test, Test, Test” to decrease mortality. When India’s tests went up by nearly 60%, the country’s case fatality rate (CFR) came down from 3.4% to 2.7%. In Delhi, with tests increasing by 2.8 times, CFR came down from 4% to 3%. “When tests increase, mortality decreases. When more tests are done then more cases are detected and the denominator of CFR increases which means that CFR comes down,” said Dr Sreejith N Kumar, national coordinator, IMA student network. He added that when we test more, we detect more and the patients and their contacts can be isolated fast thereby checking the spread of the infection. It will also help identify cluster formations early so that containment strategies can be applied promptly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/climbing-positivity-rate-raises-concern/articleshow/77357809.cms||Preetu Nair
August 5, 2020||Varanasi||UP: ‘Gorakshpeeth played vital role in Ram temple crusade’||GORAKHPUR: The Bhoomi Pujan of a grand Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi at 12.30pm on Wednesday heralds a new dawn and is a momentous occasion for those who took part in the movement. The Gorakshpeeth played the role of the fulcrum of Ram temple movement which was spearheaded by its chief priests Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath and finally the construction is going to start when present Peethadhishwar Mahant Yogi Adityanath is the chief minister of the state. “Mahant Digvijaynath motivated the Hindu community for liberation of Ram Janmabhoomi and construction of a grand Ram temple at the site all through his life. When Ram Lalla appeared in the disputed structure on December 22-23, 1949, even then Mahant Digvijaynath was doing ‘sankeertan’ (offering prayers) along with some seers in Ayodhya,” said manager of Gorakhdham temple Dwarika Tiwari. “Digvijaynath’s disciple Mahant Avadyanath carried forward the legacy of his guru and in 1984 he constituted Sri Ramjanmabhoomi Mukti Yagya Samiti and was its founder-president all his life,” said Dr Pradeep Rao, principal of MP Inter College, Jungle Dhoosar. “He was the first president of Sri Ram Janma Bhoomi Nyas. On October 7, 1984, he lead a dharmayatra (religious procession) from Sitamarhi to Ayodhya and a meet was organized at Begum Hazrat Mahal Park in Lucknow in which more than 10 lakh people participated. In 1986, when Faizabad district Krishna Mohan Pandey ordered opening the locks of Ram temple, Mahant Avaidyanath was present there,” Dr Rao added. The programme of Shilanyas on November 9, 1989 was decided at the Virat Hindu Sammelan presided over by Mahant Avaidyanath on September 22, 1989 and he suggested that a Dalit Ram Bhakt should lay the foundation stone, Rao said. “At a meet in Haridwar, Mahant Avaidyanath announced the beginning of Ram temple construction on October 30, 1990. The government arrested him at Panki on his way to Ayodhya on October 26, 1990,” he added. Mahant Avaidyanath led a delegation which met then PM Narasimha Rao on July 23, 1992 but the talks were not fruitful. The decision of starting kar seva from December 6, 1992 was taken during fifth Dharam sansad in Delhi on October 30, 1992,” Rao said. “After demise of Mahant Avaidyanath on September 14, 2014, Yogi Adityanath became Mahant and made frequent visits to Ayodhya. He is reviving the lost glory of Ayodhya by holding Deepotsav and launching several development projects. He also fulfilled the long-pending wishes of many seers by renaming Faizabad district as Ayodhya,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakshpeeth-played-vitalrole-in-ram-temple-crusade/articleshow/77357799.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Week-long lockdown in parts of Balotara, Barmer||JAISALMER: Considering the increasing number of coronavirus cases in Balotara and Barmer cities in Barmer district, lockdown will be imposed in some areas for a week from Friday. There will be total ban on movement and opening of markets and these areas are being declared as containment zones. Moreover, on getting any new corona-positive cases, it has been ordered to send the patients to the Covid centre. On the other hand, first death due to corona took place in Jaisalmer district on Tuesday. The 54-year-old was also an asthma patient and was undergoing treatment at Jodhpur. A district-level meeting was organized under the chairmanship of Barmer collector Vishram Meena on Tuesday, in which detailed discussion was held over increasing cases of corona in the district. In the meeting, SP Anand Sharma, additional district collector Rakesh Kumar Sharma, additional SP Kheenv Singh Bhati, SDO Barmer and Balotara Prashant Sharma, Rohit Sharma and others were present. District collector Vishram Meena said that looking at the increasing cases, now no corona-positive patient will be kept in home isolation. All people testing positive will be sent to Covid care centre and will be discharged after being tested negative, because there has been information that during the home isolation, people violate the guidelines and after 10 days, testing is not being done and administration is not being informed. Such infected patients continuously roam around in the markets due to which cases are increasing in Barmer and Balotara. He said that a limited lockdown will be implemented in areas with maximum cases, which will be from August 7 to August 14 (for a week). Collector said that in Barmer, lockdown will be in Juna Kiradu Marg, Achariyon Ka Vas, Agrawal mohalla, Panghat Road, Purani Sabji Mandi, Rai colony, Lakshmipura, Hamirpura Kalyanpura and Gangai Nagar and Mahavir Nagar. Similarly, in Balotara lockdown will be in wards 7, 11, 16 and 30 for one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/week-long-lockdown-in-parts-of-balotara-barmer/articleshow/77360423.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Meerut||Eight-year-old killed by molester after failed rape bid||MEERUT: A man was arrested for allegedly killing an eight year-old-girl after a failed rape bid and dumped her body in a cane field in a village under Khurja Nagar police station limits in Bulandshahr district. According to police, the victim was lured by the accused, Ashok, to a desolate place on the outskirts of the village where he made a bid to rape her, but as she raised alarms, the accused strangled her. After the girl went missing in the morning, police were alerted and a search operation was launched. Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said, “We detained Ashok on suspicion, but he eventually confessed to have strangled the girl. He had abducted the girl intending to rape her, but strangled her as she tried to raise alarms.” “The accused packed the girl’s body in a plastic sack and dumped it in a cane field. Based on information divulged by the accused, police found the victim’s body on Tuesday evening. We will ensure the accused is handed down strictest punishment within a month,” added the SSP. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/eight-year-old-killed-bymolester-after-failed-rape-bid/articleshow/77357805.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Air turbulence over lockdown dates rejig||KOLKATA: Travel agents in Kolkata are calling up clients to say they can no longer guarantee travel on any specific date, especially after four lockdown dates in Bengal were changed yet again on Monday, leading to hundreds of cancellations and fresh bookings for the fourth time in a week. On July 28, the government had changed the lockdown dates thrice, leaving fliers, travel agents and airlines exasperated. “The frequent changing of lockdown dates has led to a situation that is fraught with uncertainty. It appears that no one knows anything for certain. Since we have no control over the situation, we have told clients that we will be unable to suggest travel dates. They have to take a call on whether they want to travel under these circumstances. If they do so, it will be at their own risk,” a leading travel agent told TOI on Tuesday. Several travel agents claimed they had suffered loss of credibility following Monday’s announcement on fresh lockdown dates as they had assured customers of smooth travel on 24 days in August that were outside the purview of lockdown. But after August 20, 21, 27 and 28 were declared lockdown days on Monday, agents who had booked clients for travel on those four days were now in a soup. Travel agents said they had also told clients that they would change travel dates without additional cost provided they opted to fly with the same airline on a revised date. Otherwise, customers will have to pay for the new flight as the amount for the cancelled ticket goes into a credit shell that can be utilized only during travel by the same airline. Airlines officials, too, are in a quandary as all flights have to be cancelled on new lockdown dates and services have to be scheduled on dates that have exited the lockdown calendar. “It isn’t just about the logistics of flight deployment and cancellations but also about loads and how passengers respond. If the flights that are reintroduced don’t get enough load, they will be cancelled. Right now, everyone is very jittery over the flight schedules in Kolkata. Most importantly, our credibility takes a beating as we have to cancel flights at the sudden announcements,” an airline official said. Passengers, who have had to cancel and rebook flights multiple times owing to the change in lockdown dates, are at their wits’ end. “I was keeping tabs on the lockdown days in August and hadn’t booked my tickets until the announcement of the dates by the chief minister was made. Just as I was about to reserve a flight, I realised the dates had changed and when finally, I had booked a flight home on August 21, I came to know that the dates had been changed again. Now, August 21 is a lockdown date when flights won’t be operational in Bengal. I am in a fix and the airline has rescheduled my journey to the last week of August, but I am worried whether I would be able to travel even on that date or not,” said Anamika Banerjee, whose parents live in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/air-turbulence-over-lockdown-dates-rejig/articleshow/77359196.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Plasma banks in four cities soon for Covid patients||JAIPUR: As many as 115 patients who were given plasma therapy in the state have recovered. The success has prompted the health department to set up plasma banks in Bikaner, Ajmer, Jodhpur and Udaipur. Plasma banks are already functioning in government-run medical colleges in Jaipur and Kota . SMS Hospital was the first to get a plasma bank followed by Kota. Apart from Ajmer, all the five places — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Kota and Udaipur — have started plasma therapy. Those who have recovered from Covid will be able to donate their plasma at the bank after getting screened properly following the protocols set by ICMR for plasma therapy. Besides, the doctors are also providing tocilizumab and remdesivir injections, which cost Rs 40,000, to Covid patients. “So far we have given the two injections to 176 Covid-19 patients and we have got encouraging results,” said an official. The state government is giving a boost to plasma therapy and also to tocilizumab and remdesiver injections for saving the life of patients. Since, no such treatment is available for Covid, the state government is using these modalities as they claimed that they have got the encouraging results. The two expensive injections are being provided free of cost to patients at hospitals attached to medical colleges and district hospitals. Besides, the health department claimed that the spike in Covid cases in the last 10 days was due to increasing number of office-goers, vegetable and fruit vendors and people organising social gatherings such as marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/plasma-banks-in-four-cities-soon-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77363946.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: 11 tribespeople test positive||KOZHIKODE: As many as 11 tribespeople, including five children, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at Pulachikuni tribal colony at Allatil near Periya on Tuesday as part of disease spread from Valad cluster. The Covid-19 infections in the tribal colony were found in antigen tests conducted in the area. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said health department has taken all precautions to prevent spread of Covid-19 in tribal colony. The antigen tests in the colony have been completed and as of now, there was no indication of any further spread in the colony, she said. “We have carried out around 200 tests in nearby colonies and steps have been taken to isolate the colonies from outsiders,” she said. Last week, three tribespeople had tested positive in Valad in Thavinjal panchayat. As many as 2,451 antigen tests have been conducted in Valad, of which around 245 people have tested positive. Covid-19 cases started reporting in large community cluster of Valad from July 27 among those who had attended a funeral and a marriage. The Wayanad district saw 17 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, all of which has been through local transmission. Meanwhile, two patients who had undergone plasma therapy at Mananthavady district hospital were discharged following recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/11-tribespeople-test-positive/articleshow/77357851.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Plasma banks in four cities soon for Covid patients||JAIPUR: As many as 115 patients who were given plasma therapy in the state have recovered. The success has prompted the health department to set up plasma banks in Bikaner, Ajmer, Jodhpur and Udaipur. Plasma banks are already functioning in government-run medical colleges in Jaipur and Kota . SMS Hospital was the first to get a plasma bank followed by Kota. Apart from Ajmer, all the five places — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Kota and Udaipur — have started plasma therapy. Those who have recovered from Covid will be able to donate their plasma at the bank after getting screened properly following the protocols set by ICMR for plasma therapy. Besides, the doctors are also providing tocilizumab and remdesivir injections, which cost Rs 40,000, to Covid patients. “So far we have given the two injections to 176 Covid-19 patients and we have got encouraging results,” said an official. The state government is giving a boost to plasma therapy and also to tocilizumab and remdesiver injections for saving the life of patients. Since, no such treatment is available for Covid, the state government is using these modalities as they claimed that they have got the encouraging results. The two expensive injections are being provided free of cost to patients at hospitals attached to medical colleges and district hospitals. Besides, the health department claimed that the spike in Covid cases in the last 10 days was due to increasing number of office-goers, vegetable and fruit vendors and people organising social gatherings such as marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plasma-banks-in-four-cities-soon-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77360459.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Plasma banks in four cities soon for Covid patients||JAIPUR: As many as 115 patients who were given plasma therapy in the state have recovered. The success has prompted the health department to set up plasma banks in Bikaner, Ajmer, Jodhpur and Udaipur. Plasma banks are already functioning in government-run medical colleges in Jaipur and Kota . SMS Hospital was the first to get a plasma bank followed by Kota. Apart from Ajmer, all the five places — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Kota and Udaipur — have started plasma therapy. Those who have recovered from Covid will be able to donate their plasma at the bank after getting screened properly following the protocols set by ICMR for plasma therapy. Besides, the doctors are also providing tocilizumab and remdesivir injections, which cost Rs 40,000, to Covid patients. “So far we have given the two injections to 176 Covid-19 patients and we have got encouraging results,” said an official. The state government is giving a boost to plasma therapy and also to tocilizumab and remdesiver injections for saving the life of patients. Since, no such treatment is available for Covid, the state government is using these modalities as they claimed that they have got the encouraging results. The two expensive injections are being provided free of cost to patients at hospitals attached to medical colleges and district hospitals. Besides, the health department claimed that the spike in Covid cases in the last 10 days was due to increasing number of office-goers, vegetable and fruit vendors and people organising social gatherings such as marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/plasma-banks-in-four-cities-soon-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77363943.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Plasma banks in four cities soon for Covid patients||JAIPUR: As many as 115 patients who were given plasma therapy in the state have recovered. The success has prompted the health department to set up plasma banks in Bikaner, Ajmer, Jodhpur and Udaipur. Plasma banks are already functioning in government-run medical colleges in Jaipur and Kota . SMS Hospital was the first to get a plasma bank followed by Kota. Apart from Ajmer, all the five places — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Kota and Udaipur — have started plasma therapy. Those who have recovered from Covid will be able to donate their plasma at the bank after getting screened properly following the protocols set by ICMR for plasma therapy. Besides, the doctors are also providing tocilizumab and remdesivir injections, which cost Rs 40,000, to Covid patients. “So far we have given the two injections to 176 Covid-19 patients and we have got encouraging results,” said an official. The state government is giving a boost to plasma therapy and also to tocilizumab and remdesiver injections for saving the life of patients. Since, no such treatment is available for Covid, the state government is using these modalities as they claimed that they have got the encouraging results. The two expensive injections are being provided free of cost to patients at hospitals attached to medical colleges and district hospitals. Besides, the health department claimed that the spike in Covid cases in the last 10 days was due to increasing number of office-goers, vegetable and fruit vendors and people organising social gatherings such as marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/plasma-banks-in-four-cities-soon-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77363942.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Patna||Two more districts hit by floods, 63 lakh affected in north Bihar||PATNA: The flood-affected population in north Bihar increased by over 7 lakh in 24 hours as two more districts, Madhepura and Saharsa, were declared flood affected, taking the number of such districts to 16 in the state. According to the disaster management department (DMD), the flood-hit population went up from 56.5 lakh on Monday to 63 lakh by Tuesday evening. Major rivers such as Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Khiroi and Adhwara continued to flow above the danger mark. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department (WRD), Bagmati was showing a rising trend at all five flood gauges in Sitamarhi district and static at one gauge in Muzaffarpur and rising at another gauge in Darbhanga. The turbulent Burhi Gandak, however, showed either falling or static trend at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samstipur and Khagaria districts but continued to remain above danger level at all four places. Kamla Balan also showed a static and falling trend at both flood gauges in Madhubani district but continued to flow above the danger mark. Khiroi, one of the Adhwara channels, which has wreaked havoc in Darbhanga, showed rising trend at one flood gauge and static at another place in the district but it was flowing above danger level at both places. The weather forecast for the next 48 hours will come as a relief as only light to moderate rainfall is expected in Bihar with exception of heavy rainfall at a few places in southern parts of the state. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at the Patna Meteorological Centre said in a statement issued on Tuesday that monsoon activity was weak in Bihar in the past 24 hours. “The monsoon trough line was passing through Firozpur, Rohtak, Lucknow, Varansi, Gaya, Shantiniketan, the southeastwards towards centre of a low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal. Under the influence of these two weather systems, southern and south-eastern parts of the state are likely to witness moderate rainfall. Thunderstorm along with heavy rainfall can also be witnessed at one or two places,” Patel said. As far as flood rescue and relief work is concerned, the DMD bulletin on Tuesday stated that 4.4 lakh out of total 63.6 lakh people affected by the floods have been evacuated to safer places. Nearly 18,000 people are staying in relief camps and 9.5 lakh people are getting food at 1,365 community kitchen centres. Altogether 33 teams of NDRF and SDRF are involved in the operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-more-districts-hit-by-floods-63l-affected-in-n-bihar/articleshow/77359155.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||ReNew Power plans 2,000mw solar manufacturing unit in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: New Delhi-headquartered ReNew Power has proposed to set up 2000 megawatt solar cell and module manufacturing plant in Rajasthan with an investment of Rs 1,600 crore. If the state government clinches the deal by offering the incentives the company has sought, this would be a first solar cell manufacturing plant in Rajasthan, which has already become a lucrative destination for power generation. ReNew Power, which builds, owns and operates utility scale wind and solar projects, already has an operational capacity of 740 MW and a firm pipeline of 2,400 MW to be commissioned in the next two year. As per the proposal, the company needs 40 acre land near to a city having an established industrial cluster with an inland container depot. It has also projected employment generation for 2000 people. “We are keen to have the manufacturing facility in the state. Rajasthan has become a leading state in the country in generation of solar power and we want to replicate a similar success story in solar equipment manufacturing segment as well,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). The state government is currently examining the incentives the company needs to set up the plant in the state. But sources also said that ReNew power is also engaged in discussions with couple of states. “Rajasthan is an ideal location for the company to set up the plant because ReNew already has substantial solar power generation projects. The manufacturing plant can complement their generating projects. But the fate of the project depends on the kind of incentives other states offer,” said an official in RRECL. The company has sought additional subsidies besides what Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme -2019 (RIPS-2019) offers and has cited the incentives that the companies in China avail making their products cheaper by 20-25%. “The proposed manufacturing facility would be eligible for benefits under RIPS-2019. However, given the scale and uniqueness of the project, and the need to be competitive in the global markets, we need additional incentives, exemptions and concessions from the government of Rajasthan,” the company said in the proposal. The company wants that similar incentives be extended to ancillary units to be set up by it or other companies to supply input materials for manufacture of solar cells and modules. For the next five years, ReNew power also targets to set up 10,000 MW solar energy generation projects. It has requested the government to facilitate 16,000 ha of land for implementing the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/renew-power-plans-2000mw-solar-mfg-unit-in-raj/articleshow/77364563.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||ReNew Power plans 2,000mw solar manufacturing unit in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: New Delhi-headquartered ReNew Power has proposed to set up 2000 megawatt solar cell and module manufacturing plant in Rajasthan with an investment of Rs 1,600 crore. If the state government clinches the deal by offering the incentives the company has sought, this would be a first solar cell manufacturing plant in Rajasthan, which has already become a lucrative destination for power generation. ReNew Power, which builds, owns and operates utility scale wind and solar projects, already has an operational capacity of 740 MW and a firm pipeline of 2,400 MW to be commissioned in the next two year. As per the proposal, the company needs 40 acre land near to a city having an established industrial cluster with an inland container depot. It has also projected employment generation for 2000 people. “We are keen to have the manufacturing facility in the state. Rajasthan has become a leading state in the country in generation of solar power and we want to replicate a similar success story in solar equipment manufacturing segment as well,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). The state government is currently examining the incentives the company needs to set up the plant in the state. But sources also said that ReNew power is also engaged in discussions with couple of states. “Rajasthan is an ideal location for the company to set up the plant because ReNew already has substantial solar power generation projects. The manufacturing plant can complement their generating projects. But the fate of the project depends on the kind of incentives other states offer,” said an official in RRECL. The company has sought additional subsidies besides what Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme -2019 (RIPS-2019) offers and has cited the incentives that the companies in China avail making their products cheaper by 20-25%. “The proposed manufacturing facility would be eligible for benefits under RIPS-2019. However, given the scale and uniqueness of the project, and the need to be competitive in the global markets, we need additional incentives, exemptions and concessions from the government of Rajasthan,” the company said in the proposal. The company wants that similar incentives be extended to ancillary units to be set up by it or other companies to supply input materials for manufacture of solar cells and modules. For the next five years, ReNew power also targets to set up 10,000 MW solar energy generation projects. It has requested the government to facilitate 16,000 ha of land for implementing the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/renew-power-plans-2000mw-solar-mfg-unit-in-raj/articleshow/77360479.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||ReNew Power plans 2,000mw solar manufacturing unit in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: New Delhi-headquartered ReNew Power has proposed to set up 2000 megawatt solar cell and module manufacturing plant in Rajasthan with an investment of Rs 1,600 crore. If the state government clinches the deal by offering the incentives the company has sought, this would be a first solar cell manufacturing plant in Rajasthan, which has already become a lucrative destination for power generation. ReNew Power, which builds, owns and operates utility scale wind and solar projects, already has an operational capacity of 740 MW and a firm pipeline of 2,400 MW to be commissioned in the next two year. As per the proposal, the company needs 40 acre land near to a city having an established industrial cluster with an inland container depot. It has also projected employment generation for 2000 people. “We are keen to have the manufacturing facility in the state. Rajasthan has become a leading state in the country in generation of solar power and we want to replicate a similar success story in solar equipment manufacturing segment as well,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). The state government is currently examining the incentives the company needs to set up the plant in the state. But sources also said that ReNew power is also engaged in discussions with couple of states. “Rajasthan is an ideal location for the company to set up the plant because ReNew already has substantial solar power generation projects. The manufacturing plant can complement their generating projects. But the fate of the project depends on the kind of incentives other states offer,” said an official in RRECL. The company has sought additional subsidies besides what Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme -2019 (RIPS-2019) offers and has cited the incentives that the companies in China avail making their products cheaper by 20-25%. “The proposed manufacturing facility would be eligible for benefits under RIPS-2019. However, given the scale and uniqueness of the project, and the need to be competitive in the global markets, we need additional incentives, exemptions and concessions from the government of Rajasthan,” the company said in the proposal. The company wants that similar incentives be extended to ancillary units to be set up by it or other companies to supply input materials for manufacture of solar cells and modules. For the next five years, ReNew power also targets to set up 10,000 MW solar energy generation projects. It has requested the government to facilitate 16,000 ha of land for implementing the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/renew-power-plans-2000mw-solar-mfg-unit-in-raj/articleshow/77364560.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||ReNew Power plans 2,000mw solar manufacturing unit in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: New Delhi-headquartered ReNew Power has proposed to set up 2000 megawatt solar cell and module manufacturing plant in Rajasthan with an investment of Rs 1,600 crore. If the state government clinches the deal by offering the incentives the company has sought, this would be a first solar cell manufacturing plant in Rajasthan, which has already become a lucrative destination for power generation. ReNew Power, which builds, owns and operates utility scale wind and solar projects, already has an operational capacity of 740 MW and a firm pipeline of 2,400 MW to be commissioned in the next two year. As per the proposal, the company needs 40 acre land near to a city having an established industrial cluster with an inland container depot. It has also projected employment generation for 2000 people. “We are keen to have the manufacturing facility in the state. Rajasthan has become a leading state in the country in generation of solar power and we want to replicate a similar success story in solar equipment manufacturing segment as well,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). The state government is currently examining the incentives the company needs to set up the plant in the state. But sources also said that ReNew power is also engaged in discussions with couple of states. “Rajasthan is an ideal location for the company to set up the plant because ReNew already has substantial solar power generation projects. The manufacturing plant can complement their generating projects. But the fate of the project depends on the kind of incentives other states offer,” said an official in RRECL. The company has sought additional subsidies besides what Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme -2019 (RIPS-2019) offers and has cited the incentives that the companies in China avail making their products cheaper by 20-25%. “The proposed manufacturing facility would be eligible for benefits under RIPS-2019. However, given the scale and uniqueness of the project, and the need to be competitive in the global markets, we need additional incentives, exemptions and concessions from the government of Rajasthan,” the company said in the proposal. The company wants that similar incentives be extended to ancillary units to be set up by it or other companies to supply input materials for manufacture of solar cells and modules. For the next five years, ReNew power also targets to set up 10,000 MW solar energy generation projects. It has requested the government to facilitate 16,000 ha of land for implementing the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/renew-power-plans-2000mw-solar-mfg-unit-in-raj/articleshow/77364562.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Planning Konkan trip for Ganpati? E-pass for pvt vehicles a must||Mumbai: The state government has finally come up with guidelines on travel for devotees headed to Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts in Konkan to celebrate the annual 10-day Ganesh festival, from August 22, thus resuming inter-district travel during lockdown. ST bus passengers do not need an e-pass. People can travel but a 10-day home quarantine is compulsory, while travel should commence before August 12. Transport minister Anil Parab said 3,000 buses have been reserved. He said those who want to travel after August 12 will have to submit a Covid-19 report, tested 48 hours before. Only those testing negative can travel,” said Parab. Parab said each bus will carry only 22 passengers. “For group bookings of 22 seats, the bus will not halt at any destination in between,” he added. Online booking started on Tuesday. Every year, around 2,200 buses ply but this year ST department reserved 3,000. An e-pass will be mandatory for private vehicles, he said. While pointing out hefty charges by private buses, he said they can charge 1.5 times more than ST fare. “If the department receives complaints of overcharging by private players, action will be taken against them,” said Parab. He also said the finance department led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar sanctioned Rs 550 crore for salary of ST employees. Over a lakh employees have not been paid in for two months due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/planning-konkan-trip-for-ganpati-e-pass-for-pvt-vehicles-a-must/articleshow/77359573.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ramesh Chennithala writes to Kerala CM on Covid management||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has charged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of creating police raj in state by handing over major responsibilities of Covid-19 containment from health department to police. In an open letter sent to Vijayan on Tuesday, Chennithala said hypocrisy of the chief minister was exposed when he blamed the opposition for the failure of Covid-19 containment. “It was surprising to see that the government handed over major responsibilities such as identifying containment zones, monitoring the people on quarantine, contact tracing and ensuring social distancing in public places from the health department to police. There is no doubt that this will lead to law and order issues, police atrocities and human-rights violations. In short, the state is going to witness police raj,” Chennithala said in the letter. Reminding how deployment of commandos in Poonthura had backfired, the Congress leader said Covid-19 pandemic should be handled with empathy and compassion. “I have cautioned that this is a health emergency and not a law and order issue. The health department should lead Covid-prevention activities. The chief minister has insulted the health department officials with this decision,” he said. The opposition leader said the double standards of the chief minister were exposed on Monday when he admitted failure in handling the Covid-19 crisis. “Later, when the CM realised that his admission has backfired and turned into a controversy, he tried to escape by putting the blame on the opposition,” he said. Chennithala alleged that the CM while lecturing on Covid-19 management at his evening press conferences has been looting the state too. The chief minister is using the Covid crisis to hide all major scams from Sprinklr to gold smuggling, he said. The opposition leader said the state made lapses by delaying tests and showcasing inaccurate data. “While neighbouring states have conducted 30,000-40,000 tests daily, ours were just 20,000 tests per day. We couldn’t find out asymptomatic cases due to low-testing rate. Now our test positivity ratio is 4.9. We are at 10th position in terms of tests per million and total number of tests. In the list of 25 states, we stand in 21st position in recovery rate,” he said. He also demanded that the state government should increase testing immediately by including private labs after issuing proper guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chennithala-writes-to-cm-on-covid-management/articleshow/77357892.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Goa govt removes Dr Ira Almeida as medical superintendent of Hospicio hospital||PANAJI: A day after Dr Ira Almeida was removed as nodal officer of the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao, she is set to lose her post as medical superintendent, Hospicio hospital, Margao. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday moved a note to chief minister Pramod Sawant to issue an order to appoint senior surgeon Dr Deepa Correia as medical superintendent with immediate effect. Almeida, who has served as medical superintendent of Hospicio for around five years, was appointed nodal officer when the ESI hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid hospital in March. She was also instrumental in shifting Hospicio’s outpatient department (OPD) to the new South Goa district hospital building a few months ago. In a separate note, Rane alleged that “Almeida has apparently abandoned everything, and no proper handover and transition is taking place”. He made these remarks with regards to her handing over charge of the ESI hospital. Rane also requested Sawant to issue instructions so that Almeida is directed to effect a thorough and proper handover for a smooth transition, and so that the team from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, is able to get a grip on the situation to take things forward. Almeida didn’t respond to calls or messages asking for her reaction to Rane’s allegations. After issuing the order appointing GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar as overall in-charge of the Covid hospital on Monday, a senior GMC doctor was proposed to be appointed as administrator of the Covid hospital to oversee its day to day functioning. Meanwhle, while the name of Dr Uday Kakodkar, associate professor, department of pulmonary medicine, GMC, was suggested, the order appointing him was not issued till late evening. A health department official said that the order would be issued on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-removes-dr-ira-as-ms-of-hospicio/articleshow/77360520.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||NMC repairs 4,355 potholes in 7 months, yet roads not smooth||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has repaired 4,355 potholes and patches in the last seven months (roughly 622 a month), yet driving in city is not easy. Piyush Janbandhu, a resident of Govind City, said, “The potholes in front of Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj Apartment in Zingabai Takli were repaired, followed by patchwork, but the road is damaged again. If this is the pattern of repair work, the civic body must take action against contractors who built these roads in the first place.” Despite the fact that the civic body is repairing on an average 24 potholes daily, the inconvenience caused due to this continues for residents, including heavy traffic jams and waterlogging across the city. As per the data procured from NMC, the hot mix department has repaired 4,355 potholes, including 850 using ‘insta road patcher’, from January 1, 2020, to July 31, 2020. Despite this, the condition of city roads in many areas is bad. The data shows the highest number of potholes were repaired under Nehru Nagar zone. The department claims to have repaired 656 potholes here, followed by 510 in Mangalwari zone and 414 in Laxmi Nagar zone. The least potholes were reported from old city areas under Satranjipura zone. The department repaired only 81 potholes between January 1 and July 31,2020, followed by 180 in Lakadganj zone. TOI has been highlighting how NMC and other government agencies like state’s public works department, Nagpur Improvement Trust and NHAI are carrying out shoddy road repair works in the city. According to traffic experts, bad roads indirectly cost citizens by way of damage to vehicles and time lost in transit. Experts also blamed the problem on hasty construction, often without proper foundation and deferred repairs over decades. A major part of the road network is decaying faster than it is being rebuilt. Traffic experts also stressed the need to ensure contractors should erect boards containing details like amount spent on the road, its defect liability period etc, which is also being ignored. NMC engineers claimed they repair all the road patches and potholes as soon as they are informed about them. According to them, they don’t get enough time to complete the process. “Immediately after repair work is done, traffic operations begin, thus causing damage to the repaired patches,” they said. Zones --- Potholes Repaired Laxmi Nagar --- 414 Dharampeth --- 385 Hanuman Nagar---327 Dhantoli --- 260 Nehru Nagar --- 656 Gandhibagh --- 334 Satranjipura---81 Lakadganj---180 Ashi Nagar---358 Mangalwari---510 Insta Road Patcher---850||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-repairs-4355-potholes-in-7-months-yet-roads-not-smooth/articleshow/77360552.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 5, 2020||Rajkot||Dhoraji onions take the train route to reach Bangladesh market||Rajkot: Onions from Rajkot’s Dhoraji town are hurtling down top speed to Bangladesh’s Darshana station. Western Railways, for the first time, is transporting goods to Bangladesh. A goods train carrying the stock has left Dhoraji on Tuesday evening. While the trade is not new, so long onion traders were traditionally exporting their stock to the neighbouring country via trucks through Malda of West Bengal. With the target to expand freight business, the Business Development Unit (BDU) of WR’s Bhavnagar division designed the road map to transport onion to Bangladesh and convinced Dhoraji, Upleta and Gondal traders to use the rail transport system. Traders purchase onions from farmers of Rajkot, Junagadh and Porbandar districts and transport it to other parts of the country and also to Bangladesh via trucks. According to railway officials, the first such train to Bangladesh is transporting 2439.5 tonne onions and will travel a distance of 2,427km to reach its destination. The wagons are loaded at Dhoraji railway station and a railway statement said they are expecting to make 3 to 4 rakes this month after sending the first rake on Tuesday. According to Dhoraji traders, the train is filled with nearly 15 traders’ commodities. Mahesh Nathvani an onion trader in Dhoraji who is also coordinating between traders and railway authority said, “This is a good facility for us as not only transportation gets cheaper, it will also reach the destination faster. By truck it took us around 8 days, while by train it will reach in 4 to 5 days. As it is a perishable item, railways has promised us to provide rakes as per our need.” He further said that as onion loses weight with time, the sooner it reaches the market, the better prices it will fetch for traders. Indian farmers cultivate yellow onion which is acidic and tear-inducing which is in high demand in Bangladesh. Shabbir Tumbi, another onion trader said, “This is the end of onion season, but after Diwali the new season will start. If we get regular rakes then, it will surely boost our business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhoraji-onions-take-the-train-route-to-reach-bangladesh-market/articleshow/77357919.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||Physical filing of 33 case done after HC order||Vadodara: On the first day of physical filing of cases after coronavirus pandemic struck, 33 new cases were filed in Vadodara court. The Gujarat high court had allowed physical filing of cases in lower courts from Tuesday as lawyers had made several representations regarding it. Sources in the court administration said that on Tuesday 25 cases related to Negotiable Instruments Act, seven cases of motor accident claims and one civil appeal was filed by advocates. Advocates said that physical filing of cases will help many of their colleagues who were facing difficulties with online filing of cases and were not able to press any matters. As per the guidelines of the high court, the envelopes containing the petitions will be kept in isolation in a cabinet and these envelopes will be taken to the central filing centre only after 24 hours for verification and registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/physical-filing-of-33-case-done-after-hc-order/articleshow/77357781.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Surat||Gambling den operating inside Ankelshwar GIDC factory busted||Surat: Police busted a gambling den operating from a rented room in the premise of an industrial unit situated in the Ankleshwar GIDC late on Monday night. Nine persons including the tenant of the room were arrested. Officials of Bharuch’s Local Crime Branch (LCB) stated that following a specific lead, they raided Akshar Industries located in Ankleshwar GIDC on late Monday night. A man identified as Kanti Vankar, living in the room inside the premise of the Akshar Industries was arrested along with eight others for gambling with cards.The police seized Rs 50,000 in cash, nine mobile phones, car and three motorcycles from the spot. The total items seized was worth Rs 3.63 lakh.Police stated that Vankar was a tenant of the room and was running a gambling den. The accused is employed as a security guard of the industrial unit and was paying Rs 2,500 monthly rent to the owners. Sub-inspector of Bharuch’s LCB, Y G Gadhvi told TOI, “We had information that the security guard of the Akshar Industries used to operate the gambling den at night after unit closed for the day.”Gadhvi added, “Primary probe suggests that there is no direct involvement of the owners of the industrial unit. We handed over the accused to the Ankleshwar GIDC police and a case has been registered under the Gambling Act and under the Disaster Management Act for violating social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gambling-den-operating-inside-ankelshwar-gidc-factory-busted/articleshow/77357896.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Surat||Surat’s Taal Group to teach ‘garba’ at global event||Surat: City-based architect turned classical dancer Krutika Shah’s Taal Group has been selected by CIOFF (International Council of Organization of Folklore festivals and Folk Arts) to teach Garba at a global event to be held online on August 8. Created in 1970, CIOFF is celebrating its 50th birthday in August. It aims to safeguard, promote traditional culture and folklore.“This is the hour for us to tell the world about our Gujarati Garba before participants from around 100 countries,” said Shah.“CIOFF works in 103 countries and this year in 2020, it celebrates its golden jubilee with various activities. The International Workshop Marathon 2020 is one of the important activities to encourage and teach various art lovers and learners different dances. This virtual workshop will start on August 8 with teachers and choreographers from many nations coming together to teach and impart lessons on Dances at various timings,” Shah added.Pawan Kapoor, CIOFF (India) president said, “It is a valuable workshop as it spotlights the Gujarati Garba from India among other workshops from Malaysia, Japan, Indonesia, Turkey, and Kyrgyzstan.”According to details, the workshop which Shah will conduct will highlight Indian culture to international participants. The workshop will be attended by pre-registered 100 members from various nations while the teachings will include different steps, movements and formations. “It is our privilege to be part of CIOFF’s 50th anniversary celebrations. We have a vision of giving Indian folk dances the recognition it truly deserves. We have already started preparations and the rehearsals have already been completed,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-taal-group-to-teach-garba-at-global-event/articleshow/77357940.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: FIR against trolls for online abuse of Bengali women||KOLKATA: A day after the Kolkata Police cyber cell indicated it had started probing multiple complaints against several social-media users for their alleged “hate campaign” against Bengali women following allegations by actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family against actress Rhea Chakraborty, cops have lodged a specific FIR. The complaint had been filed by a Kolkata-based psychiatrist, also a part-time JU student, who has also approached the state women’s commission and had mailed her complaint directly to Lalbazar on August 1. She mentioned two profiles which had targeted her and sent obscene messages. “We have found merit in the complaint. Accordingly, we have registered a case under IPC sections 354D (stalking), 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman) and 120(B) (criminal conspiracy), read along with sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act,” said an officer. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma has confirmed that a case has been lodged. The police, though, refused to confirm if anyone has been named specifically in the FIR. “Several Facebook and Twitter accounts are under scanner and details of social media handles are being collected. There is a scope that the real accused have hidden their names,” said an officer. On Monday, the complainant had recalled to TOI how she has a friend in Germany, who, like her, shares the Chakraborty surname. “Some online bullies have been targeting my friend mistaking him to be actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother. I had merely protested against it and I was targeted. I have reported it to the police,” she said on Tuesday, saying her friend also wanted to lodge a complaint in this matter. The psychiatrist, though, reminded that the offensive social-media page was yet to be taken down. The psychiatrist welcomed the FIR. “You cannot let them slip away this time. We needed to show them that we will not let them get their way each time. One of the accused is a habitual offender,” she said on Tuesday. Many social-media users have reported such posts to Kolkata Police in the last two days, prompting a detailed probe. The police complaints alleged the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and allegations against Rhea Chakraborty have culminated into an online tirade against Bengali women. Twitter user Sourav Bhattacharya had also informed the Kolkata Police Twitter handle against the same person’s offensive post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-against-trolls-for-online-abuse-of-bengali-women/articleshow/77359308.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||All Covid deaths can’t be included in toll: Kerala minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja has said the death of all Covid-19-positive people cannot be labelled as Covid death. The death of people who are living with comorbidity and tested positive cannot be included in the Covid death toll. Shailaja refuted the allegation that government is suppressing data on death. The death is confirmed as per international protocol and a death is counted as Covid-19 death only if SARS-CoV-2 virus worsens the health of a person leading to his/her death. The minister came out with this clarification as the health department has been facing severe criticism over non-inclusion of deaths of several people who have been tested positive in government’s Covid death list. “The Covid deaths are determined based on the ‘international guidelines for certification and classification of Covid-19 as cause of death’ approved by the WHO. Based on this, the Covid virus should be the primary cause for the death. The multiple failure of organs due to Covid are also being considered as Covid death,’’ the health minister said. An expert team in each district is analysing each Covid death and is submitting report to the government. There are cases in which the deaths have been caused due to the existing diseases and the patient was also tested positive for Covid-19. Such deaths are not being included on the Covid-19 death toll. When a death is reported in a hospital, immediately the samples of this patient are sent for testing in the labs available in the district. If a patient is brought dead, then also the same procedure is followed, she said. When the body is released to the relatives it is made it clear whether the patient is positive or not, she said. Even if the test results are positive, the samples are again sent to the NIV lab at Alappuzha — this is ICMR recommendation. The medical report from the hospital and the report from the NIV, Alappuzha, are scrutinized by medical board and are determined whether it is a Covid death or not, the health minister said. The reason for the delay in announcing the Covid death details is due to the wait for the results from the NIV, Alappuzha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-covid-deaths-cant-be-included-in-toll-minister/articleshow/77357924.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||Agra varsity to revise academic calendar||AGRA: Following the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University has decided to make changes in the academic calendar for the session 2020-21. As per the previously determined academic calendar, regular classes were scheduled to start from August 4. However, so far, university administration has not been able to complete the admission process. The commencement of online classes has been delayed by one week. Agra university had cancelled annual examination following Covid-19 outbreak in March. The first and second year students were promoted without examination. University administration had decided to conduct exam for the final year students. Date for the exams is yet to be finalized. Agra university registrar Anjani Kumar Mishra said, “The academic calendar for session 2020-21 is derailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Following guidelines of the state government, the academic calendar will be revised. We have planned to start the online classes for the first and second year students from the mid of August.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-varsity-to-revise-academic-calendar/articleshow/77359226.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||968 contact cases among 1,083 new patients in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday recorded 1,083 Covid-19 positive cases and 1,021 recoveries. The total number of cases reported till date has climbed to 27,956, of which 11,540 are active cases. Three more deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 88. Fifty-three-year-old Jayanandan of Thiruvananthapuram and 45-year-old Rajesh from Kozhikode, who died on Saturday and 69-year-old Gopi from Ernakulam, who died on Sunday, were tested positive on Tuesday. Of the new cases reported, 51 people had come from abroad, 64 from other states and 968 are contact cases. The source of 71 positive cases remain unknown. Sixteen more healthcare workers, 35 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, 11 KSE employees, and four INHS Coast Guard personnel were tested positive. Of the positive cases, 242 are from Thiruvananthapuram, followed by Ernakulam (135), Malappuram (131), Alappuzha (126), Kozhikode (97), Kasaragod (91), Thrissur (72), Palakkad (50), Kannur (37), Pathanamthitta (32), Kollam (30), Kottayam (23) and Wayanad (17). In the last 24 hours, 20,087 samples have been tested. Till date 4,09,095 samples (including repeat, augmented and private lab samples) have been sent for testing, out of which results of 7,595 are pending. Apart from the above, 1,28,962 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers, etc. as part of sentinel surveillance, of which 1,522 results are pending. As many as 1,45,062 persons are placed under surveillance, of which 1,34,140 are under home or institutional quarantine while 10,922 are admitted to designated isolation facilities. At present, the state capital has 3,354 active cases followed by 1,135 cases in Ernakulam, 985 cases in Malappuram, 871 in Kasaragod, 833 in Kozhikode and 806 in Alappuzha. Among the contact cases reported in the day, 237 are from Thiruvananthapuram and the rest are from Ernakulam (122) , Malappuram (118), Kasaragod (85), Kozhikode (78), Alappuzha (75), Thrissur (55), Kannur (29), Kollam (25), Palakkad (23), Kottayam (22), Pathanamthitta (17) and Wayanad (16). As many as 310 patients from Thiruvananthapuram alone tested negative and the rest are from Kottayam (107), Kannur (103), Malappuram (94), Pathanamthitta (62), Palakkad (56), Alappuzha (55), Ernakulam (49), Thrissur (45), Kozhikode (44), Kollam (36), Idukki (26), Kasaragod (25) and Wayanad (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/968-contact-cases-among-1083-new-patients/articleshow/77357957.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Mechanical engineers with Pune connection bag top ranks in UPSC merit list||Pune: Mandar Patki from Beed, a graduate from Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, led a group of young mechanical engineers from Pune who secured top ranks in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination. The results were declared online on Tuesday. Patki’s all-India ranking was 22 and it was his first attemptat the exam. He graduated last year and had reservations about taking up a job that he got through placement interviews. “I took a drop year to prepare for the UPSC examinations with my parents’ support,” he said.His scheduled interview for March 24 was conducted on July 24. “I wanted to be an IAS officer since my school days. I had taken up anthropology as an optional subject. I am glad I got through in the first attempt,” he added.Ashutosh Kulkarni (AIR 44) from PVG College of Engineering was successful in his fourth attempt and Yogesh Patil (AIR 63) found his place in the second attempt. Visually impaired Jayant Mankale fought all odds to secure AIR 143.The merit list was based on the written examination held in September 2019 and interviews conducted between February-August 2020. A total of 829 candidates were recommended for various posts of Indian Administrative Service, Indian Foreign Service, Indian Police Service and Central Services-Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’, by the UPSC.Kulkarni said it is wise to take up a job after crossing 25 years of age if one is preparing for competitive examinations. “After I graduated, I took a two-year gap and dedicated myself completely to UPSC preparation. In 2018, I turned 25 and took up a job to sustain myself. Since I had already prepared for two years, my basics were clear. I studied while working as I was not starting from zero,” he said.Patil, a ZP school student from Nanded, then went to a Marathi medium school in his village. “I went to a nearby college for class XI-XII and then to College of Engineering Pune in 2017,” he added. Former Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shrikar Pardeshi, posted at the Prime Minister’s Office, inspired him. “When I was in school, he was the collector of Nanded. He did good work and we realised the importance of being a top government official,” he said.Last year, Patil cleared the examination in his first attempt, but got an IPS post. “I joined the service and took leave to prepare again,” he added.Neha Desai (AIR 137), from ILS Law College, completed her schooling from Sindhudurg. “This is my fourth attempt. I was selected for Indian Railway Traffic Service in my previous attempt and I am training in Lucknow. The four attempts taught me to rectify the mistakes I had made in my previous attempts,” she said.When audiobooks were not available, Jayant Mankale (AIR 143), who is visually impaired, was helped by his mother and friends who read aloud for him. He cleared the UPSC examination in 2018, but all the posts for such students were filled. Mankale’s dream came true in the rank-list declared by UPSC on Tuesday.Mankale lost his father, a water pump operator, when he was in class V. He graduated from Amrutvahini College of Engineering in 2013 and the next year, he was diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa, a disorder that causes loss of vision.“I got help from Pune Blind Men’s Association, and learned to operate cellphones and laptops without vision and then started preparing for UPSC which I cleared in 2017 with an AIR 923. It did not get me a seat reserved for visually impaired candidates. I tried harder and got a better rank now,” Mankale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mechanical-engineers-with-pune-connection-bag-top-ranks-in-upsc-merit-list/articleshow/77360553.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pandemic stress affects frontline health workers||PANAJI: A psychiatrist attached to a government hospital in the state says that he is worried about the suspicious looks his neighbours and others give him, while another doctor says he has got himself tested three times as he is afraid that he might take the virus home to his family. While it was known that the pandemic had caused accelerating levels of anxiety and depression among the public, it is now coming to light that frontline health workers are also undergoing daily stress, only at a different level. “They do not say it in so many words, but I know what they think when I return home from the hospital. Their eyes speak. They are worried that I may bring the infection to the village though I don’t work directly with Covid patients,” said the psychiatrist, who didn’t want to reveal his identity. He is also worried, that one fine day, the villagers may ask him to leave the village. Durga Chari, psychologist with the district mental health programme, North Goa, said she has seen cases of frontline health workers undergoing immense stress during the last few months as some of them have been overworked. It is also at the back of their mind they might also contract the infection in the line of work. “Even if I get a simple flu, my family is troubled and wants to stay home,” she said. A doctor said, he has taken the Covid test three times in the last three months, every time he got a cold. “I had to do it because of my family though all tests were negative. Since we deal with all kinds of patients in the hospital and Covid cases are on the rise, there is this constant thought, ‘what if I have got it’,” he said. He said that after three months of pandemic it would be better if he got it once and for all and was released from the stress of ‘what if I get it’. “I take all possible precautions when I go home so that I don’t pass on the infection, if I have already got it,” he said. A senior doctor working in a government hospital said that no doubt they were overworked, but what shocked and stressed him was the attitude of some acquaintances and friends soon after the pandemic broke out. “I was treated like a pariah, but I have accepted the new reality,” he said. Psychiatrists working for the helplines covida.com, launched by the state government and another by the government of India, said that the majority of cases among the public pertain to jobs loss and students stressing over postponement of exams. Calls are also received from parents about their children getting addicted to phones as outdoor activities have been restricted since the pandemic. Dr Ravindra Patil, psychiatrist at the North Goa district hospital, said that today people’s worries are driven by financial problems and uncertainty due to the pandemic. “Most cases we attend are linked to depression and anxiety during the pandemic,” Patil said. Chari, who offers counselling at various centres in North Goa under the district mental health programme, said she receives two to five cases of depression and anxiety every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-stress-affects-frontline-health-workers/articleshow/77360528.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 5, 2020||Goa||Panaji sees first death, mayor slams health dept for not informing CCP about cases||PANAJI: The state capital saw its first Covid-19 fatality on Tuesday after a 29-year-old man, who lived in the hutment area behind the Goa College of Architecture, succumbed to the virus. “After news of his death reached the people, there was tension, with demands to sanitise the whole area. There are around 50 huts in that pocket,” said mayor Uday Madkaikar. He said that though sanitising the area will be difficult, it will be done. The mayor said that the man’s mother worked as a cook in the area, and hence has probably visited a lot of people. The deceased himself was active until two days ago, Madkaikar said. Madkaikar expressed his displeasure with the health department for not informing the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) immediately about new cases detected. “We are here to help them (health staffers), but they too should co-operate,” he said. “In some cases, test results are received five or six days later, and people (who are tested) roam all over the city. I have seen several such cases,” he said. Speaking about the deceased person, he said, “He worked as a vegetable vendor and doubled as a taxi driver. He was admitted to the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao two days ago, but died on Tuesday morning”. There were ten new cases reported in Panaji on Monday, and one of them is an ex-personal assistant of the former mayor. “His test result was received on the sixth day, and that’s today. Two days ago, he went around with the former mayor’s car and his family. One member of the former mayor’s family has already tested positive,” he said. Besides, the former mayor also visited several people in the city even though he had a fever. “When educated people like him fail to understand the consequences of their actions, what can we expect of people living in slums?” he asked. A chartered accountant in the city who tested positive had his result come on the fifth day. “He had self-isolated himself while he awaited his result, and our workers went to his house every day to collect waste,” Madkaikar said. “If we knew about him earlier, we could have made alternate arrangements and not exposed our workers to infection.” He said that chartered accountant’s house was stamped on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-sees-1st-death-mayor-slams-health-dept-for-not-informing-ccp-about-cases/articleshow/77360576.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 5, 2020||Pune||State seal on Pune-Nashik semi-high speed rail corridor soon: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said the cabinet would soon approve the Pune-Nashik semi-high speed corridor project to ensure that its work started as early as possible. The ministry of railways approved the project last month. Pawar held a meeting to discuss the project with the authorities of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDC) on Tuesday. “A presentation on the project was made before Pawar as well the MLAs present,” a source in the MRIDC said. The cost of the project has been pegged at Rs16,039 crore. The total length of the corridor is around 235.15km. The travel time from Pune to Nashik would be an hour and 45 minutes once the semi-high speed corridor is ready. High speed passenger trains operating on the new route are expected to attract large number of commuters. The corridor will pass through Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik, providing connectivity to industrial zones such as Alandi, Chakan, Khed, Manchar and Narayangaon, among others. The MRIDC will be developing some high speed trains, which will ply on the corridor with regular Mail/express trains. The high speed trains will initially have six coaches designed to run at a speed of 200kmph on broad gauge tracks. The project has to be completed in 1,200 days from the date of its financial closure and the state government approvals. The MRIDC has planned to develop private freight terminal (PFT), dry port, multimodal and commercial hub, warehouses and sidings at locations suggested by the local industries. ==================== (BOX) Funds for MSRTC Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday announced a package of Rs550 crore for the ailing Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The state transport body has been suffering heavy losses after the first lockdown with no passenger buses plying. A source said the package would help the MSRTC in providing salaries to its staff. The MSRTC’s losses has been close to Rs8,000 crore since the contagion spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-seal-on-pune-nashik-semi-high-speed-rail-corridor-soon-ajit-pawar/articleshow/77360578.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||No beds for seriously ill Covid-19 patients||TNNLudhiana: No beds were left for seriously-ill Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana, as per the latest state health department bulletin released on Monday evening. The district administration, however, says they are increasing the bed number and have set a target of 250.As per the bulletin, of the 96 beds for level-three (seriously ill) patients in Ludhiana, all were occupied. For level-two cases, 344 beds were vacant of the total 776. Many private hospitals, which have been enrolled by the administration for level-three facilities, confirmed that they have no beds left. Dr Gurdarshan Singh Mangat, unit head of Fortis Healthcare, Ludhiana, said no beds were available and for 50 beds they have admitted 55 patients. Medical superintendent of SPS Hospital Dr Rajiv Kundra said all the level-three beds (12) were occupied. Reiterating the same, the CMC spokesperson said they were increasing the number of beds for level-three patients. A district administration officer, who had to get his friend admitted to DMC, said there was no bed for Covid patients at the hospital and around 25 patients were waiting for it. Ludhiana Covid-19 nodal officer Sandeep Kumar said they have increased the beds to more than 110. “Gradually, their number will increase to 250,” he added. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said suspected patients should get themselves tested early as it would help check fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-beds-for-seriously-ill-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77357964.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala police zero in on primary contacts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police have been asked to take over the full-fledged management of containment zones as it has been observed that 64% of those infected since July 15 in the state are from primary contacts outside family. As per the analysis of the figures compiled by the police, accessed by TOI, the number of those getting Covid-19 infection from outside their houses rose steadily from 48% of the total infected on July 20 to 82% on August 2. At the same time, only 5% of the total received the virus from the primary contacts within their family in this period. “These figures clearly show that the people are getting infected by Covid-19 outside their houses which is on the rise and have reached an alarming figure. This means that there should be some coercive mechanism by which people inside the containment zones stay inside their houses,” a senior police officer said. But all defences apart, a section of police officers has expressed strong concerns about police taking up the task, citing high risk of spread of infection within the force. The analysis shows that out of the 17,832 cases reported in the state since mid-July, 11,479 (64%) got infected from primary contacts outside their families while 816 (5%) from within their family. The figures also show that the contacts of 1,077 patients (6%) were untraceable. While all the other sources of infection are minuscule figures, the primary contacts outside family have become a major cause of concern in the state. As per the action plan prepared by the police, even within the containment zones and the clusters, police will focus mainly on vegetable markets, fish markets, migrant population, ports, harbours and locations around hospitals so as to ensure that there is no repeated occurrence of cluster spread. Police are primarily targeting Thiruvananthapuram district where the number of Covid-19 patients is very high. As per the plan, Thiruvananthapuram could be controlled in a time period between four days to one week. Once the spread of infection in the district comes under control, the remaining districts also will fall in line, sources said. However, police are treading a cautious line even when taking over the responsibility as there has been criticism from outside and within the force that these all are not part of the police’s job. Another major issue is the strength of the police force. “On a given day, leaving all those who are out of service, at the best we may have a force of 30,000 to 35,000 officers on the field across the state. Also, unlike the medical practitioners, police are not trained to ensure that they do not get infected. If one policeman is infected, several of his colleagues are in danger and will have to be placed on quarantine, which will significantly hit the force strength,” a top police officer said on conditions of anonymity. Earlier, the state police chief himself had instructed that those above 50 years of age and those who are suffering from comorbidities should be excluded from Covid-19 duty. “Even those off the field are put under risk when they are exposed to a policeman on active Covid-19 duty like contact tracing,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-zero-in-on-primary-contacts/articleshow/77357993.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Surat||Eight more succumb to nCov in Surat city||Surat: Surat city reported less than 200 new Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), 194 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday taking the total number of cases to 11,791. However, eight patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 518.. Rander reported the highest 40 cases, followed by 37 in Athwa zone, 27 in Katargam, 24 in Varachha (B), 23 in Varachha (A) and 20 in Central zone in the city. Cases continued to rise in Rander, Athwa and Varachha (A) zones since last few days. In Surat city, 181 patients were discharged after they were recovered from the infection taking the total number of recovered patients to 8,218. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 51 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Tuesday. Surat rural now has 2,874 Covid-19 positive cases and 125 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-more-succumb-to-ncov-in-surat-city/articleshow/77357997.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||‘Bureaucrats must not be removed without inquiry’||By: Mahesh Zagade The architects of our Constitution included provisions like Article 311 to shield the bureaucracy from undue political and unconstitutional pressures. The provision in Article 311 is clear__ civil servants shall not be removed without an inquiry. This is sufficient to act as per the provisions of the Constitution, laws and the larger public good and not bow down to the illegal machinations of anyone. However, the bureaucratic culture has taken a perennial nosedive towards being subservient to the fear of transfer, the greed to garner “important” posts and post-retirement assignments. Had the bureaucracy acted monolithically to uphold the Constitution and the law, matters would have been pretty difficult for the unscrupulous elements to create the atmosphere that exists today. Many committees and commissions have made recommendations to stem the rot. There are plenty of judicial pronouncements supporting and strengthening the functioning of the bureaucracy without fear or favour. Some politicians transfer officials to suit their own agenda or subjugate opposition or indulge in activities harmful to society. It has the potential to threaten the existence of a healthy democracy. This sordid state of affairs of unfettered power to the political leadership to transfer any official without rhyme or reason or to bring in pliable or officials of dubious background had irked 83 senior retired officers led by former cabinet secretary, chief election commissioners, director of CBI, high commissioners, IAS, IPS, IFS and IRS officers. To address this problem and to strengthen the democratic system, they filed a writ petition in Supreme Court in 2011. The landmark judgment in 2013 has empowered the bureaucracy to guard itself from undue political influence in transfers. The Supreme Court through this judgment has given just three directions_ that all directions issued by superiors, political or administrative authority should only be written instructions, to provide a fixed tenure for bureaucrats, and governments were directed to constitute three-member Civil Services Boards comprising the cabinet secretary or chief secretary and other two seniormost officials for the postings and transfers of All India Service officials like IAS, IPS and others at the apex levels at the Centre and the State government, respectively. After spending 34 years in public service, I feel there can’t be any better judgment to cleanse the vitiated administrative atmosphere in the country. The CSBs are mandated to identify a panel of capable, eligible experienced officers suitable for a particular post and submit the list to higher authorities for the final decision and political heads to select one from the list. If they differed, they had to record the reasons and direct the CSB to submit a fresh proposal. The implication of this judgment is humongous __no officer could be transferred before completion of tenure and in case of any injustice, only after conclusive proof through an inquiry. I believe there cannot be better empowerment for transparent and accountable administration if this judgment is implemented in letter and spirit. However, the senior bureaucratic leadership has failed miserably in its implementation thereby depriving the people the benefits of good governance. (The writer is a former principal secretary to the state government)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bureaucrats-must-not-be-removed-without-inquiry/articleshow/77360609.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Security up ahead of Ram temple event||PUNE: Police have made elaborate security arrangements for maintaining law and order in the city on Wednesday, when the foundation stone laying ceremony would be held for Ram temple in Ayodhya. A decision to deploy around 5,000 police personnel for maintaining peace was taken in a meeting on Tuesday evening. “We have intensified patrolling from Tuesday evening and we have given additional manpower to police stations for maintaining tight bandobast at sensitive places in their limits. We have deployed sufficient number of policemen at important junctions, prominent places of worship as a preventive measure,” joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI. The joint CP said police would extensively use CCTV cameras and drones for monitoring situation at sensitive places. “We are monitoring social media sites as well. We have started taking preventive action against troublemakers. We have also appealed to public to maintain peace and contact police in emergency situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/security-up-ahead-of-ram-temple-event/articleshow/77360591.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Jamalpur ASI caught accepting Rs 10,000 bribe||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Vigilance Bureau on Tuesday arrested an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 to help an assault case accused get a clean chit.ASI Jaswinder Singh was arrested red handed near Jamalpur police station, where he is posted.VB senior superintendent of police Rupinder Singh said, “Ajay Tiwari of Bachittar Nagar, Jamalpur, lodged a complaint with VB, saying ASI Jaswinder Singh is demanding a bribe to favour him in an assault case.”Tiwari told the VB that some unidentified accused had assaulted his neighbour, Uday Kant Rao, on May 3. Suspecting his role in the assault, Rao lodged an FIR against him at Jamalpur police station. Police arrested him on May 5 and he was sent in judicial remand.Tiwari came out on bail on July 27. Seeking re-investigation into the case, his wife, Madhuri, submitted an application with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, who marked an inquiry. On August 1, the ASI, who was the investigating officer, called Tiwari to the police station. There, the ASI demanded Rs 25,000 for giving him a clean chit in the case. The deal was later cracked at Rs 20,000, which he had to pay in two installments.The VB laid a trap on Tuesday and arrested the ASI after he accepted the first installment of Rs 10,000.The cop has been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jamalpur-asi-caught-accepting-rs-10000-bribe/articleshow/77357985.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Man found hanging, friend unconscious||Times News Network Ludhiana: A man was found hanging at a hut in Preet Nagar on Tibba Road on Tuesday morning. He has been identified as Raju, 35, a native of Uttar Pradesh. Outside the hut, his friend, Sonu of Pathankot, was lying unconscious. He bore an injury on his face. The duo ran a tea stall from the hut, where they also lived.Assistant commissioner of police (East) Devinder Chaudhary said, “Preliminary investigation suggests that Raju and Sonu had a fight late at night during which Sonu was injured and lost consciousness. Thinking Sonu has died, a scared Raju committed suicide by hanging himself in the hut.” On seeing Sonu lying unconscious, passersby raised the alarm. Sonu and Raju were rushed to a hospital. As Sonu is not in a condition to give a statement, police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc in the suicide case. “Further action will be taken after recording the statement of Sonu. Raju’s family has been apprised of the incident,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-hanging-friend-unconscious/articleshow/77357987.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Sun Pharma launches drug at Rs 35, triggers price war again||Mumbai: Triggering another round of price wars for a potential Covid-19 drug, Sun Pharma launched antiviral Favipiravir at an “economical’’ price of Rs 35 per tablet for the treatment of mild to moderate cases. With this, the company’s version ‘FluGuard’ becomes one of the cheapest brands in the market, joining nearly a dozen players which have announced or launched their own generic versions. The antiviral drug was approved by India’s drug regulator as ‘restricted emergency authorisation’ under the accelerated approval process. Emergency use authorisation is a provision that allows countries to use drugs urgently needed in an emergency situation or healthcare crisis. Meanwhile, a month after its launch, Glenmark Pharma had announced reduction in the price of its Covid drug, FabiFlu, by 27% to Rs 75 from the earlier Rs 103 per tablet. This was possible, it said due to better scale and yield with a larger quantity of tablets being manufactured. A host of companies had also entered the market with more affordable versions, leading to price cuts. Jenburkht and Briton versions are priced between Rs 35-37 per tablet, while the rest are priced at around Rs 60 per tablet. It is learnt that last week certain companies had reduced prices of the drug again. Companies which have announced the launch include Cipla, Abbott, Alkem, Dr Reddy’s, Hetero, Brinton, Jenburkt, Lasa Supergenerics, Delcure and Strides Pharma. Industry experts say the price reductions may continue over the next few weeks due to intense competition and economies of scale. Though there have been questions raised on its efficacy, the demand for the drug has been increasing. India continues to see a surge, with over 50,000 Covid-19 cases reported for the sixth straight day on August 4. Companies are also planning to commence exports to countries where the drug has been approved like Turkey, UAE and Gulf Cooperation Council. Favipiravir is an early-use antiviral which has shown promising results in Japan, UAE, Russia and China. The drug has also been approved under ‘emergency use authorisation’ for Covid-19 in China, UAE, Russia, Bangladesh and Turkey, while several studies are on globally to evaluate its safety and efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sun-pharma-launches-drug-at-rs-35-triggers-price-war-again/articleshow/77361228.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Current, ex-pro VC among five names in running for NU VC post||Nagpur: The pro-vice chancellor of Nagpur University and his predecessor are among five who received emails from the chancellor’s office for interviews for the VC’s post. The interviews are slated for August 7 at different time slots, where they would be directly interacting with chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. NU officials said NU pro-VC (officiating) Subhash Chaudhary, former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande and former pro VC of Swami Ramanand Tirth University in Nanded Ganeshchandra Shinde, are among five candidates who received the email from Raj Bhavan. There’s still confusion over two other candidates as the names have been kept confidential. However, the names of Government College of Engineering, Karad, principal Prakash Khodke, professor at Department of Chemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, Sunil Bhagwat, and professor at Department of Defence and Strategic Studies in Pune University Vijay Khare are doing the rounds. These five were selected by a search panel that had interviewed 30 candidates on July 30 and 31. Next day, the members led by former chief justice of Allahabad high court Dilip Bhosale submitted five names to the chancellor in a sealed envelope for interviews. Many from NU had applied for the post, but only two could make it to top five, said sources. The aspirants included two deans, director of NU conducted college, former director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), three professors from NU’s postgraduate departments and a couple of principals. As per NU officials, the fight for top post would be between Chaudhari and Deshpande, on account of their past experience and other factors. Even political affiliation matters in such postings sometimes. Since the chancellor is from the BJP, those having strong connections with party seniors may get preference. Among all, Shinde is most experienced as he was shortlisted for VC’s post at various universities six times, officials said. Chief secretary Sanjay Chahande along with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, chairman Abhay Karandikar (nominated by NU’s management and academic councils), and NU’s deputy registrar Wasim Ahmed, working as liaison officer, were other members of the search panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/current-ex-pro-vc-among-five-names-in-running-for-nu-vc-post/articleshow/77360604.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Serve at KIMS voluntarily, Jagadish Shettar urges private doctors||DHARWAD: Large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar has called upon private doctors to voluntarily offer their services at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), where it is proposed to increase the number of beds to treat Covid-19 patients. After a meeting with officials to review the Covid situation in the district here on Tuesday, Shettar told TOI that there is demand for increasing the number of beds at KIMS to treat Covid patients. Steps are being taken to increase the number from 250 to 500. “Further increasing beds and intake of patients will lead to shortage of doctors. To overcome the problem, I appeal to private doctors to offer their services at KIMS voluntarily” he said. Shettar said he has also appealed to private hospitals to make provision for treating more Covid patients and the response has been good. He said the rapid antigen test has been used to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus and not to harass anyone. Instead of sealing down shops where people have tested positive, the shopkeeper has been asked to voluntarily seal down the premises for 48 hours and get the place sanitized, he said. Shettar said the recovery rate has been 50 per cent in the district and the number of deaths has been on the decline. To a question, Shettar said a training session for 380 newly recruited police constables at the Police Training Centre in Dharwad has been halted after many trainees tested positive. TOI had reported about over 100 trainees and faculty at the PTC getting infected. ‘No dearth of urea in district’Shettar said there was no shortage of chemical fertilizers like urea in the district and steps are being taken to meet farmers’ demand for fertilizer. He said the normal requirement of urea is 17,000 metric tonnes and so far, 24,000 MT has been supplied. Additional quantity will be procured as Union minister for chemical fertilizers DV Sadanand Gowda has agreed to meet the additional demand, Shettar said. He also urged farmers not to panic. ‘Maintain peace’Shettar appealed to people to maintain peace and harmony during the bhoomi puja for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya scheduled on Wednesday. "This is an historical occasion and needs to be celebrated with reverence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/serve-at-kims-voluntarily-shettar-urges-pvt-docs/articleshow/77358361.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||NU celebrates 97th foundation day through webinar||NAGPUR: Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj Nagpur University (RTMNU) celebrated its 97th foundation day on Tuesday. The programme was conducted as a live webinar for viewers. Many awards and achievements were announced for several students and colleges. SC Sharma, the director of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) was the chief guest, and Amravati University vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar presided over the event. NU acting registrar Neeraj Khaty and NU pro-VC (officiating) Subhash Chaudhary were present as guests of honour. In his speech, Sharma said that in this new age, digitalization and commercialization have changed people’s way of thinking and reacting to things — be it work life or academic or business. “Life of people is changing rapidly. We all must adapt according to the times and take ourselves and the society forward,” Sharma added. He also added that RTMNU is a good university which gives students great opportunities available for their greater and stronger future. Chandekar also spoke greatly of RTMNU university, he remembered the time when RTMNU's two subordinates were established, Sant Gagde Baba University and Gondwana University. Both were created accordingly when number of students and academics were increased. Awards of excellence were announced for meritorious students, including Sanjay Ghormode, Deepali Tekam, Dilpreet Kaur and Vikarm Singh Sokri. Ghormade, in his speech, stated that he was the son of a farmer and got tremendous growth opportunities at RTMNU. “Coming from a humble background we don’t expect much, but in RTMNU there are so many opportunities to flourish. The award has brought great joy to me and my family,” he added. Deepali Tekam a law student, who won laurels in many competitions and debates and made a name for herself not only in Nagpur but in other cities too, said all the credit went to her teachers, mentors from RTMNU for encouraging her and for providing a platform through which she could grow. Deepali also thanked her parents and friends for their constant support. (Reporting by Rushabh Rathod)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-celebrates-97th-foundation-day-through-webinar/articleshow/77360620.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Fear of public healthcare, high medical bills stop people from going for Covid-19 test||Ludhiana: Distrust in the public health sector and fear of expensive, often unaffordable treatment make many people reluctant to get themselves tested for Covid-19 even if they have symptoms. Also, people feel that cold, cough and fever are common in the changing weather. Many do not want to be quarantined due to work pressure as they feel quarantine will disrupt their work. The Times of India spoke to a few people who have fever, cough or cold and have even lost the sense of smell and taste, which are symptoms of Covid-19, but refrain from getting themselves tested. A 24-year-old man said, “Last week, I had fever for one day and since then I have body ache, cold and cough. But I don’t want to get tested at all. If I test positive, I will be sent to the civil hospital where there are no facilities. If I go to a private hospital, the hospital bill will go up to lakhs. So I am getting medicine from a clinic and taking precautions.” A 55-year-woman with fever, cough and cold said, “I would have gotten myself tested but I cannot afford to be in quarantine as my son’s marriage is scheduled next week. If I test positive, my entire family will be in quarantine and then we would have to postpone the marriage. I am taking medicine from a local doctor. After my son’s marriage, I may get myself tested if my health does not improve till then.” Some people feel that fever, tastelessness, cough and cold is common in the changing weather. Therefore, there is no need of getting tested for Covid-19. A businessman, 57, said, “Generally too, health gets affected during change of weather. Mild fever, cough, body ache and loss of taste is common in the rainy season. Just have some Tulsi tea, warm water and lemon and everything will be fine. Moreover, we have been able to work only after four months so I don’t want to get tested and don’t want to be quarantined.”The CMO could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fear-of-public-healthcare-high-medical-bills-stop-people-from-going-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/77358011.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Loss of vision did not stop this UPSC aspirant from acing the exam||MYSURU /BENGALURU: She lost sight at the age of 15 and dropped out in PUC, but her parents convinced her to continue with studies. From there on, she’s been on a relentless pursuit to accomplish her dreams. Meet Meghana KT, 25, from Bengalru, who has bagged the 465th rank in the Civil Services Exam of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). "Last time I missed the ranking by just 5 marks," she told TOI. Meghana wrote the examination with the help of a scribe. Born to a middle-class family originally from Periyapatna, Meghana was a cheerful girl participating in co-curricular activities, sports and was good at studies till she lost her vision in class 10 due to a rare genetic condition. “When doctors told me that my eyesight would drastically reduce, it came as a rude shock,” she recalls. Then followed a bout of depression. Megahan joined science stream, but struggled to cope. “I quit studies, but my parents convinced me and three months later I joined arts. My mother used to read for me. I learnt Braille and recorded the teaching sessions and listened to them after coming home,” she says. After completing BA from Surana College, Meghana started working in a private firm. “At some point, I decided to take up coaching classes for UPSC. Three months ago, I cracked Karnataka Administrative Services (KAS) and was appointed assistant director treasury officer (probationary). However, my aim was to clear UPSC, which I have done,” she says. Meghana’s father Thandava Murthy runs a ceramic shop in Bengaluru. “It was challenging but only till I realised I wasn’t disabled and only differently abled,” Meghana adds. Fourth time successfulDarshan Kumar HG from Hassan has passed the UPSC examination securing 594th rank. He is the only person from Karnataka who has cracked the UPSC writing in Kannada medium. Hailimg from Haralikatta village in Arsikere taluk, Darshan completed his diploma in mechanical engineering at Chikkamagaluru. Later he secured his bachelor degree at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bengaluru. He worked at Infosys for six years. After a two-year assignment in the US, Darshan returned to India and quit his job. He then took a shot at preparing for the civil services. "I wanted to serve society," he says. This was Darshan's fourth attempt. His optional subject was Kannada literature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/loss-of-vision-did-not-stop-this-upsc-aspirant-from-acing-the-exam/articleshow/77358246.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||RTI activist, sacked cop booked||PUNE: The Bund Garden police on Monday registered a fresh cheating case against an RTI activist, a local scribe, a dismissed police constable and seven others for cheating a woman (30) of Rs32 lakh, and threatening her of dire consequences in 2015 when she demanded the money back. The woman, a resident of Kothrud, lodged a complaint with the Bund Garden police stating that the suspects in 2012 had urged her to invest in land development projects, promising handsome returns. The woman, dealing in real estate, agreed to invest. The police said she gave them Rs32 lakh in 2012. According to the police, the woman did not receive any returns on her investment till the end of 2015 and started calling the suspects demanding her initial investment back. The suspects gave lame excuses to her. The woman then submitted a complaint application to the Chatushrungi police, stating that the suspects had cheated her. The police said the dispute was resolved after a dialogue at the police station, but the suspects did not return the money. When they called her to an office off Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road, she again demanded her money. The police said the dismissed constable then threatened her on gunpoint, while the others asked her to give up the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rti-activist-sacked-cop-booked/articleshow/77360615.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Raghav Jain, 27, secures AIR 127 in UPSC exam||Ludhiana: Raghav Jain, 27, has secured All India Rank of 127 in Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam, the result of which was announced on Tuesday.Raghav, a resident of Civil Lines, says it was his third attempt. “In my first attempt in 2017, I could clear prelims but not the mains. In the second attempt in 2018, I could not even clear prelims. Feeling dejected, I had thought of not giving the exam this time. But then I pondered over the hard work I had put in the past three years and decided to appear for it. Consistency, patience and smartness helped me clear all three stages this time,” he says.He started preparing for the exams in June 2016. “Initially, I had no knowledge about it. So, I went to Delhi for six months to take coaching and revised whatever I had studied there on returning home. I attended coaching classes in Ludhiana as well and practiced test series,” he adds.On his success mantra, he says, “One must study smart, as the syllabus is unlimited. Understand the exam pattern and prepare well with revisions. Besides, one may not shun social media but utilize it effectively, so that it helps in a productive manner and is not merely a distraction.”He has opted for Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh cadres. “Whichever service I join, my focus will be to serve society and contribute to the country’s development,” he says.He has done bachelors in commerce from Shri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management and masters in business administration from PCTE. An alumnus of Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines, he had secured 93.4% in Class XII.His father, Pawan Kumar, is a jeweller and mother, Renu Gupta, a homemaker. He has two elder sisters who are married. Raghav says he is the first in his family to clear the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/raghav-jain-27-secures-air-127-in-upsc-exam/articleshow/77357995.cms||Mehak Jain
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Loss of vision did not stop this UPSC aspirant from acing the exam||MYSURU /BENGALURU: She lost sight at the age of 15 and dropped out in PUC, but her parents convinced her to continue with studies. From there on, she’s been on a relentless pursuit to accomplish her dreams. Meet Meghana KT, 25, from Bengalru, who has bagged the 465th rank in the Civil Services Exam of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). "Last time I missed the ranking by just 5 marks," she told TOI. Meghana wrote the examination with the help of a scribe. Born to a middle-class family originally from Periyapatna, Meghana was a cheerful girl participating in co-curricular activities, sports and was good at studies till she lost her vision in class 10 due to a rare genetic condition. “When doctors told me that my eyesight would drastically reduce, it came as a rude shock,” she recalls. Then followed a bout of depression. Megahan joined science stream, but struggled to cope. “I quit studies, but my parents convinced me and three months later I joined arts. My mother used to read for me. I learnt Braille and recorded the teaching sessions and listened to them after coming home,” she says. After completing BA from Surana College, Meghana started working in a private firm. “At some point, I decided to take up coaching classes for UPSC. Three months ago, I cracked Karnataka Administrative Services (KAS) and was appointed assistant director treasury officer (probationary). However, my aim was to clear UPSC, which I have done,” she says. Meghana’s father Thandava Murthy runs a ceramic shop in Bengaluru. “It was challenging but only till I realised I wasn’t disabled and only differently abled,” Meghana adds. Fourth time successfulDarshan Kumar HG from Hassan has passed the UPSC examination securing 594th rank. He is the only person from Karnataka who has cracked the UPSC writing in Kannada medium. Hailimg from Haralikatta village in Arsikere taluk, Darshan completed his diploma in mechanical engineering at Chikkamagaluru. Later he secured his bachelor degree at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bengaluru. He worked at Infosys for six years. After a two-year assignment in the US, Darshan returned to India and quit his job. He then took a shot at preparing for the civil services. "I wanted to serve society," he says. This was Darshan's fourth attempt. His optional subject was Kannada literature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/loss-of-vision-did-not-stop-this-upsc-aspirant-from-acing-the-exam/articleshow/77364966.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||Man clubs friend to death in fight over petty issue||Vadodara: A 45-year-old man was arrested by Fatehgunj police on Tuesday for allegedly clubbing his friend to death. The accused identified as Joel Rajput works in a security agency. The police said that Joel was friends with the deceased Rakesh Christian (35) for the last few years. “On Monday afternoon, they had some heated arguments over a trivial issue after which Christian left the spot and went to his house in the Nizampura area. Joel reached Christian’s house in some time and found him sleeping. The accused then attacked Christian, who is a casual labourer, with a spade,” said ACP P H Bhesania. Christian received severe injuries on his head and died on the spot.The police said that the mother of the deceased and sister were away celebrating Rakshabandhan. When they returned in the evening, they found Christian lying in a pool of blood,” Bhesania said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-clubs-friend-to-death-in-fight-over-petty-issue/articleshow/77357814.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-positive serial actors start shooting from home||Kolkata: The show must go on is a phrase that everyone in the entertainment industry is familiar with. During this pandemic, actor Vivaan Ghosh proved this yet again when he began shooting at home for “Krishnakoli” after being infected by Covid-19. Following suit, the serial’s lead actor, Neel Bhattacharya, who tested positive on Tuesday and home quarantined himself, is also gearing up to begin shooting from Wednesday. Actor Vivaan Ghosh began shooting from home on July 29According to Ghosh, he continued shooting on his own volition. “Every profession allows work from home. I am glad that I have set this trend of working from home in case of serials too. I have been a part of ‘Krishnakoli’ from the first day and have a responsibility towards the serial,” he said. In the serial, Ghosh plays Ashok who, along with wife Disha, are the main villains. Before being infected, the "Krishnakoli" actor had shot on July 20. Back then, the serial had showed how Ashok and Disha were worried that their brother, who had escaped, would surface and reveal the truth. Subsequently, there was a gap in Ghosh’s shooting because another track was being shot. During that time, he felt feverish and tested positive on July 25. But the fever subsided after two days. Susanta Das, the producer-writer of the serial that began in 2018 and is going to beam its 700th episode soon, said: “Ghosh had no symptoms and has been isolating on the second floor of his Beleghata residence. We have to learn to live with Covid-19 and not panic unnecessarily. Ghosh is the first actor in Tollywood, who is shooting at home after being infected.” On July 29, Ghosh shot his first scene at home. For that, he borrowed his wife’s phone and mobile stand that she would use to shoot Tiktok videos. The script is being sent to him two days in advance. Mornings are for pre-production. Every alternate day, he begins shooting post-lunch and wraps up work within three hours. In the home-isolation scenes, Ghosh will be shown as being in hiding and talking to his wife over the phone. Incidentally, Ghosh and Bhattacharya (who plays Nikhil Choudhury) are very close on the sets and used to share their makeup room too. “When Ghosh got infected, I ensured that Bhattacharya shot separately. We were kind of anticipating that Bhattacharya too might test positive. But Bhattacharya couldn’t test till he had some symptoms,” Das said. Currently, Bhattacharya has no major issues apart from problems with taste and smell. “I have locked myself up in my bedroom after the reports came in. I have a responsibility towards my serial and will begin shooting from Wednesday,” said the actor, adding that during complete lockdown, he had shot multiple advertisements at home and even done a programme called ‘Tarokader Andormohol’. “Since I used to shoot a lot of Tiktok videos, I have ring light, tripod and an iPhone with good resolution. The script has already reached me, Bhattacharya said. His costumes have been washed and sent across to his apartment. Shooting in isolation can be interestingly innovative, said Ghosh. “I have tried to compose different kinds of frames. For regular shootings, technicians to look after the lighting, costume, makeup and the art direction. But now, I need to take care of all that myself. I have clicked photos of an interesting table, sofaset and mirror in my room and asked production if the script can be woven keeping these as props,” Ghosh added. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-positive-serial-actors-start-shooting-from-home/articleshow/77360618.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 5, 2020||Kochi||WhatsApp groups to help beat quarantine blues in Kottayam||KOTTAYAM: The district administration here has launched a unique method to take care of the mental health and address the issues faced by those under quarantine. The authorities have formed WhatsApp groups with those under quarantine as members to address issues like loneliness, mental stress and to answer various queries which they have about their health. Above all, the groups will be used to spread awareness on Covid-19. As part of the project, WhatsApp groups including around 9,000 individuals who are under quarantine in the six municipalities and 71 grama panchayats have been formed. There is a separate district-level group for the admins of all the groups. All the necessary directions, awareness videos and other information from the district administration will be posted in this admins’ group, which they in turn post in the respective groups. The project has been named ‘Karam thodatha karuthal’. Initially, awareness videos on the circumstances which lead to the spread of the virus to others is being posted. There are videos on how to serve food for those under quarantine, usage of bathroom and electronic devices, washing clothes, waste disposal, etc. Also, there will be messages from popular actors. The health inspectors of the respective regions will coordinate the functioning of the WhatsApp group in their region. Apart from the official, the medical officer of the government hospital in that region, a teacher and a professional social worker will also be added to each group. Those who complete quarantine will be removed and the new ones will be added accordingly. Apart from the awareness videos, there will be periodical messages from the district collector, district medical officer and other specialist doctors. The groups also provide the members a chance with showcasing their talents and interests. They can also share their experiences. The teacher who is present in each group will conduct various competitions for group members. He is allowed to use the videoconferencing facility for this. The presence of the social worker will help in addressing the mental stress of the individuals. “Even the smallest of the health issues can be discussed with the doctor and the health inspector as private messages,” said district collector M Anjana. “The district administration has prepared guidelines for the functioning of the WhatsApp groups,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/whatsapp-groups-to-help-beat-quarantine-blues-in-kottayam/articleshow/77358047.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 rages on: Six die, 142 dist residents infected||TNN Ludhiana: The district witnessed six deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, when 142 residents and 17 outsiders tested positive. Health department officials said a corona positive man of 69 years of Habib Road, who was suffering from kidney disease, diabetes and high blood pressure, died at a hospital here. They said a 60-year-old man of New Kartar Nagar, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, also died here. A diabetic and hypertensive woman of 70 from Durgapuri, who also had a kidney disease, succumbed to the deadly virus. A 60-year-old resident of Jodhewal, who was also suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. A diabetic and hypertensive 66-year-old woman from Harkartar Colony in Ludhiana breathed her last at a city hospital. A corona positive woman of 27 years from Giaspura, who had undergone septic abortion at PGI, Chandigarh, died there.“Thus, the death toll in Ludhiana district has risen to 120 and 41 outsiders have died here so far,” said a health department official.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said of the pending reports received on Tuesday, 72 samples have tested positive, of which 71 were from the district and one from Himachal Pradesh. The department said of the positive cases from the district, two were from Jagraon tehsil, 36 from Ludhiana East and 33 from Ludhiana West tehsils.Besides, 87 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 71 were from Ludhiana district, six from Sangrur, two each from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib and one each from Jalandhar and Patiala, while two cases each were from Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir. The department said of these cases from the district, one was from Raikot, 22 from Ludhiana East and 48 from Ludhiana West tehsils. Of 142 positive cases, 36 cases were of influenza like illness (from flu corner) ones, 49 were contacts of positive patients and nine were from OPD. Eight policemen, one pregnant woman, 10 healthcare workers, three domestic travellers and 17 undertrials were among the infected. With this, the total number of cases in Ludhiana has risen to 3,870 and of outsiders stand at 505, said department officials. “On Tuesday, 749 samples were sent for testing, 102 rapid response teams screened 454 persons, of which 352 were isolated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-rages-on-six-die-142-dist-residents-infected/articleshow/77358027.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Babri was a mosque, shall always remain one, says AIMPLB||LUCKNOW: A day ahead of the scheduled bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) reiterated the provisions of the Sharia which state that once a mosque is established at any place, it remains a mosque till eternity. AIMPLB which supported prime litigants in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title dispute in court for decades, further added that “… hence Babri masjid was a masjid before, is a masjid today and shall remain a masjid”. The Board went on to add that the status of a mosque did not change by "placing idols inside the masjid, doing puja or by prohibiting offering namaz there for a long time." #BabriMasjid was and will always be a Masjid. #HagiaSophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an… https://t.co/9NM7wjWVMZ— All India Muslim Personal Law Board (@AIMPLB_Official) 1596553923000The statement issued on Tuesday by board general secretary Maulana Mohammad Wali Rahmani, said, “It has always been our position that the Babri masjid was never built by demolishing any mandir or any Hindu place of worship. The Supreme Court has also affirmed our position in its November 2019 judgment." He added, "SC has also said that remnants found after the excavation carried out below the masjid site belonged to some 12th century structure--that is 400 years before Babri Masjid was constructed." The AIMPLB further said that the SC has given its verdict but has embarrassed justice. Calling the entire movement led by Hindutva elements as one based on oppression, coercion, intimidation, embezzlement, usurpation and calumny, AIMPLB said it was a purely political movement with nothing to do with religion and religious teachings. Rahmani also appealed to Indian Muslims to not be disappointed with the SC verdict and construction of the temple. Meanwhile, one of the plaintiffs in the Ayodhya court case, Haji Mahboob sent a letter to PM Modi stating that the promise made in January 7, 1993 in Parliament should also be fulfilled, along with temple construction. Watch Babri was a mosque, shall always remain one: AIMPLB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babri-was-a-mosque-shall-always-remain-one-says-aimplb/articleshow/77361230.cms||Yusra Husain
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Cops gear up to keep Kolkata in on August’s first lockdown day||KOLKATA: At least 7,000 cops will hit the streets and another 3,000 will be on standby on Wednesday, the first lockdown day of August. Though the total number of cops on duty will remain unchanged from July 29, the police briefing has specifically asked OCs to ensure there is no gathering on the roads. Each senior officer has been asked to keep the control room in the loop. There will be extra deployment at each police division to deal with emergencies and the combat force, too, might be deployed at specific pockets. “Unlike July, we are prosecuting people violating social distancing norms even on non-lockdown days. On Monday, we prosecuted 317 people and, till noon on Tuesday, 67 had been prosecuted; 148 others were found without masks in cars,” said an officer at Lalbazar. On Tuesday, each trouble pocket of each police station saw police announcements from 5pm. “This was the general warning for residents not to venture out during lockdown,” said an officer. At 10pm, cops carried out another round of announcements, this time with a larger force. “There is a lockdown each day from 10pm to 5am. This was the time to send out a strong reminder about the lockdown,” said an officer from a southeast division who has two containment zones under his police station. The plan, cops claimed, is to dominate the roads from 5am on Wednesday. “The night officer will be on his round from 5am. If we gain the upper hand here, we win most of this battle,” said an officer. The cops plan to start checking cars from 6am and there will be at least two checkpoints in each police station area. In some pockets, like Haridevpur and Kolkata Leather Complex, which are bigger, there will be more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-gear-up-to-keep-kol-in-on-augs-1st-lockdown-day/articleshow/77359366.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Facing penury, power lifting champ looks for job to support family||Ludhiana: With the Covid-19 pandemic unravelling the economy, struggle for survival has taken precedence over chasing dreams. A case in point is that of national power lifter Ishwarjot Singh (24), who was forced to give up his dream of running a sports academy for local players in Jagraon village and look for a job to make ends meet. Ishwarjot, a four-time national champion from a family with limited means, could not make any money from his sports academy after the strict lockdown was imposed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. When the government ordered closing down of all sports institutions, he was forced to shut down his academy.Unable to run the household, the family has been urging the state government to give Ishwarjot a government job in the sports quota as he has won the maximum number of gold medals in back-to-back national power lifting championships.Ishwarjot shot to the limelight after his selection in the Asian power lifting men's championship in 2019, where he won the gold medal in North India national power lifting.“My father is a small shopkeeper who couldn’t bear the expense of my training as he earned Rs 500 to Rs 600 after working hard all day. The money was fully utilised in managing household expenses. I wanted to do the country proud on foreign soil but for the past five months, I am sitting at home looking for a job as a gym trainer to support my family,” said Ishwarjot.With his savings all consumed in running the household, the family is going through a tough time. “Not even in my nightmares did I imagine that I would have to face difficulties in earning a livelihood as I have won eight to nine national-level championships in the past few years. Due to lackadaisical efforts of the state government towards the welfare of sportspersons, I had to give up sports,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/facing-penury-power-lifting-champ-looks-for-job-to-support-family/articleshow/77358013.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 5, 2020||Pune||Masked bike-borne trio steal techie’s smartphone in Wakad||PUNE: Three masked men on a motorcycle stole a software engineer’s smartphone while he was walking along the service road of Katraj-Dehu Road bypass in Wakad around 8.30pm on Sunday. The techie lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police on Monday. The men stopped the complainant (34) near the showroom of an automobile company, engaged him in a conversation and stole the phone from his shirt’s pocket by diverting his attention. The techie told TOI, “The spot where the trio stopped me was completely dark. There are no street lights on the stretch.” The techie, a resident of Wakad, told the police that he went for a walk along the service road every night. “I thought the trio must be looking for some address, and so I stopped when they approached me. All of a sudden, one of them asked me why I had called them,” he said. He clarified to them that he had not called them. “However, they kept the conversation going and left after a while. I had just started walking again when I realized that my smartphone and earphones were missing. It happened so quickly that I could not note the registration number of their motorcycle,” he said. An officer from the Hinjewadi police said, “We have launched a search for the trio.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masked-bike-borne-trio-steal-techies-smartphone/articleshow/77360617.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Funds crunch prompts tutor to attempt suicide||PUNE: A 28-year-old private tutor from Baner attempted suicide by shooting himself with a country-made pistol in the early hours of Monday because of financial crisis triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown and domestic issues. “He is stable but he needs surgery to remove the bullet that got lodged in his jaw. He has been admitted at a private hospital in Baner,” sub-inspector N R Angaj of the Hinjewadi police said. “The tutor had earlier told the police that the firearm had gone off accidentally. Later, he changed his statement and admitted that he had attempted suicide,” said another officer from the Hinjewadi police. He told the police that he found a loaded country-made pistol around a fortnight ago on a hillock in Baner when he had gone for a walk there,” the officer said. The police have seized the firearm and four cartridges from the boot of the tutor’s scooter. “We are verifying his claim about how he got the firearm,” the officer said. The tutor stays with his wife and daughter in Baner. He conducted private coaching classes in Balewadi before the lockdown. “He had to stop teaching in March after the nationwide lockdown was announced and resorted to selling masks, sanitizers and gloves to support his family,” the officer said.  “On Sunday night, the tutor had an argument with his wife, following which, he attempted suicide by shooting himself around 2am on Monday. His wife then applied turmeric on his wound and took him to the hospital on their scooter,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/funds-crunch-prompts-tutor-to-attempt-suicide/articleshow/77360630.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 5, 2020||Agra||Aligarh Muslim University to remain shut during weekend lockdown||AGRA: The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) administration has decided to keep the varsity shut on every Saturday and Sunday of August due to the prevailing conditions of COVID-19 pandemic. According to the notification by registrar Abdul Hamid (IPS), the preventive measure has been taken in light of the latest advisory issued by the chief secretary of the government of Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, essential services including medical services, sanitation, electricity, water supply, residential hall services, central automobile workshop, telephone department, central administrative offices, proctor’s office, computer centre, AMU gas agency etc. will continue to work as per the directions of the HoDs concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-remain-shut-during-weekend-lockdown/articleshow/77359381.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||RJB liberation was BJP’s main plank||LUCKNOW: In 1984, four years after its inception, the BJP made no bones of its commitment for the cause of what it called `liberation of Ram Janam Sthan in Ayodhya’ where the Babri mosque stood. This was after a debacle in 1984 Lok Sabha elections when the BJP could win just two seats as against 414 of the Congress. Marching under leadership of then national president Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the BJP pursued a majoritarian Hindutva politics.Influenced by the electoral setback, the BJP and its ideological fountainhead, the RSS, threw its entire weight behind the Ram temple movement. As the temple movement gained pace, the Congress in 1986 allowed opening of locks at the disputed site, a move that only galvanized an otherwise surging pro-temple agitation. The opening of locks was, in fact, one of the most significant developments after December 22-23, 1949, when the idol of Ram was ‘secretly’ placed under the central dome of BabriMasjid. At its Palampur convention in 1989, the BJP adopted the “liberation of Ram Janmabhoomi and construction of a grand Ram temple at the disputed site” as its core political agenda. The hard-line Hindutva face of BJP Lal Krishna Advani was appointed as president of the saffron outfit. Advani was quick to move in and launch his ‘rath yatra’ in 1990. The year 1990 was another turning point in Ram temple movement when then UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav ordered firing on ‘kar sevaks’ who had assembled at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. At the same time, Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav got the ‘rath yatra’ stopped and arrested Advani inSamastipur. The BJP was heading for rich political dividends until assassination of then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi foiled its plans and the party was restricted to just 123 seats in the following Lok Sabha elections. Nevertheless, the BJP managed to form a government in UP under the leadership of its fire brand leader KalyanSingh. The stage was set for another round of agitation around Ram Temple. And on December 6, 1992, the disputed structure was hammered down by a frenzied mob of ‘kar sevaks’. The rest is history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rjb-liberation-was-bjps-main-plank/articleshow/77361249.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Triple-digit rain in parts of Maharashtra, flood alert sounded||PUNE: Triple-digit rain recorded in parts of Konkan and heavy downpour in the ghats of Madhya Maharashtra on Tuesday prompted the Central Water Commission (CWC) to sound a flood alert for Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts along the west flowing rivers between Tapi and Tadri; Pune district along the Bhima; and Nashik along Godavari and Damanganga rivers and Satara and Kolhapur along Krishna and its tributaries. Triple-digit rain lashed Mumbai with the location recording 252.2mm from Monday morning till Tuesday 8:30am, while ghats such as Tamhini registered 205mm, Koyna 130mm, Shirgaon 130mm, Dungerwadi 181mm, Dawdi 160mm rain. From 8:30am on Tuesday till 5:30pm, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon in Pune recorded 27.5mm and 22.2mm rain, while Kolhapur recorded 29mm rain. Both Mahabaleshwar and Ratnagiri received 112mm rain during this nine-hour period. Dahanu received 209mm rain. A CWC official told TOI, “Most of the west flowing rivers, such as Kajvi and Bav in Ratnagiri district, Kal in Raigad district and Gad in Sindhudurg district, were rapidly rising due to the ongoing heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Maharashtra. Many of the west flowing rivers between Tapi and Tadri, including Damanganga, are expected to rise rapidly during the next 3-4 days due to the very heavy to extreme rainfall likely in Thane, Raigad, Pune, Nashik, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Palghar districts.” Precautions have to be taken in small dams, where there could be chances of spilling due to the rainfall. “There is likelihood of urban flooding due to drainage congestion and waterlogging due to the heavy rainfall in Mumbai and its suburban areas. Railway and road movement over the bridges in the district should be regulated, as there were chances of waterlogging near the train tracks and road over bridges. All precautions have to be taken for the next 72 hours in view of the rainfall warnings given,” the official said . A flood forecast issued by CWC on Tuesday evening stated that due to heavy to extremely heavy rainfall warning in Madhya Maharashtra, there was a chance of rise in water levels in the source regions of the Godavari, Krishna and their tributaries. Due to the very heavy rainfall in the Ghat areas of Satara district, the Krishna is Karad started rising slowly on Tuesday. Most of the reservoirs in these basins have storage between 10% and 50%. Some of the small dams have around 70% storage. The CWC stated that there was a chance of rise in inflows into most of these dams due to the rainfall forecast for the next 4-5 days. It stated that a watch has to be maintained in some of the small dams that are already filled up to more than 70% of their capacity. “Major dams such as Koyna (49% full), Warna (61.9% full), Doodhganga (66.9% full) will have to be monitored for the intensity of rainfall and inflows using the short-range inflow forecasts provided by CWC, after which release will have to be decided as per the standard operating procedure and rule curves,” the CWC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cwc-sounds-flood-alert-for-kolhapur-nashik-pune/articleshow/77360621.cms||Neha Madaan
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Two make the UPSC cut||NAGPUR: The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) released the results of the Civil Services Exam (CSE) 2019 on Tuesday. 829 candidates qualified for the IAS, IPS, IFS and other civil services. Two candidates who underwent training from the city’s Pre-IAS Training Centre, Nikhil Dubey and Sumit Ramteke, secured AIR 733 and AIR 748 respectively. Dubey, an assistant director at Indian Information Service (IIS), who was still trying to process his rank, said, “I have been preparing for some time now. I’m already in the civil services as I got through in 2018. I took a sabbatical year to prepare for the exam. I’ll change the service if I get a better prospect than I am currently in.” Ramteke, employed as assistant commander in CRPF, informed that this was his fifth attempt. He added, “I started my preparation after graduation in 2015 and I was selected as the CRPF assistant commander in 2018. I did my preparation from Nagpur but shifted to Pune and studied there till 2019. With this rank it is likely that I will get IAS or IRS. The joining will be within 4-5 months and I will be working to improve my rank until then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-make-the-upsc-cut/articleshow/77360625.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Pathologist fakes lab’s name to do Covid tests at home, arrested in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The East Jadavpur police on Tuesday arrested a pathologist for faking to be a representative of a private hospital with an ICMR-approved Covid testing laboratory and doing Covid tests at home. The incident comes three days after Netaji Nagar police busted a gang of three pathologists who prepared fake Covid reports. Investigators said besides the hospital, the pathologist, and his accomplices, have duped around 2,200 patients — all of whom ended up paying up a premium to get tested. Police are investigating whether the Covid test reports prepared by the group were genuine. Police said they are questioning Soumitra Choudhury (39), a resident of an upscale housing complex off EM Bypass. “Choudhury was an employee of Medica Superspeciality Hospital. Three years ago, he quit and opened a pathology centre in the name of his wife. Since the beginning of the pandemic, he started collecting samples from home and supplying them to his old friends in the pathology departments across the city. He would charge Rs 3,600 instead of Rs 2,200 from each patient. It seems he had a robust client base,” claimed an investigating officer. Choudhury, police said, reportedly posed as the official swab collection officer of Medica. Cops arrested him from near the Mukundapur bus stand on Tuesday around 2.45 pm. According to DCP (East) Gourab Lal, the probe started after a complaint was lodged by Komal Dashora, president (legal) of Medica Superspeciality Hospital, against Choudhury. The Medica authorities even issued a notice warning customers and patients about Choudhury. Alok Roy, chairperson, Medica Superspeciality Hospital, said that they came to know of the fraud when some patients told their doctors that their samples were collected from home. “We immediately cautioned our patients and informed the police. Now that the main accused has been arrested, we are talking to our different franchises that were involved in the Covid tests and cautioned them about such acts and their consequences,” said Roy. The DCP said, “He created a fake WhatsApp profile with a link to the page of www.wbhealth.gov.in and circulated it in various WhatsApp groups. In it, he impersonated himself as a representative of Medica Superspeciality Hospital. He collected samples for Covid test from the patient and induced them to pay an excess amount to the one fixed by the state health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pathologist-fakes-labs-name-to-do-covid-tests-at-home-arrested/articleshow/77359392.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 5, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur director tests Covid positive||KANPUR: Director, IIT-Kanpur, Prof Abhay Karandikar has tested positive for novel coronavirus. He is being admitted to the Max Super Speciality Hospital in New Delhi. The confirmation in this regard was made by IIT-Kanpur on Tuesday evening. Prof Karandikar had developed mild fever two days back. On the advice of the institute medical officer, he underwent a swab test and has tested positive for Covid-19. “As a precautionary measure, and on the advice of the doctors, he is being admitted to the Delhi hospital. Prof Karandikar is otherwise keeping well,” said IIT-K deputy director, Professor S. Ganesh. Coronavirus ases are rapidly increasing in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-director-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77360633.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||New Garia-Airport Metro: Work for 7 stations to begin next month||Kolkata: Work for the seven elevated stations of the New Garia-Airport Metro corridor along the 7-km stretch between Novotel hotel and City Centre II in New Town will start next month.That’s good news for the 32km metro corridor, which has been saddled with land logjams and other issues. Work for the seven metro stations had stopped in December 2018 after IL&FS, which had been awarded the contract, abandoned the project after the company ran into insolvency. ITD ITD-Cementation, the company which is building the last leg of underground tunnelling for East-West Metro, recently emerged as the lowest bidder for the Rs 292-crore work for the seven stations.In fact, not much progress was made by IL&FS, which had been awarded the contract for a value of Rs 299.76 crore in March 2014. Work was extremely slow paced and IL&FS had missed its 2017 deadline. As per the contract, work was supposed to be completed in three years from the date of issue of the letter of acceptance. “Only the structures of the stations had been built when IL&FS left the work in December 2018. Construction will resume next month,” an official of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the agency tasked with implementing the metro project, said on Tuesday. ITD ITD-Cementation has also been given three years to finish work for the seven stations covering 7km from Novotel hotel till City Centre II.The seven metro stations starting with sub Central Business District (CBD)-1 and ending at Titumir for the line 6 of Kolkata Metro, which will connect Kavi Subhas station at New Garia to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport are Titumir, Sub CBD-2, Convention Centre, New Town, CBD 2, CBD-1 and Sub CBD-1. RVNL had terminated IL&FS’ contract in December 2018 due to slow progress and encashed their bank guarantee of Rs 43 crore. In 2019, RVNL invited bids for completing pending work for an estimated Rs 292 crore.There was trouble for construction of these Metro stations as armed gang attacked workers and looted raw materials from the New Town station site in May and August, 2018. In the second incident, armed gangs, carrying pistols and sharp weapons barged into the project site opposite Eco Park’s Gate No 2 and looted construction materials worth Rs 5.4 lakhs after tying up some of the security guards and chasing the others away. A total of 24 elevated stations will come up on the New Garia-Airport line. RVNL is trying to fast-track Phase-1, covering 5km between the terminal Kavi Subhas station till Hemanta Mukherjee station at the Ruby crossing so that the section can be commissioned around the beginning of 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-garia-airport-metro-work-for-7-stations-to-begin-next-month/articleshow/77360632.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 5, 2020||Pune||Two chains snatched in Camp||PUNE: Gold chains, worth Rs2.65 lakh, were snatched in two separate incidents in Camp on Monday. In the first incident, two motorcycle-borne men snatched the gold chain of Pritam Kamlakar (31), a resident of Aundh. He lodged a complaint with the Cantonment police later in the day. Kamlakar said in his complaint that he was driving his motorcycle on MG Road in Camp when a person riding pillion on a two-wheeler snatched a gold chain, worth Rs 1.25 lakh, from his neck, police said. Police said that the two-wheeler went towards the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. Police said that many shops have installed CCTV cameras and few of the cameras might have captured the suspects and they would be nabbed soon. Later in the evening, two men travelling in an autorickshaw, snatched a gold chain, worth Rs 1.40 lakh, from a woman travelling in a car on MG Road. The woman (49), a resident of Kondhwa, lodged a complaint with the Cantonment police later at night. According to the complaint, the woman and her husband were travelling in a car. The autorickshaw driver came from behind and started travelling parallel to it. The man sitting on the passenger seat waved at the woman and told her that her burqa had got stuck in the car’s door. Police said that her husband slowed down and stopped the car. The autorickshaw, too, halted near her. As soon as she opened the door, the man sitting on the passenger seat snatched her gold chain. Police said that the autorickshaw driver then drove the vehicle through the narrow bylanes of MG Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-chains-snatched-in-camp/articleshow/77360637.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Gorewada full, one tiger shifted to Nagpur zoo||NAGPUR: With tiger occupancy at the Gorewada Rescue Centre running full, the state forest department is eyeing Maharajbagh Zoo to accommodate its surplus problem tigers. There are 10 tiger cages in Gorewada and all are full with tigers. Besides, there are 20 leopard cages but the centre has 27 leopards, including four cubs rescued from Akola recently. On Tuesday, the state’s chief wildlife warden Nitin Kakodkar issued orders to hand over the three-year-old male tiger NT-1, which was responsible for killing 3 humans, to Maharajbagh Zoo. NT-1 will be shifted to Maharajbagh from Gorewada on Wednesday. The problem tiger was captured from Talodhi range in Bramhapuri division on July 19 and shifted to Gorewada on July 20, which is when all the tiger cages got fully occupied. “Though we are running out of capacity is one issue, Maharajbagh Zoo has been consistently demanding a male tiger for pairing. We had also written to PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar, who took a decision,” said divisional manager and Gorewada in charge Nandkishore Kale. However, sources said that another reason to hand over the tiger is congestion. Due to frequent arrival of problem and rescued animals, Gorewada is unable to upgrade the tiger crawl area suggested by CZA in 2015. Shifting of tigers will help to take up repair works. Maharajbagh was devoid of a male tiger after Sahebrao was shifted to Gorewada in 2016. Later in 2017, tigress Lee was sent to the rescue centre for loan breeding but Lee killed all the four cubs sired by Sahebrao. In between, tigers in forest department captivity were sent to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Mumbai, and Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park, Pune, but Maharajbagh was ignored. “We were left with a lone 8-year-old female Jaan now. As per CZA conditions for zoo recognition, pairing of animals is mandatory. We have been demanding a male tiger for long. I thank PCCF (wildlife) for fulfilling our demand,” said zoo officer in charge Dr SS Bawaskar. As per the chief wildlife warden’s order, the zoo will not be able to put the tiger on display. Decision regarding the tiger’s long stay in the zoo or whether it is to be released in the wild again will depend on the expert committee constituted for the purpose. Past experiences of releasing conflict tigers from Bramhapuri have not augured well with the forest department. All these experiments went awry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gorewada-full-one-tiger-shifted-to-city-zoo/articleshow/77360653.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Two injured in road rage||Nagpur: Two persons, Ajay Meshram and Babulal Sakhre, were injured in an attack over road rage at Tathagata chowk on August 9 last week. Accused Ramanand Ambone was arrested by Jaripatka police who invoked charges of attempt to murder against him. It’s learnt that Meshram was returning home with his friends Sakhre and Sunil Patil in an auto-rickshaw after purchasing a birthday cake for his daughter from Jaripatka. Meshram was driving his friends home to Kabirnagar in his auto-rickshaw. Ambone is learnt to have rashly brought his auto-rickshaw close to that of Meshram’s in a manner that left the victims appalled. There was a heated exchange of words between Sakhre and Ambone. An enraged Ambone attacked Sakhre with a sharp object. Meshram too was injured when he had tried to intervene. As the two were injured, passers-by intervened and also alerted Jaripatka police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-injured-in-road-rage/articleshow/77494116.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Duo beat up, rob driver of Rs 25,000||PUNE: Two men beat up a businessman’s driver and robbed him of Rs25,000 on Shivaji Road in Budhwar Peth on Saturday evening. The driver, Sachin Gopale (28), lodged a complaint with the Faraskhana police. An officer of the company, who was in the car too, got down to buy something. Gopale was standing near the SUV’s front door, when a man caught him off guard and started kicking him. He attempted to run, but another man reached and the duo then kicked and punched him. Gopale fell and the duo robbed Rs25,000 from his pocket. The police said the cash was meant for the vehicle’s servicing. The duo have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-beat-up-rob-driver-of-rs-25k/articleshow/77360651.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Sharp rise in toll tally, but admn doesn’t have lockdown on mind||Ludhiana: Despite a steep rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the district administration has ruled out lockdown in near future. As per a state media bulletin on Monday evening, Ludhiana district had witnessed 51 deaths in the past seven days; this figure was 115 till Monday 5pm. The government document suggested that 1,132 new cases had come in the past seven days and active cases were 1,330. Talking to The Times of India, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said as Ludhiana district was moving towards peak, the number of cases and deaths have increased and to check this, awareness drives were being organised and masks distributed.The DC said they were increasing the number of beds so that no patient remained without treatment. He added that to lower fatalities, they were trying that patients come to hospitals early so that they receive proper care. He, however, ruled out lockdown in the district. “That is not on our mind as of now,” he said.The authorities continue to assert the efficacy of the micro-containment zone strategy.Additional chief secretary (health) Anurag Aggarwal said with micro-containment strategy, they were able to control spread in small areas. He said in a big area, people don’t follow the norms. He said Punjab has remained most honest in reporting fatalities and they have even reported trauma deaths. He added that more than 90% fatalities were at level three, which means every patient was able to reach tertiary care. Aggarwal said diabetes and hypertension-related co-morbidities were higher in Punjab, therefore the impact. He said the problem in Ludhiana was that people were coming late to hospitals. “We are continuously requesting patients to come on time and get treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sharp-rise-in-toll-tally-but-admn-doesnt-have-lockdown-on-mind/articleshow/77358070.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 5, 2020||Business||Sebi orders Top Class to pay Rs 3.8 crore with interest in Aurobindo insider trading case||Hyderabad: Over two and a half months after Aurobindo Pharma Ltd (APL) and its promoters settled an insider trading case with Sebi by paying over Rs 22 crore, the markets regulator has now issued its final order in the matter, directing Top Class Capital Markets Pvt Ltd to cough up illegal gains of Rs 3.8 crore along with 12% interest per annum for violating insider trading norms. In its final order issued on Tuesday, Sebi has asked Top Class Capital Markets to “disgorge the illegal gains of Rs 3,77,89,062 made by it (in trading in the APL scrip) along with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from March 4, 2009, till the date of actual payment of disgorgement with interest within 45 days from the date of the coming of force of this order”. The order issued by wholetime Sebi member Ananta Barua also restrained Top Class from accessing the securities market or being associated with it in any manner for a period of one year from the order date. It also restrained Top Class from buying, selling or dealing in the securities of APL directly or indirectly for a period of three years from the order date. Top Class was one of the seven individuals and entities slapped with insider trading charges by Sebi in the Aurobindo Pharma insider trading case in August 2019, but was the only entity that did not enter into a settlement. In mid May this year, APL, its promoters PV Ramprasad Reddy and P Suneela Reddy along with three other entities — Kambam P Reddy, Trident Chemphar Ltd and Veritaz Health Care Ltd, settled the case by paying over Rs 22 crore. All of them were slapped with a fine of around Rs 22.7 crore by Sebi on charges of engaging in insider trading in the APL scrip between July 2008 and March 2009 prior to informing the public about certain licencing and supply agreements it had inked with Pfizer Inc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-orders-top-class-to-pay-rs-3-8-crore-with-interest-in-aurobindo-insider-trading-case/articleshow/77360674.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Concept cleared, real test ahead||Approved after a 34-year gap, the new National Education Policy aims to provide a comprehensive framework for school as well as higher education. Panellists at the TOI Debate explore the pros and cons...The interplay of politics and policy has always borne intrigue in India. For something as radically different from its predecessors as the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, apprehensions regarding the ruling party’s tendency to unilaterally shape it are bound to arise. While Medical Council of India (MCI) committee member Dr Ved Prakash Mishra stated at the outset that a national policy like this “cannot be the political vision of one party”, he also believed that the government was entitled to prescribe policies, and said the real question was whether the NEP was framed considering our country’s ever altering socio-economic context. “We need to see whether the education fulfils the purposes of skill generation and manpower development,” he said. For Solapur University vice-chancellor Mrinalini Fadnavis, the question is — like all other policies — needs to be viewed from two lenses: whether NEP is useful for all stakeholders, and how easy or difficult it will be to implement. “The policy focuses on the demographic dividend, and underlines the central role of youth in nation-building. The move to increase spending on education to 6% is a welcome one,” said Fadnavis. “The 20-point programme is good, but training of teachers and an elaborate system for proper implementation are missing,” she said. Echoing Fadnavis’ call for more sophisticated planning, S Prabhuraman, principal, Saraswati Vidyalaya, wondered why there was no assessment of schools’ status. “Why did they not ask the outgoing students about the performance of teachers? A ground-level survey is needed to gauge everyone’s requirements. For that, Progress reports and data from schools must be collated,” Prabhuraman said. Was the policy discussed adequately among key stakeholders before finalizing it? VNIT director Pramod Padole believed that a committee led by a distinguished scientist like Dr Kasturi Rangan must have deliberated it exhaustively. “Feedback was called on the draft proposal, and the issue was discussed in Lok Sabha too. Some shortfall is to be expected, and all policies will have to be modified to meet local needs,” said Padole. Advocating the NEP in toto, Galgotias University, Noida vice-chancellor Preeti Bajaj added that the policy was “available for comments for a long time”, and that the complex system in India would always leave many dissatisfied. Agreeing to Bajaj, Shrirang Altekar, director, Symbiosis Institute of Management stated that he was in a panel that discussed the policy three years back. “Views of all concerned were taken on board, but some disagreements are to be expected. Changes, wherever necessary, can be incorporated.” Altekar added that the new policy was necessary as its 1986 version was incongruent with the times, especially after the onset of coronavirus. Kalpana Dhareshwar, principal, Mother’s Pet Kindergarten, felt that there would be more clarity once the policy was implemented. “It is a very comprehensive policy, with lots of inputs from experts. The real challenge lies in implementation.” The clause purportedly aimed at bringing down the importance of the English language was animatedly debated. “English has not been removed from the school curriculum, nor has its importance been reduced. It has only been made optional. Many countries like Japan and China have managed well without English,” Fadnavis said. Mishra underlined the criticality of India’s diversity and pluralism in such a decision. “The policy has to work well for all of India. Is it possible for us to look away from the fact that we are a multi-linguistic, multi-cultural nation?” said Mishra and added, “Lessons should have been learnt from the linguistic division of states. Forgetting the bitter past and prioritization of one language is wrong. Facilitation of learning through any language should be encouraged.” Echoing the rest of the panellists, Dhiraj Kadao, sports teacher, Achievers School, rhetorically asked how many physical education teachers could fluently speak in English. “Till my graduation, I could not converse in English either,” he said. Nagpur University student Vinay Patil posited that the burgeoning use of social media could help propagate vernacular languages. He also pointed out that the policy repeatedly used the phrase “wherever possible” when prescribing the language of instruction. “States can independently decide the importance they want to accord to on English. The policy is not against the language at all,” said Patil. The discussion then veered towards the multi-point exit option offered in graduate courses. Prabhuraman opined that with too many relaxations students may “take the easy way out”. “UGC has already implemented this provision in 2004. A separate document is needed on this exit policy. Yes, students will get the choice to leave when they wish, but the implementation is questionable,” Fadnavis said. Bajaj pointed that a major reason was the pressure on students to follow set norms. “There is a 10-12% dropout rate in engineering; and especially high in first and second year. Societal compulsions and peer pressure are responsible for it. A change of mindset is needed from all stakeholders.” Mishra said that these ‘exits’ could not come at the cost of assessment. “Core principles like learning are assessment driven. It will take us years before we can conduct 360 degree assessment. The action document for its implementation is going to be tough as there are no measurable inputs or credits at any level,” he said. Padole believed that implementing the multi-exit provision would take another 15 years. “It is time to train students and teachers for it. Technological courses can be the starting point, and we can move on to other institutes post that.” While the panel agreed that there were many aspects to like in the NEP, some areas still remained to be addressed. Kadao wished the curriculum included sports in a structured form. He also sought academic relaxation for state, national and international level players. Patil summed up his assessment with a pithy take. “The policy document uses the word ‘philanthropy’ 26 times. Education should not be on charity, it should be the government’s responsibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/concept-cleared-real-test-ahead/articleshow/77382496.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Monsoon Diwali in Ayodhya on eve of bhoomi pujan||Ayodhya: It was ‘Monsoon Diwali’ in Ayodhya when the sun set over the temple town on Tuesday with ghats, markets, homes and streets coming alive with lakhs of diyas in celebration of the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple on Wednesday. The entire town, glowing with fresh coat of yellow, rang with notes of Ram bhajan as last-minute arrangements were being briskly put in place. On Wednesday, no outsiders would be permitted to enter the town. Only 175 special guests, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Governor Anandiben Patel, seers, senior VHP and RSS leaders and some special guests will make their way for the event at Ramjanmabhoomi. Security arrangements was tightened on Tuesday, making it extremely difficult to even cross Ayodhya without a special pass. Between state capital Lucknow and Ayodhya, there were four police checks, where names, contact details and vehicle numbers of those headed to Ayodhya were being recorded. The town itself was fortified with hundreds of RAF and police personnel. On Tuesday morning, as municipal agencies washed roads and festooned the central Hanumangarhi Road with marigold flowers and yellow sashes, security agencies carried out drills. Many streets and narrow lanes in the town were barricaded to prevent unnecessary movement, even as a sense of chaos ahead of a major event was palpable. In the afternoon, about 400 students of the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh Vishvidyalaya set about decorating the ghats in the searing heat by placing diyas and making rangolis. A student coordinator said, they had taken support of some agencies, including Viklang Sangathan, for this work. “We have been working on decorations for three days. There are 25 points where we will light diyas,” he said. Karsewakpuram, VHP’s base in Ayodhya, was agog with activity as volunteers tracked guests, those arriving with pots of soil and water for the temple’s foundation and fine-tuning the next day’s programme. By evening, the helipad near Saket College had become the most active point as choppers carrying guests began arriving. These included Swami Ramdev and Swami Avdheshanand among others. However, the head priest of Janki Temple in Nepal, Ram Tapeshwar Das, will not be attending Wednesday’s event after he was stopped at the border “due to the pandemic”, said a VHP functionary. On Wednesday morning, with only special guests permitted to enter the Ramjanmabhoomi area, residents will wait at their homes or in parks for 11.30 am, the time set for them to ring in the mahurat of 11.40 am for the bhoomi pujan. “The town is expected to reverberate with sounds of conch shells, bells and fire crackers for 10 minutes and as the clock will strike 11.40 am, all of Ayodhya will break into celebration,” said Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-diwali-in-ayodhya-on-eve-of-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77361267.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation scraps P1/P2 system, traders relieved||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday evening ordered withdrawal of the P1/P2 system with effect from Wednesday, allowing all shops outside the containment zones dealing in non-essential items to remain open throughout the week. Traders expected that withdrawal of the system in the run-up to the festive season could improve their finances for the first time since the lockdown was announced in March this year following the outbreak of Covid-19. Introduced in June, the P1/P2 system allowed shops on one side of the road to open on odd dates and those on the other side could function on even dates. For over a month, the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) had sought cancellation of the P1/P2 system. TimesViewTraders in the city have a reason to rejoice as the civic administration has accepted their demand to do away with the P1/P2 system, enabling them to keep their shops open throughout the week. The festival season is around the corner and it may increase the rush at these establishments. The shop owners and their associations now have a greater responsibility to avoid overcrowding and adhere to the set guidelines while operating their business. The guard should not be let down.The PMC order stated that the condition of P1/P2, as mentioned in the state government’s orders, “stands cancelled” and that shops on all roads outside the containment zones could remain open from 9am to 7pm. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka said, “Everyone is happy with the decision. The festive season is approaching and now there will be scope to do business without any hurdles. They (the PMC) have permitted us to remain open on all seven days of the week and individually take a decision on the weekly off . We met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday and informed him about the heavy losses incurred, as well as the testing and low rate of infection among traders. He called the municipal commissioner and told him to withdraw the P1/P2 system.” Harsh Basur, a trader from Budhwar Peth, said, “We are happy that the restrictions are lifted. The market was already slow and this system forced us to remain shut for half a month. Now with the shops being allowed to open everyday, we can generate some revenue and fully utilize our resources.” Footwear dealer Murtuza Poonawalla said, “The situation was getting worse. This decision will definitely benefit the traders. The onus is on the traders to ensure that all protocols are followed so that we don’t see a surge in cases or are be forced to return to another lockdown or the P1/P2 system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-scraps-p1/p2-system-traders-relieved/articleshow/77359386.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||‘Neta’ in a soup after colleague alleges sexual exploitation||NAGPUR: A 46-year-old woman has lodged a complaint of repeated sexual exploitation against a senior leader of her party blowing the lid off a prolonged episode of mental and physical harassment on the pretext of marriage, support to family and also prompt rise politically. The accused had also supported her to organize some political programmes during his course of exploitation between January 2019 and February this year. Though she filed the complaint on Monday, no action has been initiated by Pachpaoli police. The distraught woman is now contemplating ending her life by claiming the leader has left her family life in ruins. “I had alerted the senior leadership of the party, including a woman leader, about my exploitation but they did not take me seriously. The woman leader even giggled when I sought her assistance. I was told that such issues are not to be taken seriously,” said the woman who runs a boutique and a marriage bureau too. The 55-year-old, against whom the complaint has been lodged, is learnt to be at the helm of the minority cell of a political outfit in power. He is also close to several senior leaders of the party. In May 2019, the leader was booked for demanding sexual favours from a woman. He was also slapped with the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes (Prevention of Atrocity Act) by Pachpaoli police. Then too, the offence was registered against the leader after a considerable delay. In the latest complaint, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, the woman has stated that she was introduced to the leader by a common acquaintance. He had started coming to her place on some or the other pretext. “Initially, I had no inkling about his ill-intended visits to my place. Somehow, he got to know whenever I was alone at home. In January 2019, he came to my place and forced himself upon me despite my objection,” she said. The woman has mentioned in her complaint that the elderly leader had urged her not to approach the police after assuring to marry. The father of three children had also stated that he would soon divorce his wife. The survivor also mentioned in the complaint that the leader had accompanied her to Deori, Bhandara, Wani and Seoni on the pretext of supporting her in her marriage bureau work. He would check into lodges with her and exploit her repeatedly at night. The woman has also stated in the complaint that the leader had also ensured bringing her under her a spell for which he had gifted her some incense sticks and perfumes from a shrine. Senior inspector Kishor Nagrale of Pachpaoli police station said the complaint is under investigation. “The complaint is technical in nature. We have summoned the non-applicant (leader) for inquiry and questioning. A decision would be taken in the matter after discussion with the seniors seeking their suggestions,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neta-in-a-soup-after-colleague-alleges-sexual-exploitation/articleshow/77360702.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Middle-aged bear brunt of Covid in Trichy||TRICHY: While males outnumbered females in terms of Covid-19 infection, it is the middle and young male population that has turned out to be the worst affected by the disease in Trichy district during the pandemic. The district has so far recorded a total of 4,517 cases till August 3. Data released by the district administration on Tuesday showed that 2,739 infected patients were male and 1,778 female when all age groups were taken (0 to 80). District collector S Sivarasu said low exposure to the virus due to their restricted movement was the reason for the lesser number of women getting infected. Those aged between 31 and 40 years were the highest in number, 570, while those between 51 and 60 years added up to 507 cases. In the 21 - 30 category, 494 men were infected while 490 men were down with the virus in the 41 - 50 years category. Women between 21 and 30 years accounted for 438 cases. Collector Sivarasu attributed the high number of cases in the middle age category to the reverse migrants. “Since they returned from other states, they carried the infection when they returned to their native during the pandemic,” he told TOI. The collector cited the outbreak in two major commercial establishments in Trichy city for the increase of cases in these categories. “The infected staff in the two firms would account for around 200 numbers,” he said. Deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani said that besides reverse migrants, people in this category were also breadwinners of the family and working people. “Obviously, they need to step out for work. In such situations, they have the chances of getting infected if the safety measures are not followed at their workplaces. Since we cannot confine such category to their houses, they should be more careful in preventing themselves from getting infected,” he said. The least number of cases of 23 men and 17 men were recorded in the 80-plus years category. As for recovery, 3,239 got cured either from MGMGH or private hospitals as of Monday when 1,218 cases were active. Most of the 62 casualties till date were in the 55 years to 70 years category and the recovery rate of people below 40 years was excellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/middle-aged-bear-brunt-of-covid-in-trichy/articleshow/77360677.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Monitor quality of RT-PCR testing in labs: Health secy||TRICHY: Reiterating that real-time – polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) remained the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, state health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan has asked officials concerned to closely monitor the quality of testing in government and private laboratories, to ensure accuracy of the results. The health secretary was in Trichy on Tuesday to inspect the fever clinic and Covid-19 treatment facilities at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). “Tamil Nadu is the only state in the country testing all the samples through RT-PCR which is a gold standard. While 75% samples are tested at government labs, 25% are done in private laboratories. If the results show positive, it will be 100 % positive. Some practical issues are prevailing. So, we have asked the officials to intensify the quality check,” Radhakrishnan told reporters. Radhakrishnan also recalled the in-principle decision of the Tamil Nadu government to carry out IgM/IgG antibody tests in some parts of the state for zero surveillance. On the vaccine trial in Tamil Nadu, Radhakrishnan said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had complete and direct role in trials. However, he said that the state government was on ICMR solidarity, BCG vaccine and various medicine combination trials. Clarifying that the state had no intention to hide any deaths, Radhakrishnan attributed the number of deaths to the inclusion of patients with comorbidities under Covid-19 mortality category. He also exuded confidence that the mortality rate will come down. “The recovery will be good if people visit the hospital as soon as they experience symptoms. Our doctors are trying 12 types of treatment methods to save the patients,” he said. Expressing displeasure over several people not wearing masks in Trichy during his visit, Radhakrishnan appealed to them to strictly follow the rule besides maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monitor-quality-of-rt-pcr-testing-in-labs-health-secy/articleshow/77360660.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 600 crore six-lane Ruby flyover to be Kolkata’s tallest, to have 5.5m skywalk||KOLKATA: The design for the six-lane Ruby flyover, which promises to ease daily commute along EM Bypass, is almost ready. The highlight of the Rs 600 crore elevated corridor is the 5.5m skywalk planned below the upcoming Hemanta Mukherjee Metro station at the Ruby crossing. It will take three years to build the flyover. “The Ruby crossing and Kalikapur or Abhishikta intersections are the most messy parts of the Bypass. The new flyover will address these two traffic quagmires and substantially increase mobility on EM Bypass for the next 30 years,” an engineer of Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), implementing agency of the city’s highest flyover, said. Railway consultancy RITES has submitted the draft detailed project report (DPR) to KMDA. The DPR will be finalized once a glitch, relating to the positioning of an arm of the flyover turning towards the Anwar Shah connector, is solved. Meanwhile, most features of one of the city’s most vibrant projects, is ready. The three-lane structures on either side of the New Garia-Airport metro viaduct from Kalikapur to VIP Bazar will be 12m high, running 2m taller than the metro stations. (Most flyovers are around 9m high). The south-bound flank, ending at Metro Cash and Carry, will be 3km. The north-bound one that goes a little beyond VIP Bazar will be 4km. The flyover has been split into two separate structures, consisting of Garia-Airport Metro: Work for 7stns to start next month, because the median has already been taken up by the metro viaduct. At Kalikapur, near Abhishikta crossing, an 800m ramp turns right to the Anwar Shah connector to allow access to vehicles from Jadavpur and Behala. RITES has provided three options for the ramp since a metro pier (no 112) of the New Garia-Aiport corridor has come in the way. KMDA has asked Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), implementing agency of the metro project, to raze the pier and allow the ramp to glide smoothly towards the connector. But the latter says that’s not possible considering the advanced stage of the project. In consultation with RVNL, RITES has drawn up an alternative alignment for the ramp, by reducing the length of the upcoming Kavi Sukanta metro station, which is right on the Abhishikta crossing. A smaller metro pier meant to support the station may be sacrificed if this option is approved by KMDA’s infrastructure advisory committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-600cr-six-lane-ruby-flyover-to-be-citys-tallest-to-have-5-5m-skywalk/articleshow/77360671.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||36-year-old is youngest doc to succumb to virus in state||Kolkata: A young doctor, who was undergoing training to become a cardiac surgeon, lost his battle against Covid-19 on Tuesday. Nitish Kumar (36) died at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTICCS) after battling the disease for almost a month. Kumar is the youngest doctor in the state to have lost the battle against Covid during this pandemic. According to sources, the 36-year-old was working in the cardiac surgery department at RTIICS as a part his DNB course in cardiac surgery. He got infected about a month ago in the line of duty. Originally from Patna, the young doctor is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. The hospital had put up all efforts to save Kumar. As his condition kept deteriorating, he was put on ECMO support about two weeks ago. Doctors had even tried plasma therapy on him. “Nitish Kumar was a 36-year-old, kind, sincere and hardworking doctor who always carried an endearing smile. With a humble background and after overcoming several hardships, he was very close to achieving his dream of becoming a cardiac surgeon,” said a statement from the hospital. A doctor said that Kumar did not have any comorbid condition or any other known pre-existing health conditions. He would have completed his training in a few more months. Covid has claimed at least four more doctors in the state so far. While the four have been close to or above 60 years of age, this is the first time a doctor in his 30s have lost his life to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/36-year-old-is-youngest-doc-to-succumb-to-virus-in-state/articleshow/77359403.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||6 days on, 2 held for killing Samrala man||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Koom Kalan police on Tuesday arrested two accused in the July 29 murder of a lock repair mechanic. Those arrested have been identified as Gobinda and Sagar of Jaddla village in Nawanshahr. The other accused – Gurmail Singh, Baljeet Singh Bhulekha, both residents of Baliyewal village in Koom Kalan, and three unidentified ones – are on the run.The accused had strangulated Dara Singh, 42, a resident of Himmat Singh Nagar, Samrala, after a fight during the funeral of their relative. In his police complaint, Dara’s brother Bahadur Singh had said that he along with Dara and his nephew, Pawandeep, had gone to Baliyewal village to attend the funeral of their relative. When they were sitting on the rooftop, the accused started fighting with Dara. “When I intervened to stop them, the accused started thrashing me and my brother. After strangling my brother, they escaped,” the complainant added. Koom Kalam police station SHO sub-inspector Paramjit Singh said, “About five months ago, the accused had a fight with Dara while playing cards. On July 29, the accused started fighting with Dara over the same issue and strangulated him. The other accused will be arrested soon. They are relatives of the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-days-on-2-held-for-killing-samrala-man/articleshow/77358081.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||KMC preserves victims’ ashes for handover to kin||Kolkata: Families who have lost their dear ones to Covid are queueing up at the Hindu burial ground in Topsia to collect the mortal remains for a final closure. While the protocol for disposal of those who die of Covid does not allow kin to attend the cremation, KMC has been preserving the ashes of victims in urns for handover to family members so that they can consign it to the Ganga. This is the final ritual practised on cremation day. Though KMC had been preserving the ashes of Covid victims keeping in mind the sentiments of family members who, on many occasions, express their dismay for not getting the opportunity to perform the last rites, many of them are not aware of it. So, dozens of urns with ashes lie unclaimed at Topsia. KMC said family members could collect urns from Dhapa immediately after the cremation or from Topsia Hindu burial ground at a later date. A similar facility is also available at Nimtolla for bodies that are cremated there. “To claim the urn, a family member of the deceased has to carry death certificate of the Covid victim (as issued by the hospital or a private practitioner) and an identity proof with photograph that needs to be furnished at the camps at Dhapa and Nimtolla,” a civic health official said. While KMC was earlier insistent on a family member collecting the urn, with many families forced into quarantine or others with relatives abroad, the civic body has consented to handing over the remains to distant relatives or even a family friend provided the latter carries an authorization letter along with a photo ID and the victim’s death certificate. A fortnight ago, California-based IT professional Amitabha Bose got his father’s remains collected from Topsia burial ground by his friend Subhankar Chatterjee. Bose’s mother has undergone spine surgery and is unable to move. Chatterjee contacted KMC control room and was directed to Topsia burial ground from where he finally collected the urn and handed it over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-preserves-victims-ashes-for-handover-to-kin/articleshow/77359415.cms||Saikat Ray
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Kothari brothers’ kin bring soil from 3 Kolkata shakhas||AYODHYA: In 1990, Purnima Kothari’s brothers, Ram and Sharad, headed towards Ayodhya from their Kolkata home as kar sewaks to participate in the Ram Temple movement and promised to return before their sister’s wedding later that year. They did not return as they died in police firing in the temple town. For Purnima, who is in Ayodhya to witness the bhoomi pujan of Ram Temple, the visit spells closure. “After their death, I would visit Ayodhya every year on Kartik Purnima. Once our father passed away in 2002, the annual visits stopped. I still made it a point to come whenever possible. In 2015, which was my brothers’ 25th death anniversary, I tried to organise a programme in Ayodhya, but the Akhilesh Yadav government did not allow me,” she said. Purnima also made it a point to reach Ayodhya, when the court announced the verdict in favour of the temple in December, 2019. Kothari is in Ayodhya as a guest of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and is accompanied by her daughter. They have brought with them soil from three RSS shakhas in Kolkata, which the two brothers would often visit. “My brothers could not be a part of this historic moment, but I brought soil from three shakhas, ensuring that a part of them is here as well. We did ‘maati poojan’ on Monday and then carried the soil to Ayodhya,” she said. The foundation laying ceremony is just the first step, Kothari said. “There’s a long road ahead for fulfilment of my life’s desire to offer prayers at the Ram Temple,” she said. However, being a part of the event, where an extremely limited number of guests have been invited due to the pandemic, makes Kothari believe her brother’s “sacrifice” has been recognised. “There were so many people from Kolkata, who wanted to come and were disappointed that the number of guests was restricted. In that sense, I am both proud and humbled to be here,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kothari-brothers-kin-bring-soil-from-3-kolkata-shakhas/articleshow/77361287.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Corona-scared fishermen stay at home, leave Kolkata starved of hilsa||KOLKATA: Monsoon has peaked, but the city still remains hilsa-starved this year. The prize catch of fish weighing a kilo and beyond has eluded us so far. Very few fishermen are bringing in hilsa supplies to the market and these are in the 350 grams to 500 grams range. Blame it on Covid and the weather, say fishermen, who go out to sea at this time of the year to bring in the silvery treasure. The Covid scare is keeping fishermen from going out to sea in large groups in trawlers. Usually, they go in groups of 19 people, who stay out in the mouth of the sea for a week and then come back with the catch, sometimes going beyond 14-15 quintals. This year very few trawlers have left Kakdwip and Digha fishing centres, the two big hilsa hubs where the catch first arrives before being taken to the cold stores or markets. Fishermen, who go out in such large groups, make use of the trawls net and the gill net, which are hand-pulled and catch only hilsa. So, the market at the moment has become dependent only on the personal initiatives of fishermen’s families, who go out in small boats early in the morning, fish throughout the day and come back by night. “Kukrahati to Raichak and Kolaghat are two stretches where such individual initiatives are high but the catch is not much. The problem is though the rule says that you have to use nets that have a minimum of 90 mm mesh so that the small fish or khoka (up to 600 grams) doesn’t get caught,” explained Suman Sahu, a key fisheries department official, who supervises hilsa fishing. Fisheries minister Chandranath Sinha, too, sounded worried. “The Covid situation is so bad that we are insisting on social distancing everywhere and fishermen are not exempt,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-scared-fishermen-stay-at-home-leave-city-starved-of-hilsa/articleshow/77360686.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Lens on Delhi hospitals over ‘pilferage’ of Remdesivir||GURUGRAM: Some private hospitals in Delhi are under scanner for alleged pilferage of Remdesivir, the Covid-19 experimental drug. Till now, three pharmacists from the national capital have been arrested in the international drug smuggling racket that was busted last week in Gurugram, in which five foreign nationals were held during a raid. The accused used to supply Remdesivir and other drugs to Iraq through patients from that country visiting India for treatment. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to investigate the racket has been conducting raids across Delhi-NCR to track those may be associated with the gang. “We are yet to reach the source supply of Remdesivir. The matter is under investigation and more people are likely to be arrested,” said ACP Karan Goyal, who is heading the SIT. Gurugram Police is also looking if there is any connection to a similar Remdesivir racket busted last month in Hyderabad. “We are investigating if hospitals are involved, but the role of manufacturing companies cannot be ruled out either,” said a police officer associated with the investigation. Several firms have approval to manufacture Remdesivir, he said, but the drugs recovered during the raids were manufactured by only one company, he added. “We have to make a few more recoveries, after which we will take a call on approaching the pharma company,” he said. Watch Lens on Delhi hospitals over ‘pilferage’ of Remdesivir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lens-on-delhi-hospitals-over-pilferage-of-remdesivir/articleshow/77360313.cms||Bagish Jha
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cautious optimism in play as hotels & malls reopen||PUNE: Hotels and malls throw open their doors to customers after a four-month gap on Wednesday, but each segment has its own hiccups to overcome. While malls are concerned about footfall — many retail stores and food outlets may not open initially — hotels are apprehensive about the 33% cap on occupancy. The Pune Hoteliers Association (PHA) said on Tuesday that only around half the number of hotels in the city may function from August 5. A source said hotels with fewer rooms find the occupancy cap unviable. “For instance, a hotel with 17 rooms will use just five or six rooms,” the source said. There are 400-500 hotels/lodges in the city. “Even with a reduced occupancy, hotels will have to pay for a full staff for other operations,” PHA president Sharan Shetty told TOI. Vikram Shetty, vice-president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association, said, “The clause that PMC can use the remaining 67% for quarantine purposes may make some guests uncomfortable.” On the other hand, malls are bracing themselves for jump-start to business. “We are expecting 3,000 people in the mall throughout the day. Bouncers will ensure social distancing is maintained. The upcoming weekend will be the real test,” Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer of Amanora mall in Hadapsar, said. Noel Williams, centre head of SGS Mall in Camp, said they devised a unidirectional flow of customers to ensure there is no crowding at the entrance. Ajay Malhotra, general manager of Seasons mall in Hadapsar, said that each store in the mall will have limited staff. Citizens, however, are excited at the prospect of visiting malls. “We have been sitting at home for more than four months. Even through the play area and food court will remain shut, we will visit Amanora this weekend,” Kondhwa resident Sanjit Joshi said. Sakshi Sareen, a student who lives on DP Road, plans to visit Phoenix Marketcity in Vimannagar on Thursday. “I hope the food court and multiplexes open soon,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cautious-optimism-in-play-as-hotels-malls-reopen/articleshow/77359393.cms||Neha Madaan
August 5, 2020||Pune||Flyovers’ demolition will be complete by August 10: PMRDA||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) officials on Tuesday said the demolition of the two University and E-Square flyovers would be completed by August 10. The project was initially supposed to be completed by the end of July, but was pushed to the first week of August. Officials said the delay was caused because they did not have the option to completely close the roads. PMRDA officials said 80% of the work on the University flyover’s demolition was complete, while the E-Square flyover was 20% demolished. The three supporting structures of the University flyover are expected to be pulled down by Wednesday morning and the area will be cleared by Thursday. “The work of demolishing the E-Square flyover will begin in full swing after that,” a PMRDA engineer in-charge of the project said. The demolition of the two flyovers had begun during the 10-day total lockdown imposed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad between July 14 and 23. The officials carrying out the demolition said they faced hurdles initially, with vehicles being allowed to use a portion of the carriageway. Demolition of the University flyover had started at six different spots, and traffic was diverted through a portion of the Savitribai Phule Pune University Campus and also through parts of Model Colony, causing snarls and noise in the largely residential area. Many residents have spoken out against the traffic diversions, claiming the increased noise and sound pollution was giving them sleepless nights. The flyovers will make way for a new, two-tier flyover that would support the planned Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro rail corridor, with one tier for the Metro viaduct and the other for vehicular traffic. Pune Municipal Corporation last month approved the demolition with the rider that PMRDA was to bear the full cost. The new flyover is set to cost Rs240 crore. PMRDA officials said they would discuss the funding with the state government after PMC had refused to share the cost. PMRDA had to sign a supplementary agreement with Tata-Siemens — the concessionaire for the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar line — to incorporate the demolition of the two flyovers. Matte and Associates, an engineering firm that demolished Mumbai’s Lalbaug flyover and a flyover in Nagpur in short periods of time, was engaged for the project. “The advantage we had with those projects was we had complete road closure, which is not the case here. This is causing delays, but we are doing our best to meet the deadline,” Matte had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyovers-demolition-will-be-complete-by-aug-10-pmrda/articleshow/77359397.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rains bring relief, defer water cut call till after Ganesh fest||PUNE: The catchment areas of the dams supplying water to Pune and the ghat areas received rain in double digits till Tuesday morning. The rainfall was the highest recorded in the catchments of the four reservoirs since almost a month and one of the biggest downpours this monsoon. The rain revival prompted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to defer its decision on water cuts in the city till after the approaching Ganeshotsav. PMC officials said a meeting would be convened on the rain situation after the festival to take a decision on the water cuts. “As per the weather forecast, good rainfall is expected in the days to come. The current water availability is sufficient for fulfilling the city’s needs till September. We have decided to adopt a wait-and-watch stand on the water cuts for the time being. The decision will be taken after the Ganesh festival,” mayor Muralidhar Mohol told the media after a meeting with PMC and irrigation department officials. Rains bring relief, defer water cut call till after Ganesh festAniruddha Pawaskar, head of the PMC’s water department, said, “We are not thinking of immediate water cuts in the wake of the revival of monsoon. A review meeting will be conducted from time to time to take a stock of the storage in the four dams, after which an appropriate decision will be taken. As per the IMD, heavy rains are expected in the next few days and also the next week.” “The rainfall quantum in Temghar, Varasgaon, Panshet and Khadakwasla is likely to be more (than that recorded till Tuesday morning) by Wednesday morning. Though Khadakwasla dam recorded 23mm rainfall till Tuesday morning, it was one of the highest 24-hour quantum since a month. The dam had been recording single-digit to zero rain since most of July till August so far,” an irrigation department official said. The collective stock of the four reservoirs rose from Monday’s 9.82 TMC to 9.96 TMC till Tuesday 8am. This storage was 28.48 TMC during the same period last year. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI, “Moderate rain with isolated heavy rain is very likel in Pune on August 5 too. A low pressure area lies over north Bay of Bengal off West Bengal- Bangladesh coasts with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to upper levels tilting southwestwards with height. It is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours and move westwards to central India during the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rains-bring-relief-defer-water-cut-call-till-after-ganesh-fest/articleshow/77360682.cms||Neha Madaan
August 5, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj girl Ananya Singh bags 51st rank in UPSC||PRAYAGRAJ: As the results of UPSC 2019 were declared on Tuesday, a sense of joy and fulfilment of dreams among the aspirants ran high across the country. Among these successful candidates is a 22-year-old local girl, Ananya Singh, who has secured 51st rank. A fresh graduate from Shri Ram College of Commerce, New Delhi and daughter of a former district judge, AK Singh, Ananya has cracked the coveted exam in her first attempt. A student of St Mary’s Convent of the city, she has been district topper (ICSE board) in both class X (2013, 96%) and class XII (2015, 98.25%). A brilliant synthesiser player and found of reading, young Ananya was in her final year of graduation when she seriously started preparing for civil services, keeping Economics as her main subject for the coveted exam. She completed her graduation in 2018. Her mother, Anjali Singh had been a former senior lecturer at IERT, Prayagraj and elder brother, Aishwarya Pratap Singh stays at Kanpur and posted as additional chief metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar along with his wife Jyotsna Singh who is posted as metropolitan magistrate at Kanpur Nagar. “Since my school days I wanted to go for IAS, but actual preparations started only 2017-18. During initial phase, I used to devote seven to eight hours for studying and when the base was set, it was around six hours of serious studies,” said Ananya, while talking to TOI from Noida. Coaching is good for guiding you and the test series makes you more prepared, but surly it is your personal commitment and preparations that makes the difference between success and failure, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-girl-ananya-singh-bags-51st-rank-in-upsc/articleshow/77358120.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram transferred to Prime Minister’s Office||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram was on Tuesday transferred to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) as deputy secretary. A personnel ministry order issued on Tuesday stated that the 2008-batch IAS officer, at the helm of affairs to address the Covid-19 pandemic in Pune district, was selected for the post under the Central Staffing Scheme — an annual exercise — for a period of four years from the date of taking charge. A screening committee of secretaries select the officers under the scheme. Ram would have to join the new office within three weeks from the date of appointment, stated the note from the department of personnel and training written to the chief secretary of Maharashtra. Ram said he had received the order and would follow the direction of joining the new office. “I feel it is an important task to work at the Centre. It is an opportunity to work with and learn from experts,” he said. Pune has seen a few bureaucratic shuffling amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Shekhar Gaikwad was transferred from the post of Pune municipal commissioner and made the sugar commissioner. Deepak Mhaisekar retired from the post of Pune divisional commissioner and Saurabh Rao took charge from him. On his two-year stint as the Pune collector, Ram said the rainfall during the assembly polls last year was a big impediment, but his team kept up the spirit. He said there had been excellent coordination from all sides during the pandemic, too. “The Pune team has readied the infrastructure and eventually things will iron out as it has in other cities,” he said. The outgoing officer had joined as Pune collector in April 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-collector-naval-kishore-ram-transferred-to-prime-ministers-office/articleshow/77359402.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow municipal corporation blacklists 18 firms for supplying overpriced spares||LUCKNOW: A scam worth Rs 1.16 crore has been detected in the rubbish removal (RR) department of Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) in which motor vehicle spare parts supplied by 18 companies were found to be ‘overpriced’. The civic body has blacklisted these companies and issued recovery certificates to take back the money overcharged. A committee has also been formed to investigate internal hand in the scam. The scam surfaced during a review of files of the RR department after a recent incident in which a contractor threatened an officer with dire consequences after he was denied a street lighting contract. While inspecting files of past transactions of the contractor with LMC, officers stumbled upon documents which when scrutinised revealed that as many as 18 companies which had supplied spare parts for trucks and other vehicles used by the RR department had overpriced the products. “We found that Rs 1.16 crore was paid as extra amount to the 18 companies altogether for the spare parts supplied by them in 2018-19,” said additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar. The spare parts were heavily overpriced by the companies and the payment was made without any scrutiny, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-blacklists-18-firms-for-supplying-overpriced-spares/articleshow/77361290.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 75-year-old leaves for Covid-19 test, goes missing for 24 hours||KOLKATA: A 75-year-old former NTPC official, who was driven out of his paying guest accommodation in Kalighat on Monday after he developed fever and dysentery — both Covid symptoms — went missing for more than 24 hours following a Covid test at AMRI hospitals. Snehomoy Banerjee was finally found on Tuesday evening, when he returned to Kalighat, visibly sick and shaken and unable to tell about his whereabouts. His Covid report, however, came negative and he is now undergoing treatment for dysentery and exhaustion at a city hospital. The man’s daughter, a schoolteacher in Gurugram, had posted on social media about her father being missing, when friends alerted cops who started to look out for the elderly man and scanned the entire stretch between AMRI Dhakuria and Kalighat with his photograph and CCTV grabs. But finally he was spotted by the landlord who saw the man sitting outside the house on Tuesday evening and alerted his daughter and cops. “The last 24 hours have been the most anxious moments I have ever spent in my life. The fact that my father had a tendency to forget simple things lately made me wonder if I would at all be able to find him out sitting so far away. With direct flights between Delhi and Kolkata not operational, I could not even fly down. But I am indebted to Kolkata Police and the hospital authorities for their cooperation,” said Swarnali Chaudhury, his daughter. According to Chaudhury, her father, who lived at a paying guest accommodation on Kalighat Jadu Bhattacharya Lane ever since his wife passed away in 2013, was told by the landlord to shift somewhere else as he was sick. “I had advised him to shift to my in-laws’ place at an apartment in Gariahat. When he went there, the security guard thermal checked him and didn’t let him in as he had mild fever. They asked him to get a Covid-negative certificate. I asked some relatives to accompany him but none came forward and he went for the test all by himself at Dhakuria AMRI,” said Chaudhury. Chaudhury says since he went to the hospital on Monday afternoon, his phone was switched off and the family couldn’t contact him any further. “We tried all our relatives’place and everywhere else. Then I wrote on social media following which Kolkata Police officers contacted me,” said Chaudhury. AMRI hospital officials said some of their functionaries were also alerted about the post after which they also started following it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/75-yr-old-leaves-for-test-goes-missing-for-24-hrs/articleshow/77359425.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 5, 2020||Kanpur||9 deaths, 370 Covid-19 positive cases in Kanpur||KANPUR: For the first time in past two days, the count of Covid-19 positive cases fell below 400 mark on Tuesday. A total of 370 positive cases were detected by the health department which took the total tally to 6,670. Meanwhile, 60 patients were discharged from hospitals taking the count of those cured to 2,323. But still a whopping 3,858 patients are undertreatment at different hospitals. The Covid toll reached 233 with nine more deaths on Tuesday. Earlier, on Monday six Covid related deaths were reported. Of the deceased, six patients dies at LLR Hospital. They all were undertreatment.  District health department informed that the deceased were also suffering from other ailments. Department also informed that 391 medical teams visited 25,029 houses and carried out survey. These teams shortlisted 64 persons and collected samples of 41 persons. Health team collected 2,329 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/9-deaths-370-covid-19-positive-cases-in-city/articleshow/77360690.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Pune||Epic touch to Mughal-e-Azam’s masks, sets & paper horses from Pune sculptor||PUNE: The epic film Mughal-e-Azam, which completes 60 years on Wednesday, has a distinct Pune touch. The lavish sets that added grandeur to the 20-reel movie were designed by noted Pune sculptor B R alias Appasaheb Khedkar, the art director. Khedkar was famous for making Ganapati idols and statues for pandal decoration. Impressed by his skills director K Asif offered him Mughal-e-Azam. It was his first film as art director. Khedkar had also designed the sets of another epic film Pakeezah, subsequently concentrated on sculpting and was known for his mastery in the statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. “My father worked in an era when technology had not progressed much in the film industry. He was the first to introduce a rubber mask in films when he made a one of actress Madhubala which was worn by a male Kathak dancer Laxminarayan while shooting the song ‘Pyar kiya to darna kya’ because the actress could not do the famous pirouettes. The mask was so perfect that when K Asif first saw the mask-wearing Laxminarayan dressed as Anarkali (Madhubala), he could not believe it was not the actress herself,” recalled Khedkar’s daughter Seema Shirke, who is carrying forward his legacy. For making the mask, Khedkar first made a plaster of paris statue of the actress for which she modelled herself. “He then made a face cast from paper pulp and approached a balloon factory to get a rubber mask done. He had also made a mask of actor Dilip Kumar who has essayed the role of Salim. Once, my father told his assistant to wear that mask and meet K Asif. When Asif saw ‘Dilip Kumar’ in his office he was taken aback and asked him what he was doing there since he had no scenes to shoot that day,” Shirke said. It was Khedkar who again came to the rescue of Asif while shooting the scene showing a chained Anarkali being dragged into Akbar’s court. “Madhubala was quite delicate and it was apparent that she could not bear the weight of the iron chains. So my father made them from plaster of paris,” Shirke said, adding that many of the 400-odd horses used in the battle scenes were made of paper by her father as it was not possible to get so many for shooting. When Mughal-e-Azam was released on August 5, 1960 in 150 theatres including Maratha Mandir in Mumbai, Khedkar made a massive panel measuring 24 ft x 12ft depicting Dilip Kumar and Madhubala which was installed outside Maratha Mandir. “Just the faces measured six feet. Father used clay and plaster of paris to fashion that panel,” Shirke said. She said her father, who passed away in 2016 at the age of 92, was sculpting till he was 90 years old. “The last sculpture he did was a one-and-a-half-feet face of Madhubala which is our studio. He did it from memory,” Shirke added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/epic-touch-to-mughal-e-azams-masks-sets-paper-horses-from-pune-sculptor/articleshow/77359412.cms||Manjiri Damle
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Masks, gloves dumped on roads, what are SOPs for disposal, HC asks govt||MADURAI: Observing that people who are using masks and gloves are dumping them on the roads without any civic sense, the Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on the standard operating procedures (SOP) or protocol in place with regard to their disposal. When a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam raised a query with regard to the steps taken to dispose the same, the standing counsel appearing for Madurai Corporation was unable to answer it. The judges observed that as on date there is no SOP or protocol by the state government or local bodies to segregate, manage and treat the wastes such as masks and gloves used by the public. The court can take judicial notice of the fact that the disposal of the masks and gloves used by the public assumes greater importance. taking into consideration the potency and spread of Covid-19. Hence, the judges sought response from the state government. The court was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by it on news reports published in the Times of India with regard to the delay in announcing Covid-19 test results. Pursuant to an earlier direction, monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai district and dean of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) submitted a status report before the court. The judges observed that the report states that the results of tested people are handed over to them in person and also uploaded in ‘mdmc.ac.in’. The judges also opened the website in order to test its efficacy. Citing an instance, the judges said that when sample from the court officer was collected on July 4, the result was given only on August 4 though he had tested negative. Hence, the stand taken by the dean in the counter with regard to announcing results is not true. The judges said that test results of people who have tested negative for Covid-19 should also be informed to them since some weak-minded tend to take extreme steps. The additional advocate general K Chellapandian undertook to do the needful in this regard and stated that a further status report would be submitted in this regard. With regard to the steps taken to burial of people who succumbed due to Covid-19, the dean in the counter stated that the body is kept in the freezer box and packed as per ICMR guidelines and handed over to the family members after getting a written declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/masks-gloves-dumped-on-roads-what-are-sops-for-disposal-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/77360715.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Rain floods city pockets, brings temperature down||Kolkata: Intermittent heavy showers overnight and spells of rain on Tuesday left various parts of the city flooded for hours. What added more to the water woes was high tide. With pumping stations being pressed into action and the intensity of rain declining, water was drained out from majority of the flooded areas across the city. Some areas received around 24-mm rain. Pockets in Belgachhia, Cossipore, Ultadanga, Maniktala, Beliaghata, Muktaram Babu Street, Amherst Street, Alipore, Kidderpore, Behala, Bansdroni and some areas off EM Bypass remained waterlogged for the better part of the day. Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s drainage and sewerage department had asked executive engineers of all drainage pumping stations to keep the heavy duty pumps ready to drain out the storm water. With the 15 major drainage pumping stations taking stock of the situation, many areas got rid of the inundation. “For low-lying areas where there is hardly any underground drainage system, the KMC has arranged for portable pumps to flush out the stagnant water,” said a KMC official. A low pressure area over the North Bay of Bengal off the Bengal-Bangladesh coasts had brought in the rain. Met officials said the system was moving westward and the intensity of rain would come down by Wednesday.s“The low pressure developed over off the Bengal-Bangladesh coasts is now moving towards Jharkhand. Therefore, the intensity and frequency of rain in Kolkata will decrease by Wednesday,” said GK Das director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre Kolkata. While the rain spells could be light to moderate in the city on Wednesday, some western districts, however, could be lashed by heavy rain. The rain, however, dragged the mercury and the humidity down. The temperature had soared to 37°C in the past few days. With moisture entering the land in abundance, the humidity had also gone up high. “The on-going rain will keep the mercury under check. We expect less humid and comfortable temperature for at least about a week. The maximum temperature will hover around 32°C to 34°C now,” added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-floods-city-pockets-brings-temperature-down/articleshow/77359454.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Ancient Mahavir statue, inscription found in Madurai||MADURAI: An ancient statue of Mahavir and a stone inscription pertaining to the period of Raja Raja Chola I, dating back to 9th to 10th centuries AD, have been discovered by a group of archaeologists near T Kallupatti in Madurai district. D Muneeswaran, co-ordinator of the Pandianadu Cultural Centre and his students of history, N Palanimurugan and M Palanimurugan had gone on a field exploration near the Thevatti Muniandi temple in Sengamedu in Karaikeni panchayat near T Kallupati a few weeks ago, following information that there was an ancient choultry in the region. It was identified that the inscriptions on the stones there belonged to the period of Raja Raja Chola I and Maravarman Sundarapandian I. The statue of Mahavir, which was almost intact was found about 500ft away from them. Muneeswaran said that careful examination had shown that the letters in Tamil inscribed on the stones belonged to the 13th century AD. There are eight fragmentary inscriptions in ‘Vattezhuthu’ in the choultry and a well. They begin with the words “Kanthalur Salai Kalamarutharuli” a name of a title given to King Raja Raja Chola I in his 13th year of reign, which pertains to the year, 998 AD. The inscriptions in Grantha scripts speak of donations made for burning of lamps in a temple in a place called Thiru Unnatoor in Sengudi Nadu. From the letters that are visible, they came to understand that the name of the temple began with ‘Arha’. The statue of Mahavir, the 24 Tirthankara, measuring 3.25ft high and 2.25ft in width and belonging to the 9th century AD was found on a royal seat flanked by two lions. He is seated in Artha pariyanga asana with a triple umbrella above his head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ancient-mahavir-statue-inscription-found-in-madurai/articleshow/77360752.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||During lockdown, B’luru, Kol airports busier than Mumbai’s||Mumbai: Bangalore airport has overtaken Mumbai airport to become the second busiest airport in India, shows Airports Authority of India passenger traffic data for the months between April and June. For now, technically, Mumbai is the fourth busiest airport in India, beaten by Kolkata as well. While this has much to do with the Covid-19 pandemic travel restrictions imposed on Mumbai airport by its state government, the data is a harbinger of changes to come as Bangalore airport is poised to overtake Mumbai in the next four to five years, say aviation consultants. Between April and June 2020, Bangalore airport handled a total of 4.5 lakh passengers, Kolkata handled 3.9 lakh passengers, while Mumbai handled only 3.2 lakh passengers. Delhi airport stayed at the top with 12.3 lakh passengers. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) data covers all domestic and international passengers who passed through these airports, including those on scheduled, repatriation and charter flights. Till March, Delhi was India’s busiest airport followed by Mumbai and third Bangalore. When domestic air travel resumed on May 25, the civil aviation ministry allowed airports to handle upto a third of their pre-COVID capacity. For Mumbai, it would have been about 350 flights per day. But the Maharashtra state government added further restrictions and permitted Mumbai airport to handle only 25 flight movements per day, which was later increased to 100 flights per day. The current slide in Mumbai airport’s passenger traffic ranking is a scenario that’s set to repeat in the years to come, long after Covid-19 loosens its debilitating chokehold on air transport. The reason? Bangalore airport commissioned a new parallel runway in December last year, allowing two runway operations simultaneously. Bangalore airport handled about 760 flights per day last winter as against Mumbai’s daily average of 960 flights. “Mumbai airport can increase passenger handling capacity to only 55-60 million. Bangalore airport could reach Mumbai airport’s passenger traffic threshold in 4-5 years under normal circumstances. Its parallel runway and new infrastructure will fast track growth,’’ said Kapil Kaul of global aviation consultancy firm, Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation. The land-starved Mumbai airport’s growth is stunted as it has no parallel runways. Instead, it has a set of cross-runways, which is two runways, but only on paper. On ground, flights land or take off from only one runway at a time in Mumbai, which is why the airport was unable to add more flights to cater to the rising air travel demand this decade. Less than a decade ago, Mumbai airport was the busiest airport in India. According to AAI statistics, between 2009 and 2011, Mumbai and Delhi were neck-to-neck in terms of passenger traffic, both handling 29 million passengers each, annually. But thereafter Delhi took off with its three runways that allowed it to add flights to meet the increase in demand for domestic air travel. In FY 20, Delhi handled 67 million passengers, while Mumbai handled 46 million and Bangalore handled 32 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/during-lockdown-bluru-kol-airports-busier-than-mumbais/articleshow/77360758.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Drunk caterer runs amok, rams four vehicles; 1 person dead||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old businessman, reportedly driving under the influence of alcohol, rammed his car into four vehicles and sped way, leaving one of his victims dead, while another was seriously injured in a span of a few hours on Monday. Cyberabad police arrested the offender, B Keshava, on Tuesday. Keshava, 45, who runs catering business from Bapughat, Langar Houz, on Monday took his brother’s Ford EcoSport car for a spin. Later, he reportedly consumed liquor. As he was returning home, he first hit a car, causing damage to the vehicle. Later, on his way to Rajendranagar, he rammed into an auto near Budwel Extension, police said. While proceeding to Shivarampally, he crashed into a Honda Activa at PVNR Expressway Pillar Number 203. The rider, Srinivas from Kismathpur, was returning from his sister’s house after celebrating Raksha Bandhan. He sustained severe head injuries in the accident and died on the way to hospital. “After causing the accident, he sped away towards Mailardevpally. There, he again rammed into another two-wheeler and caused injury to the rider, Gandhari Shiva,” Rajendranagar inspector G Suresh said. When some eye-witnesses followed his vehicle and passed on information to police, the men in khaki swung in action and chased the car to stop him at Shathamrai under the RGI Airport police station limits. He was questioned and police ran a breathalyser test on him. “His blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was found to be 550 mg/100 ml permissible limit: 30mg/100 ml). Four cases were registered against him under Rajendranagar and Mailardevpally limits,” the officer added. He was booked under Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC. He was arrested and sent to Central Jail, Cherlapally. In another accident, a man died, while his two pillion riders were injured after their bike was hit by a Hyundai i10 car on Monday. The car driver was arrested by Chaitanyapuri police on Tuesday. Raghavendra and his two friends, pillion riders Hemanth and Dilip, were proceedings towards Mohan Nagar from Omni Hospital on their Pulsar bike late on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-caterer-runs-amok-rams-four-vehicles-1-person-dead/articleshow/77359484.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake auto driver molests 24-year-old||Kolkata: An auto driver was arrested on Monday for allegedly molesting and attempting to kidnap a 24-year-old passenger on a desolate Salt Lake road that forced her to jump off the moving vehicle. The incident happened near Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital around 8pm on Sunday when the woman was alone in the auto and was heading to her home at AC Block. She had noted down the vehicle’s registration number and based on her complaint, the driver Pralay Mallick, was arrested late on Monday. He was produced in a Salt Lake court and remanded in six days’judicial custody. “Since the time I had boarded the auto, the driver had started misbehaving with me and touching me inappropriately. I was sitting on the front seat. As the vehicle reached PNB bus stop, he started moving towards City Centre. I protested but he said he would drop other passengers at City Centre,” said the woman. After all passengers got off at City Centre, the driver allegedly started speeding up towards a desolate road. “When he slowed down near a speed breaker, I jumped off the vehicle,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-auto-driver-molests-24-year-old/articleshow/77359479.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Mostly European strain in West Bengal’s early nCoV infections||KOLKATA: Most of the earliest nCoV strains found in Bengal were of a mutated subtype found in Europe, according to a preliminary genome analysis. At least one strain was from China, while two others — found in people who hailed from East Midnapore, with no international travel history — were of a subtype rarely found in India. This fact came to light through a study conducted by National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani, NICED and the Bangalore-based Indian Institute of Science. The result has been published in the Journal of Biosciences. The study was carried out on samples taken from nine patients, but most of the early findings held true against a larger set of data, collected from 1,000 patients, the results of which were released on Saturday. The preliminary genomic analysis of the earliest nCoV strains — conducted through April and May from samples collected from Bengal patients — indicate that most of those were of the mutated sub-type ‘A2a clade’, found in Europe. Before the study, the Chinese sub-type — B4 clade — was not reported anywhere in India. Researchers say this had appeared in fewer than 1% of genomic sequences reported worldwide. The 44-year-old man, a Kolkata resident on whose sample it was found, had no travel history to China. The study found the emergence of several mutations in various genes of the viral genome, that’s expected to be useful for tracking the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mostly-european-strain-in-states-early-ncov-infections/articleshow/77361326.cms||Saibal Sen
August 5, 2020||Goa||Isidore backs oppn to NH expansion||POINGUINIM: Deputy speaker and BJP Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes has thrown his weight behind opposition to the proposed expansion of NH 66, which involves the felling of thousands of trees at the eco-sensitive Karmal Ghat. He has lent his support to the demand for the construction of a tunnel instead, which he said would save several trees from being cut. “After studying the whole file of the proposed project, it was my duty to support the people of Canacona. The environment has to be protected,” Fernandes said in a widely circulated video clip. The MLA further said that he has written to the Prime Minister’s Office, the Union minister for road transport and highways and to the chief minister urging that the authorities listen to the concerns of the people. He also said that although the highways from Canacona to Margao needed to be widened to prevent accidents, better alternatives could be explored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isidore-backs-oppn-to-nh-expansion/articleshow/77360778.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Most patients who died were diagnosed too late||LUCKNOW: The past two days saw more cases of Covid-19 deaths where patients were diagnosed with the disease at an advanced stage. A total of nine casualties—five on Monday and four on Tuesday—were reported in the past 48 hours, taking the toll to 124. Of the total deaths, nearly 100 have taken place in the past 30 days. TOI had earlier reported how 60% victims are those brought to the hospital late as patients and family members are not able to gauge that difficulty in breathing is also a sign of Covid-19 because novel coronavirus hits the lungs. On Tuesday, a 35-year-old man, the son of a retired government officer, died in his Vikasnagar residence within hours after testing Covid-19 positive. “The report came on Monday afternoon and my son developed breathing problems at night and collapsed in the wee hours,” the father told TOI. Three more family members have tested positive. At Lokbandhu Hospital, a 66-year-old woman died of bilateral pneumonitis caused due to infection. She came at an advanced stage and was also suffering from renal issues, diabetes and hypertension, said Dr Amita Yadav, CMS. A 71-year-old man from Chandrashekhar Marg, admitted with breathing difficulty, died within 13 hours of admission at KGMU. “The lungs of the patient were severely damaged. He also had Parkinson’s disease,” said university spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Three such cases were reported on Monday. Two were admitted at an advanced stage to KGMU. The third, a 46-year-old man from Chowk, died on the way to hospital. He had approached several private hospitals on Thursday after developing breathing problems, but was told to get tested for Covid-19 before treatment. “His test report from a private lab came on Sunday. We then called CMO helpline to shift him to a hospital, but an ambulance arrived in the wee hours on Monday. He died on the way to the hospital,” said a relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/most-patients-who-died-were-diagnosed-too-late/articleshow/77361327.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 5, 2020||Allahabad||Highways leading to Ayodhya under high surveillance||PRAYAGRAJ: A day before Bhoomi Pujan at the Ram temple site in Ayodhya scheduled on Wednesday, the Prayagraj range police on Tuesday reviewed the security arrangements and barricaded all routes leading to Ayodhya from Prayagraj, Kaushambi and Pratapgarh. The range police have set up 20 special check posts cum pickets at Kokhraj (Kaushambi), Soroan, Nawabganj (Prayagraj) and Pratapgarh-Sultanpur road leading towards Ayodhya. “As many as 10 policemen have been deployed at each check post. The policemen are equipped with bulletproof jackets and automatic weapons. Checking of vehicles have been intensified at the check posts,” informed IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh. He also added that cops are constantly on the round to ensure adequate security arrangements in city areas as well. Police forces have been deployed at prominent temples and residents have been advised to stay indoors. “Senior police officials will patrol the city throughout the day on Wednesday and sleuths of local intelligence unit have been asked to compile detailed information about the situation,” said Singh adding, “We have been maintaining a strict watch on highways leading to Ayodhya” he added. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister of UP, Keshav Prasad Maurya, on Tuesday, interacted with the BJP corporators, MLAs and workers at Prayagraj. He said, “Residents of Prayagraj will celebrate Dipotsav on Wednesday evening to mark the Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya.” BJP workers said they have mobilised city residents to celebrate Dipotsav. Apart from decoration of temples and maths, dwaj pataka will be placed at prominent intersections of the city. Meanwhile, management committees of prominent city temples have also made elaborate arrangements to light diays in their premises. The VHP has too planned to illuminate diyas at 5,000 temples and over 200 maths and ashrams in Prayagraj district on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/highways-leading-to-ayodhya-under-high-surveillance/articleshow/77358190.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Salon owner gives free haircuts at kids’, old age homes||MADURAI: M Veerakumar has been offering free haircuts to inmates of children homes and old age homes in Madurai for the past 10 years. The barber from KK Nagar has put his life on the line and has continued to offer his services even amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Veerakumar, 48, started giving free haircuts after a church priest requested his service free of cost, explaining the plight of the children staying in children’s homes. Veerakumar readily agreed and has since been regularly offering his service at half a dozen children homes and old age homes. “I started from a humble beginning. I opened my first salon at Mattuthavani bus terminal when I was 23, but struggled to even pay rent for it. I then went to Malaysia to work there for a few years. After I returned to Madurai, I opened my second salon in KK Nagar, where I found success,” Veerakumar said. Veerakumar said that he gave haircuts to around 40 people in a month. Although there are nine people working under him in his four salons, he ensures that he joins them, while going to give free haircuts. He prefers weekdays, since weekends are hectic. Before he started offering his service at homes, he occasionally used to give haircuts to homeless people at Mattuthavani bus terminal. “When I work for free, it gives me contentment and a sense of joy. I also give free haircuts to school and college students from poor families, who come to my salons,” he said. V P Manikandan, a social activist said that apart from giving free haircuts, Veerakumar also offered free food once in a month to various old age and children homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/salon-owner-gives-free-haircuts-at-kids-old-age-homes/articleshow/77360761.cms||V Devanathan
August 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bizman nabbed for siphoning off Rs 3.2cr||Kolkata: A businessman in Khardah dealing in antiques was arrested by Bidhannagar police for allegedly siphoning off Rs 3.2 crore from the bank account of a Chennai-based businessman on Monday night. The officers of Bidhannagar cyber crime cell arrested the accused, Samiran Saha (33), following the complaint lodged by the regional manager of a private bank. Saha was produced in a Salt Lake court on Tuesday, which remanded him in six-day police custody. Saha had somehow got hold of the account details and other credentials of Chennai’s Gopalpuram resident, Jayshree Shekhar and faked his identity while approaching the Teghoria branch of the private bank. He managed to get the mobile number and e-mail ID, linked with the account, changed and registered his own cellphone number with a mobile banking app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bizman-nabbed-for-siphoning-off-rs-3-2cr/articleshow/77359500.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt order bars US fed agencies from hiring foreign workers||Hyderabad: In yet another blow to Telugus seeking to work in the USA, president Donald Trump has signed an executive order (EO) asking federal agencies not to contract or subcontract foreign workers, mainly those with H-1B visas. Immigration attorney Rahul Reddy, with Reddy & Neumann, PC, said the move could affect around 30,000 Indians. “About 25% of GDP is spent by the federal government. There are many jobs in this space that Indians can handle,” said Reddy. The development came over a month after the Trump administration suspended some temporary work visas until end of 2020. The reason being touted is to save American jobs. Immigration attorney Rajiv S Khanna said the impact of the decision is yet to be seen. “The language of the EO uses ‘lucrative contracts’. This means if a project is worth a certain amoun,t it might be saved for Americans,” Khanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-order-bars-us-fed-agencies-from-hiring-foreign-workers/articleshow/77359501.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard kills five-year-old boy in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: A five-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Chhota Udepur district on Monday late evening. The deceased Vansh Rathwa, a resident of Umarva village in Pavi Jetpur taluka, was playing near the cattle outside his house when the leopard attacked him. The boy screamed for help as the leopard grabbed him by the neck. Hearing his cries, Vansh’s father Ashok, who was working in the farm, and others in the neighbourhood rushed to the front of the house where Vansh was playing. On seeing so many people who were also pelting stones, leopard left the boy and ran away into the wild. Vansh was taken to a hospital in Pavi Jetpur but he succumbed on the way. After inspecting the spot, the forest department has placed two cages to nab the leopard. “Since it was dark and the victim was playing near the place where cattle was tied, the leopard must have confused him for an animal and attacked him,” said a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-kills-five-year-old-boy-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/77358000.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: CMS founder, 9 police personnel among 611 new coronavirus cases||LUCKNOW: With the rate of transmission increasing rapidly, the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 600-mark for the first time in the city on Tuesday. An average of 25 people are getting infected with novel coronavirus every hour, pushing the tally since the outbreak on March 11 to close to 10,000. Tuesday’s flare-up accounted for over 20% of the total 2,983 cases recorded in the state on the day. The patients included founder manager of City Montessori School chain Jagdish Gandhi and nine cops. Total 1,118 people were diagnosed with the disease over two days—507 on Monday and 611 on Tuesday—catapulting the city’s case load to 9.805 and the number of active patients to 4,638. The bright side was that so far, 5,043 patients have recovered. However, 124 could not survive. “Jagdish Gandhiji had got himself tested on Monday after developing a fever. The report came positive. He has mild symptoms and blood oxygen level is 99%, but due to old age, he has been admitted to SGPGI,” said CMS public relations officer Rishi Khanna. Among cops, five were posted at Hazratganj police station and four at police lines, taking the total number of civil police personnel found infected so far to over 100. The regional transport office in Transportnagar was closed for 48 hours for sanitization after an employee tested positive. The tests for driving licences scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday will be held after August 17. Area-wise, maximum 25 cases were reported from Talkatora followed by Mahanagar with 24, Thakurganj (23), Cantonment (21), Gomtinagar and Bazarkhala (20 each), Aashiana and Alambagh (19 each), Indiranagar (18) and Madiaon, Chowk and Rae Bareli Road with 17 each. On Monday, six employees of the State Information Commission tested positive following which the office was closed for 48 hours for sanitization. Other employees are being tested. 19 more LMC employees test positiveNineteen more LMC employees have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days, taking the tally of people associated with the civic body found infected so far to 38. LMC had organised camps last week to get employees tested after 19 including two corporators and two officers had tested positive. One of them also died due to infection. “Samples of 284 employees were collected and sent for testing. The reports have found 19 people Covid-19 positive. As all of them are asymptomatic, they have been home quarantined,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cms-founder-9-police-personnel-among-611-new-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/77361330.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Cases continue to steadily decline in Madurai city too||MADURAI: The number of Covid-19 cases reported in Madurai city went below 50 for the first time on Monday and to below 30 on Tuesday as the infection rate has been declining gradually during the last two weeks. Only 47 cases turned positive from the 2,550 samples tested by the corporation on Monday. The positive rate is 1.83%. Only a week ago, 187 cases were reported in a single day in the city with zone one and two alone contributing 140 cases. It came down to 108 in the end of July and 84 on July 1. Officials said that although positive cases have been on the decline, they have not reduced the number of testing. It is being done in the rage of 2,500 to 2,600 a day. As on Monday, 8,638 positive cases were reported in city limits and there were 1,483 active cases. In Madurai district, 11,487 cases have been reported, while 2,242 of them are active. “We have not done anything innovative in containing the infection. But continued the time-tested methods such as aggressive testing, stringent locking up of houses and streets, and daily ward-wise monitoring. It was the replication of what was done in Chennai to bring down the cases,” said an official from Madurai Corporation. Officials said that once a positive case is reported, the particular house is locked and it is ensured that no one leaves the house. No relaxation is given to anybody. Officials said that secondary contacts too had to undergo testing. All including asymptomatic people were tested. It helped bring down influenza like infection cases, they said. The micro management plan implemented by corporation commissioner S Visakan also helped a lot. All the 100 wards in the city were divided into 25 sectors and each sector was brought under the control of an official with assistant engineer rank. Sector wise and zone wise reviews were carried out on a day-to-day basis. The ward that reported more cases in each sector was given importance, a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-continue-to-steadily-decline-in-madurai-city-too/articleshow/77360767.cms||V Devanathan
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||US Consulate likely to open early next week||Hyderabad: The US Consulate General in the city is very likely to open by early next week. The Consulate, which was shut on March 16 and left many workers and prospective students stranded, is already taking emergency requests on a case-by-case basis. While no official statement was given regarding its opening, sources including visa consultants, on condition of anonymity, said that some appointments were being given. To a query by TOI, a US consulate spokesperson said, “The resumption of routine services is on a post-by-post basis, in accordance with the (US) State Department’s Diplomacy Strong framework for safely returning our workforce to department facilities. Based on this framework, consular sections in India are handling only certain categories of emergency and mission critical visa cases at the moment.” About the future, the statement reads: “As the situation changes and we are able to increase visa services, in a manner that keeps both our staff and customers safe, we will advise the public. Applicants with an urgent matter who need to travel immediately should follow the guidance provided on their nearest embassy or consulate’s website to request an emergency appointment.” HIB visa holders and prospective students remained on tenterhooks. Anumolu Krishna, who has been stuck here since March, said: “This is a step in the right direction. I hope they prioritize the cancelled appointments in March. I have been patiently waiting to get my visa stamped and get back to my wife along with my kid who is here. My son has been separated from his mother for months.” Mahalakshmi B, who has been in the city for five months, sounded hopeful of returning back. She said, “The proclamation has only barred those without visa stamping. If this is done once the Consulate is opened, the hope is we can return soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-consulate-likely-to-open-early-next-week/articleshow/77359509.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Doctors show how Rakshabandhan extends to protecting patients too||LUCKNOW: Every Rakshabandhan, Dr D Himanshu’s family would reunite to celebrate the festival. However, amid the pandemic this year, the doctor put his Covid duty first before seeing his family. Posted as the in charge of the infectious diseases unit at KGMU, Dr Himanshu reached his house on the evening of Rakshabandhan. Even then, he couldn’t celebrate as he maintained distance from his family. “Due to the pandemic, our family members couldn’t come over, nor could we visit them. I am directly involved in sample collection and cleaning at the hospital, therefore, I have to ensure zero risk of infection to my family. Just like patients in isolation wards, we are living a restricted life at home. But, I don’t regret it. As much as our duty as brothers means to protect our sisters, as doctors, we are bound to protect our patients,” said the 40-year-old doctor. Many corona warriors from the medical profession marked Rakshabandhan only via video calls as duty called. Dr Sarvesh Kumar, who has finished his stint in the Covid-19 ward at KGMU and is in quarantine now, relied on video calls to watch his sisters perform the ritual at his home in Aligarh. Some doctors though could take out time to mark the occasion in some way. Dr Sheetal Verma, associate professor of microbiology at KGMU and nodal in charge of tele-medicine unit, took some time off in the day to meet her brother for rakhi. Dr Vidushi Kulshreshtha ended her duty in the Covid-19 ICU ward at KGMU two days ago. Staying under passive quarantine for the next 14 days in the hospital itself, the doctor celebrated the day with her doctor brother who came all the way from Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/docs-show-how-rakshabandhan-extends-to-protecting-patients-too/articleshow/77361336.cms||Aditi Singh
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Man, 22, ends life at Covid care centre due to depression||TENKASI: A 22-year-old man, who was getting treated for Covid-19 in a Covid care centre at Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan of his room on Tuesday morning. The victim, identified as A Muthukumar from Veerasigamani village near Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district took the extreme step due to depression on the day he was to be discharged. Muthukumar, who was working in a private finance firm tested positive on July 27. “He was taken to the Covid care centre at a private college in Puliyangudi on July 28, as he was asymptomatic. There were 94 people in the centre and he was sharing the room with two others,” a health department official said. Around 8am, his roommates, who had gone for a bath and and returned to the room were shocked to see him hanging. They alerted the staff at the centre. “He was to be discharged today (Tuesday). Preliminary inquiries revealed that he died of Covid-19 related depression. It was coupled with misunderstanding in the family. He was upset that nobody from his family called him over the last few days,” said Puliyangudi inspector, S Alexraj. He was also depressed over the stigma once he returned home. The body was taken to the Tenkasi district government hospital for autopsy and handed over to his family for the final rites. Puliyangudi police registered a case under section 174 of the CrPC. This is the second suicide by a Covid-19 patient in a care centre in the district in less than two weeks. On July 24, Marikani, 52, from near Sankarankovil hanged himself due to depression. A health department official said that they are giving counselling and yoga classes for all those brought to the centres. “Following the two incidents, we are planning to intensify counselling at the centres from Wednesday and to introduce activities that will relieve them from stress,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-22-ends-life-at-covid-care-centre-due-to-depression/articleshow/77360771.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT grad aces UPSC, fulfils dad’s dream||Hyderabad: The sixth time was the charm for V Teja Deepak, who secured All India Rank (AIR) 279 in the UPSC examination 2019 and fulfilled his late father’s dream of seeing him as a civil servant. Deepak has been preparing for the civils soon after he graduated from IIT Kharagpur in 2012. His father, who served in state police, inspired him to join civil services. “In every attempt since 2014, I reached till the interview stage and failed to crack it by a narrow margin of four to 10 marks. I lost my father to a heart stroke after the third attempt in 2016. His death only made me stronger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-grad-aces-upsc-fulfils-dads-dream/articleshow/77359536.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Over 10,000 firms falter in tax payments in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Around 10,800 companies either defaulted or paid less tax to Delhi government from January to March this year, which resulted in funding of the Covid-19 fight and public welfare works getting hampered. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday appealed to all companies to immediately deposit their taxes and warned that stringent action would be taken against defaulters. Till now, the trade and taxes department has evaluated 15,000 companies, but scrutiny of all 7 lakh companies registered under GST would be done soon. The department was able to recover Rs 10 crore from two defaulting companies in the last one week. Sisodia said the companies had collected money from the public, but hadn’t deposited it with the government. “This will affect development work, including the fight against the pandemic. Delhi government will take stringent action against companies that fail to deposit the full amount of tax,” he added. Notices have been issued to 111 liquor companies for not paying VAT from January to March. Last week, three major search operations were conducted against defaulters, including marble and granite companies and bulk taxpayers. Tax amounting to Rs 20.7 lakh was collected from them. In one caseḤ, the company’s office was sealed. In another case, the company’s papers were confiscated. Action was also taken against firms moving goods without carrying e-way bills. Since June 23, around 140 vehicles have been detained and Rs 1 crore collected from them as taxes and penalty. From January to March, Delhi government received Rs 2,015 crore less tax compared with last year. In 2019, around Rs 5,792 crore was collected as tax, but this year it was only Rs 3,777 crore. The state’s budget has more than doubled over the past five years owing to plugging the leaks in tax collection. Since the government is staring at a revenue crisis, it has become far more important now to curb it. An analysis of 15,000 high turnover taxpayers revealed that nearly 970 of them registered under GST of both the Centre and state hadn’t filed returns for the fourth quarter of 2019-20 and first quarter of 2020-21. The extended period granted for filing of GST returns for the first quarter of 2020-21 got over in July 2020. The analysis was started to catch defaulters. Taking cognisance of the findings, a list of defaulters has been prepared by Delhi government. The department is also analysing the payment profile of such taxpayers from the returns filed in the previous quarters. The department has started issuing notices under Form 3A to the defaulting 10,800 taxpayers for filing late returns. In case they fail to file their returns within the prescribed time of 15 days, further action would be taken against them. Watch Tax payments: Delhi government warns of stringent action against defaulting firms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-10k-firms-falter-in-tax-payments/articleshow/77360773.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Five held for stealing cell phones from firm warehouse in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Five employees of an e-commerce company were arrested for stealing Rs 1 lakh worth mobile phones from the company warehouse. Md Muzamith and M Anil of Ramanjapur, Ch Shiva of Solipet in Shabad, T M Prashanth and K Bablu of Bhotiguda in Shamshabad were involved in the theft. On July 31, A Koteshwar Reddy, senior executive (security and loss prevention) of Hyderabad Hub E-com Express in Rasheedguda, Shamshabad, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that unknown persons had stolen phones from the delivery hub. “Again on August 2, Reddy, along with few of his colleagues, searched the parcels in the delivery hub that came from e-commerce companies. Reddy found out that six cell phones and two imitation gold chains were missing and lodged a second complaint,” Shamshabad SI A Sudarshan said. Based on the complaints, police registered two separate theft cases under section 381 of the IPC and launched investigation. After looking at the CCTV camera footages and employee logs, police picked up the accused for questioning on August 3 and they confessed to have stolen the phones and imitation jewellery. Police recovered seven stolen mobile phones and two items of imitation jewellery, all worth Rs 1 lakh, from their possession. The accused were sent to judicial remand on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-held-for-stealing-cell-phones-from-firm-warehouse/articleshow/77359562.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Meerut||RLD students protest cane payment delay, demand voiding of farmers’ power bills & school fees||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Members of the students’ wing of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Tuesday protested the delay in payment of sugarcane dues across the state at the district cane office in Shamli, and submitted a memorandum of their demands, including that electricity bills and school fees of farmers and their children is annulled. Speaking to TOI, Rajan Jawal, district general secretary of the RLD student body, said, “As many as Rs 15,000 crore is due for sugarcane across UP. In Shamli alone, sugar mills owe farmers Rs 700 crore. We have sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and asked him to look into the matter.” The protesters also demanded that FIRs be registered against sugar mill owners who don’t pay dues within 14 days. Concurring with the protesters, Shamil district cane officer Vijay Bahadur told TOI, “Farmers in Shamli alone are yet to be paid Rs 712 crore. Notices are being sent to sugarcane mills. I hope dues will be cleared soon.” It should be noted that when asked about sugarcane dues of farmers in June, UP sugarcane minister Suresh Rana had said, “The previous Samajwadi Party government had paid out Rs 95,000 crore dues in five years. Our government has already paid Rs 99,000 crore in three years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rld-students-protest-cane-payment-delay-demand-voiding-of-farmers-power-bills-school-fees/articleshow/77357062.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Signs of thaw in Rajasthan as Congress sends out feelers to Sachin Pilot camp||JAIPUR: Amid its ongoing confrontation with Sachin Pilot, conciliatory signals have emerged from Congress with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the Rajasthan former deputy CM can return to the fold if he gives up BJP’s “hospitality” and “security” of Haryana police. The remarks come even as talks with the rebel faction — holed up in Haryana — have resumed in recent days. Though at a nebulous stage, the opening for compromise is a marked departure from the estrangement that looked imminent amid mounting court battles and CM Ashok Gehlot’s sharp comments in response to the demand for a change in leadership in the state. The talks can still go either way, it is felt in Congress quarters, with sources in the rebel camp making it clear the issue needing discussion is leadership change. Pilot has said his rebellion was provoked by a “vindictive” police probe against him over allegations of horse-trading, blaming it on Gehlot and pointed to FIRs against him and other MLAs in his camp even while underlining his claim to the CM's post. On Tuesday, the two camps squared up again. Congress, when asked about talks with rebels, said, “The legislators should first give up the Haryana police's security, the friendship and hospitality of BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place.” A couple of days earlier, Gehlot had said that he would not stand on prestige if the party forgives the dissidents. In retaliation, the Pilot camp upped the ante with three MLAs demanding a change in leadership and attacking Gehlot in strong words. Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh said it was a fight for “self respect and against the dictatorial attitude of Gehlot”. They said they will remain in Congress and were only opposing the CM. Gehlot has accused Pilot of plotting against his government in league with rival BJP though he has softened his posture. Following the political crisis kicked off by Pilot’s rebellion, Rajasthan assembly will meet from August 14 during which a trust motion by Gehlot is a likelihood. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur. But the session will also test the Congress state government as it just has the numbers to prove majority in the House. The rebels feel the CM's numbers have declined and are also awaiting the results of proceedings in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan High Court. A couple of other developments can have some impact on the floor test. While the Speaker and Congress both have challenged the high court stay on disqualification notice to rebels, a petition by BJP challenging the merger of 6-MLA BSP into Congress will come up for hearing in the HC on August 11. If a compromise has to happen, it will have to settle the rehabilitation package of rebels to their satisfaction somewhat. Besides, Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he left Jaipur with his contingent of supporting MLAs on July 11 and a proper role for him will have to be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/signs-of-thaw-in-raj-as-cong-sends-out-feelers-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/77364372.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Signs of thaw in Rajasthan as Congress sends out feelers to Sachin Pilot camp||JAIPUR: Amid its ongoing confrontation with Sachin Pilot, conciliatory signals have emerged from Congress with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the Rajasthan former deputy CM can return to the fold if he gives up BJP’s “hospitality” and “security” of Haryana police. The remarks come even as talks with the rebel faction — holed up in Haryana — have resumed in recent days. Though at a nebulous stage, the opening for compromise is a marked departure from the estrangement that looked imminent amid mounting court battles and CM Ashok Gehlot’s sharp comments in response to the demand for a change in leadership in the state. The talks can still go either way, it is felt in Congress quarters, with sources in the rebel camp making it clear the issue needing discussion is leadership change. Pilot has said his rebellion was provoked by a “vindictive” police probe against him over allegations of horse-trading, blaming it on Gehlot and pointed to FIRs against him and other MLAs in his camp even while underlining his claim to the CM's post. On Tuesday, the two camps squared up again. Congress, when asked about talks with rebels, said, “The legislators should first give up the Haryana police's security, the friendship and hospitality of BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place.” A couple of days earlier, Gehlot had said that he would not stand on prestige if the party forgives the dissidents. In retaliation, the Pilot camp upped the ante with three MLAs demanding a change in leadership and attacking Gehlot in strong words. Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh said it was a fight for “self respect and against the dictatorial attitude of Gehlot”. They said they will remain in Congress and were only opposing the CM. Gehlot has accused Pilot of plotting against his government in league with rival BJP though he has softened his posture. Following the political crisis kicked off by Pilot’s rebellion, Rajasthan assembly will meet from August 14 during which a trust motion by Gehlot is a likelihood. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur. But the session will also test the Congress state government as it just has the numbers to prove majority in the House. The rebels feel the CM's numbers have declined and are also awaiting the results of proceedings in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan High Court. A couple of other developments can have some impact on the floor test. While the Speaker and Congress both have challenged the high court stay on disqualification notice to rebels, a petition by BJP challenging the merger of 6-MLA BSP into Congress will come up for hearing in the HC on August 11. If a compromise has to happen, it will have to settle the rehabilitation package of rebels to their satisfaction somewhat. Besides, Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he left Jaipur with his contingent of supporting MLAs on July 11 and a proper role for him will have to be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/signs-of-thaw-in-raj-as-cong-sends-out-feelers-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/77364369.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Signs of thaw in Rajasthan as Congress sends out feelers to Sachin Pilot camp||JAIPUR: Amid its ongoing confrontation with Sachin Pilot, conciliatory signals have emerged from Congress with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the Rajasthan former deputy CM can return to the fold if he gives up BJP’s “hospitality” and “security” of Haryana police. The remarks come even as talks with the rebel faction — holed up in Haryana — have resumed in recent days. Though at a nebulous stage, the opening for compromise is a marked departure from the estrangement that looked imminent amid mounting court battles and CM Ashok Gehlot’s sharp comments in response to the demand for a change in leadership in the state. The talks can still go either way, it is felt in Congress quarters, with sources in the rebel camp making it clear the issue needing discussion is leadership change. Pilot has said his rebellion was provoked by a “vindictive” police probe against him over allegations of horse-trading, blaming it on Gehlot and pointed to FIRs against him and other MLAs in his camp even while underlining his claim to the CM's post. On Tuesday, the two camps squared up again. Congress, when asked about talks with rebels, said, “The legislators should first give up the Haryana police's security, the friendship and hospitality of BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place.” A couple of days earlier, Gehlot had said that he would not stand on prestige if the party forgives the dissidents. In retaliation, the Pilot camp upped the ante with three MLAs demanding a change in leadership and attacking Gehlot in strong words. Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh said it was a fight for “self respect and against the dictatorial attitude of Gehlot”. They said they will remain in Congress and were only opposing the CM. Gehlot has accused Pilot of plotting against his government in league with rival BJP though he has softened his posture. Following the political crisis kicked off by Pilot’s rebellion, Rajasthan assembly will meet from August 14 during which a trust motion by Gehlot is a likelihood. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur. But the session will also test the Congress state government as it just has the numbers to prove majority in the House. The rebels feel the CM's numbers have declined and are also awaiting the results of proceedings in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan High Court. A couple of other developments can have some impact on the floor test. While the Speaker and Congress both have challenged the high court stay on disqualification notice to rebels, a petition by BJP challenging the merger of 6-MLA BSP into Congress will come up for hearing in the HC on August 11. If a compromise has to happen, it will have to settle the rehabilitation package of rebels to their satisfaction somewhat. Besides, Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he left Jaipur with his contingent of supporting MLAs on July 11 and a proper role for him will have to be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/signs-of-thaw-in-raj-as-cong-sends-out-feelers-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/77364371.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||College first yr admission merit lists after Aug 7||Panaji: For 2020-21, the directorate of higher education (DHE), for the first time, held a centralised application process to seats to first year general stream programmes. After students were given extended time till July 26 midnight to apply online, the merit lists to all 34 aided and government colleges will be released online after August 7. The centralised process was introduced due to the pandemic, to avoid rush to colleges. “Each student was allowed two choices of their preferred colleges. The colleges are preparing the merit list as per the various subject combinations available with them. The merit list prepared by the colleges will be released by the DHE online after August 7,” said an official. Any vacant seats after the first round of admissions will be notified and a second admission round will be carried out. All students who have applied online for the admission will be notified through email a day prior to the announcement of the merit list. “The shortlisted student will get a payment link to confirm his/her seat. Students will have to pay Rs. 855 to confirm enrollment. Students will be given 2-3 days to pay the fees and confirm the seat,” the DHE admission guidelines state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/college-first-yr-admission-merit-lists-after-aug-7/articleshow/77339612.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||46th on rank list, IPS trainee in dilemma||Hyderabad: With an All India Rank (AIR) of 46, Pedditi Dhatri Reddy emerged as the Telangana topper in the UPSC civil examination, result of which was declared on Tuesday. A graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, Reddy had secured AIR 233 in UPSC civil exam in 2018 and was allotted to Telangana cadre in IPS. “I pursued coaching in Delhi for sometime after which I decided to quit and continued to study from a library near my house. I followed a lot of blogs written by other toppers which helped me prepare myself,” said Reddy. She is currently undergoing training at the Telangana State Police Academy in Hyderabad and is set to be posted in Khammam next month. Prior to joining the IPS, she worked with Deutsche Bank in their corporate finance and investment banking division. Following footsteps of other toppers, she too started her own blog wherein she shares her preparatory notes among other tips to help others who are preparing for Civils. “When I started preparing for Civils, I realised that UPSC aspirants are very confused with the study material that is available in abundance in the market,” said Reddy. “I realised that the material needs to be simplified and that’s when I decided to share my own notes,” she said. While Reddy is already halfway into her IPS training, she is yet to make up her mind on whether to join the IAS or continue to pursue her career in police services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/46th-on-rank-list-ips-trainee-in-dilemma/articleshow/77359574.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Flood-affected Kheri villagers shifted to relief camps, given ration kits; Sugar mills asked to immediately clear dues of affected farmers||Bareilly: The district administration on Tuesday distributed ration kits worth Rs 1,525 each among all families affected by floods in Lakhimpur Kheri district, and advised sugar mills to immediately clear sugarcane dues of farmers belonging to the affected villages. They are also carrying out medical check-ups of people in flood relief camps and advising them to continue maintaining social distancing. Residents of dozens of villages were forced to evacuate and shift to flood relief camps, after huge amounts of water were released from upstream dams and barrages into the Sharda, Ghaghara and Mohana rivers last week. The most affected village is Raini in Dhaurahra tehsil. Most of its houses and nearly all standing crops have been destroyed by flood waters, affecting 110 families who have been relocated to relief camps. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We’ve distributed ration kits to 215 families in the relief camp in Dhaurahra tehsil. More affected families were provided ration kits at other relief camps across the district. Besides rations, we have also ensured free medical check-up, vaccination of infants and medical camps for rescued livestock belonging to the flood-affected families. We’re advising them to try and maintain social distancing, and alert us the moment anyone exhibits symptoms of Covid-19. The suspect will be sent to a community health centre.” “We’ve also instructed Aira sugar mill to clear pending dues of all flood-affected farmers immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/flood-affected-kheri-villagers-shifted-to-relief-camps-given-ration-kits-sugar-mills-asked-to-immediately-clear-dues-of-affected-farmers/articleshow/77355884.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Signs of thaw in Rajasthan as Congress sends out feelers to Sachin Pilot camp||JAIPUR: Amid its ongoing confrontation with Sachin Pilot, conciliatory signals have emerged from Congress with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the Rajasthan former deputy CM can return to the fold if he gives up BJP’s “hospitality” and “security” of Haryana police. The remarks come even as talks with the rebel faction — holed up in Haryana — have resumed in recent days. Though at a nebulous stage, the opening for compromise is a marked departure from the estrangement that looked imminent amid mounting court battles and CM Ashok Gehlot’s sharp comments in response to the demand for a change in leadership in the state. The talks can still go either way, it is felt in Congress quarters, with sources in the rebel camp making it clear the issue needing discussion is leadership change. Pilot has said his rebellion was provoked by a “vindictive” police probe against him over allegations of horse-trading, blaming it on Gehlot and pointed to FIRs against him and other MLAs in his camp even while underlining his claim to the CM's post. On Tuesday, the two camps squared up again. Congress, when asked about talks with rebels, said, “The legislators should first give up the Haryana police's security, the friendship and hospitality of BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place.” A couple of days earlier, Gehlot had said that he would not stand on prestige if the party forgives the dissidents. In retaliation, the Pilot camp upped the ante with three MLAs demanding a change in leadership and attacking Gehlot in strong words. Hemaram Chaudhary, Ved Prakash Solanki and Indraj Singh said it was a fight for “self respect and against the dictatorial attitude of Gehlot”. They said they will remain in Congress and were only opposing the CM. Gehlot has accused Pilot of plotting against his government in league with rival BJP though he has softened his posture. Following the political crisis kicked off by Pilot’s rebellion, Rajasthan assembly will meet from August 14 during which a trust motion by Gehlot is a likelihood. It will force the rebels to return to Jaipur. But the session will also test the Congress state government as it just has the numbers to prove majority in the House. The rebels feel the CM's numbers have declined and are also awaiting the results of proceedings in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan High Court. A couple of other developments can have some impact on the floor test. While the Speaker and Congress both have challenged the high court stay on disqualification notice to rebels, a petition by BJP challenging the merger of 6-MLA BSP into Congress will come up for hearing in the HC on August 11. If a compromise has to happen, it will have to settle the rehabilitation package of rebels to their satisfaction somewhat. Besides, Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he left Jaipur with his contingent of supporting MLAs on July 11 and a proper role for him will have to be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/signs-of-thaw-in-raj-as-cong-sends-out-feelers-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/77360775.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Signature Bridge lit up, revellers darken mood||NEW DELHI: Around 8pm on Monday, the Signature Bridge was an awe-inspiring symphony of neon colours, the cable stays of the 165-metre high bridge snaking out like laser beams over the Yamuna near Wazirabad. But it is a modern bridge only in name at this instant, for smooth passage for traffic is all but impossible. Attracted by the new theme-based illumination, thousands of Delhiites are gathered where traffic should be moving. TOI was witness to a sea of cars and two-wheelers at the site, a startling scene given the general wariness about crowds across the Covid-stricken city. Revellers were climbing on to the gigantic cable housings, walking on the railings, climbing on their vehicles for selfies. Some young boys danced in the middle of the road, their upper bodies unclothed, reflecting the psychedelic hues of the bridge illumination. A sense of similar nakedness was visible on most faces, which looked complacently at ease without the mandatory face masks. Just as easily, social distancing too was thrown to the winds above the Yamuna’s still waters. “We live in Bhajanpura and came to enjoy the pulsating colours of the Signature Bridge,” smiled Mukesh Bhardwaj, who had brought his entire brood. Suneet Mishra was with his wife after visiting a relative for Raksha Bandhan and complained, “Stunt bikers and eve-teasers start causing trouble once the bridge is lit up.” Two Delhi Police constables at the assistance booth continuously pleaded with the public not to halt on the bridge, but their futile effort was evidenced in the hundreds of bikes and cars parked there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signature-bridge-lit-up-revellers-darken-mood/articleshow/77360779.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 17-year-old Covid +ve juvenile flees shelter home, untraced||LUCKNOW: A 17-year-old juvenile who escaped from Para road shelter home on Sunday with an inmate after testing positive for Covid-19 could not be traced. Police, however, caught the other boy from his home in Chinhat. Overall six juveniles lodged at Para shelter home had tested positive on July 28. On Tuesday, the shelter home in-charge, Sanjay Soni told TOI one juvenile was recovered by police from Chinhat and was taken for medical check-up while efforts to nab the other are under way. “The missing juvenile hails from Unnao. Police teams are conducting searches for his recovery,” he said. Soni said the missing juvenile from Unnao was put in the shelter home in October 2019. On July 28, random sampling of all the 152 juveniles lodged at the shelter home was done. “Six had tested positive for Covid-19 and were isolated with immediate effect. Two juveniles were found missing during counting. We informed police immediately,” added Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/17-yr-old-covid-ve-juvenile-flees-shelter-home-untraced/articleshow/77361341.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Antigen tests for Covid found to be faulty, health minister targets ICMR||JAIPUR: Just like rapid antibody tests, the antigen tests for Covid-19 too have failed to give correct results in 50% of the samples tested in the state. The validation of antigen tests is going on at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital. Of the 100 samples that tested positive for Covid in RT-PCR tests, 50 are shown as negative in antigen tests. While the rapid antibody test kits were imported from China, the antigen test kits have been bought from Korea. Health minister Raghu Sharma expressed his anger and accused the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of playing with the health of people by allowing companies whose kits had failed to supply the same. “At a time when the country is witnessing 55,000 new infections daily, such kind of experimentation by ICMR is wrong. Why is this 'tamasha' happening again and again,” asked Sharma, while pointing to the failure of rapid test kits from China promoted earlier by ICMR. “In Delhi, they are conducting 6,000 RT-PCR tests and 12 antigen tests daily,” said Sharma. The state government also accused ICMR of not sending the antigen test kits directly for validation despite repeated requests. The health department officials managed to get 200 antigen test kits, manufactured by a Korean company authorized by ICMR, from a private hospital in Jaipur. “We got 200 antigen test kits from a private hospital. So far, we have completed validation work of 100 kits. These 100 kits were used on samples which have already tested positive for Covid in RT-PCR tests, which is the gold standard. The antigen test kits showed 50 of them as negative. The antigen test is showing negative for those who have tested positive for Covid,” said Sharma. Once the validation work of 200 antigen test kits is over, the state government will write to ICMR about the results. “Earlier, we had informed ICMR about the faulty rapid test kits imported from China, which were later replaced. After that, ICMR had withdrawn the rapid test kits from across the country,” said Sharma. The state government has developed facilities for testing more than 42,000 samples though RT-RCR tests daily. Currently, it is testing 30,000 samples through such tests daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/antigen-tests-for-covid-found-tobe-faulty-health-min-targets-icmr/articleshow/77364455.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Antigen tests for Covid found to be faulty, health minister targets ICMR||JAIPUR: Just like rapid antibody tests, the antigen tests for Covid-19 too have failed to give correct results in 50% of the samples tested in the state. The validation of antigen tests is going on at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital. Of the 100 samples that tested positive for Covid in RT-PCR tests, 50 are shown as negative in antigen tests. While the rapid antibody test kits were imported from China, the antigen test kits have been bought from Korea. Health minister Raghu Sharma expressed his anger and accused the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of playing with the health of people by allowing companies whose kits had failed to supply the same. “At a time when the country is witnessing 55,000 new infections daily, such kind of experimentation by ICMR is wrong. Why is this 'tamasha' happening again and again,” asked Sharma, while pointing to the failure of rapid test kits from China promoted earlier by ICMR. “In Delhi, they are conducting 6,000 RT-PCR tests and 12 antigen tests daily,” said Sharma. The state government also accused ICMR of not sending the antigen test kits directly for validation despite repeated requests. The health department officials managed to get 200 antigen test kits, manufactured by a Korean company authorized by ICMR, from a private hospital in Jaipur. “We got 200 antigen test kits from a private hospital. So far, we have completed validation work of 100 kits. These 100 kits were used on samples which have already tested positive for Covid in RT-PCR tests, which is the gold standard. The antigen test kits showed 50 of them as negative. The antigen test is showing negative for those who have tested positive for Covid,” said Sharma. Once the validation work of 200 antigen test kits is over, the state government will write to ICMR about the results. “Earlier, we had informed ICMR about the faulty rapid test kits imported from China, which were later replaced. After that, ICMR had withdrawn the rapid test kits from across the country,” said Sharma. The state government has developed facilities for testing more than 42,000 samples though RT-RCR tests daily. Currently, it is testing 30,000 samples through such tests daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/antigen-tests-for-covid-found-tobe-faulty-health-min-targets-icmr/articleshow/77360780.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Heavy showers leave major rivers of Malnad region in spate||MYSURU/ SHIVAMOGGA/ CHIKKAMGALURU: All the Malnad districts of the state are witnessing heavy rainfall since Monday afternoon. Following heavy rainfall in Wayanad in Kerala, the water level of Kapila river increased, leading to the release of over 30,000 cusecs of water from the Kabini dam in Mysuru district. The district administration has requested farmers and residents living in downstream areas to be alert and not to venture near the river. According to Sujatha N, executive engineer of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd, the dam is being filled fast and outflow to the river will be increased to 30,000 cusecs as catchment areas are witnessing a heavy rainfall. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre data, all the malnad districts the rainfall is as follows: in Kodagu — Napoklu 144mm, Bhagamanda 143mm, Santhahallli 114mm, and Srimangala 100mm; in Chikkamagaluru — Kigga 99mm, Kalasa 97mm; in Hassan — Hettur 162mm, Hanbal 135mm, Yaslur 132mm; in Shivamogga — Teerthahalli 107mm, Agumbe 103mm, and Agrahara 101mm. In Chikkamagaluru, rain damaged roads at Banakal, Kottigehara and Charmadi Ghat. It also disrupted normal life at Horatti, Phalguni, Kunduru, Byrapura, Bettadamane villages in Mudigere taluk, Bhuvana Kote and Kodnibilu GP in Koppa taluk and parts of Narasimharajapura taluk in Chikkamagaluru. Tunga and Bhadra catchment areas in Chikkamagaluru too received heavy rainfall. In Shivamogga, the inflow of water increased at the Bhadra dam. Rain intensified at Sharavathi valley in Hosanagar and Sagar taluks, leading to good inflow into Linganamakki reservoir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/heavy-showers-leave-major-rivers-of-malnad-region-in-spate/articleshow/77357966.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||UPSC toppers’ success mantra: Hard work & courage to take risk||LUCKNOW: After a tough and arduous journey through the various stages of civil services examination, it was time for achievers to celebrate their success and share their success mantra. Shubhangi Srivastava (29), an engineering postgraduate who secured 88th rank, says: “Current affairs are the most important aspect of preparations but mugging up facts or rote learning will not work. Knowledge about every fact should be gained in an analytical way.” Shubhangi gave up her PhD from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi to prepare for civil services. “It is important to be creative and one should be ready to learn, unlearn and relearn as information keeps changing with time. I have been into social work for last 12 years and now I am elated to get an opportunity to work for the society as a civil servant,” she adds. Shubhangi did BTech and MTech in biotechnology. Her father, AK Srivastava, is managing director of UP State Bridge Corporation. A commerce graduate from Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University, Shiva Singh (24), who bagged 309 rank, says: “I focused on UPSC syllabus and read newspapers. I didn’t run after every book but made sure to study selected ones with full focus. The biggest problem is that aspirants try to get knowledge from all available sources and lose focus.” Engineer-turned-banker Yashlok Kumar Dutt (28) secured 680th rank. “Comprehensive skills, current affairs and confidence play pivotal role. One should be ready to take risks,” he says. Vivek Rajpoot from Orai, son of a farmer, prepared in Lucknow and bagged 588th rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsc-toppers-success-mantra-hard-work-courage-to-take-risk/articleshow/77361347.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||BUTA demands ouster of officials responsible for fiasco||Vadodara: Baroda University Teachers Association (BUTA) has demanded immediate removal of director of computer centre and all the officials who were responsible for the fiasco of online mock test at M S University. In a major embarrassment to the university and much to the nightmare of students, last Saturday, the portal developed by the university crashed as nearly 4,000 students made an attempt to appear for the first online mock test that was organised ahead of the semester-end exams that were scheduled to begin on August 5.Terming the incidents as inefficiency of director of computer centre, conveners and co-coordinators who designed and planned the MCQ examination, BUTA has pointed out technical issues which they claimed were ignored by the officials.“Each paper contains 70 MCQ questions containing 350 images which occupies minimum 0.35GB to maximum of 0.75GB. If 1,000 question papers are loaded in the server more than 50 TB space is used. Due to this, data servers are overloaded. Each fibre optical cable can take a load of 1,000 video channels. However, officials involved in the MCQ examinations allowed 4,000 students video login facility,” BUTA’s representation to MSU officials states. “The system of submitting five images for each MCQ question itself is wrong. There are platforms on payment per examination which could have been explored. If the officers involved would have considered such options, the university could have avoided such embarrassment,” said BUTA president Dr K V R Murthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/buta-demands-ouster-of-officials-responsible-for-fiasco/articleshow/77357977.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala doctor in IS terrorist raid on Afghan jail||KOZHIKODE: A Malayali youth from Padne in Kasaragod was among the Islamic State (IS) cadre that stormed the Jalalabad jail in Afghanistan on Sunday. Intelligence agencies confirmed that KP Ijaz was killed when he rammed an explosive-laden car at the gate of the prison before other IS cadre carried out the attack that killed at least 30 people. Ijaz, a medical graduate from China, was among the 21 people who left Kerala to join IS in May 2016. His brother and sister-in-law were killed in a US drone attack two years ago. Ijaz’s wife Rufeala had surrendered before Afghanistan authorities in January this year and is in a Kabul jail. Earlier, Ijaz had worked at a clinic in Vadakara for some time. After reaching Afghanistan, Ijaz was part of the medical team that treated injured IS cadres. He may have joined frontline cadres after a majority of his friends died in Afghanistan. Investigation agencies found out that radicalisation classes were held at the house of Ijaz at Padne, which were led by Abdul Rashid Abdulla, the leader of the group who was killed last year. According to a press release from IS, 11 of its cadre became “martyrs” in the attack. There is one Abu Hayyan Al-Hindi in the list which could be the alias used by Ijaz. Earlier, Muhammad Muhsin, another Malayali from Kasaragod, was killed while attacking a gurdwara in Kabul in March 2020. Security agencies believe some more IS cadre from Kerala are still active in Afghanistan, including Muhammad Sajid and Ashfaq Majeed from Kasaragod. All IS cadres who did hijra to Syria have been killed, it is believed. Keralites had gone to the war zones in Syria and Iraq even before the formation of IS in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-doc-in-is-terrorist-raid-on-afghan-jail/articleshow/77362103.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Camera trap reveals death of tiger cubs at Mukundra reserve||JAIPUR: The lies of forest officials who were blatantly denying the death of cubs, which were born to tigress MT-4 at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), has been exposed on Tuesday after a trap camera picture surfaced. To hide the death of tigress MT-4 cubs, the forest department at MHTR, infamous for operating in secrecy, in fact denied that any cubs were born at all. However, a trap camera photograph in possession of TOI shows that tigress MT-4 was carrying a cub in its mouth on May 22, at 7.27am. Sources in the department claim the divisional forest officer (DFO) did not communicate with them and that he had sent the news of the birth of cubs only to the chief wildlife warden (CWLW), bypassing regular channels. Ironically, the chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Kota, Anand Mohan, was also caught unawares about the birth of the cubs, even after 70 days. “The staff did not inform me about the birth of the cubs. I also do not have the present status of the cubs,” Mohan said. Despite several attempts, the CWLW remained unavailable for comment. A forest staff member, on the condition of anonymity, said: “Pictures of the cubs taken on the mobile were asked to be deleted and we were given strict instructions not to share this information.” The poor management of the forest administration at the MHTR has claimed the lives of tigress MT-4’s cubs, along with the death of a male tiger MT-3 and tigress MT-2, which occurred in the past 10 days. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist who also participated in the relocation programme, said: “After spending crores of rupees, a safe habitat for tigers was developed at Mukundra. It’s shocking to see that incapable officials posted on field are more involved in hiding their shortcoming and gaining brownie points before CWLW. Along with effective monitoring, proactive participation of conservationists and wildlife lovers is necessary to save tigers in the area.” Initially, the country’s third tiger reintroduction programme at the MHTR bore fruit, as both the tigresses gave birth to cubs at the reserve. However, due to poor management, the tiger count which had risen to six in June, including the newborns, is now down to three. “Traces of the male cub of tigress MT-2 (which died on Sunday) could not be found. After a combing operation, the team returned empty-handed on Tuesday,” a forest official said. A day after tigress MT-2 died, the field director, Anand Mohan, and DFO, T Mohan Raj, were put under awaiting posting order (APO) on Tuesday. The tigress had given birth to two cubs in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/camera-trap-reveals-death-of-tiger-cubs-at-mukundra-reserve/articleshow/77360783.cms||Ajay Singh
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Patients at UPHCs rose by 30% to 50% during lockdown||TRICHY: Trichy City Corporation’s urban primary health centres (UPHCs) received more visitors during the lockdown period than before owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Since a section of the private clinics have restricted their consultation hours or stopped treating outpatients owing to the viral spread, residents are left with no other option than visiting the nearest PHC for routine medical care. Each of the 18 UPHCs spread across four zones of the corporation received around 150 outpatients on average per day before March. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak, particularly in July, the number of people visiting UPHCs has increased by 30% to 50%. Most of the UPHCs had at least 200-250 outpatients every day. Since the private clinics restricted their consultation hours, residents start depending on UPHCs for medical care. After two private clinic doctors at Palakkarai and Thiruverumbur contracted Covid-19, the private clinics began to restrict their outpatient service, particularly for fever and the common cold. “Apart from usual patients, we receive many new patients from affordable families every day,” a senior medical officer at Trichy Corporation’s UPHC said. A majority of the outpatients arrive with fever, common cold and throat infection. Diabetic patients also make use of the UPHCs for their routine health check-up. Thennur, Kattur, Beerangikulam and East Boulevard Road UPHCs have good patronage of outpatients from 9 am till 4 pm every day. The timing was also convenient for pregnant women to avail antenatal care from the nearest UPHC instead of travelling to far away private clinics. The availability of public transportation also helped residents from densely packed areas depend on the nearest UPHCs for medical attention, UPHC staff said. “Our health centres have received Kayakalpa award recently for ensuring cleanliness and hygiene. We are sustaining the efforts although the footfall has increased,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/patients-at-uphcs-rose-by-30-to-50-during-lockdown/articleshow/77360781.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Cops question Apoorvanand||NEW DELHI: The Special Cell on Monday questioned Delhi University professor Apoorvanand for around five hours in the north-east Delhi riots case. His mobile phone was seized and sent for forensic analysis. He was asked over a dozen questions, ranging from his association with the arrested Pinjra Tod members to some communications claimed to have been intercepted by the police. He is likely to be called for questioning again once the police studies his answers. Apoorvanand, according to the cops, came under the scanner in April when the police stumbled upon some Whatsapp chats exchanged between a couple of suspects. He was also a member of a group called Delhi Protesters Support Group which, the police claimed, was used to mobilize crowds at different places in the capital. Apoorvanand’s presence during three meetings which took prior to the riots was confirmed by the police. These were attended by the Jamia Coordination Committee members and Pinjra Tod members, many of whom have already been arrested in the case. He was subsequently served a notice asking to join the investigation. His name has also figured as a “guide and advisor” in the questioning of key suspects, including the arrested Pinjra Tod members, police officers said, alleging that they had come across communications in which the professor was advising/directing them on matters related to the assembly of crowds. The professor released a statement on his questioning on Tuesday. “On Monday, August 3, 2020, I was asked by the special cell, Delhi Police, to appear before it in the investigation into FIR no 59/20 related to the violence that happened in north-east Delhi in February 2020. I spent five hours there. Delhi Police also considered it necessary to seize my phone for the purpose of investigation,” said the statement. Apoorvanand said that “while cooperating and respecting the right of police authorities to conduct a full, fair and thorough investigation, one can only hope that the probe would focus on the real instigators and perpetrators of the violence against a peaceful citizens’ protest and the people of north-east Delhi”. He said “it should not lead to further harassment and victimization of the protesters and their supporters, who asserted their democratic rights through constitutional means, while stating their dissent to the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 and the decision of the GOI to operationalise the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens all over the country.” He said it was disturbing to see a theory emerging which treats the supporters of the protesters as the source of violence. “I would urge the police and expect their probe to be thorough, just and fair so that truth prevails,” he said. Speaking to TOI, Apoorvanand said that the police did not tell him how his name had come up in the investigation process. He has also not been told whether he has to re-appear. “I don’t think I was relevant to the FIR that they have mentioned. But, in their wisdom, they might have some reason for me to be called for the investigation. It was a very polite, courteous and civilized conversation,” he said. “Violence did take place in Delhi in February and we need to know what caused the violence and who were the people behind it. I think it is in the best interest of all that we know the truth. That is very important. To think that the protests were the cause of violence is deeply worrying.” “It is the duty of all citizens of the country to cooperate with the police, who want to find the truth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-riots-copsquestion-apoorvanand/articleshow/77360815.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath asks for 50,000 more beds in Covid facilities||LUCKNOW: In a review of the Covid-19 situation in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath found that the number of beds in level-2 and level-3 facilities was not enough and therefore, has directed addition of 50,000 beds. “The number of beds at level-1 was found to be adequate but not at level-2 and level-3. Accordingly, the CM has instructed departments of medical education and health and family welfare to add more beds at the upper levels,” additional chief secretary information and home Awanish Awasthi said on Tuesday. In UP, Covid-19 health care infrastructure has been divided into levels 1, 2 and 3 which means primary, secondary and tertiary level care. While asymptomatic and mild infection cases are attended to at the primary level, moderate category cases are sent to secondary level. Severe or high-risk patients with comorbidities are referred to tertiary care. In all, there are 1.5 lakh beds for Covid care in the state. Citing the CM, Awasthi said: “Instructions have been issued to add 50,000 beds at levels 2 and 3. Also, the CM emphasized that wherever beds are increased, deployment of health staff should also be made. He said that director generals of the two departments must ensure that there is no shortage of doctors at the centres where beds were being added.” Awasthi stated that the CM had given clear instructions to augment bed strength in a time-bound manner. He also said that the CM had emphasized on the need to strengthen the integrated command and control centres at the district levels for effective monitoring and management of the Covid-19 situation. “The CM said that district magistrates will be held responsible if lapses were found in their districts,” he said. Stating that the CM had given instructions to further improve ambulance services, the officer said, “The chief minister wants 50% of the total ambulances in government hospitals and medical colleges to be deputed on Covid-19 duty. The remaining will be for non-Covid cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-asks-for-50k-more-beds-in-covid-facilities/articleshow/77361358.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Fever camps in Trichy city identify 609 cases in 3 weeks||TRICHY: The fever camps conducted in all four zones of Trichy corporation have helped identify 609 Covid-19 positive cases in the city in less than three weeks. With a positivity rate of 12%, these accounted for about 35% of cases reported since July 16. The corporation had a delayed launch of the fever camps through 18 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) across the 65 wards from July 16. So far, it has conducted 485 camps at community centres, schools and wedding halls. Four mobile medical units (MMU) provided by the health department had jointly with the corporation conducted 168 fever camps at potential hotspots. A total of 45,066 people were screened at the camps. Samples from 4,934 people were lifted for RT-PCR tests out of which the corporation’s UPHCs collected 3,531. While 543 of the them turned positive, as many as 66 of the 1,403 samples collected by MMUs also turned positive. The positivity rate of samples from the camps held by UPHCs and MMU was 15.3% and at 4.7% respectively, according to the health department data. “Fever camp is a crucial Covid-19-fighting tool to prevent the spread at an early stage. More should be organised to identify positive cases,” Dr A Mohamed Hakkim, Trichy-based emergency physician said. Meanwhile, the corporation has rolled out a weekly plan for fever camps. “Patronage for fever camps is increasing, we are making announcements to inform the public. A maximum of 50 people per camp will be tested,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. While 653 fever camps were conducted in the city in three weeks, Trichy rural has seen only 96 camps, highly disproportionate for the 18 lakh rural population. “So far no fever camp was conducted in our village. People rush to hospitals only after symptoms worsen,” Muthu Nithin, a resident of Murungapettai said. Health officials said that fever camps will be gradually scaled up in rural parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fever-camps-in-trichy-city-identify-609-cases-in-3-weeks/articleshow/77360788.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Strive to revert Theni to green zone: OPS||MADURAI: All those involved in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Theni district should strive to ensure that this district, which was once in the ‘green zone’ goes back into it, with strict enforcement of rules and monitoring, said deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in Theni on Tuesday. Panneerselvam conducted a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the district, in the presence of Tamil Nadu health secretary, Dr J Radhakrishnan. Theni now has 2,691 active cases out of the total 6,261 Covid-19 positive cases. The deputy CM said that the district initially had 22 cases of which 21 were successfully treated. Later, when the government announced lockdown relaxations, the arrival of people from other districts resulted in a spike. Radhakrishnan said that coordinated efforts should be towards moving Theni back into the green zone, in terms of the spread of the disease. Local bodies should ensure that people wore masks and those with comorbid conditions like diabetes, living in containment zones should be given special care. Health officials should monitor them regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/strive-to-revert-theni-to-green-zone-ops/articleshow/77360785.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||AAP demands action against hospital for medical negligence of girl who succumbed to Covid-19||BAREILLY: Aam Aadmi Party’s district president, Shahjahanpur Rajeev Yadav, on Tuesday, gave a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath via the district administration, requesting him to take action against the alleged negligence by the district hospital staff in the treatment of 16-year-old girl Savitri Devi who died on Sunday night. Devi was tested positive for Covid-19 when she was brought for treatment of her stomach pain at the district hospital on July 31. She was admitted at the hospital but was allegedly not given treatment for her actual ill that lead to severe stomach pain. Her family members had earlier said their daughter would have been alive if treated at home. Devi died without being able to fulfil her last wish of tying a rakhi on her brother’s wrist. “The poor girl had called her father numerous times and even we had raised this issue to district magistrate Indra Vikram Singh and he had assured that proper treatment will be provided to the girl but she died due to lack of treatment,” Yadav told TOI. Meanwhile, temporary chief medical surgeon district hospital Dr UK Singh said, “The girl was brought in a critical condition and we didn’t get much time after she tested positive for Covid-19. She was suffering from liver infection septicaemia for some time and was brought late to the hospital. We are also upset after her death as she was too young, and our doctors tried their level best to save her.” Notably, AAP has rolled out a ‘Corona Helpline’ number in UP to support the people in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aap-demands-action-against-hosp-for-medical-negligence-of-girl-who-succumbed-to-covid-19/articleshow/77355932.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown unlocks huge opportunity for gaming & animation industry||HYDERABAD: With people confined to their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic taking to gaming seriously and for longer hours, the Covid-19 lockdown has unlocked a huge opportunity for the gaming industry. In fact, post-lockdown, the gaming and animation industry has seen a spurt in demand for not just gaming hardware and software but skilled game developers as well. Industry experts pointed out that while it is primarily GenZ and millennials that are taking to gaming as a primary form of entertainment and socialising in these lockdown times where social distancing is very important, the improved performance of smartphones and internet connectivity has also done its bit to boost the prospects of the gaming industry in India. With the extended work from home and schools and colleges closed due to lockdown, people are spending more time playing games on their smartphones, PCs and desktops, which has resulted in an increase in demand for storage offerings like microSD cards for smartphones and SSD-based storage devices for PCs and laptops, points out Jaganathan Chelliah, director (marketing), Western Digital India TVAGA (Telangana VFX, Animation & Gaming Association) VP Sridhar Muppidi, who is also the founder and chairman of city-based gaming company, PurpleTalk, said the Covid-19 lockdown has also unlocked a massive opportunity for game developers as the demand for content is on rise. He added one of the “biggest advantages is that people across the globe are forming habits of playing games…which will benefit the industry in the long-term”. Sunil C, head, specialized staffing, TeamLease Digital, said hiring has shot up by 25-30% in the gaming sector, especially in centres such as Hyderabad, Pune and Bengaluru. “UI/UX developers & testers are in high demand in the gaming industry. Typically, the skills gaming industry hires are concept designers, developers, programmers, animators, audio engineers, scriptwriters, language interpreters/translators, testers & tech support…,” he said. He, however, said there is not much change in the salary structure as compared to the pre-Covid days. “Currently, many gaming companies are also cautious given the uncertainties and many would like to conserve cash,” added Muppidi. On animation industry, Rajiv Chilaka, founder and managing director, Green Gold Animation Pvt Ltd, said an increasing number of global players are turning towards India to collaborate on animation projects as the manpower availability is good. He also said WFH also has proved beneficial for artists. “In these three months, we have created six new IPs which otherwise would take us years to create…,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-unlocks-huge-opportunity-for-gaming-animation-industry/articleshow/77359615.cms||Swati Rathor
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey's aide was told to set cops’ bodies afire||LUCKNOW: A day after the arrest of slain ganglord Vikas Dubey’s aide Ram Singh Yadav, the gram pradhan of Madaripurwa, Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) officials said he fired at the police team and was then assigned the task of collecting the bodies of massacred cops and setting them afire. STF had arrested Yadav, who was carrying cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, near a clinic under Akbarpur police station in Kanpur Dehat on Sunday night. Additional superintendent of police, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh, whose team had nabbed Yadav and recovered his double barrel gun from which over 50 rounds were fired during the July 2 ambush in Bikru village, said “During interrogation, Yadav also confessed that he was told by gangster Vikas Dubey to collect the bodies of all the cops killed during ambush and set them afire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aide-was-told-to-set-cops-bodies-afire/articleshow/77361363.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth steals chain after offering ‘help’, booked||Aurangabad: A 35-year old woman, who had stepped out to buy vegetables on Sunday, was cheated by an unidentified person who offered to help her get assistance from a generous businessman. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, a resident of Jai Bhimnagar, the suspect, in his mid-20s, had his face covered with a mask. The suspect reached out to her in the Aurangapura area on a motorcyle and said that a generous businessman was giving money as charity to poor and needy people in the neighbouring Kumbharwada area. When the woman started walking towards the given address, the suspect claimed that he was heading in the same direction and offered to drop her. After reaching the spot, the suspect asked her to remove the gold chain so that it gave the impression to the businessman that she was poor and needy. The woman took his advice, handed him over her gold chain and went inside Kumbharwada to look for the businessman. Unable to find anyone, the woman returned to the spot where the youth had dropped her. The suspect was nowhere to be found. Realising that she has been cheated, she reached out to City Chowk police station and lodged a complaint. The suspect has been booked on the charges of criminal breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-steals-chain-after-offering-help-booked/articleshow/77351178.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 outbreak spread to rural pockets in last 2 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases has emerged as the main challenge for various district administrations in ramping up testing, tracing and treatment facilities. As of Monday, seven out of the 13 districts had over 10,000 Covid-19 infections. Cases were predominantly limited to urban areas in the initial months of the outbreak but have been increasing in rural pockets of the state for the last two months. The surge in the numbers has started gradually overwhelming hospitals, medical personnel and health care systems. There are reports of delay in getting test results and transporting patients to treatment facilities even as district officials earmark and identify more hospitals for dedicated Covid-19 care. Some districts have imposed micro lockdowns and local curbs on commercial activities to contain the chain of transmissions but the increasing number of infections is outweighing efforts and throwing up new challenges each day. For example, East Godavari recorded an exponential—1,800%—increase in infections in July. Recently, orders were issued to convert the Government General Hospital, Kakinada, the epicentre of medical services in the district, into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. A similar situation prevails in Kurnool, Anantapur, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. Vizianagaram district officials have decided to ready community health centres besides augmenting medical facilities for Covid-19 care and reserve 10 beds for critical cases in every hospital. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said respective village/ward secretariats will pass on the information of Covid-19 patients to doctors. “In turn, the doctors will decide the course of treatment for the patient. Those who opt for home isolation should be under constant medical supervision,” said Jawaharlal. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said 1,854 beds are available in eight Covid-19 hospitals, including 1,100 beds with oxygen lines. “The administration has set up Covid-19 control rooms at the village level. Hospital admission is made based on the severity of the case, while mild and asymptomatic patients are given home isolation facility,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/outbreak-spread-to-rural-pockets-in-last-2-months/articleshow/77357149.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||HC dismisses petition seeking to sack Rajasthan guv||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking recall of the governor Kalraj Mishra for returning cabinet proposals to convene an assembly session after it became infructuous with the governor finally calling the session. Another petition asking to stop salary and perks of MLAs who are in hotels in Jaisalmer and Manesar was disposed of with the direction to approach the appropriate authority The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Prakash Gupta dismissed a petition by lawyer Shantanu Pareek who claimed that the governor had refused to convene the assembly session on the advice of the council of ministers and had thus violated the Constitution and should be removed from office. A similar petition by lawyer S K Singh was withdrawn. The governor had finally called the assembly session on August 14 after rejecting the government proposal thrice seeking clarifications prompting the petition. Another PIL was filed in the court seeking to stop salary, allowances of MLAs staying at hotels as they were not serving the people for which they were elected. The court said it was outside the purview of the court and the petitioner should approach the appropriate authority. The petition by one Vivek Singh Jadaun through advocate Gajendra Singh Rathore said, “Those MLAs who are staying in Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur and 19 other MLAs who are staying in the other unknown hotel for last two weeks are not serving the public for which they were getting for their salary, monthly allowances and other benefits. Hence, their monthly allowances and others benefits and payments should be stopped.” “Rajasthan Legislative Assembly is not in session. MLAs are staying in hotels having no connection with the public in their constituencies and are not discharging their duty as per their oath as elected members of the legislative assembly. Therefore, they should not be given any salary, allowance & other benefit or any kind of allowances,” the plea said. Congress MLAs supporting chief minister Ashok Gehlot who were lodged at Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur have been shifted to Suryagarh hotel in Jaisalmer on Friday while 18 MLAs of the Sachin Pilot camp are staying at some hotel in Manesar following factional fight in the ruling party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-dismisses-petition-seeking-to-sack-raj-guv/articleshow/77360790.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 outbreak spread to rural pockets in last 2 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases has emerged as the main challenge for various district administrations in ramping up testing, tracing and treatment facilities. As of Monday, seven out of the 13 districts had over 10,000 Covid-19 infections. Cases were predominantly limited to urban areas in the initial months of the outbreak but have been increasing in rural pockets of the state for the last two months. The surge in the numbers has started gradually overwhelming hospitals, medical personnel and health care systems. There are reports of delay in getting test results and transporting patients to treatment facilities even as district officials earmark and identify more hospitals for dedicated Covid-19 care. Some districts have imposed micro lockdowns and local curbs on commercial activities to contain the chain of transmissions but the increasing number of infections is outweighing efforts and throwing up new challenges each day. For example, East Godavari recorded an exponential—1,800%—increase in infections in July. Recently, orders were issued to convert the Government General Hospital, Kakinada, the epicentre of medical services in the district, into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. A similar situation prevails in Kurnool, Anantapur, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. Vizianagaram district officials have decided to ready community health centres besides augmenting medical facilities for Covid-19 care and reserve 10 beds for critical cases in every hospital. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said respective village/ward secretariats will pass on the information of Covid-19 patients to doctors. “In turn, the doctors will decide the course of treatment for the patient. Those who opt for home isolation should be under constant medical supervision,” said Jawaharlal. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said 1,854 beds are available in eight Covid-19 hospitals, including 1,100 beds with oxygen lines. “The administration has set up Covid-19 control rooms at the village level. Hospital admission is made based on the severity of the case, while mild and asymptomatic patients are given home isolation facility,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/outbreak-spread-to-rural-pockets-in-last-2-months/articleshow/77363291.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Excitement as Madurai’s fresh cases dip to 40||MADURAI: Madurai district has achieved a feat by bringing down Covid-19 positive cases to less than 100 after nearly two months. In fact, only 40 people tested positive on Tuesday. Monitoring officer for Covid-19 for the district, Dr B Chandra Mohan, said the results of tests for about 4,000 samples on Tuesday made it a day to celebrate.``I am happy that for the first time in the last two months, the number of cases in Madurai has dipped below 100 on Tuesday, from a high of 464 cases per day,’’ he said. Of the 40 new cases, 24 were in the urban areas and 16 in rural places. The active cases in the district, which was about 4,200, has now come down to 2,000. The positivity rate for the district which was earlier 17% has now dipped to 7%. “This is due to the right strategies and hard work of the entire team in Madurai, which involved 10 synergistic components involving multiple stakeholders,” he said. It is after 47 days that the district is seeing such a small number of cases as it was on June 18 that just nine cases were reported. It went up to 58 the next day after which there was a steady rise and 10,992 cases were added since then, with an average of 234 cases daily. Extensive fever surveillance has been done in the corporation, municipalities and village panchayats, and house-to-house checks for fever and symptoms were carried out in the city with the help of field workers for covering four lakh houses. Early diagnosing, triaging and isolation of positive people went a long way in controlling the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/excitement-as-madurais-fresh-cases-dip-to-40/articleshow/77360803.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 outbreak spread to rural pockets in last 2 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases has emerged as the main challenge for various district administrations in ramping up testing, tracing and treatment facilities. As of Monday, seven out of the 13 districts had over 10,000 Covid-19 infections. Cases were predominantly limited to urban areas in the initial months of the outbreak but have been increasing in rural pockets of the state for the last two months. The surge in the numbers has started gradually overwhelming hospitals, medical personnel and health care systems. There are reports of delay in getting test results and transporting patients to treatment facilities even as district officials earmark and identify more hospitals for dedicated Covid-19 care. Some districts have imposed micro lockdowns and local curbs on commercial activities to contain the chain of transmissions but the increasing number of infections is outweighing efforts and throwing up new challenges each day. For example, East Godavari recorded an exponential—1,800%—increase in infections in July. Recently, orders were issued to convert the Government General Hospital, Kakinada, the epicentre of medical services in the district, into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. A similar situation prevails in Kurnool, Anantapur, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. Vizianagaram district officials have decided to ready community health centres besides augmenting medical facilities for Covid-19 care and reserve 10 beds for critical cases in every hospital. District collector M Hari Jawaharlal said respective village/ward secretariats will pass on the information of Covid-19 patients to doctors. “In turn, the doctors will decide the course of treatment for the patient. Those who opt for home isolation should be under constant medical supervision,” said Jawaharlal. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said 1,854 beds are available in eight Covid-19 hospitals, including 1,100 beds with oxygen lines. “The administration has set up Covid-19 control rooms at the village level. Hospital admission is made based on the severity of the case, while mild and asymptomatic patients are given home isolation facility,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/outbreak-spread-to-rural-pockets-in-last-2-months/articleshow/77363290.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Woman, aged 75, raped in Kerala's Ernakulam||KOCHI: Four suspects, including two women, are currently in police custody in connection with the alleged brutal rape and assault of 75-year-old woman in Puthencruz, Ernakulam. Police sources said that the suspects are her neighbours. Though their arrests haven’t been recorded, it is learnt that the women in custody are siblings. One of the men in custody is the son of one of the women suspects. Meanwhile, the survivor is being treated at Kolenchery Medical College hospital and her condition remains critical. Hospital sources said she had multiple injuries on her body, including chest, abdomen, urinary bladder, intestine and private parts. “She is presently in the surgical ICU after undergoing hours-long surgery to remove blood clots in her stomach and address the contusions in her intestine. A scan showed that her internal organs are damaged. A call on the condition of the woman can be made only after 48 hours,” said hospital sources. According to Puthencruz police, the woman belonging to the scheduled caste community has a history of mental illness. Police sources said that the incident took place on Sunday afternoon, when she was at her friend’s home, located close to her home. It is understood that she was promised chewing tobacco and brought to her neighbour’s home, where the incident took place. The incident came to light when she was admitted at the hospital late on Sunday night. Police initially invoked IPC provisions for assault on woman to outrage her modesty and causing hurt using dangerous weapons but after the doctors who treated her informed them regarding the grievous nature of the assault and injuries on private parts, police added relevant sections of IPC 376, which deals with rape. Provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act are also likely to be invoked as she hails from the community. Meanwhile, health minister KK Shailaja has said that social justice department and social security mission will take care of her treatment expenses. Terming the incident as shocking, the minister said department will ensure her protection. Women’s commission chairperson MC Josephine had earlier requested the minister to take steps to protect the woman. She also met doctors at Kolenchery and gathered evidence about the crime. She also gave a directive to register a case to commission director VU Kuriakose. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-aged-75-raped-in-ernakulam/articleshow/77358367.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Unconscious woman taken to police station on stretcher in UP’s Pilibhit after cops summon her||PILIBHIT: Tulsi Sarkar, 70, was lying in a semi-conscious state at the Puranpur community health centre (CHC) on Tuesday. She was brought there in an 108 ambulance after she was attacked by her neighbour following an altercation over dumping of garbage. As doctors sought police go-ahead before proceeding with her treatment, her relatives approached Puranpur kotwali, but instead of visiting the woman at the hospital, police summoned her to the station house for issuing the required document, forcing the kin to take the unconscious woman to the police station on a stretcher. According to her grandson Rana Sarkar, Dr Aniket Gangwar, the medical officer on duty at the CHC, demanded a police document as she was a victim of a criminal incident. “Police not only declined to issue the needed document but also turned down my request of seeing her at the CHC, which is just 300 metres from the police station,” he said. “I had no other option than producing my unconscious grandmother before the police on a stretcher,” he said. Local police, however, denied the allegation. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said the victim’s relatives took her to the police station on a stretcher "on their own will and they were not compelled by any policeman". “Police immediately issued the document for her medical examination and treatment and also registered a non-cognizable report (NCR) in the matter. We would add appropriate sections of the IPC to the NCR as per the victim’s medical examination report,” the SP said. Medical officer Dr Aniket Gangwar said that the woman, who had sustained head injuries and was feared to have a skull fracture or a brain hemorrhage, was shifted to the district government hospital. Chief medical officer Dr Seema Agrawal said, “We don’t decline the preliminary medical treatment to any person but a document from the police is essentially needed for the validation of medical examination and aid in case of the involvement of any criminal activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unconscious-woman-taken-to-police-stn-on-stretcher-in-ups-pilibhit-after-cops-summon-her/articleshow/77355968.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Running on empty: Cab drivers trip on EMIs as rides dry up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Sitting inside his cab parked under a shade at the Rajendra Place commercial complex, 45-year-old cab driver Satish Pal was ruminating on how he was going to pay the next instalment of the bank loan he had taken to buy his vehicle. In the three hours he sat brooding, he had not got a single booking from passengers. “I left my home in Rohini at 9am and got Rs 161 for that ride. From 11am, I have waited in vain for a second trip,” Pal said. The Rs 161 was likely to be his only earning of the day for his family of wife and two children. Like Pal, most taxi drivers are facing a hard time. It’s not as if app-based cab services aren’t permitted to operate. They are, but passengers are hard to find when a large number of people are working from home and very few are going to malls, markets or other public place. Many cabbies have started on other jobs. Owners of cabs bought on loan are, however, forced to carry on in an effort to earn at least the EMI amount. To run their households, many taxi drivers have eaten into their savings or taken loans. They fear they will be on the streets in the next few months if passengers remain elusive. “I can’t sleep at night thinking of the future,” anguished Pal. “Apart from the car EMI, I also have to pay around Rs. 2.3 lakh in traffic fines that I have accumulated in the last few months. I guess I will have to surrender my car because I can’t pay either the fines or the EMIs.” Ram Niwas, 29, who lives in Khoda near Mayur Vihar, has sent his wife and daughter to his hometown of Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh. “At least they will have food and a roof over their head there. I haven’t paid rent for the last six months and the landlord is threatening to throw me out,” he said. He left his home at 5am and till 7 pm on Thursday had received one call for Rs 175. “How am I supposed to pay for fuel and maintenance and the EMI at Rs 175 a day. There are absolutely no customers, no matter for how long I remain logged in,” Ram Niwas said. He had started with driving someone else’s car and then an autorickshaw before buying his own car on loan. “There is nothing I can do in Auraiya either because our landholding is so small it won’t sustain the three of us,” said the glum cabbie. Manjit Singh, who owns three cars, is comparatively better off even if he hasn’t earned much in recent months. “I used to drive one cab on an app-based platform, and two were used to ferry employees of a call centre. But with the IT employees now working from home, the company no longer needs my cabs,” Singh sighed. He remains logged into the app for passenger calls for 13-14 hours every day. “Even when home, I am logged in and thankfully got some bookings between 3am and 4 am,” he said. “I mainly drove between Delhi and Gurgaon, but there is absolutely no demand on this route now.” Getting a booking is not as fulfilling as it sounds, however, because almost always there is no passenger on the way back. Like Pal, Singh too has run up a huge Rs 1 lakh in unpaid traffic fines and alleges that he has been booked even for driving at 41 kmph. Kamaljeet Gill, president, Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association of Delhi, pointed out that such pending traffic fines are almost the ultimate back breaker for cab drivers who are going through possibly the worst phase of their lives. “When there are no customers, how will drivers meet their expenses? They don’t get fixed salaries,” Gill said. “With no option, a few hundred have started plying their cabs as ambulances under a Delhi government initiative.” A few hundred among two lakh cabbies in the National Capital Region making some money doesn’t help much, argued Sanjay Samrat, president, Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters and Tour Operators Association. “The drivers are taking loans or selling their wives’ jewellery to make ends meet. While app-based cab drivers have little work, those driving tourist taxis have no work at all,” he said. “Do you know that until they pay off their traffic fines, they can’t even sell their cars?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/running-on-empty-cab-drivers-trip-on-emis-as-rides-dry-up/articleshow/77359683.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 5, 2020||Madurai||For civil services 7th rank holder, it was a WFH affair||KANYAKUMARI: Preparing from home was sufficient for 27-year-old Ganesh Kumar Baskar to clear the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in his second attempt and come out with flying colours by securing the seventh rank in India and first in Tamil Nadu in the main exam held in September 2019. Hailing from Nagamalai Pudukottai in Madurai district, he did his schooling and completed higher education in various states as his father, S P Baskar, 57, served in the Cabinet Secretariat of the Government of India. Baskar is now a deputy commissioner in the department in Nagercoil. About a decade ago, after completing his plus two, Ganesh Kumar was with his father who was then posted as welfare officer in the Indian High Commission in Maldives. “I set my eyes on representing our country abroad as an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer and I look forward to it,” he told TOI . After completing bachelor of technology at Kanpur, he pursued MBA in Ahmedabad. “It was in my second year of MBA in 2016 that I started working towards my goal,” he said adding that he started preparation based on the guidance of two of his college seniors who are now serving as IAS officers. They advised him not to join any coaching centre and that he could save a lot of time by preparing from home. The first attempt was a casual one without much preparation in 2017, when he failed to clear the prelims. He worked as a product manager for a tech company in Bengaluru. Preparing from home, he enrolled in a few online coaching classes but discontinued as they took four hours to explain basic concepts that he was already comfortable with. Mathematics being his main subject, he bought a set of 16 books on the subject and took up test series on mathematics and the general ones conducted by coaching centres in Delhi and Chennai. With the support of his father and mother B Leelavathi he quit the job in February 2019 three months before the preliminary exams. “I started preparing for eight hours a day about a year before the exams. From a month before the exams I prepared for 12 to 14 hours a day,” he said he was confident of making it to the top 100. According to him, a major part of the exam is figuring out the examination process and what the process demands, instead of just reading books and writing answers. “First-time aspirants should look at the syllabus and question paper, understand what the exam wants, the scoring pattern, etc., and then start preparing,” he said. Ganesh does not recommend preparing from home for everyone. “The method of preparation varies from person to person. Being an engineering graduate had I taken political science as subject I would have gone for coaching,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/for-civil-services-7th-rank-holder-it-was-a-wfh-affair/articleshow/77360818.cms||M K Ananth
August 5, 2020||Trichy||CUTN to conduct online exam for final yr students||TRICHY: Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) Tiruvarur will conduct end semester examination for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students through online mode. The move will enable final year students to be eligible to apply for higher studies and jobs. A notice issued by the controller of examination on August 1 informed that examinations will be conducted by respective departments and modalities will be communicated in a few days. “However, students who have genuine difficulties in attending the examination need not attend. Examination will be conducted for them on the university campus once normalcy returns,” said controller A Ragupathy. The university had postponed even semester examinations scheduled for April-May because of Covid-19. It had announced on June 9 to conduct end semester examination through online mode, but was later postponed. The UGC notification on July 6 had strongly recommended examination for terminal semester students. For intermediate semester students, semester examination will not be held, instead they will be assessed based on their internal assessment (60%) and grade point average (40%) earned in the previous semester for theory courses. For practical courses 100% weightage will be given to continuous assessment in the current semester. CUTN is also planning to conduct examination for arrears of third semester of all postgraduate programmes, ninth semester of five-year integrated programmes and all those who have completed their programme duration during earlier and have registered.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cutn-to-conduct-online-exam-for-final-yr-students/articleshow/77360813.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Kin of man who died in Qatar seek help to bring back body||KANYAKUMARI: The wife and daughter of a 59-year-old man from Kanyakumari district who died in Qatar on July 30, have sought the intervention of the governments of India and Qatar to bring back his body. They charged his employer of trying to dispose the body there and giving pressure to the family. “They are asking us to sign the letter without a letterhead or seal and saying they will release the death benefits only if we agree to their conditions,” Reshma, daughter of V Raju of Adaikkakuzhi village told TOI. Raju was employed as a cook in Sterling Catering Services, Qatar, from September 1993. He last came home in January 2019. On June 11, he had called up his family saying he was unwell and being taken to the hospital. “That was the last conversation we had with him before he was admitted in the Hzem Mebaireek hospital. We were told his kidney is failing and was undergoing dialysis,” she added. Through his friends the family got the contact number of the hospital an inquired about his health. On July 30, his family was informed that he had died. “We made a representation to external affairs minister, S Jaishankar and the Indian embassy in Qatar to send the body to India and to help the family get financial benefits from the company,” activist P Justin Anton, who is helping the family, said. In response to Antony’s mail and tweet, the Indian Embassy in Qatar has responded saying, “The embassy has taken up the matter with Qatari authorities and the mortal remains will be sent to India at the earliest after completing necessary procedures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-of-man-who-died-in-qatar-seek-help-to-bring-back-body/articleshow/77360814.cms||M K Ananth
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Four from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in top 100, 40 from two states crack UPSC Civil Services exam||HYDERABAD: Four candidates from the Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh made it to the top 100 in the Union Public Service Commission’s (UPSC) Civil Services examination, results of which were declared on Tuesday. Of the 829 appointments made by the UPSC, close to 40 are from the two states. With an All India Rank (AIR) of 46, Pedditi Dhatri Reddy emerged as the Telangana State topper followed by Mallavarapu Surya Teja (76), Katta Ravi Teja (77) and S Rushikesh Reddy (95). According to experts, many have cleared the examination after several attempts. “The competition every year is increasing qualitatively. At an average, an aspirant is qualifying for the top services only in his second or third attempt. Most candidates who have qualified for the top ranks are repeaters,” said Gopala Krishna, director, Brain Tree, which trained 12 of the 40 rankers. Many among those who have cleared the examination this year are candidates who are already serving or undergoing training in IPS, railways or as group A and group B officers. “This was my third attempt at Civils. In the first attempt, I was appointed in Indian Information Service and in the second attempt, I was appointed in the Indian Police Services (IPS). Currently, I am undergoing IPS training in Chennai. My preference is administrative or foreign services,” said G Chandeesh, who secured AIR 198. Some have given up private jobs to clear the Civils. “I have been preparing for Civils since 2015. I couldn’t clear the examination in the first three attempts. This was my fourth attempt wherein I cleared the examination,” said MV Satya Sai Karthik (AIR 103), who gave up a corporate job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-from-t-ap-in-top-100-40-from-2-states-crack-civils/articleshow/77359653.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||SC-mandated panel begins probe into Vikas Dubey encounter||KANPUR/LUCKNOW: The three-member panel, mandated by the Supreme Court and headed by Justice (retd) BS Chauhan, on Tuesday began probe into the encounters of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his associates. The Commission has been asked to complete inquiry within two months and submit its report to the apex court. On July 2, Dubey and his aides had brutally killed eight cops, including Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, when a police team reached Bikru village in Kanpur to search for the gangster, wanted in a case of attempt to murder. Justice Chauhan landed in Lucknow on Tuesday and reached Kanpur circuit house along with Allahabad HC judge, Justice (retd) SC Agarwal and former UP DGP KL Gupta. Later, the panel members left for Bikru village with inspector general, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal, Kanpur district magistrate Brahma Deo Tiwari and DIG Preetinder Singh. The panel members interacted with villagers for several hours. Justice Chauhan met Manu Pandey, wife of Dubey’s aide Shashikant Pandey, and asked her about the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of massacre. On the instructions of Justice Chauhan, a JCB machine was positioned at the same point where it was on the fateful night and the crime scene was recreated. The members also inspected the demolished residence of the ganglord and also met his neighbours. The judicial panel will probe all the encounters which took place between the police and members of Vikas Dubey gang between July 3 and July 10. The commission has also been tasked to give recommendations about steps to check the nexus between police, government officials and criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sc-mandated-panel-begins-probe-into-dubey-encounter/articleshow/77361372.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rebels’ entry possible if they give up BJP hospitality: Congress||JAISALMER: Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s return to the Congress will take place only when he gives up BJP’s hospitality and Haryana police’s security. Surjewala also shared a message of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Ram Temple foundation-laying in Ayodhya. Targeting Haryana’s BJP govt, Surjewala said murders and gangrapes have become common in that state. “They do have police, but Haryana government has deployed more than 1,000 police personnel for the security of 19 Congress MLAs, which is not fair,” he said. On BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani not being invited for the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir, Surjewala said he would not make any political comments on this. He said religion should be there in politics, but it should not play politics of religion. In regard to questions asked by the Maharashtra government to him in Sushant Singh suicide case, he said the responsibility of law and order situation is a subject of the state government. “Bihar CM Nitish Kumar should read the Constitution. He has forcefully sent officers and is trying to interfere with the judiciary, which he cannot do,” he added. “When police of one state go to another state and start interfering, it leads to anarchy. When SOG of the Rajasthan Government went to Haryana for investigation, first we contacted Haryana police and asked for their cooperation,” he added. He said BJP-led Haryana government has kept 19 MLAs and illegally stopped Rajasthan’s SOG team from meeting the legislators. He said the BJP was trying to topple the Rajasthan government money and muscle power. “It has been the tradition of Rajasthan that despite repeated attacks, the bravehearts of the state have defeated the enemies,” he said. Surjewala said the Congress would not allow the BJP to succeed. Surjewala said the temple foundation ceremony should be a programme of unity and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rebels-entry-possible-if-they-give-up-bjp-hospitality-cong/articleshow/77365971.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Death toll in Vizianagaram district doubles within 8 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district, which remained free of Covid-19 till May 6, has been reporting hundreds of Covid-19 cases over the last few days. The Covid-19 death toll has nearly doubled in the district within eight days. Vizianagaram reported its first Covid-19 death on June 27. On July 25, the death toll went up to 33. By August 3, the death toll in the district rose to 65. The number of cases in the district has gone up to 5,637. Officials of the medical and health department said of the over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in the district, more than 2,000 cases have been reported within Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation while Parvathipuram municipality region has reported over 500 cases. Salur region has reported 500 cases while Bobbilli has reported 200. Officials said that most of the Covid-19 patients are middle-aged. Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said that considering the increasing number of cases in the district, the administration has decided to extend the lockdown in Vizianagaram town and other parts of the district to August 15. The district administration has decided to conduct at least 3,000 tests a day in order to identify patients early and provide treatment and bring down the mortality rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/death-toll-in-vzm-dist-doubles-within-8-days/articleshow/77357161.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Immediate bail to accused violates Pocso Act: HC||KOCHI: Granting bail to an accused in a case under Pocso Act on the same day of producing him before the court goes against the spirit of the legislation and is against the welfare of the child, said the high court. Justice PB Suresh Kumar gave the ruling while setting aside the bail granted by a special court in Thrissur to Gopakumar Ayyappan (53) from Elanad, who is accused of sexually abusing an 11-year-old girl with intellectual disability by misusing his position as teacher and NCC instructor at her school. For the incident that allegedly occurred on January 23, he was arrested on February 2 and produced in special court on February 3, when the bail was granted. In the judgment, the court said, “I am of the view that grant of bail in a case of this nature on the very day on which the accused was produced before the court would never be in consonance with the scheme and spirit of the Pocso Act and would be against the welfare of the children. In short, I have no hesitation to hold that the impugned order is vitiated by erroneous and arbitrary exercise of discretion by the court below.” After citing news reports that a child aged 10 is raped every 13 hours and a child aged below 16 is raped every 155 minutes in India, the court said Pocso Act was brought in following ratification of UN Convention on the Rights of Children by India in 1992. The HC added that courts have a duty to interpret and enforce the provisions of Pocso Act in a manner that would achieve the object of the Act. “According to me, Judges need to change their mindset and should be sensitive in matters of this nature, for, lack of sensitivity would create distance between justice seeker and justice provider,” the judgment said. The lower court adopted a very casual approach while granting bail to the accused, the high court said. In asking the accused not to visit the school for a week, the lower court did not seriously consider the apprehension that witnesses, who are teachers and children, may be influenced, or the danger of justice being thwarted by grant of bail. The conditions imposed were not adequate to ensure a fair trial, the high court held while ordering to arrest the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/immediate-bail-to-accused-violates-pocso-act-hc/articleshow/77358384.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kanpur||SC-mandated panel begins probe into Vikas Dubey encounter||KANPUR/LUCKNOW: The three-member panel, mandated by the Supreme Court and headed by Justice (retd) BS Chauhan, on Tuesday began probe into the encounters of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his associates. The Commission has been asked to complete inquiry within two months and submit its report to the apex court. On July 2, Dubey and his aides had brutally killed eight cops, including Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, when a police team reached Bikru village in Kanpur to search for the gangster, wanted in a case of attempt to murder. Justice Chauhan landed in Lucknow on Tuesday and reached Kanpur circuit house along with Allahabad HC judge, Justice (retd) SC Agarwal and former UP DGP KL Gupta. Later, the panel members left for Bikru village with inspector general, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal, Kanpur district magistrate Brahma Deo Tiwari and DIG Preetinder Singh. The panel members interacted with villagers for several hours. Justice Chauhan met Manu Pandey, wife of Dubey’s aide Shashikant Pandey, and asked her about the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of massacre. On the instructions of Justice Chauhan, a JCB machine was positioned at the same point where it was on the fateful night and the crime scene was recreated. The members also inspected the demolished residence of the ganglord and also met his neighbours. The judicial panel will probe all the encounters which took place between the police and members of Vikas Dubey gang between July 3 and July 10. The commission has also been tasked to give recommendations about steps to check the nexus between police, government officials and criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sc-mandated-panel-begins-probe-into-dubey-encounter/articleshow/77364827.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Road caves in near Jodhpur Crossroads in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A large cave-in took place near Jodhpur Crossroads on Tuesday morning, disrupting traffic movement on the road towards Iskcon Crossroads.  Officials said the cave-in was caused by a damaged wall of a manhole shaft and the area has been cordoned off. Repairs began on Tuesday night and will take at least two days to make the road motorable again. Officials said that one lane of road is still open but if traffic jams occur, the BRT lane can also be opened to private vehilces. Officials said this was the 30th cave-in reported on city roads this year. A senior officer said it appears that the work on the manhole shaft was not done properly and one wall had collapsed, causing the cave-in. He added that 20 cave-ins were reported in the month of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/road-caves-in-near-jodhpur-crossroads/articleshow/77359696.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rebels’ entry possible if they give up BJP hospitality: Congress||JAISALMER: Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s return to the Congress will take place only when he gives up BJP’s hospitality and Haryana police’s security. Surjewala also shared a message of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Ram Temple foundation-laying in Ayodhya. Targeting Haryana’s BJP govt, Surjewala said murders and gangrapes have become common in that state. “They do have police, but Haryana government has deployed more than 1,000 police personnel for the security of 19 Congress MLAs, which is not fair,” he said. On BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani not being invited for the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir, Surjewala said he would not make any political comments on this. He said religion should be there in politics, but it should not play politics of religion. In regard to questions asked by the Maharashtra government to him in Sushant Singh suicide case, he said the responsibility of law and order situation is a subject of the state government. “Bihar CM Nitish Kumar should read the Constitution. He has forcefully sent officers and is trying to interfere with the judiciary, which he cannot do,” he added. “When police of one state go to another state and start interfering, it leads to anarchy. When SOG of the Rajasthan Government went to Haryana for investigation, first we contacted Haryana police and asked for their cooperation,” he added. He said BJP-led Haryana government has kept 19 MLAs and illegally stopped Rajasthan’s SOG team from meeting the legislators. He said the BJP was trying to topple the Rajasthan government money and muscle power. “It has been the tradition of Rajasthan that despite repeated attacks, the bravehearts of the state have defeated the enemies,” he said. Surjewala said the Congress would not allow the BJP to succeed. Surjewala said the temple foundation ceremony should be a programme of unity and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rebels-entry-possible-if-they-give-up-bjp-hospitality-cong/articleshow/77360821.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Ashok Gehlot govt drops sedition charges against rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: In a step seen as a conciliation gesture towards the 19 rebel Congress legislators, the Ashok Gehlot government decided to drop sedition charges against MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and others on Tuesday. The Special Operations Group (SOG), which was investigating the charge of toppling the state government through horse-trading of MLAs, has now transferred all three cases to the state’s Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) for probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with CM Ashok Gehlot and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, had been served notice, though not as an accused, in the first FIR registered by the SOG on July 10. In the second FIR registered on July 17, along with Congress MLA Sharma, a person with a name similar to that of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was booked for sedition. All these persons now stand clear of sedition charges but face corruption charges related to horse-trading of MLAs. MLA Sharma had moved a petition before the Rajasthan high court seeking to either quash the SOG FIRs or handover the probe to National Investigation Agency (NIA). Hearing on the petition remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Sources said the move to drop sedition charges was also aimed at keeping the matter out of NIA’s purview. ADG (SOG & ATS) Ashok Rathore said, “The investigations were conducted in a free, fair and impartial manner. Considering the fact that the investigations involved persons sitting high in the government, we observed utmost care and caution so as not to malign public image of any person or party. During the course of investigations, when it was found that certain facts related to PC Act were attracted, it was decided to obtain legal opinion from the state legal officer. Based on the legal opinion, it was decided to drop sedition charges and add sections of the PC Act.” As ACB is the only agency to conduct investigations under the PC Act, the case files were forwarded to it and the court was duly informed simultaneously. SOG did not file any more application in court on Tuesday to get approval for collecting voice samples of MLA Sharma or Union minister Shekhawat in connection with the alleged horse-trading of legislators. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had filed all three FIRs. The last two were lodged after two audio clips went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-govt-drops-sedition-charges-against-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77366501.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Ashok Gehlot govt drops sedition charges against rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: In a step seen as a conciliation gesture towards the 19 rebel Congress legislators, the Ashok Gehlot government decided to drop sedition charges against MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and others on Tuesday. The Special Operations Group (SOG), which was investigating the charge of toppling the state government through horse-trading of MLAs, has now transferred all three cases to the state’s Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) for probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with CM Ashok Gehlot and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, had been served notice, though not as an accused, in the first FIR registered by the SOG on July 10. In the second FIR registered on July 17, along with Congress MLA Sharma, a person with a name similar to that of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was booked for sedition. All these persons now stand clear of sedition charges but face corruption charges related to horse-trading of MLAs. MLA Sharma had moved a petition before the Rajasthan high court seeking to either quash the SOG FIRs or handover the probe to National Investigation Agency (NIA). Hearing on the petition remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Sources said the move to drop sedition charges was also aimed at keeping the matter out of NIA’s purview. ADG (SOG & ATS) Ashok Rathore said, “The investigations were conducted in a free, fair and impartial manner. Considering the fact that the investigations involved persons sitting high in the government, we observed utmost care and caution so as not to malign public image of any person or party. During the course of investigations, when it was found that certain facts related to PC Act were attracted, it was decided to obtain legal opinion from the state legal officer. Based on the legal opinion, it was decided to drop sedition charges and add sections of the PC Act.” As ACB is the only agency to conduct investigations under the PC Act, the case files were forwarded to it and the court was duly informed simultaneously. SOG did not file any more application in court on Tuesday to get approval for collecting voice samples of MLA Sharma or Union minister Shekhawat in connection with the alleged horse-trading of legislators. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had filed all three FIRs. The last two were lodged after two audio clips went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gehlot-govt-drops-sedition-charges-against-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77366503.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Ashok Gehlot govt drops sedition charges against rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: In a step seen as a conciliation gesture towards the 19 rebel Congress legislators, the Ashok Gehlot government decided to drop sedition charges against MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and others on Tuesday. The Special Operations Group (SOG), which was investigating the charge of toppling the state government through horse-trading of MLAs, has now transferred all three cases to the state’s Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) for probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with CM Ashok Gehlot and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, had been served notice, though not as an accused, in the first FIR registered by the SOG on July 10. In the second FIR registered on July 17, along with Congress MLA Sharma, a person with a name similar to that of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was booked for sedition. All these persons now stand clear of sedition charges but face corruption charges related to horse-trading of MLAs. MLA Sharma had moved a petition before the Rajasthan high court seeking to either quash the SOG FIRs or handover the probe to National Investigation Agency (NIA). Hearing on the petition remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Sources said the move to drop sedition charges was also aimed at keeping the matter out of NIA’s purview. ADG (SOG & ATS) Ashok Rathore said, “The investigations were conducted in a free, fair and impartial manner. Considering the fact that the investigations involved persons sitting high in the government, we observed utmost care and caution so as not to malign public image of any person or party. During the course of investigations, when it was found that certain facts related to PC Act were attracted, it was decided to obtain legal opinion from the state legal officer. Based on the legal opinion, it was decided to drop sedition charges and add sections of the PC Act.” As ACB is the only agency to conduct investigations under the PC Act, the case files were forwarded to it and the court was duly informed simultaneously. SOG did not file any more application in court on Tuesday to get approval for collecting voice samples of MLA Sharma or Union minister Shekhawat in connection with the alleged horse-trading of legislators. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had filed all three FIRs. The last two were lodged after two audio clips went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gehlot-govt-drops-sedition-charges-against-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77366502.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot govt drops sedition charges against rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: In a step seen as a conciliation gesture towards the 19 rebel Congress legislators, the Ashok Gehlot government decided to drop sedition charges against MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and others on Tuesday. The Special Operations Group (SOG), which was investigating the charge of toppling the state government through horse-trading of MLAs, has now transferred all three cases to the state’s Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) for probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with CM Ashok Gehlot and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, had been served notice, though not as an accused, in the first FIR registered by the SOG on July 10. In the second FIR registered on July 17, along with Congress MLA Sharma, a person with a name similar to that of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was booked for sedition. All these persons now stand clear of sedition charges but face corruption charges related to horse-trading of MLAs. MLA Sharma had moved a petition before the Rajasthan high court seeking to either quash the SOG FIRs or handover the probe to National Investigation Agency (NIA). Hearing on the petition remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Sources said the move to drop sedition charges was also aimed at keeping the matter out of NIA’s purview. ADG (SOG & ATS) Ashok Rathore said, “The investigations were conducted in a free, fair and impartial manner. Considering the fact that the investigations involved persons sitting high in the government, we observed utmost care and caution so as not to malign public image of any person or party. During the course of investigations, when it was found that certain facts related to PC Act were attracted, it was decided to obtain legal opinion from the state legal officer. Based on the legal opinion, it was decided to drop sedition charges and add sections of the PC Act.” As ACB is the only agency to conduct investigations under the PC Act, the case files were forwarded to it and the court was duly informed simultaneously. SOG did not file any more application in court on Tuesday to get approval for collecting voice samples of MLA Sharma or Union minister Shekhawat in connection with the alleged horse-trading of legislators. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had filed all three FIRs. The last two were lodged after two audio clips went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-govt-drops-sedition-charges-against-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77360819.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Goa govt didn’t include Collem locals in railway inspection: Sarpanch||MARGAO: Sarpanch of Collem panchayat Manish Lambor has expressed strong objections to the South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking project fearing its adverse impact on the Dudhsagar waterfalls and the imminent damage to the environment. Speaking to TOI, Lambor expressed his displeasure over the failure of authorities in taking the Collem panchayat into confidence during the recent inspection of the railway route. “It is disturbing to note that the chief secretary, South Goa collector, chief conservator of forests, Goa, and railway officials held a meeting and inspection of the railway route in connection with the double tracking of the route passing through Collem,” Lambor said. He pointed out that the project has received objections from various NGOs and individuals owing to the adverse impact it would have on the environment. “It was the utmost duty of the government to take the villagers, the local panchayat and the other stakeholders into confidence while taking decisions over the project,” Lambor added. He pointed out that locals have voiced fears over the threat the project would pose to the Dudhsagar water falls at Sonaulim. The work of double tracking of the route from Londa to Collem is currently under way. While the work on the Londa-Castlerock stretch is almost complete, work on the further 40km Castlerock-Collem stretch will now be taken up. The Collem panchayat, at its meeting held last week, had passed a resolution opposing the project that would entail large scale felling of trees in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. Lambor said that the panchayat has already made representations to chief minister Pramod Sawant, local MLA Deepak Pauskar, chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar and SWR authorities demanding that the project be scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-didnt-include-collem-locals-in-railway-inspection-sarpanch/articleshow/77360822.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Rebels’ entry possible if they give up BJP hospitality: Congress||JAISALMER: Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s return to the Congress will take place only when he gives up BJP’s hospitality and Haryana police’s security. Surjewala also shared a message of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Ram Temple foundation-laying in Ayodhya. Targeting Haryana’s BJP govt, Surjewala said murders and gangrapes have become common in that state. “They do have police, but Haryana government has deployed more than 1,000 police personnel for the security of 19 Congress MLAs, which is not fair,” he said. On BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani not being invited for the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir, Surjewala said he would not make any political comments on this. He said religion should be there in politics, but it should not play politics of religion. In regard to questions asked by the Maharashtra government to him in Sushant Singh suicide case, he said the responsibility of law and order situation is a subject of the state government. “Bihar CM Nitish Kumar should read the Constitution. He has forcefully sent officers and is trying to interfere with the judiciary, which he cannot do,” he added. “When police of one state go to another state and start interfering, it leads to anarchy. When SOG of the Rajasthan Government went to Haryana for investigation, first we contacted Haryana police and asked for their cooperation,” he added. He said BJP-led Haryana government has kept 19 MLAs and illegally stopped Rajasthan’s SOG team from meeting the legislators. He said the BJP was trying to topple the Rajasthan government money and muscle power. “It has been the tradition of Rajasthan that despite repeated attacks, the bravehearts of the state have defeated the enemies,” he said. Surjewala said the Congress would not allow the BJP to succeed. Surjewala said the temple foundation ceremony should be a programme of unity and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rebels-entry-possible-if-they-give-up-bjp-hospitality-cong/articleshow/77365973.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Rebels’ entry possible if they give up BJP hospitality: Congress||JAISALMER: Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday said rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s return to the Congress will take place only when he gives up BJP’s hospitality and Haryana police’s security. Surjewala also shared a message of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Ram Temple foundation-laying in Ayodhya. Targeting Haryana’s BJP govt, Surjewala said murders and gangrapes have become common in that state. “They do have police, but Haryana government has deployed more than 1,000 police personnel for the security of 19 Congress MLAs, which is not fair,” he said. On BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani not being invited for the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir, Surjewala said he would not make any political comments on this. He said religion should be there in politics, but it should not play politics of religion. In regard to questions asked by the Maharashtra government to him in Sushant Singh suicide case, he said the responsibility of law and order situation is a subject of the state government. “Bihar CM Nitish Kumar should read the Constitution. He has forcefully sent officers and is trying to interfere with the judiciary, which he cannot do,” he added. “When police of one state go to another state and start interfering, it leads to anarchy. When SOG of the Rajasthan Government went to Haryana for investigation, first we contacted Haryana police and asked for their cooperation,” he added. He said BJP-led Haryana government has kept 19 MLAs and illegally stopped Rajasthan’s SOG team from meeting the legislators. He said the BJP was trying to topple the Rajasthan government money and muscle power. “It has been the tradition of Rajasthan that despite repeated attacks, the bravehearts of the state have defeated the enemies,” he said. Surjewala said the Congress would not allow the BJP to succeed. Surjewala said the temple foundation ceremony should be a programme of unity and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rebels-entry-possible-if-they-give-up-bjp-hospitality-cong/articleshow/77365972.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Sero survey covers all 11 districts in Delhi, set to meet target by Friday||NEW DELHI: The second serological survey in Delhi, which started with four districts on Saturday and spread to eight in the next two days, covered all 11 districts by Tuesday. Adequate blood samples are being collected to determine the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in Delhiites, said a government official. “Adequate samples have been collected and we will be able to meet the target of 15,000 samples by Thursday or Friday,” he said. The first survey in the capital, conducted by Delhi government between June-end and the first week of July, had revealed the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in around 24% of the total 21,387 samples collected. After the survey results were declared, health minister Satyendar Jain had announced that a sero survey would be carried out in the city in the first week of every month to determine the actual spread of novel coronavirus. The government believes that the result of the second survey will show around 35% prevalence of antibodies, he had said. While the survey is likely to be carried out from 1st to 5th of every month, this time two more days have been added due to festivals, especially Rakshabandhan, said an official. Blood samples are being collected in a randomised fashion covering all age groups and areas. The number of samples being collected from different districts varies according to the population size. While over 2,000 samples are being collected from North West and West districts, less than 1,000 are being collected from New Delhi. The districts that have less number of samples to collect have already completed the process, a source said. The results will be compiled in about 10 days from the day of completion of the survey. Unlike the first survey when every fifth house was chosen in a selected locality for sample collection, this time residents are being selected through a randomised sampling technique, he said. Most are being asked to visit their nearest dispensary for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sero-survey-covers-all-11-districts-set-to-meet-target-by-friday/articleshow/77360826.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 5, 2020||Amritsar||Hundreds seeking work at refinery infected, fear lurks||BATHINDA: After a large number of workers returning to Punjab seeking employment in Guru Gobind Singh Refinery near Rama town of Bathinda testing positive for Covid-19, the refinery authorities have directed the labourers coming from their parent states to suspend their Punjab plans temporarily. They must return when the situation somewhat stabilises, the authorities have said. On Monday, 108 migrant workers seeking employment in refinery tested. More than 200 had tested positive in past few days before that. At present, nearly 300 workers are into isolation and some others are in quarantine. The rising number of positive workers had caused fear to engulf labourers and nearby villages of infection. Former Talwandi Sabo MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu has even demanded to cut down the refinery operations for quite some time. Sidhu said, “Though economy is very important but it comes later and as life of people is more important.” He said hundreds of labourers everyday visit Rama town to buy essentials and people from many villages around refinery too visit the same place. “I will take up the matter with the state government,” he added. Rama resident Jetendra Kumar said as many workers from labourer colonies near refinery regularly visit many shops there “we fear getting infected”. A refinery official said, “We have strict system of allowing anyone inside the refinery complex after complete check up and only those not infected are allowed in. A centre of a laboratory has been set up at the refinery where tests are conducted. Some workers from labour colonies got infected but now labourers have stopped coming here from parent states and situation must normalise soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/hundreds-seeking-work-at-refinery-infected-fear-lurks/articleshow/77359688.cms||Neel Kamal
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Locally-funded People’s Covid Lab comes up in S’kulam||Visakhapatnam: The People’s Covid Lab (PCL) of the People’s VRDL Laboratory— a unique medical facility in terms of its funding— has come up at the Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Srikakulam town. The lab has been built with contributions from people of the district. A brainchild of Srikakulam district collector J Nivas, contributions for the facility started pouring in since the beginning of the lockdown in March. The lion’s share of the establishment cost of the facility, nearly Rs 70 lakh, out of a total cost of Rs 1 crore came from voluntary contributions by locals. Speaking to TOI, Ch Sridhar, the special officer for Covid-19 in Srikakulam district, said, “The lab was built by the contribution of people. We imported medical equipment from Germany and the USA. The lab was built on an emergency basis. We put up the names of contributors.” Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that PCL has helped in reducing the time to get results by nearly 12 hours. “Moreover, this lab is helping us increase testing. Now, we are able to conduct nearly 1,200 tests at the lab. The district is able to conduct 5,000 tests a day. I am thankful to all who contributed for the lab,” he added. Medical and health chief secretary KS Jawahar Reddy has given a nod to recruitment of personnel for the lab. The salaries and maintenance costs of the lab will be borne by the state government. Sources said that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is keen on suggesting other districts to work on similar lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/locally-funded-peoples-covid-lab-comes-up-in-skulam/articleshow/77357173.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||20 lose Covid battle in Punjab, death count rises to 462||CHANDIGARH: In highest single-day toll in Punjab since the pandemic, 20 died of Covid-19 even as 488 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. Among those who tested positive were 21 police personnel and 17 jail inmates. Punjab’s overall tally of positive cases now stands at 19,015. A total of 609 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the overall tally of patients discharged to 12,491. Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases and deaths in the last 24 hours. While seven people succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, five each died in Jalandhar and Patiala and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Sangrur. The virus has claimed 462 lives in Punjab so far, while 25 patients in critical condition are on ventilator support and 149 on oxygen support. For the eighth day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 222 cases, which accounts for over 45% of cases in the last 24 hours, were from Ludhiana, which happens to be the most populated district of the state. Of these, 49 were contacts of positive cases while 36 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). In Amritsar, 39 people tested positive while 36 cases were from Patiala and 34 from Jalandhar. As many as 19 people were found infected in Patiala, 15 each in Mansa and Pathankot, 14 each in Bathinda and Ferozepur, 13 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala and 11 in Mohali. Kapurthala added 10 cases to the tally while six cases were from Moga, five each from Ropar and Hoshiarpur. Fazilka reported three cases, Nawanshahr two cases and Tarn Taran and Faridkot one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/20-lose-covid-battle-in-pb-death-count-rises-to-462/articleshow/77362711.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||20 lose Covid battle in Punjab, death count rises to 462||CHANDIGARH: In highest single-day toll in Punjab since the pandemic, 20 died of Covid-19 even as 488 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. Among those who tested positive were 21 police personnel and 17 jail inmates. Punjab’s overall tally of positive cases now stands at 19,015. A total of 609 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the overall tally of patients discharged to 12,491. Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases and deaths in the last 24 hours. While seven people succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, five each died in Jalandhar and Patiala and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Sangrur. The virus has claimed 462 lives in Punjab so far, while 25 patients in critical condition are on ventilator support and 149 on oxygen support. For the eighth day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 222 cases, which accounts for over 45% of cases in the last 24 hours, were from Ludhiana, which happens to be the most populated district of the state. Of these, 49 were contacts of positive cases while 36 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). In Amritsar, 39 people tested positive while 36 cases were from Patiala and 34 from Jalandhar. As many as 19 people were found infected in Patiala, 15 each in Mansa and Pathankot, 14 each in Bathinda and Ferozepur, 13 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala and 11 in Mohali. Kapurthala added 10 cases to the tally while six cases were from Moga, five each from Ropar and Hoshiarpur. Fazilka reported three cases, Nawanshahr two cases and Tarn Taran and Faridkot one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-lose-covid-battle-in-pb-death-count-rises-to-462/articleshow/77359684.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Amritsar||20 lose Covid battle in Punjab, death count rises to 462||CHANDIGARH: In highest single-day toll in Punjab since the pandemic, 20 died of Covid-19 even as 488 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. Among those who tested positive were 21 police personnel and 17 jail inmates. Punjab’s overall tally of positive cases now stands at 19,015. A total of 609 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the overall tally of patients discharged to 12,491. Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases and deaths in the last 24 hours. While seven people succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, five each died in Jalandhar and Patiala and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Sangrur. The virus has claimed 462 lives in Punjab so far, while 25 patients in critical condition are on ventilator support and 149 on oxygen support. For the eighth day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases. A total of 222 cases, which accounts for over 45% of cases in the last 24 hours, were from Ludhiana, which happens to be the most populated district of the state. Of these, 49 were contacts of positive cases while 36 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). In Amritsar, 39 people tested positive while 36 cases were from Patiala and 34 from Jalandhar. As many as 19 people were found infected in Patiala, 15 each in Mansa and Pathankot, 14 each in Bathinda and Ferozepur, 13 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala and 11 in Mohali. Kapurthala added 10 cases to the tally while six cases were from Moga, five each from Ropar and Hoshiarpur. Fazilka reported three cases, Nawanshahr two cases and Tarn Taran and Faridkot one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/20-lose-covid-battle-in-pb-death-count-rises-to-462/articleshow/77362712.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Three guest workers found dead on railway tracks||PALAKKAD: Three ‘guest workers’, who were engaged in the construction of IIT campus, were found dead on the railway tracks at Kanjikode late on Monday night. Kasaba police said that preliminary inquiry found that the guest workers died after being hit by at train. A large number of guest workers assembled at the spot did not allow the police and fire force to move the bodies to district hospital mortuary. They attacked police and the fire force and damaged the ambulance of the fire force. More police reinforcement was sent from Palakkad to bring the situation under control. The assembled guest workers alleged that one of the dead guest worker was attacked by some local residents. They also demanded compensation and arrangement to return to their native places. The deceased were identified as Kanayi Viswakarma (21), Aravind Kumar (23), Hari Om Kunal (29) from Pandu in Pumalu district of Jharkhand, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-guest-workers-found-dead-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/77358423.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Cab drivers, delivery workers to protest on Wednesday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: App-based cab drivers will protest in Delhi on Wednesday along with delivery workers of restaurant aggregators and food delivery platforms to “draw the government’s attention to the crises being faced by app-based workers”. “Our main demand is that the commission taken by app-based aggregators shouldn’t be more than 5% and that app-based transport workers should get a minimum monthly wage of Rs 7,500,” said Kamaljeet Gill, vice-president of Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) that is organising the protest. “App-based cab drivers are in such a dire state that they are unable to put food on the table after facing the impact of the pandemic for four months,” said Gill. The protest will be in solidarity with a national event called by All India Co-ordination Committee of Road Transport Workers Organizations. “Over 25 lakh app-based transport and delivery workers in the country have been instrumental in the process of reopening after months of lockdown. But due to loss of livelihood, their own lives have suffered miseries and mounting debts,” said IFAT general secretary Shaik Salauddin. While the government deemed app-based transport workers as essential workforce during the pandemic, “it did not do anything to provide them relief”, he complained. App-based aggregators have also remained mostly indifferent to their sufferings, he added. Among IFAT’s demands are social security coverage and health insurance, implementation of National City Taxi Scheme in all states, waiver of additional interest on loan moratorium and extension on loan repayment for the next 12 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cab-drivers-delivery-workers-to-protest-today/articleshow/77359716.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chennai||60 from Tamil Nadu ace civil services exam||CHENNAI: After a relatively poor show in the civil services exam last year, Tamil Nadu candidates reaped a bonanza this year with 60 of them making it to the final merit list released by the Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday. Of the 829 successful candidates, at least 7% were from Tamil Nadu. While seven TN candidates made it to top 100, 25 may get into IAS or IPS. State topper Ganesh Kumar, a graduate from IIT-Kanpur and IIM-Ahmedabad, got all-India seventh rank. Balanagendran D and Puranasunthari M, two visually-challenged candidates, were among the successful ones from the state. “Tamil Nadu students performed better than last year as 60 candidates cracked the exam this year. Better performance by TN students can be attributed to their good show in optional subjects,” said S Chandru, academic head, Shankar IAS Academy, Chennai. Last year, around 45 candidates cracked the exam. “In 2014, 150 candidates from the state cleared the exam which was more than 10% of the total successful candidates. The increase this year is mainly due to improved performance in optional subjects like public administration and sociology,” he added. Tamil Nadu students prefer geography, public administration, sociology, anthropology, Tamil literature and political science as optional subjects. “The number of successful candidates vary according to the performance of optional subjects,” he added. M Boominathan, director, KingMakers IAS Academy, said more students from the state got top ranks this year. “Nearly 25 candidates can get into IAS or IPS as they came within top 400,” he added. Israel Jebasingh, director, Officers Coaching Academy, said the increase is mainly due to more students preferring civil services. “As the craze for IT industries has come down, more talented engineers and others are preparing for civil services exams from Tamil Nadu. The number will only increase in the coming years,” he said. All the toppers from Tamil Nadu this year were engineering graduates. Ganesh Kumar Baskar, a computer science engineer from IIT, quit his IT job as product manager to pursue a career in civil services. Cracking JEE and CAT exams gave me confidence, said Baskar who prepared on his own. Maths was his optional subject. “It is my second attempt. I want to join Indian Foreign Service,” the TN topper from Madurai said. Hailing from Nagamalai Pudukottai in Madurai district he did his schooling and completed higher education in various states as his father S P Baskar, 57, was a central government employee. Saranya R from Karaikkal who got 36th rank said she prefers Indian Administrative Service. The engineering graduate prepared for civil services for four years and it was her third interview. “I want to work for rural development and youth welfare,” she said. Ishwarya R, civil engineering graduate from Anna University, had cracked the exam in her first attempt with 630th rank and got Indian Railway Accounts Service. In her second attempt she secured 47th rank. Hailing from a village near Cuddalore, she said she would focus for women’s empowerment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/60-from-tn-ace-civil-services-exam/articleshow/77359724.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Most gym owners in Hubballi-Dharwad to delay reopening centres||HUBBALLI: Notwithstanding the green signal by the central government for resumption of activities at gymnasiums from August 5, ,most fitness centres in Dharwad are unlikely to reopen from Wednesday, owing to the rising Covid-19 graph in the district. Fitness enthusiasts who have had to stay contented working out at home, will have to continue doing so for a week or two before all the gymnasiums across the district decide to throw open their doors. Across Dharwad district, there are more than 300 gymnasiums, of which a mere 30% are likely to resume normal operations from Wednesday. Proprietors of gymnasiums have voiced reservations over the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, with more than 150 people being confirmed infected daily. However, some of the owners, having sustained heavy losses owing to the forced closure of their establishments, and struggling to pay rent, have decided to resume operations, come what may. Prakash Pujari, owner of a gymnasium in Hubballi, said that he had decided to open the fitness centre when there was a perceptible slide in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported in Dharwad. “Our fear is that, in case of one of our staff getting infected, the gym will be sealed for a week or two, and all of us will have to isolate ourselves, which is why we have decided to delay reopening,” Pujari said. Laveen Kumar, owner of another fitness centre in the district, said that there was bound to be crowding at the gym, given that it would be reopening after four months. “The chances of the infection spreading are likely to be higher, so I have decided to wait for a week to reopen the centre. We will have to make necessary arrangements such as splitting our patrons into batches to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus,” he said. Anees Mohammad Dalal, owner of a gym in Hubli, said that he was working out the modalities of operations at the centre, on the completion of which he would reopen his gym after two or three days. President of Association of Gym Owners, Dharwad district Anilkumar Patil said that owners of gymnasiums that have heavy equipment are not too keen to open their establishments too soon. “They are all chalking out plans to operate under the new setup,” said Patil, adding that all owners had been told to strictly adhere to the guidelines prescribed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/most-gym-owners-in-hubballi-dharwad-to-delay-reopening-centres/articleshow/77357188.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||At meet with Nepal officials, Indian side seeks status quo||Pithoragarh: Champawat district authorities and officials of Kanchanpur district of Nepal met on Tuesday to discuss the alleged intrusion by some Nepal nationals into a contested piece of land at Tanakpur in Champawat district. The meeting was held at the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) camp at Banbasa, Champawat. On July 22, some Nepal citizens were spotted planting saplings and putting up fences on a piece of land at Brahmdev near Tanakpur, which India says is part of no-man’s land and Nepal claims as its own. SSB personnel reached the spot and convinced the men to stop. According to Tanakpur circle officer (CO) VC Pant, Armed Police Force (APF) of Nepal also reached the spot and stopped the men from barricading the spot, also known as the area near “pillar 811”, a border pillar which has been missing since 1996. Champawat district administration had asked for a meeting to sort out the matter. Mayor of Bhimdatta municipality in Nepal, Surendra Bisht said that the land around “pillar 811” belongs to Nepal. “The land belongs to the community forest committee, Brahmdev . The civic body has sanctioned Rs 45 lakh for plantation in the area, so planting saplings there was only natural. The wooden pillars there had worn out, so we replaced them with fences.” In Tuesday’s meeting, Indian officials asked their Nepal counterparts to remove the saplings and the fences and restore the land to its original condition, as it was before July 22. “There have been talks of reinstalling pillar 811 after conducting a field survey in both countries, but the work has been delayed,” said Champawat superintendent of police (SP) Lokeshwar Singh. In early May, border tensions stirred up between the two countries, after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the almost 80km-long Kailash Mansarovar road, which Nepal claimed encroached on its land. Talking to TOI, district magistrate of Champawat SN Pandey said, “The Nepal authorities have assured us to write to their government to send for a technical team to conduct a field survey and reinstall the missing border pillar. We will do the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-meet-with-nepal-officials-indian-side-seeks-status-quo/articleshow/77357190.cms||Prem Punetha
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Door-to-door visits raise fear among meter readers||Amaravati: Electricity meter readers have now joined the high-risk group in contracting Covid-19 after over 200 readers tested positive in the last few weeks. As visiting households is mandatory to take a reading, meter readers are vulnerable to Covid-19, especially in containment zones. “Discoms should provide PPE kits, at least to those visiting containment zones,” said Srinivas, a meter reader. A lot of meter readers are upset that authorities have not provided them the minimum safety kits for visiting houses. Many are outsourced workers earning a salary of Rs 15,000 per month. Power utilities have supplied only sanitizers for meter readers and linemen. The discoms had stopped meter readers from visiting households and commercial establishments during the lockdown in April and generated bills for the month based on March consumption. But with power bills in April showing a 100% jump from March, discoms struggled to defend the issue, stating that consumption had gone up during peak summer as all family members were at home during the lockdown. From June, discoms started to send meter readers for door-to-door readings. “The situation is now more vulnerable as there are no designated containment areas in a majority of the towns and villages. With the local authorities not even properly containing the houses of the positive cases, we are knocking at all doors and then falling victim to Covid-19,” said Vasantha Rao, a meter reader. Power utilities are offering a cash credit facility between Rs 5-10 lakh to regular employees for cashless treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/door-to-door-visits-raise-fear-among-meter-readers/articleshow/77357194.cms||Samdani MN
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Burden of capital hurts Karnataka most among top states||BENGALURU: While the country has been adding a record number of fresh cases each week, a majority of patients are still concentrated in five states that have more than a lakh cases each. The reasons for this could vary from poor testing to lower density of population and better implementation of precautions. Analysis of data from states with the highest caseloads — which are also among the most industrialised in the country — suggests that the spread of the virus may also be linked to the distribution of economic activity, independent of other variables like testing and restrictions. The distribution of cases in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka shows that, post Unlock-2, capital cities of all states expect Karnataka have shown a much lower burden. As of August 3, nearly one in two of cases in Karnataka was in Bengaluru, while about a quarter of Maharashtra’s cases were in Mumbai and Chennai accounted for 40% of TN’s cases. In Andhra Pradesh, no one district accounts for more than 15% of all cases, while Delhi, whose political composition is different, doesn’t lend itself for comparison. Prof CM Lakshmana, head, Population Research Centre at ISEC, said: “We did a study on red zones and found that the initial spike in cases was linked to urbanisation-linked high density of population. Now, with movement of people freer, we will have to consider other factors, including how a given state’s economic activity is distributed.” Up to April end, Mumbai accounted for two thirds of Maharashtra’s cases and Chennai had more than a third of TN’s cases. Bengaluru only had a quarter of the state’s cases. In May, as the effects of restrictions kicked in, Chennai’s cases rose largely due to the Koyambedu cluster, while Mumbai’s burden on Maharashtra too further increased. But Bengaluru accounted for half of what it did up to April end in percentage terms, indicating better implementation of restrictions. Prof Charan Singh, former senior economist at IMF and now CEO of EGROW Foundation, said economic geography must be considered while analysing reverse migration. Initially, cities like Mumbai and Chennai, both port cities, reported more cases, while Bengaluru was better insulated. “However, as economic activity picked up, Pune, Nagpur and Navi Mumbai, or areas like Chengalpattu in Tamil Nadu began seeing more cases. Comparatively, other commercial districts in Karnataka (Mysuru or Mangaluru) don’t compare well with secondary cities in Maharashtra or even Gujarat, which could be the reason why Bengaluru cases are still spiking,” Singh said. A massive reduction in the proportion of cases in Mumbai and Chennai was clearly visible post June 30, while it sharply increased in Bengaluru. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said: “Even in the UK, many modern diseases including TB were seen in industrial areas, but eventually, these areas also had better infrastructure, public hygiene and access to medical aid. When such regions are well distributed, you will also see other infrastructure well distributed. No one place is over-burdened,” Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/burden-of-capital-hurts-karnataka-most-among-top-states/articleshow/77358426.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 5, 2020||Goa||Court denies bail to man who posed as minister’s PA, took money to provide jobs||PANAJI: The Panaji sessions court on Monday dismissed an anticipatory bail application filed by a man who posed as personal assistant of a minister and collected Rs 4 lakh to provide jobs. Swapnil Parab, 29, promised two clerical government jobs to the complainant’s son and daughter. “The applicant has cheated the complainant by misrepresenting that he is PA to a minister,” said sessions judge Irshad Agha. “Such a person is likely to threaten the witnesses, therefore, this protection of anticipatory bail can’t be given to the applicant.” The court also said that the case papers show the date of transfer of money, and said there’s prima facie material that the amount was paid to Parab’s account. The transaction took place in January and February 2020. “There is clear proof that the money has been taken by the applicant (Parab),” said Agha. “There is no explanation given by him as to how and why the money has come into his possession. (He) is in the habit of cheating people. There are various complaints lodged against (him) at various police stations.” Public prosecutor P Bharne told the court that Parab is in the habit of misrepresenting, thereby misguiding the people at large and collecting huge amounts of money from people and defrauding them under the pretext of assuring them government jobs. The court was informed that in January, Parab sent a message to the complainant’s wife on Facebook messenger, stating that there are vacancies, that he was PA to a minister, and that he would request the minister for a job on payment of Rs 2 lakh. The complainant then transferred Rs 2 lakh to his account. Later, he and his family decided to pay Parab another Rs 2 lakh to secure a job for their daughter. After his assurance, the payment was made on January 10, the complainant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-denies-bail-to-man-who-posed-as-ministers-pa-took-money-to-provide-jobs/articleshow/77360841.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Theatre colossus Ebrahim Alkazi no more||NEW DELHI: Ebrahim Alkazi, a colossus of fine arts who created and crafted modern Indian theatre, and who as the longest-serving director of National School of Drama (1962-77) taught and honed a fecund crop of first-rate actors like Om Puri, Naseeruddin Shah and Surekha Sikri, passed away after a heart attack on Tuesday afternoon. “He was admitted to the Escorts hospital the day before yesterday,” his son Feisal Alkazi told PTI. He was 94. Alkazi produced benchmark plays such as Dharamvir Bharti’s Andha Yug, John Osborne’s Look Back In Anger, Lorca’s Yerma, Mohan Rakesh’s Aashadh Ka Ek Din, Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq. “He created a generation of directors, actors and other theatre people who are engaged in modern Indian theatre from Kashmir to Kanya Kumari, even in Andaman-Nicobar,” says theatre professional and former student MK Raina. Alkazi was also a painter, a trained architect, a photographer and art curator. He designed the Meghdoot open air theatre in Rabindra Bhavan. “He gave you a sense of what the Renaissance man is all about,” says Raina. His idea of teaching was holistic. Noted actress and former student Surekha Sikri remembers, “He taught us all subjects, including lighting, music, set design and play analysis. He taught me everything I know about the art and craft of acting.” He practiced what he preached. “NSD had a meagre budget those days. During our first year, we worked three hours every day to build the Meghdoot theatre. He would lift bricks with us,” recalls Raina. He was also a disciplinarian. Sikri recalls skipping class to watch the movie, Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines, and getting caught. “He was very angry. We were suspended for a week from attending classes,” she says. Pune-born Alkazi was one of the nine children of a Saudi Arabian father and a Kuwaiti mother. He was the only one who stayed back in India after Partition. A graduate of London’s Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, he returned to Mumbai, his first karmabhoomi in theatre. “Alkazi revealed to Mumbai the riches of Sophocles, Anouilh and Strindberg,” wrote renowned playwright Girish Karnad in India Today in 2005. At 37, he was the director of National School of Drama in 1962. Firmness was integral to him. “Once then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was supposed to come and watch a performance of Razia Sultan. She was a little late. Alkazi insisted the performance begin at the scheduled time, notwithstanding the absence of the PM of India,” writes Nandita Puri in Om Puri’s biography, Unlikely Hero. Alkazi also acted as guide and mentor to many students. During his early days at NSD, Om Puri couldn’t follow what was being taught in English and was extremely frustrated. On finding out the problem, Alkazi counselled and motivated him. “This comforted Om. Soon he settled down and began to enjoy NSD as he started to get good roles as well,” she writes. He also encouraged students to look at regional drama. “I still remember the thrill that ran through the Kannada theatre when we learnt that Adya Rangacharya's Kelu Janamejaya was to be staged in Hindi at NSD. Next year, it was my Tughlaq,” wrote Karnad. Raina links Alkazi’s emergence to the time when the Nehruvian dream of New India was still alive. “MF Hussain in painting, Homi Bhabha in nuclear energy, Uday Shankar in modern dance, Alkazi in theatre and many others – they were all creating Nehru’s contemporary India. They were the best people and the best talent of that era in India,” he says. A Padma Vibhushan recipient, his death was widely mourned. Among those who paid tributes were President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi. In his autobiography, And Then One Day, former student and actor Naseeruddin Shah had aptly summed up Alkazi’s style and substance. “Blessed with impeccable taste, and acutely aware of his place in history, he bestowed a sense of aesthetics and sophistication and, more important, organisation and discipline on Indian theatre. His productions were an example of what ‘finish’ in theatre design actually meant. A designer by training and by temperament, widely travelled and formidably well read, Alkazi’s compelling theatre presentations had, in the context of Indian theatre then, no equal.” (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/theatre-colossus-ebrahim-alkazi-no-more/articleshow/77360842.cms||Avijit Ghosh
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand taxi operators, drivers take up odd jobs to tide through Covid crisis||Mussoorie: When the Covid-19 lockdown was first announced in March, Pradeep Rawat, a taxi operator from Mussoorie, thought that the restrictions would soon be lifted and he will be back in business just in time for the peak tourist season. However, four months into the pandemic, his savings have dried up. Now, Rawat, who owns three cabs, is forced to work as a daily wage labourer to make ends meet. With non-essential travel still largely out of bounds in the country and peak tourist season washed away, thousands of taxi operators and drivers in tourism-driven destinations have now been forced to take up odd jobs to meet their daily expenses. In Mussoorie alone, around 200 taxi owners and drivers are working as daily wage labourers to make a living. “Business has been shut since March. Whatever savings we had have also been depleted. Now, working as labourers is the only option for many of us,” said Rawat. Another taxi owner said, “I have to feed a family of four and pay my kids’ school fees. From where will I get money?”Mussoorie Taxi Association secretary Sunder Singh Panwar said, “The situation is bad for all taxi operators as our income is nil and the pressure of expenses like loan instalments, maintenance costs and drivers’ salary is mounting.” The scenario is grim in other towns too. Haridwar Taxi-Maxi Mahasangh said that nearly 20,000 drivers have been left without any income in Haridwar and Rishikesh due to the Covid crisis and are forced to take up odd jobs like selling vegetables. Jasbir Rawat, a Dehradun-based taxi driver, said, “Even though some of the restrictions have been eased, there is no major rise in the number of visitors to the state. As the situation is likely to remain the same for the next few months, I have switched to selling vegetables near my house.” In Nainital, Diwan Rautela of Uttaranchal Travels said, “Almost all my taxis used to be booked during these months. However, there is hardly any booking since March this year.” Taxi operators in the state have also demanded that the government must waive road tax for one-year apart from extending the moratorium on payment of loan instalments for a year. Transport secretary Shailesh Bagauli was not available for comments despite repeated attempts. (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh, Prashant Jha & MS Nawaz)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-taxi-operators-drivers-take-up-odd-jobs-to-tide-through-covid-crisis/articleshow/77357202.cms||Anmol Jain
August 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kantabanji adds to reputation of home to civil servants||Balangir: The small town of Kantabanji in the district is emerging as a place that raises civil servants after 25-year-old Nabal Kumar Jain cracked the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination for the year 2019, the results of which was announced on Tuesday. Nabal is the fourth person from Balangir’s business centre in the past decade to make it to the civil services. Nabal, who has been working as a probation officer in Indian Railway Traffic Services, has got 125th rank in the exam. Kantabanji is a small urban locality and a business town where majority of the population are into trading. Though Nabal comes from a business family, his parents never forced him to join the family business. “I was allowed to pursue my dream of joining the civil services,” Nabal said. After completing his schooling and higher education from Kantabanji, Nabal went to Raipur in Chattishgarh to become a chartered accountant (CA). Having done his CA, he moved to New Delhi to prepare for the UPSC examination. He cracked the UPSC exam and got posted in the Indian Railway Traffic Services but kept trying for a better rank. “I realized the exam was not tough but the competition was high. Strategic study, hard work and blessings of my family and friends helped me find success,” said Nabal. Nabal’s father is a businessman and his mother is a housewife. He has two younger sisters and both are ready to follow in his footsteps. Before Nabal, Arabinda Agrawal (2011), Sarika Jain (2013) and Manish Agrawal (2017) cracked the civil services exam from Kantabanji. And Nabal took tips from all three before embarking on his journey. “They guided me on the subjects I should select, on preparation and time management,” Nabal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kantabanji-adds-to-reputation-of-home-to-civil-servants/articleshow/77358428.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district: Hospitals asked to provide Covid-19 patients beds in 30 minutes or face action||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration has warned of stringent action against hospitals that fail to provide a bed to a Covid-19 patient within 30 minutes of admission. Following a number of complaints from Covid-19 patients, the administration has directed nodal officers at Covid-19 hospitals to allocate beds to positive and suspected cases within the stipulated time period. Health wing authorities have been directed to update online details of available hospital beds to smoothen the process of allocating beds. Private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment have also been told to update the number of beds available and admit emergency cases. “Krishna district is registering a low number of cases compared to neighboring districts but the number of deaths reported recently is worrying. We should focus on minimising it,” district collector Mohammed Imtiaz said. Special helplines have been established at Covid-19 hospitals and at Covid-19 Care Centres to update information on patients’ health. A special help desk has been set up for journalists in the district and a nodal officer appointed, Imtiaz said. The district registered 420 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 8,239. There are 2,759 active cases while 5,239 patients have recovered. Nine deaths were registered, taking the toll to 187.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospitals-asked-to-provide-covid-19-patients-beds-in-30-mins-or-face-action/articleshow/77357222.cms||Venu Lanka
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||13 SPIPA students find success||Ahmedabad: The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) declared the final results of the civil services exams on Tuesday. The exams, among the toughest in the country, have been cleared by 13 students of Sardar Patel Institute of Public Administration (SPIPA). Last year, 19 candidates had been successful. Over 10 lakh candidates from across the country had applied for fewer than 1,000 spots. Kartik Jivani from Surat, who has the BTech degree in mechanical engineering, took the 84th rank.Jitendra Agarwal, an MBBS graduate, stood 128th. Other successful candidates from SPIPA include Akarshi Jain (140th rank), a native of Jodhpur, who has BBA and LLB degrees.Harshil Meena, the son of R C Meena, the secretary of the revenue department of the Gujarat government, ranked 548th. Meena, 22, who cleared the exam in his first attempt, has the BTech degree in computer science engineering from IIT-Delhi. Prabhat Singh (377th rank) has a degree in BSc statistics and has also completed the LLM course. . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13-spipa-students-find-success/articleshow/77359754.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Sweets, lights and diyas: Delhi’s Covid-hit markets sold on Lord Ram||NEW DELHI: While preparations are in full swing in Ayodhya to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday, Delhi too is gearing up for the occasion. The city’s traders have decided to illuminate the markets with lights, perform special puja, and light diyas like on Diwali. At the Green Park Market, an LED screen will display the foundation laying ceremony live from Ayodhya on Wednesday, and the evening will be an occasion for green firecrackers. “This event will be remembered by the generations to come and it’s our duty to mark this historic moment,” declared Vijay Israni, vice-president, Green Park Market Association. “We will have a grand day while taking all Covid-19 precautions.” Israni added that a Ram Darbar with a silver idol would be created in the market. “The darbar will be around a foot tall and three feet wide. It will be decorated with flowers and illuminated by diyas in the evening. The shopkeepers are in consensus about the celebrations,” he said. The markets in old Delhi are similarly caught up in the joy around the start of the Ram temple’s construction in Ayodhya. On Church Mission Road, a special aarti will be performed at Krishna Bazar Chowk at 12.30pm with the blowing of conch shells at a Ram Darbar. Each shopkeeper will light five diyas from 5pm onward, so the lights around the 800 shops there will create a Diwali-like air, enthused Gopal Garg, president of the market association. At Sadar Bazar, there are plans to distribute sweets. Rakesh Yadav, president of the market association there, disclosed, “We will get the sweet boxes from home, but traders have been specifically instructed not to not put up stalls for food preparation or bhandaras. He sweets will be distributed by the traders around the market, so people needn’t gather or stand in queues.” At Khari Baoli, every shop will put up a saffron flag and floral garlands. Vijay Gupta who heads the Delhi Kirana Committee, Khari Baoli, said that a special programme at the Naya Baas roundabout, while diyas will be lit at Fatehpuri Chowk near the statue of Swami Vivekananda. “The lamps will be lit by five committee members. People will not be allowed to gather there,” added Gupta. For the past two days, the Jhandewalan Mandir in Karol Bagh has been lit up with colourful colours to celebrate the occasion, and the temple complex has a flurry of saffron flags and numerous cut-outs of Lord Ram. “We have distributed 2,000 flags for the faithful to put up at homes,” said Ravindra Goel, trustee, Mandir Management Committee. “On Wednesday, 751 lamps will be lit, bhajans will be sung and 3,000 packets of halwa, chana and boondi laddoos will be distributed to the devotees.” The celebrations will be preceded on Tuesday night by an event called Ram Naam Deep Utsav during which thousands of diyas bearing the name of Lord Ram will be lit in Karol Bagh by members of the Confederation of All India Traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sweets-lights-and-diyas-delhis-covid-hit-mkts-sold-on-lord-ram/articleshow/77359768.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 5, 2020||India||SC ruling today on sending EWS quota case to 5-judge bench||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court will decide on Wednesday whether the validity of 10% quota for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions should be referred to a five-judge bench. The court had reserved its verdict on this question on July 31 last year and the decision will be pronounced after more than a year by CJI S A Bobde, who had heard arguments along with Justices R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai. While the Centre is opposed to referring the issue to a larger bench, nearly three dozen petitioners want the validity of EWS quota to be adjudicated by a constitution bench. The petitioners had challenged the 103rd constitutional amendment to provide 10% EWS quota in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions on the ground that it breached the 50% ceiling on reservation put by the SC in its 1992 judgment in Indra Sawhney case (Mandal case). However, the Centre had said the 50% cap on reservation was “fallacious” and not binding and the constitutional amendment to provide quotas in jobs and education was meant to socially uplift nearly 200 million poor people. Attorney general K K Venugopal had said Parliament had unanimously passed the EWS quota, which was not violative of the apex court’s earlier verdicts on reservation. He said the SC had never ruled on a 50% cap on reservation and its verdicts allowed breaching the 50% ceiling if there were sufficient reasons to justify it. He said reservation up to 68% was prevalent in Tamil Nadu and the decision was upheld by the HC and not stayed by the SC. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the petitioners, had argued that the amendment was unconstitutional as it breached the 50% ceiling and said the concept of backwardness on the basis of economic status was not recognised under the Constitution. He had pleaded for reference of the issue to a larger bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-ruling-today-on-sending-ews-quota-case-to-5-judge-bench/articleshow/77362125.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Learn from Dharavi, RVD tells government||HUBBALLI: The state government must learn about Covid management from Dharavi in Mumbai, the largest slum in Asia, where positive cases have reduced in recent days, said former minister RV Deshpande here on Tuesday. “Covid-19 cases in the state are increasing due to negligence by the government and its unpreparedness. The government also failed to take care of Corona warriors,” he said. He urged the state government to order a judicial inquiry into the allegations on irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits, masks, ventilators and other material to manage the Covid-19 situation. An inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court would bring respect to the government, he said. Attacking the government for issuing a legal notice to opposition leaders for making allegations on the misdeeds of the government, he released a book of corruption charges against the BS Yediyurappa-led government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/learn-from-dharavi-rvd-tells-govt/articleshow/77357225.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plumber airlifted by Sonu Sood gets wishes from across India||Bhubaneswar: Prashant Kumar Pradhan, 32-year-old plumber from Kendrapada who named his welding workshop after Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, has been flooded with congratulatory calls from all across the country. Prashant’s story was first published in TOI, and a photo of his shop was later shared by the actor on his twitter account. There has been no looking back after this. Prashant was recently featured in a popular TV show of the country. He thanked Sonu Sood for airlifting him from Kochi to Bhubaneswar and giving him a fresh lease of life. Prashant shared his story on the show where Sonu Sood was called as the celebrity guest. The show host had brought Prashant online for his extraordinary story. “After my story was published in TOI on July 19, Sonu Sood spoke to me. He had asked about my business and the problems I faced in the workshop. I invited him to my shop. We again spoke on the show. I am so happy that he remembers me,” Prashant, a native of Chinchiri village, said. Pradhan, who knows plumbing and welding, opened the workshop at Hatina on July 10 after he secured a job in his village. In a bid to express his gratitude towards the actor, he named his shop — Sonu Sood Welding Workshop. He makes grille gates and wields vehicle parts and railings, among other household stuff. He earn at least Rs 400 on a daily basis. Prashant said people called him to know about his shop. “I have been receiving hundreds of calls since July 19. I was surprised that people from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Punjab called me up and wondered how they got to know. Later, I found out that my workshop photo was posted in the newspaper and the actor himself has tweeted my phone number. They wish me luck and offered help. I am extremely grateful,” he added. “A film director from Mumbai also phoned me. However, I forgot to ask his name,” Prashant said, adding that he narrated the whole story to the person. “The director praised me for opening the shop instead of sitting idle at home. People in my area also came forward to meet me. My business is running as usual,” Prashant, the father of a three-and-half-year-old daughter, said. Prashant was working as a plumber in a company near the Cochin airport in Kerala. He had been stranded there after he lost the job. A few days later on May 29, Prashant, along with 168 other migrant workers, was airlifted by Sonu Sood on May 29. Though he tried to get a ticket on a Shramik Special train, but failed. District officials and local leaders also couldn’t do much either. Prashant opened the shop to support his family of 10 members. “I want to register my workshop and make it a good one,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plumber-airlifted-by-sonu-sood-gets-wishes-from-across-india/articleshow/77358436.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 5, 2020||Faridabad||In Haryana, Faridabad near worst-hit district tag||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Covid count on Tuesday reached 37,796 cases and 448 deaths as 623 new patients were found infected and eight died of it. In all, 756 new recoveries took the state’s recovery rate to 82.62% and the total to 31,226. Now, there are 6,122 active cases, of whom 118 patients are on oxygen support and 43 on ventilator support. Doubling rate remained stable at 26 days, while the testing rate rose to 26,472 tests per million as 6,71,064 persons had been examined so far. The spike in cases of Covid continued in second-worst hit district Faridabad as it was almost about to equalise Gurugram’s tally. Faridabad got maximum 169 new patients and one death, taking its tally for total cases to 9,341 with 135 deaths. Rohtak reported 96 new patients and one death, taking it total to 1,689 cases with 24 deaths. Panipat reported 50 new cases and its overall total rose to 1,302 . With a recovery rate of more than 90%, Gurugram reported 46 new cases. The district could lose the tag of being the worst-hit district as its overall tally of 9,348 with 124 deaths is close to Faridabad’s. The district has 756 patients. Ambala reported 32 new cases and its total rose to 1,742. Also, 29 new cases in Sonipat took the district tally to 3,013 cases. Yamunangar and Fatehabad got 22 new cass each, but there was also a death in Fatehabad. There were 20 new cases in Rewari, 19 each in Karnal and Sirsa, 16 each in Kurukshetra and Jhajjar, 15 each in Bhiwani and Palwal, 12 in Panchkula, eight in Jind, six in Kaithal, five in Nuh, four in Hisar, and three in Mahindergarh. Of the remaining deaths, three were from Sirsa and one from Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/in-hry-faridabad-near-worst-hit-district-tag/articleshow/77367010.cms||Manvir Saini
August 5, 2020||Agra||Appeal for release of jailed paediatrician Kafeel Khan trends on Twitter on eve of hearing||AGRA: On the eve of the hearing of a habeas corpus petition for paediatrician Kafeel Khan in Allahabad high court, his wife Shabista Khan launched a campaign on Twitter demanding his release, which swiftly trended on the micro blogging site with over 1 lakh tweets in just three hours. The campaign, #Dr KafeelKhanKoAzaadKaro was trending on Twitter on Tuesday evening. Shabista in a video message urged people to come with her to run a campaign for release of the pedestrian. Just a fortnight ago, #ReleaseOurDrKafeel had trended on Twitter in India. According to Kafeel’s brother Adeel Ahmad Khan, the habeas corpus plea was filed by their mother Nuzhat Parveen. Khan has been behind the bars since January 29 after a speech he had delivered at Aligarh Muslim University during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests was deemed “provocative” by the UP government. He was booked under the National Security Act (NSA) hours after he got bail in the case. Detention under NSA allows the state to detain a person for up to 12 months, which can be extended if the state finds “fresh evidence”. The tweets in support of the doctor started pouring in at 4pm on Tuesday, with many sharing videos and photos of the doctor’s work treating underprivileged children. Many political representatives across party lines also tweeted in his support. Bollywood actors Richa Chadha and Swara Bhaskar lent their support with the hashtag #FreeDrKafeel. While the campaign demanding Khan’s release has been a sustained one, he was in news recently after a letter he wrote about the conditions of the prison in Mathura was shared on social media. The four-page letter, purportedly written by him in June, spoke of the “hellish” conditions of his barracks, where 150 inmates were sharing a toilet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/appeal-for-release-of-jailed-paediatrician-kafeel-khan-trends-on-twitter-on-eve-of-hearing/articleshow/77358434.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Gurgaon||NCR district is among best in contact tracing||JIND: Kaithal, Bhiwani, Faridabad and Charkhi Dadri districts of Haryana topped in contact tracing in the weekly status report which had been compiled till Sunday, whereas Sirsa was the the worst of. The four districts managed to trace 100% contacts of Covid-19 patients, while Sirsa traced just 71% contacts, according to data under Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) . Health officials in Faridabad managed the feat, even as the district has been among the worst-hit by the virus. It had 8,89 cases where contact tracing was required. Sirsa civil surgeon Surender Nain said, “We have been performing well, but there were some holidays, including Rakshabandhan and Eid, that deelayed work and we had some troubke in getting contact details in Dhani. In some cases, people are hard to find if they give their sample outside the district. Also, sometimes, the server failed to upload the entire data, which decreased the tracing rate.” Jind deputy civil surgeon Pale Ram Kataria said IDSP issued a weekly status report of contact tracing in which Jind was performing well. “However, due to holidays we couldn’t approach every locations. But, this week, we traced out 98% contacts of patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/but-ncr-district-is-among-best-in-contact-tracing/articleshow/77359792.cms||Vijender Kumar
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government condemns Pak’s claim on cities||GANDHINAGAR: While Pakistan has been asserting its claim over Indian territory in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, in an absurd move, it has for the first time, included the cities of Junagadh and Manavadar in its new political map, which was released on Tuesday. It also shows Sir Creek as part of its territory. There has been a strong backlash from both the BJP and Congress, who termed the new political map “mischievous and ridiculous”. While CM Vijay Rupani said that the new map is a glaring example of how disconnected Pakistan is from reality, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said such mindless attempts expose Pakistan’s nefarious designs. In a tweet, chief minister Vijay Rupani said, “This so called “political map” of Pakistan released by Prime Minister Imran Khan today is a glaring example of how disconnected Pakistan PM is with ground realities. Pakistan will never succeed in its wicked design of undermining the unity and integrity of India. This action of Pakistan is both preposterous and obnoxious. Gujarat condemns this absurd act of Pakistan unequivocally.” Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel also tweeted, “Ridiculous & mischievous of Pakistan to show J&K, Ladakh, Junagadh & Manavdar as part of Pakistan. I want to remind them that due to Sardar Patel’s tireless efforts in 1948, people of Junagadh unanimously chose to be a part of India. Publishing imaginary maps will not reverse these facts. These mindless attempts expose Pakistan’s nefarious designs. J&K, Ladakh & Junagadh are an integral part of India.” The nawab of the princely state of Junagadh had expressed his desire to accede to Pakistan during partition in 1947, but the people opted to remain with India. After a brief clash with Pakistan, Junagadh was included within the Indian union by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, then India’s home minister. Manavadar is a town in Junagadh district. Talking to TOI, C R Paatil, state BJP President said, “The whole of India is celebrating the foundation stone laying of the Ram temple. All the communities in India are celebrating this historic event and Pakistan is sending terrorists to India to create disturbance. Pakistan PM’s false claims of showing Junagadh and Manavadar and other parts of India as theirs in a so called new political map is just a publicity stunt.” Paresh Dhanani, leader of opposition (LOP) and Congress leader said, “Pakistan is known for such provocative statements. Junagadh and Manavadar are an integral part of India which Sardar Patel included in India in 1947. This is history known to the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-condemns-paks-claim-on-cities/articleshow/77359786.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP girl battles odds to top UPSC exam||LUCKNOW: Days before her UPSC (Mains) examination, she was diagnosed with diarrhoea and her health was in tatters. Away from her parents, she gathered courage and appeared for the examination only to come out with flying colours. Meet 26-year-old Pratibha Verma from Sultanpur, who has not only secured third spot in the coveted UPSC Civil Services Examination-2019 but also topped among women candidates. “The news hasn’t sunk in yet. My interview went well and I was confident that I would sail through easily, but AIR (all-India rank) 3 and topper among women candiates has come as a pleasant surprise,” Pratibha said while talking to TOI from Delhi. Pratibha, who graduated from IIT-Delhi in 2014, said it was coronavirus-induced lockdown that helped her regain physical and mental strength, a prerequisite to crack the examination. “Before my mains examination in January, I was down with diarrhoea and was really upset. I thought my focus is lost. But when my interview (scheduled earlier in March) was deferred, I decided to rebuild my health. I took a two-month break, came back home, took up power yoga and meditation, focussed on my nutrition, and then appeared for interview in July-end,” she said. “In 2018, I battled dengue and then in 2019, I was diagnosed with typhoid. When I came back home after my mains, I cried like never before. My parents supported me and helped me succeed,” Pratibha said. Pratibha said as her parents were working, she became more responsible. “While parents were away from home, I was the one who took care of my younger siblings. It made me responsible and helped me in cracking the examination.”Pratibha’s father Subansh Verma was an English teacher at a government intermediate college and retired a few months ago. Her mother, Usha Verma, is head teacher at a government school in Sultanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-girl-battles-odds-to-top-upsc-exam/articleshow/77361380.cms||Isha Jain
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, Faridabad near worst-hit district tag||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Covid count on Tuesday reached 37,796 cases and 448 deaths as 623 new patients were found infected and eight died of it. In all, 756 new recoveries took the state’s recovery rate to 82.62% and the total to 31,226. Now, there are 6,122 active cases, of whom 118 patients are on oxygen support and 43 on ventilator support. Doubling rate remained stable at 26 days, while the testing rate rose to 26,472 tests per million as 6,71,064 persons had been examined so far. The spike in cases of Covid continued in second-worst hit district Faridabad as it was almost about to equalise Gurugram’s tally. Faridabad got maximum 169 new patients and one death, taking its tally for total cases to 9,341 with 135 deaths. Rohtak reported 96 new patients and one death, taking it total to 1,689 cases with 24 deaths. Panipat reported 50 new cases and its overall total rose to 1,302 . With a recovery rate of more than 90%, Gurugram reported 46 new cases. The district could lose the tag of being the worst-hit district as its overall tally of 9,348 with 124 deaths is close to Faridabad’s. The district has 756 patients. Ambala reported 32 new cases and its total rose to 1,742. Also, 29 new cases in Sonipat took the district tally to 3,013 cases. Yamunangar and Fatehabad got 22 new cass each, but there was also a death in Fatehabad. There were 20 new cases in Rewari, 19 each in Karnal and Sirsa, 16 each in Kurukshetra and Jhajjar, 15 each in Bhiwani and Palwal, 12 in Panchkula, eight in Jind, six in Kaithal, five in Nuh, four in Hisar, and three in Mahindergarh. Of the remaining deaths, three were from Sirsa and one from Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-faridabad-near-worst-hit-district-tag/articleshow/77359761.cms||Manvir Saini
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Took up case based on CM’s letter to PM, says NIA||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the case of gold smuggling through diplomatic channel, arrested two more persons in connection with the case. They are Sharafudheen KT (38) from Perinthalmanna and Mohammad Shafeeq (31) of Mannarkkad. According to NIA, Sharafudheen and Shafeeq were close aides of prime accused KT Ramees, who mastermind the smuggling operation. Their arrests were recorded after NIA nabbed them from their residences and interrogated them on Monday. “During custodial interrogation of Ramees, it was revealed that he was aided and assisted by Sharafudheen and Shafeeq in collecting smuggled gold from arrested accused Sandeep Nair in the capital and distributing the contraband among other co-conspirators. They got the gold from Sandeep on five occasions. NIA court granted their custody to investigation team till Friday,” said an officer associated with the probe. Meanwhile, while considering the bail petition of the accused Swapna Suresh on Tuesday, NIA submitted in court that the central agency had no political interest in the case. Assistant solicitor general P Vijaykumar, who appeared for NIA, submitted that the case was taken following a letter written by CM Pinarayi Vijayan to PM Narendra Modi, seeking a detailed probe on July 8. NIA stated that the accused tried to destabilize the economic stability of India by smuggling 200kg of gold in 20 transactions since June 2018. Though Swapna’s counsel Geo Paul submitted that FIR was hastily registered on July 9 after CM’s letter, NIA countered that it had intelligence inputs prior to registering the case. After submitting the case Diary as instructed by the court, NIA stated that all central agencies were on high alert regarding terror funding activities after Mumbai terror attack. Hence, proceeds of gold and narcotics smuggling is preferred for terrorist activities. NIA submitted that they are probing the involvement of former IT secretary N Sivasankar. The court will hear Swapna’s counsel on Thursday regarding bail plea. Meanwhile, the court extended NIA custody of Ramees for three more days after it sought an extension of four days. Customs too filed a plea seeking his custody; court will consider it on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/took-up-case-based-on-cms-letter-to-pm-nia/articleshow/77358445.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||JNU plans hostel, research centres with Rs 455 crore from education JV||NEW DELHI: The engineering and management students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will soon get a hostel of their own. JNU will also set up a state-of-the-art incubation centre for startups and a national animal research facility, said vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar while announcing many such plans on Tuesday. These facilities will be funded by Rs 455 crore received from Higher Education Funding Agency (Hefa), a joint venture of the Union human resource development ministry and Canara Bank that provides loans to higher education institutions for infrastructure build-up. The central universities set up before 2014 will have to repay 10% of the principal amount, while the rest will be the Centre’s responsibility. The vice-chancellor said an academic complex buildings for both engineering and management institutes, trans-disciplinary academic research facilities, special centre for learning and a lecture hall complex would also be part of the plan. An education enterprise resource planning (ERP) system will be installed to shift all academic and administrative processes online in a unified and integrated manner. “The system will make all processes in JNU efficient and time-bound,” said Kumar. A centre for e-learning will also be set up for those who can’t get admitted to JNU. Some centres such as instrumentation and animal research ones will be national facilities, the VC added. However, JNU Teachers’ Association and AISA have again objected to replacing public funding for infrastructure development with loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-plans-hostel-research-centres-with-rs-455cr-from-education-jv/articleshow/77359836.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Cop on duty suspended for holidaying with kin||LUCKNOW: The station house officer (SHO) of Asoha police station area in Unnao district, Surendra Kumar was suspended after he was found holidaying with his family in Lucknow though he had informed his subordinate that he was going outstation to conduct a raid. The lapse was detected when superintendent of police (SP) Unnao, Rohan P Kanay reached the police station concerned for an inspection and was told by sub-inspector, Anil Kumar Yadav that the SHO Asoha had gone out for a raid. Later, his location was established in Lucknow and he was suspended. Yadav too was suspended after the records were checked. “Both Yadav and Surendra were suspended for not telling the truth and for indiscipline. The SHO and his subordinate have also been accused of negligence, while one head constable and five other constables not found on duty were sent to the lines,” said circle officer, Purva, MP Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cop-on-duty-suspended-for-holidaying-with-kin/articleshow/77361383.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Call for stricter curbs grows amid continuous rise in cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Covid-19 cases increasing at an alarming rate in Vizag city limits and the district, there are demands from several quarters for a few days of strict lockdown to arrest the tide. In the last week, 7,341 new cases and over 100 deaths have been reported, while 8,844 active cases are putting pressure on hospital infrastructure. But despite the spike, the district administration seems reluctant to impose stricter restrictions, not even in containment zones. In fact, the rising number of containment zones (849 as on August 4) have now encompassed almost the entire city, with 20-30 new areas added to the list daily. Many people have taken to social media demanding some days of lockdown, or to at least put restrictions on non-essential movement. “We are in a bad situation. Unless some strong decisions are taken by the district administration, it is going to get even worse in the coming days. Even though there are over 400 very active and active clusters, we do not find strict implementation of restrictions meant for containment zones in these areas. Total lockdown of the entire district for at least 15 days or more is required,” said CIFT scientist R Raghu Prakash. On July 7, around 39 containment zones were de-notified in the city. “Since then almost a month has passed but still no dormant zones have been de-notified, which shows positive cases continue to crop up in all the containment zones,” said businessman P Vijay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/call-for-stricter-curbs-grows-amid-continuous-rise-in-cases/articleshow/77357235.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 5, 2020||Agra||Agra girl secures 121st rank in civil services exam||AGRA: It was a proud moment for 24-four-year-old Neha Bandhu of Nainana Jat village in Agra when she secured 121st rank in the Civil Services examination for 2019. Hailing from the Dalit community, the IIT-BHU alumna is a trainee at the Indian Railway Personal Service. In 2017, she stood 954th in the country in her first attempt, but later took extraordinary leave (EOL) for a year and studied with her elder sister Jyotsna Bandhu (28), who is sub-divisional magistrate in Etawah district. “The credit behind my success goes to my elder sister and my parents. They are the ones who motivated and guided me in my endeavour,” said Neha Bandhu, who did her schooling till high school from Hindi medium at Naval Singh inter college, Saiyan, in rural Agra. Neha said, “I want to work under the system and use all its available resources to help those who can’t help themselves. I belong from the SC/ST category, but I had the opportunity to study. However, many girls hailing from my background don’t have that chance. I want to create that chance for such girls by focusing on implementing education for all. I personally believe that education, health and women empowerment is the need of the hour.” Neha is a former state-level Kabaddi player and loves dancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-girl-secures-121st-rank-in-civil-services-exam/articleshow/77358448.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 5, 2020||Srinagar||Covid patient flees from Shimla to Jammu and Kashmir, booked||SHIMLA: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the fleeing of a corona-positive patient from a Covid care centre in Shimla, has left the authorities red-faced and presented them with the gargantuan task of tracing his contacts. The authorities remained clueless even as the absconding patient managed to reach Jammu to continue his onward journey to his home in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama. The incident has raised concerns over the security arrangements at the Covid centres of state. Police have registered a case against the runaway person. Additional SP, Shimla, Praveer Thakur, said the person who was under treatment at the Covid Care Centre Mashobra since July 14 had fled the place between 9 pm and 10.30 pm on Sunday. He left Shimla at around 10. 45 pm and reached Jammu on 7 am on Monday. He said the authorities in Jammu and Kashmir have been informed and a case has been registered against him at Dhalli police station of Shimla. According to sources, he managed to run from the Covid care Centre by deceiving security guards on duty. The fact that the person who worked as an apple loader preferred to run without waiting for the completion of his treatment has left many surprised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/covid-patient-flees-from-shimla-to-jk-booked/articleshow/77364917.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jammu||Covid patient flees from Shimla to Jammu and Kashmir, booked||SHIMLA: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the fleeing of a corona-positive patient from a Covid care centre in Shimla, has left the authorities red-faced and presented them with the gargantuan task of tracing his contacts. The authorities remained clueless even as the absconding patient managed to reach Jammu to continue his onward journey to his home in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama. The incident has raised concerns over the security arrangements at the Covid centres of state. Police have registered a case against the runaway person. Additional SP, Shimla, Praveer Thakur, said the person who was under treatment at the Covid Care Centre Mashobra since July 14 had fled the place between 9 pm and 10.30 pm on Sunday. He left Shimla at around 10. 45 pm and reached Jammu on 7 am on Monday. He said the authorities in Jammu and Kashmir have been informed and a case has been registered against him at Dhalli police station of Shimla. According to sources, he managed to run from the Covid care Centre by deceiving security guards on duty. The fact that the person who worked as an apple loader preferred to run without waiting for the completion of his treatment has left many surprised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/covid-patient-flees-from-shimla-to-jk-booked/articleshow/77364916.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Despite glittering rally, silver no gold for investors||AHMEDABAD: Just like gold, silver prices too have rapidly rallied over the past few days, riding on the surge in industrial demand coupled with a boost in safe-haven investments. However, despite a handsome 37% rally from July 1 to Tuesday, silver has failed to attract investors owing to the high volatility in prices, said analysts. Silver price saw a spike from Rs 50,050 per kg on July 1 to Rs 68,700 per kg on Tuesday. “Silver price is highly volatile and may remain within the Rs 70,000 per kg price bracket till the end of the year,” said Hemant Choksi, an Ahmedabad bullion trader. “Therefore, investors are skeptical about investing in the metal. But gold is expected to rally steadily through the year and therefore people are investing in gold, even at a higher price.” Gold price stood at Rs 55,700 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. The price of the yellow metal, which was on an upward rally for a fortnight, finally remained more or less steady. Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association, said: “In the international market, silver prices showed a sharp rise. This is because safe-haven investments in silver have gone up significantly.” Acharya went on to say: “Moreover, ever since July, as more markets opened globally, the industrial demand for silver also revived. Both these factors put together pushed silver prices up.” However, Acharya said, the prices are extremely volatile and may crash any time. Silver is used for manufacturing electronics and even in the renewable energy sector. “The overall price trend for gold is looking upwards. As a consequence, more people are investing heavily in gold bars and coins and in the form of exchange-traded funds (ETFs),” Acharya said. “The response to sovereign gold bonds which closed last month was also good.” Retail demand for both gold and silver has dried up at jewellery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-glittering-rally-silver-no-gold-for-investors/articleshow/77359803.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 5, 2020||Meerut||UP scribe shares a tweet suggesting ‘scam’ in Covid-19 testing, booked||MEERUT: A journalist in UP’s Saharanpur was booked on Tuesday after he shared a tweet screenshot suggesting that Covid-19 negative reports were being shown positive by the district health department to help private hospitals. The screenshot, shared by Sankalp Neb on a WhatsApp group, also suspected involvement of the district's chief medical officer (CMO) in the “scam”. Neb was booked under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act and under IT Act by police on the basis of a complaint filed by Saharanpur CMO BS Sodhi. Saharanpur’s superintendent of police (SP) Vineet Bhatnagar said, “An FIR was registered based on a complaint filed by the CMO against the person who shared the tweet. We are also working to find the source of the tweet and the person behind it.” The tweet alleged that reports of Covid-19 negative patients are being turned into positive under a “conspiracy with the help of private hospitals”. Taking note of the tweet, CMO Sodhi had approached police. The FIR read, “The information, without any substance, was reposted on social media which has shown the image of administration and government in poor light.” On his part, Neb said, “I saw a user’s complaint on Twitter and tried to ascertain the veracity of it by posting it on a local media group. I had no intention to defame anyone as alleged in the complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-scribe-shares-a-tweet-suggesting-scam-in-covid-19-testing-booked/articleshow/77357239.cms||Piyush Rai
August 5, 2020||Meerut||'Arrest without encounter’: Man reaches police station with placard seeking forgiveness||MEERUT: In an attempt to “escape encounter”, an accused surrendered in Kairana police station, in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, on Tuesday with holding a placard, which had ‘tauba’ (a pledge of not repeating the offence) written on it. The accused has been identified as Ehsan Ahmad. The 34-year-old man had two cases of cow slaughter registered against him and police had been looking for him for the past two years. Premvir Rana, SHO, Kairana police station, said, "Ehsan reached the police station holding a placard seeking forgiveness. We have arrested him now and further proceedings are on." Ahmad said, "Now, I want to lead the life of an honest citizen. I walked across the town holding the placard and then submitted it to the police station." Notably, between March 20, 2017 and July 19, 2020, UP Police has arrested 13,750 criminals after more than 6,300 encounters in the state. At least, 123 criminals have also been gunned down during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/arrest-without-encounter-man-reaches-police-station-with-placard-seeking-forgiveness/articleshow/77357236.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||‘Friend’ killed 19-year-old daily wager, nabbed||ROORKEE: The 19-year-old daily wage worker, Danish Ali, who was found murdered in Laksar region on Monday, was killed by his 21-year-old “friend” Nasir, said local police on Tuesday after arresting the accused. Nasir, a barber by profession, had slit the throat of Danish while the two were returning from a bank branch and had fled with Rs 3 lakh that the victim was going to deposit. According to Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S, Danish, a resident of Abdul Rahimpur locality on Laksar-Khanpur road, was asked by his family to deposit Rs 3 lakh in the bank. Danish took his friend Nasir along with him. “Both of them went to the bank branch but it was shut. On their way back home, Nasir killed Danish by slitting his throat with a shaving razor and stole the money. However, a passer-by witnessed the crime and started raising an alarm. In a state of panic, Nasir fled the spot after injuring the eye-witness to the crime,” said the senior cop. The official added that the police were able to trace Nasir on the basis of his mobile phone details and CCTV footage. He was nabbed from a village culvert where he was hiding after executing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/friend-killed-19-yr-old-daily-wager-nabbed/articleshow/77357266.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 5, 2020||Shimla||Covid patient flees from Shimla to Jammu and Kashmir, booked||SHIMLA: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the fleeing of a corona-positive patient from a Covid care centre in Shimla, has left the authorities red-faced and presented them with the gargantuan task of tracing his contacts. The authorities remained clueless even as the absconding patient managed to reach Jammu to continue his onward journey to his home in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama. The incident has raised concerns over the security arrangements at the Covid centres of state. Police have registered a case against the runaway person. Additional SP, Shimla, Praveer Thakur, said the person who was under treatment at the Covid Care Centre Mashobra since July 14 had fled the place between 9 pm and 10.30 pm on Sunday. He left Shimla at around 10. 45 pm and reached Jammu on 7 am on Monday. He said the authorities in Jammu and Kashmir have been informed and a case has been registered against him at Dhalli police station of Shimla. According to sources, he managed to run from the Covid care Centre by deceiving security guards on duty. The fact that the person who worked as an apple loader preferred to run without waiting for the completion of his treatment has left many surprised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/covid-patient-flees-from-shimla-to-jk-booked/articleshow/77359833.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Two villagers in Bargarh donate plasma||Sambalpur: Two villagers from Katapali village, which is a Covid-19 hotspot, of Bargarh district on Tuesday came forward to donate plasma after they recovered from the Covid-19 infection recently. Rabindra Sahu and Umesh Dash of Katapali village were felicitated by the district administration in the presence of Bargarh district collector Jyotiranjan Pradhan, Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya and Bargarh MLA Debesh Acharya for their noble work. Rabindra said, “My parents were reluctant when I decided to donate plasma. However, I convinced them and they finally agreed. I have also decided to persuade the people of my village, who have recovered from Covid-19 infection, to donate plasma.” Umesh Dash also echoed the same and said he would also urge his fellow villagers for the noble job. Bargarh collector Pradhan said they will donate the plasma to the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (Vimsar), Burla. “The noble work of the duo is a source of inspiration. More people will come forward to donate plasma. It will be helpful in the treatment of Covid-19,” he said. Talking to the media, additional district medical officer, public health, Chudabati Sahu said, “One can donate plasma 28 days after he or she recovers from Covid-19. Eight more people, who have recovered from Covid-19, have also expressed their willingness to donate plasma. We will send them for plasma donation after conducting the required tests.” Katapali under Bargarh block was demarcated as a containment zone on June 16 after the first Covid-19 positive case was detected from the village on that day. The village continued to remain as a containment zone till August 2. A 76-year-old-man from the village, who died on June 18 after being tested Covid-19 positive on June 16, is suspected to be the super spreader in Katapali. So far, the village has reported as many as 197 Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/two-villagers-in-bargarh-donate-plasma/articleshow/77358444.cms||Subrat Mohanty
August 5, 2020||Goa||Congress MLA Ravi Naik’s sons set to join BJP||PANAJI: Beleaguered Congress received another jolt on Tuesday as its Ponda MLA Ravi Naik’s sons Ritesh and Roy are likely to join Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Ritesh is the councillor of Ponda civic body while Roy had contested against BJP candidate health minister Vishwajit Rane in 2017 Valpoi bypolls. A BJP senior functionary said that Ritesh would be made the new chairperson of Ponda Municipal Council for his gesture, replacing Venkatesh Naik. In the 15-member Ponda council, BJP has four councilors and the Ritesh camp has three while the remaining members are from Maharashtrawadi Gomantak party (MGP) and independents. In 1999, Ravi had won from the Ponda constituency on Congress ticket and in 2000 he led a group of MLAs when he was the leader of opposition and joined BJP to help the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar to form the first BJP-led government in the state. Ravi continued his stint with BJP till 2002 and then joined Congress and won the 2002 assembly election. Since then he is with Congress. When asked about his sons joining BJP, Ravi Naik, a former chief minister, told TOI that they have not informed him about their decision. “It appears that this move may be over the municipality reins. Ritesh is a councillor. Both my sons are major of age and take their own decisions,” Ravi said. The Congress MLA was a bitter critic of BJP till a year ago, said a political observer. Ritesh had contested assembly election on Congress ticket from Marcaim in 2012 against MGP senior leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar. When asked if BJP has promised ticket to Ritesh or Roy to contest next assembly elections, senior BJP functionary said there is still time and no commitment from the party to give them tickets to contest election from Ponda. Political observers said that with the joining of Ritesh and Roy, the BJP base will be strengthened in Ponda constituency and taluka too. Last couple of assembly elections, BJP is trying to win Ponda seat, but could not taste success. The four constituencies of taluka namely Ponda, Priol, Marcaim and Shiroda, BJP has only one MLA Subhash Shirodkar, who quit Congress and joined BJP. The remaining constituencies are represented by Congress, MGP and an Independent. After Dhavalikar’s ouster from Sawant-led government, BJP has decided to strengthen its base in Ponda taluka as it is a Hindu-dominated taluka. Political observers said that with the joining of the duo, BJP will gain some additional ground in Ponda. BJP functionaries hope to win the Ponda seat, which is their dream, with the support of the Naiks They said that Ravi had helped Parrikar to form the government in 2000 and his sons may help BJP win Ponda seat in next assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-mla-ravi-naiks-sons-set-to-join-bjp/articleshow/77360922.cms||Murari Shetye
August 5, 2020||Meerut||Body in suitcase: Cops to book Warisha’s brother & mom for ‘misleading’ investigators||MEERUT: A day after the dramatic appearance of a woman, 22 -- who was pronounced dead a week ago-- police in Bulandshahr on Tuesday said they will book her mother and brother for “misleading” the investigators by identifying a wrong body and also burying it. Senior police officers said that the investigation into the murder of an unidentified young woman, who was found inside a suitcase in Ghaziabad on July 27, got derailed after the mother-son duo came forward and claimed that it was their missing Warisha Ali. Warisha had gone missing from her in-laws’ house in Bulandshahr on July 22. Fearing that she might have been killed by in-laws for dowry, her family members had filed a police complaint. Later, they identified the woman’s body found in a suitcase as that of Warisha, who was alive and reached Aligarh on Monday and approached police on her own. Bulandshahr police also said that husband and parents-in-law of Warisha, who were booked and put in jail, will stay there. But the section of dowry death will be removed from the FIR. Rest of the IPC sections of dowry harassment will stay against them. “Once we are done with recording of the statements of the Warisha’s family, a separate FIR will be filed against them for wrongly identifying the body. We are still in the process of taking legal opinion on exact charges to be pressed. This is being done to ensure that people don’t take these matters lightly in the future,” said Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP). By Tuesday evening, the statement of Warisha’s brother Ismail was recorded before a magistrate in Ghaziabad. And her mother was to be produced in the court, sources said. Meanwhile, police in Ghaziabad filed a fresh murder case and launched a probe to identify the woman found in a suitcase in Sahibabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-to-book-warishas-brother-mom-for-misleading-investigators/articleshow/77357252.cms||Piyush Rai
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Trees uprooted, electricity poles tumble in Kodagu||MADIKERI: Heavy rain continued to lash many villages of Kodagu district on Tuesday. The district administration has alerted people living in low-lying areas to be careful and inform the control room if they foresee any emergency. The downpour has damaged the fully grown jowar crop at Siddalingapura village. In Seegehosuru village, two trees fell on the road, blocking traffic. However, the villagers and the forest staff cleared the road by cutting trees. Electricity poles have fallen in Karada, Ponnampet and Kotturu. More than 11,000 cusecs of water was released from Harangi reservoir on Tuesday, and the engineers have asked those living around the dam to be alert. In Bhagamandala, the water level in Cauvery is rising by the day, because of which the road connecting to Napoklu has been inundated. With Cauvery in spate at Siddapur, revenue officers visited Kondageri, Karadigodu, Guhya and Halugunda villages to take precautionary measures. DC Anies Kanmani Joy has asked the people to contact 1077 or whatsapp their concerns to 8550001077 during emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/trees-uprooted-electricity-poles-tumble-in-kodagu/articleshow/77358117.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi Rail Museum to be opened to public today||HUBBALLI: The Hubballi Railway Museum, a key tourist attraction in north Karnataka for history buffs, is set to open its doors for visitors from Wednesday. Claimed to be the first its of kind in the region, the museum is centrally located next to the second entry of Hubballi Railway Station on Gadag Road opposite to Central Railway Hospital. Set up by South Western Railway, the museum boasts of preserving and portraying the glorious heritage of the national carrier. “The museum aims at preserving and portraying the glorious heritage of various branches of Railways and the displaying the gradual evolution of advanced systems in all spheres of Railway working. At Hubballi Museum the artefacts are broadly arranged in three sections — the two cottages named Malaprabha and Ghataprabha and the outdoor section,” stated a press release from SWR. “The unique feature of this museum is that is it has been set up with the available resources by mobilising materials and man power,” said SWR general manager A K Singh. The new museum will be opened to the public from August 5 and the entry will be free for the first five days up to August 9 and it will remain open from 4pm to 7pm on these days. The regular working hours for the museum from August 11 will be from 12noon to 7pm. It will remain closed on Mondays. During weekends and public holidays, it will remain open from 12noon to 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-rail-museum-to-be-opened-to-public-today/articleshow/77357260.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||8-year-old girl mauled to death by leopard in Tehri||DEHRADUN: An eight-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard in the remote Deval village of Tehri district on Monday. She was attacked by the leopard when she was returning back home during dusk after attending a small ceremony held at a temple (nearly 500 metres from her house) on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. Two of her sisters were barely 200 metres behind the girl when the attack took place but they couldn't see the big cat dragging the girl inside the forest. After the girl didn’t return home for some hours, the family started calling their relatives, her friends, and their neighbours but all in vain. Later, a search operation was launched by the villagers, suspecting an attack by a wild animal. After a couple of minutes of search, the girl's body was retrieved from the nearby forest. The body was badly bruised. JS Suhag, the chief wildlife warden of the forest department, gave permission to trap the leopard after the panic-struck villagers made a lot of hue and cry. “The mother of the deceased has been given Rs 90,000, which is 30% of total compensation amount — Rs 3 lakh — given in such cases. The remaining amount will be paid after the postmortem. Meanwhile, our staff has been deployed there and two cages and camera traps have been installed in the area to cage the leopard and to ensure that no further causality happens because of the big cat, probably on prowl,” said Koko Rose, divisional forest officer of Tehri Garhwal. This is the first death caused due to human-leopard conflict in the Tehri forest division this year. Last year, Tehri forest division had recorded no deaths due to human-leopard conflict. In Uttarakhand, 15 people have lost their lives to leopard attacks so far this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-yr-old-girl-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-tehri/articleshow/77357286.cms||Shivani Azad
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||61 new cases take Himachal’s corona total to 2,879, 52 patients recover||Shimla: The Covid-19 tally in Himachal Pradesh increased to 2,879 with 61 people testing positive on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the recoveries reached 1,710 as 52 patients were cured of the coronavirus infection during the day. A total of 1,52,958 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state so far, of which 1,49,644 have tested negative while results of 435 samples are awaited. There are now 2,879 positive cases in the state, of which 1,129 are active, 1,710 are cured, 12 have died while 26 have migrated out of HP. Of the new positive cases, 14 are from Bilaspur district, 12 from Solan, 10 from Kangra, seven from Mandi, six from Hamirpur, five from Sirmaur, four from Chamba, two from Kullu and one from Una. Among those who recovered, 23 are from Solan, 10 from Shimla, eight from Kangra, five from Chamba, four from Sirmaur and two from Una. In Bilaspur district, all 14 cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the under construction site of All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Kothipura, which has been quarantined. Those who tested positive are in the age group of 21 years to 38 years. Solan district has maximum 734 positive cases in the state, of which 403 are active, 315 have recovered while 16 have migrated out. Kangra has the second highest number of 492 positive cases (119 active, 368 recovery, three deaths and 2 migration), Hamirpur has 318 cases (30 active, 285 recovery and three deaths), Sirmaur has 355 cases (139 active, 208 recovery, one death and seven migration), Una has 244 cases (82 active, 162 recovery), Mandi has 220 cases (157 active, 60 recovery and three deaths), Shimla has 182 cases (71 active, 108 recovery and two deaths), Bilaspur has 127 cases (61 active, 66 recovery), Chamba has 119 cases (36 active, 82 recovery), Kinnaur has 45 cases (11 active, 34 recovery), Kullu has 39 cases (20 active, 18 recovery and one migration), while Lahaul-Spiti’s all four cases are of recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/61-new-cases-take-himachals-corona-total-to-2879-52-patients-recover/articleshow/77359860.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||3 held for running nationwide packers and movers fraud||AGRA: Agra police on Tuesday arrested three men from Itmad-ud-Daula for allegedly cheating more than 100 people across the country of more than Rs 1.5 crore on the pretext of providing movers and packers service and taking an advance from them for the job. Three other members of the gang are at large. All hail from Agra. Police said Kishan Singh (28), Deepak Tomar (27) and Atul Singh (24) are part of a gang of six that had listed at least 12 fake firms on OLX, Just Dial and e-Trucks, claiming to offer packers and movers service at cheaper rates than other firms. They had been running the racket for over two years, duping people in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, MP, Tamil Nadu and other states. Giving details, Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said the trio was caught when two back-to-back FIRs were lodged at Itmad-ud-Daula and New Agra police stations by local traders, Giraj Sharma, who had ordered 16 tonnes of onion from Maharashtra, and Praveen Agrawal, who made a booking for transporting iron bars from Morena in MP to Aligarh. They paid an advance of Rs 50,000 and Rs 12,000, respectively for the service. “When a victim contacted the gang, the men would ask him to pay an advance for the service. Once the money was transferred into their bank account, the contact number of the firm was discontinued,” the SSP said. Investigations revealed that the gang was using 28 bank accounts they had ‘hired’ for Rs 1,500-3,000 per account from poor account holders. Police said the kingpin of the gang, Kishan Singh, is pursuing a course for a teacher's job, while Deepak Tomar is a graduate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-held-for-running-nationwide-packers-and-movers-fraud/articleshow/77358513.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Consistent rain in Kolhapur district puts DDMA on alert||Kolhapur: Heavy rain and consistent lashed Kolhapur district on Tuesday, resulting in the swelling of the Panchganga river to 21 feet and sending around 32 barrages along several rivers under water. In its revised forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has issued heavy to very heavy rainfall in the region till August 7, prompting the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to remain alert. The alert level of the Panchganga is 39 feet while the danger mark is 43 feet. The water level at Rajaram barrage was 13 feet on Tuesday morning. A DDMA official said, “We have alerted the teams positioned at various places along the river, which may cross the alert mark if the rain continue over the next 14 to 18 hours.” The official added that people have not been evacuated from low-lying areas as the current situation does not warrant that. However, our teams are in full preparedness for emergency situations and will take all required measures as per requirement. By evening, a major road along Gaganbawda at Tisangi village was cut off due to the heavy rain. Several houses in Gaganbawda district were reportedly damaged, incurring losses at around 2.65 lakh, as per the revenue circle of Gaganbawda taluka. In Kolhapur city, a 40-ft-high tree collapsed due to strong winds in the Central Bus Stand area, damagint four cars. Firemen of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation rushed to the spot and cleared the area always busy with vehicular traffic. Meanwhile, around 7,000 cusec of water was released from the Almatti dam, which is 92% filled with one lakh cusec of inflow, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/consistent-rain-in-kolhapur-district-puts-ddma-on-alert/articleshow/77358506.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Midday meal: Rs 2.5cr released in Pb||Chandigarh: The Punjab school education department released has Rs 2.5 crore for the midday meal scheme so that cooks/helpers can be paid on time. Disclosing this here on Tuesday, a spokesperson of the department said funds Rs 2,49,78,780 have been released by the Punjab midday meal society on the direction of the education minister. Of this amount, Rs 22,03,200 has been released for Ludhiana district, Rs 17,89,200 for Jalandhar, Rs 17,35,080 for Patiala, Rs 16,69,800 for Amritsar and Rs 14,37,480 for Sangrur. Funds for other districts also have been released according to their needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/midday-meal-rs-2-5cr-released-in-pb/articleshow/77359873.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||DMC team carries out anti-dengue drive||DEHRADUN: During an anti-dengue drive on Tuesday, a team from the Dehradun Municipal Corporation checked more than 7,000 households and found larvae breeding in 300 homes. The team also checked over 29,000 containers across the city and found larvae in 617 of them. The team also sprayed anti- larva chemicals and created awareness among the residents and asked them to clean their surroundings for 15 minutes every Sunday. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had started this initiative on lines of a similar measure taken by the Delhi government to tackle dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-team-carries-out-anti-dengue-drive/articleshow/77357300.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||UPSC results: Two from Delhi in top 5||NEW DELHI: Both alumni of Delhi University, both clearing the hurdle in their second attempt, both among the top five in the civil services exams, results for which were declared on Tuesday. Through the efforts of Jatin Kishore, 26, and Himanshu Jain, 23, Delhi had two of its young men in the honours list, the former placed at number 2 and the latter at four. East of Kailash resident Kishore was working as an assistant director in the Union ministry of rural development after clearing the Indian Economic Service exams last year, and claimed surprise at placing second this year. The son of a deputy commissioner of income tax and a Delhi government school teacher, Kishore wants to work on “quality education and sustainable environment”. He told TOI, “Education is the base on which our youth and future depend. Equally important is the environment as that is what our focus has to be on now.” He studied economics at St Stephen’s College and completed his master’s degree at Delhi School of Economics. His schooling was done in Birla Vidya Niketan, Pushp Vihar, marked by a 97.8% Class XII board exam score. Kishore failed to get past the prelims last year because “I attempted only 70 questions, which drove down the score”. He changed his strategy and attempted 90-95 questions this year. As for his study routine, he said he didn’t go by the timetable approach, preferring to be consistent. “I always kept in touch with what was happening around,” he added, before revealing that he has chosen the AGMUT cadre with Delhi being his home state. Jain too is an economics student, having earned his honours degree from Hansraj College. Immediately on graduating, he began preparing for the UPSC exams, dreaming always of securing a top rank. “My family members believed in me. It was my grandfather’s dream that I should become an IAS officer. Now I will fulfil his dream,” the young achiever said. In a bow to his family’s roots in Haryana, Jain has opted for the Haryana cadre. A resident of Shahdara, Jain is the son on jeweller and a housewife. “My father was discharged from the hospital today, and this was the best news he could receive,” he said, recalling his 15 years of schooling in Palwal, Haryana, before moving to Delhi, where he scored 96.4% in the Class XII board exams while at Lovely Public School, Laxmi Nagar. Jain too is interested in the field of education. “Literacy is most important, especially for underprivileged children,” he declared. He said he did not “distance myself from social media or gave up meeting friends”, but he was disciplined and consistent in his study regimen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/upsc-results-2-from-delhi-in-top-5/articleshow/77359914.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Strengthen your health infrastructure: HC to Gujarat govt||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday directed the state government to work towards building the medical infrastructure stronger. Acting on a suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the high court directed the government to strengthen its health infrastructure. It has been directed to provide safe and effective personal protective equipment (PPE), encourage recruitment of new doctors and nurses, set up nurse training programmes and encourage people to join the healthcare. In a flurry of PILs, various litigants raised the issue related to inadequate health infrastructure. The HC has ordered the government to direct its full focus to fighting the pandemic. “With the collective efforts of the masses and the officials of the government we are extremely capable of driving this virus to the ground,” it said. The high court directed the government “to identify, appreciate and reward the work of police officers, healthcare workers, volunteers and various other non-profit organizations that are doing their part in fighting the pandemic”. The HC has also instructed the authority to publish in newspapers the district-wise daily tabular data of the total tests performed, total samples tested positive, total persons discharged, total patients home quarantined, total deaths and total deaths where deceased tested Covid-19 positive. The publication has been ordered for the purpose of public awareness so that people remain “aware of the spread of virus and ensure that there is no complacency”. ‘Why no testing labs in 11 districts?’Ahemedabad: The high court has sought explanation from the state government by August 17 as to why it should not issue directions for setting up testing laboratories in 11 districts in the state. The HC said that it was brought to its notice that there is no Covid-testing laboratory in Bharuch, Surendranagar, Dahod, Panchmahal, Mahisagar, Botad, Kheda, Morbi, Chhota Udepur, Anand and Aravalli. “We are informed that these districts neither have the RT-PCR nor True RAT testing available. Nine of the above referred 11 districts have shown a rise in cases over the past week,” it said and commented that it takes 24 to 36 hours to get Covid results in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strengthen-your-health-infrastructure-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77361018.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Home quarantine facility in Satara||Kolhapur: Considering the increasing number of Covid-19 patients and pressure on the existing infrastructure, Satara district administration has launched home quarantine facility for asymptomatic and non-comorbid patients. These patients will be monitored by government’s health team. District collector Shekhar Singh on Tuesday said that majority of the patients were found to be asymptomatic and that they can be treated at their homes with certain conditions. Singh said that patients who have their own independent room with a washroom along with a dedicated caretaker can avail this home quarantine facility. Meanwhile, Satara district recorded 143 patients since Monday. The district also reported three deaths. On the other hand, Solapur city recorded 44 new patients on Tuesday while 126 people were discharged after recovery. Home isolation for mild symptoms Aurangabad: The district administration has decided to follow in the steps of cities like Pune, Nagpur and Amravati where patients with mild symptoms, instead of shifting them to the quarantine centres, are being home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/home-quarantine-facility-in-satara/articleshow/77358517.cms||---
August 5, 2020||India||Aug 5 will be ‘just another day’ in J&K, say officials||SRINAGAR: The first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir on August 5 — the day home minister Amit Shah announced the historic move while introducing the J&K Reorganisation Bill in the Lok Sabha — will be observed as “just another day” in the Union territory, a senior officer of the J&K administration told TOI. “It is a day when application of a Constitutional provision in J&K was reviewed. Laws are constantly made or amended for better governance. That does not call for any special commemoration or celebration. For J&K, August 5 is just another day,” said an officer. Meanwhile, a continued lockdown “with extra precautions” will be observed in the Valley. The curfew restrictions imposed in Srinagar for August 4 and 5 have been removed in view of incident-free situation on Tuesday. However, there will be restrictions on movement of more than 3 persons, shops and business establishments will remain closed and public transport suspended in Srinagar on August 5. While there will no “commemoration” of an year of Article 370 abrogation, senior J&K administration officials say the real cause of satisfaction should be the positive changes that the move has brought in the lives of people of J&K. The Central laws now apply to J&K, enabling its people to receive benefits under all the Central welfare schemes. There has been a push to strengthen grassroots institutions and create a connect between the administration and panchayats with the “back to village” programme under which 5,000 gazetted officers travelled to each panchayat and stayed in the villages for two days and a night with the four-point aim of energising panchayats, collecting feedback on delivery of government programmes, capturing specific economic potential and undertaking assessment of needs of the villages. An officer said the massive outreach — conducted in two phases — is part of the Centre’s strategy to strengthen grassroots democracy as erstwhile state governments have been “elitist” with power and decision-making concentrated in a few political families who were not keen to devolve power to the panchayats. In fact, the long detention of top political leaders like Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and others has allowed an alternative local leadership to emerge and use their enhanced powers and Central funds to undertake welfare and developmental works at the grassroots, said a government functionary. Of course, this has raised public expectations and it will be quite a challenge to prioritise the projects and initiatives demanded, felt an officer. A senior officer who did not want to be named said politicians in erstwhile state of J&K were also delaying funding for key developments works, which continued to languish as a result. “This changed with President’s rule and administration going under LG as funds now percolate to the grassroots and developmental works are seen to their logical conclusion,” said the officer. So, whether it is the Rambagh flyover In Srinagar that took years in the making but now stands completed, a key two-lane bridge connecting Lolab that is to be operational by August 15 or a 100-bed district hospital at Shopian that now serves patients who were forced to travel to Srinagar earlier for treatment, all were completed in the last one year. Another positive development in the post-370 era has been creation of around 10,000 vacancies of doctors, veterinarians and panchayat assistants etc. , across J&K, with 25,000 more in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aug-5-will-be-just-another-day-in-jk-say-officials/articleshow/77362141.cms||Bharti Jain
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Ramp up testing, ensure drug supply’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday directed the government to ramp up Covid-19 testing and ensure enough supply of life-saving drugs like tocilizumab and remdesivir, and at a controlled price. The HC criticized the Gujarat government for its unreasonable defence of its restrictive testing policy and for attributing it to only 70% accuracy of RT-PCR test. “The State of Gujarat is at the bottom of the list when it comes to testing per million. There appears to be no reasonable justification for such restricted testing, more particularly when WHO, ICMR, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Countries across the world and the states across India are seeking to achieve more and more ‘tests per million’,” the HC observed and reminded the state government of ICMR and the Centre’s July 1 guidelines to increase testing. The HC finally directed the government to ramp up testing and laid down a guideline for the same. Taking into consideration the government’s resistance, the HC asked it to increase testing on the advice of experts in the field. Meanwhile, the HC ordered strict action with regard to the black marketing of life-saving drugs like tocilizumab and remdesivir and racket of fake medicines. It ordered the government to ensure enough supply of these drugs in market and at a controlled price. The HC said that under the powers of Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act, the government can achieve its goal of sufficient supply of drugs and its pricing. The HC reiterated, “The accurate publication of data of the number of patients tested and number of patients tested positive for Covid-19, on a daily basis, district-wise, will go a long way in spreading awareness.” ‘Stop black marketing’ Trying to profit out of death and illness, especially during a pandemic is a heinous crime. The black marketing of drugs should not be taken lightly. The persons involved must be dealt with strictly in accordance with law. The Government must ensure that no black market profiting occurs at any time much less during a health crisis. Serious and proactive steps need to be taken to stop the black marketing of COVID-19 drugs. Black marketed drugs are sold at a price hike of 500% to 1,000% over the market price,” HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ramp-up-testing-ensure-drug-supply/articleshow/77361015.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Madurai||‘Inspired by officers like U Sagayam to give the exams a go’||MADURAI: Poorna Sundari, 25, didn’t let her visual impairment get the better of her dream of passing the UPSC examination. After her fourth attempts, Sundari rejoiced on Tuesday as she passed with flying colours, bagging the 286th rank. Sundari says her eye sight began deteriorating when she five years old. She was diagnosed with a rare retinal degenerative disease. Doctors at Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai, told her parents that they would try to save her left eye, but the right eye had been completely lost. The surgery was unsuccessful and Sundari gradually lost sight in both eyes. Her mother Avudaidevi was her pillar of strength, she says, reading out lessons and helping her prepare for exams. She was enrolled in Madurai Pillaimar Sangam Higher Secondary School from Class VI as the institute had a special classroom for physically and visually challenged children. “The attention of the teachers helped me to achieve good results in my class,” she said. Her father K Murugesan, who works in a private firm, says her academic achievements led him to motivate her. She was a school topper with 471/500 in the SSLC examination and 1092/1200 in the Class XII examination. She then went on to graduate from Fatima College with a BA in English literature. Sundari, who has been a clerk with the Tamil Nadu Grama Bank since 2018, says hearing about IAS officers like T Udhayachandran and U Sagayam inspired her to take a shot at the exams. She signed up for coaching first at the Manithaneyam Trust and then All India Civil Service Coaching Centre. She first attempted the exam in 2016 and passed the prelims in 2017 and 2018, but failed the interviews. In February, she cracked the interview. Sundari says her response to what her top priorities would be may have seen her through. Her response: Health, education and women empowerment. She added that she was happy that she had got an opportunity to serve the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inspired-by-officers-like-u-sagayam-to-give-the-exams-a-go/articleshow/77360937.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
August 5, 2020||Delhi||AAP to recast Delhi unit before civic polls||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party has decided to restructure its Delhi unit at the assembly, district, ward, polling station and booth level to strengthen the party with efficient local leaders. The restructuring exercise, which is being undertaken with an eye on the 2022 municipal polls in the city, will commence from August 5. “We are going to restructure the Delhi state-level organisation. The process is expected to continue till August 20,” AAP’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai said on Tuesday. The Aam Aadmi Party has a strong organisation in the capital. It won the assembly election early this year with a brute majority, despite the BJP mounting an aggressive election campaign. “The performance of everyone in the assembly elections, ranging from a volunteer to office bearers, will be reviewed and those with praiseworthy performances will be given priority. At the same time, those who played a significant role during the Covid-19 crisis in ration and food distribution, in creating awareness about proper sanitisation and ensuring social distancing, are being considered for new responsibilities to build a strong volunteer organisation,” Rai claimed. The AAP minister said the restructuring will be carried out by the top leadership, as well as assembly-level functionaries. “Under this process, assembly observers will submit a report on their segment to the top leadership, and similarly, based on the information received from various sources, the party will decide on re-positioning old people and giving responsibilities to new persons,” Rai explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-to-recast-delhi-unit-before-civic-polls/articleshow/77359975.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur doctor commits suicide||Kolhapur: A young doctor working with the Covid cell of the government civil hospital in Solapur committed suicide by hanging himself in a hostel room. Police said that Chaitanya Arun Dhayfule (24) was found hanging from a nylon rope on Tuesday afternoon and they are investigation all angles as no suicide note has been found as yet. According to police, Dhayfule’s friends noticed him hanging in his hostel room and took him to hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The doctor had returned to his room on Monday night after finishing work. Dhayfule’s family stays in Pachha Peth area of Solapur while he stayed in the hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-doctor-commits-suicide/articleshow/77358536.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||674 new Covid cases, lowest single-day tally in over 2 months in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its lowest single-day Covid-19 tally on Tuesday with 674 new cases. Twelve people succumbed to the disease in the past 24 hours, authorities said, adding that this was the lowest death toll reported in a day in over two months. The total number of cases in the state, meanwhile, reached over 1.39 lakh while the death toll from the disease climbed to 4,033, authorities claimed. The decline in new cases coincides with the fall in testing numbers though. On Tuesday, authorities said, 9,295 Covid-19 tests were conducted — 4,108 (44%) through the RT-PCR method and 5,187 (56%) rapid antigen tests. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said active cases left in the city has come down to less than 10,000. “Delhi is now at 14th position in terms of active cases. No. of deaths has come down to 12 today. I am proud of you Delhiites. Your “Delhi model” being discussed everywhere. But we shud not get complacent and take all precautions (sic),” he tweeted. South Korean Ambassador to India H E Shin Bong-Kil also praised the Delhi model of combating the pandemic. “I am very impressed with the Delhi model. Actually, Korean Model is 3T — Test, Trace and Treat. Delhi model is Test and Home Quarantine, and it is a very effective measure, which has been made in (view of) India’s and particularly Delhi’s situation. I am very happy and I would like to congratulate the Delhi government that they made this achievement,” Bong-Kil said in a video message. Thanking Shin Bong-Kil, Kejriwal tweeted, “Happy that our Delhi Model is being recognised across the globe. I want to thank South Korean Ambassador H.E. Shin Bong-Kil for his encouraging words (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/674-new-covid-cases-lowest-single-day-tally-in-over-2-mths/articleshow/77360927.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Pending bills, Covid delaying road works: Jagdish Shettar||HUBBALLI: All roads in New Cotton Market and Neeligen Road will be concretised using Central Road Funds, said district minister Jagdish Shettar here on Tuesday. The Covid-19 pandemic and pending bills have slowed down works, he added. He added that the issue of pending bills has been brought to the notice of chief minister BS Yediyurappa and the minister concerned. Speaking after performing bhoomi puja for development works at the New Cotton Market area here on Tuesday, he said the state government has released Rs 1.83 crore special grants for completion of remaining 455 meters of road in the area. "Four bridges in Vidyanagar were damaged due to floods occurred last year. The state government has released Rs 15 crore for rebuilding them,” he said. Shettar said the district administration has made all arrangements for Covid management and claimed that the death rate was very less in the state compared to other states and countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pending-bills-covid-delaying-road-works-shettar/articleshow/77357326.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||81 jail inmates test positive in Sangli||KOLHAPUR: As many as 81 prisoners of Sangli sub-jail have been moved to a temporary facility at a college in Shivajinagar after they tested positive for Covid-19. The district administration tested 100 people — 94 inmates along with six prison staff — for Covid-19 and those who tested positive include three women inmates. According to a district administration official, the tests were carried out on Saturday and the reports came on Monday. The jail has a capacity of 235 prisoners but as many as 319 inmates are currently lodged there. “The inmates have been shifted to a college in Shivajinagar area where police security has been arranged. Lot of prisoners are in the jail as hearing on their bail pleas has not even taken place in the past few months. With 81 patients in the sub jail, Sangli district’s case tally on Monday stood at 354. The jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation alone had 211 patients, while other urban areas added 32 cases. The rural areas recorded 111 patients on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 3,440 of which 1,878 are active. Meanwhile, Sangi district, recorded 43 Covid-19 positive patients on Tuesday along with four deaths — three in Sangli city and one in Kupwad. Sangli district currently has 3,640 positive cases of which 1,396 of them are active. The district has so far recorded 143 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/81-jail-inmates-test-positive-in-sangli/articleshow/77358557.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Give aid to farm owner’s family||KOTTAYAM: The head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church Baselios Marthoma Paulose II urged the government to hold a detailed probe into the death of P P Mathai, a farm owner from Chittar in Pathanamthitta, and arrest the culprits. He also said that the Orthodox Church as well as the society are bound to take care of the family of Mathai, who died under mysterious circumstances. He also said that the church will take the initiative to construct a house for the family and helping in education of children of the deceased. Mathai was a parish member of St Mary’s Church in Kudappanakkulam which is under the Orthodox Church. Meanwhile, former chief minister Oommen Chandy wrote to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking his immediate intervention to book the culprits. In the letter, Chandy pointed out that even after seven days of Mathai’s death, none of the higher officials of the government or ministers enquired about the incident or visited the family. “Mathai was the only support of three poor families. He was looking after them. A clear decision regarding the financial security of the families and the education of the children should be made at the earliest,” he said in the letter. The body of Mathai is in the morgue of a hospital after autopsy. Two forest department officers, including a deputy range officer, was suspended from duty on Monday in connection with the death. Mathai was found dead in a well near his house after he was taken into custody by forest department officials allegedly for tampering with a camera in the forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/give-aid-to-farm-owners-family/articleshow/77358564.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||Contracts of 251 AMU schools’ teachers not renewed for current session||AGRA: Nearly 50% of teachers working in Aligarh Muslim University’s schools have been directed not to take online classes as their contracts for the current session were not renewed. The contracts of at least 251, out of the total 551 schoolteachers, expired on June 30. According to sources, the salary of these teachers for June has also not been released yet by the administration. When contacted, director of schools education (DSE) Prof Afsar Ali Khan said the requirement of teachers reduced because of the HRD ministry’s recommendation to cap the duration and the number of sessions every day for students after parents raised concerns that schools were conducting online classes like regular schools. “There used to be six to eight periods every day, but now the periods have been reduced to two online sessions up to 45 minutes each from Classes I to VIII. Similarly. For Classes IX to XII, four sessions of 30-45 minutes each have been recommended instead of earlier eight sessions,” he elaborated. Besides, at present, there are no students in Class XI as the entrance test was not conducted this year. The schools have, as of now, 11,000 students as against their actual strength of 14,000. “We have asked principals of all 10 schools under AMU to send the requirement of teachers for their schools and decisions will be taken accordingly,” said the DSE. Outgoing general secretary of AMU Schools’ Teachers Association Mohammad Abu Noman told TOI that he had an appointment with the authorities concerned and he would discuss the matter. “Most of the contractual teachers have been working here for several years, and hence, the administration should reconsider the decision.” Universities and schools across the country have been shut since March 16, following the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, while a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, it came into effect the next day. Although the government has largely eased restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/contracts-of-251-amu-schools-teachers-not-renewed-for-current-session/articleshow/77358556.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 5, 2020||Delhi||E-bikes to get push in residential areas in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With Covid throwing new challenges in meeting last-mile connectivity in several parts of the city, South Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to come up with a policy to facilitate creation of more e-bicycle docking stations.Senior officials from the south corporation confirmed that a policy on e-bikes would soon be released. There is renewed interest in e-bicycles due to social distancing concerns and efforts are on to expedite the new policy framework, they said. Tulsi Joshi, deputy chairperson of the standing committee, said that directions have been issued to the executive wing in this regard. “New Delhi Municipal Council has already developed such docking stations in its area, but it carried out the work on the basis of a tender-based process. The process followed through tenders is usually time-consuming and tough. We have decided to come up with a policy mandating terms and conditions. Companies that will follow the terms will be allowed to set up such stations,” she added. The remunerative project cell has been asked to put up a proposal in the standing committee, a senior official confirmed. “While many bicycle-sharing stations have come up in SDMC areas in the last four years, most of them are located near metro stations and offices. We believe more such stations should come up in residential areas, especially those which lack last-mile connectivity. People should be able to book the bike through mobile applications,” he added. Joshi said that e-bikes will help in providing safe mode of commute in Covid times while allowing eco-friendly mode of transportation. “Areas like GK and RK Puram, which do not have e-rickshaw facilities, will be on the priority list,” she added. Last year, the civic body had started bicycle-sharing stations on some points of the erstwhile Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor, including Pragati Maidan, high court, Jangpura, Moolchand Hospital, and the traffic intersections at Siri Fort, Chirag Dilli and Sheikh Sarai. However, due to concerns about poor bicycle infrastructure, non-demarcation of bicycle lanes and Delhi’s deadly roads, the scheme has failed to become popular among commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-bikes-to-get-push-in-residential-areas/articleshow/77360942.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Two from Kolhapur among rank-holders||KOLHAPUR: Several aspirants from Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts cleared cracked the UPSC exam this year. Two of the rank-holders are from the city — Gauri Pujari (275) and Sourabh Vhatkar (695). Pranoti Sankpal, a dentist from Nerli village of Karveer, was ranked 501. Pujari, a mechanical engineer who just got married a couple of months ago, said: “I studied at Pune and Delhi. I have been preparing for UPSC since 2016. This was my third attempt.” She plans to take up any service as per her rank and continue preparations to become an IFS officer. Vhatkar’s relatives said he did not join any coaching class and cracked the exam by self-study. Vhatkar is also an engineer and had dedicated three years to UPSC preparations. Nimish Patil from Islampur in Sangli got 389 rank in his third attempt. He is the son of a teacher and prepared for the exam in Delhi. Rahul Chavan from Pandharpur in Solapur secured 109 rank in his third attempt too. “I started preparing during my graduation. I studied engineering at a Pune college. I attended coaching classes to prepare,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-from-kolhapur-city-among-rank-holders/articleshow/77358545.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||Celebrate Ram Mandir stone laying ceremony like Diwali: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the RamTemple in Ayodhya, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that the long awaited moment has finally arrived and people need to celebrate it like Diwali by lighting diyas at their houses. He added that it would be a “historic moment” when Prime Minister Narendra Modi lay the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir on Wednesday. CM Rawat did not fail to mention that several battles have been fought for the temple and people have made many sacrifices. “For people in the country and across the world, Wednesday will be a special occasion. Lord Ram is revered across the globe and now, people from different countries can come to offer prayers at Ayodhya,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/celebrate-ram-mandir-stone-laying-ceremony-like-diwali-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/articleshow/77357329.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man dies of cardiac arrest after seeing son's body hanging from fan||BAREILLY: Hours after his 28-year-old son committed suicide following a tiff with his wife, the deceased’s father died of cardiac arrest after seeing his son hanging from a ceiling fan. The incident took place in Allahaganj town of Shahjahanpur district on Tuesday evening. Talking to TOI, SHO, Allahaganj police station, Maan Bahadur Singh said, “Vipin Kumar was married to Shakuntala Devi and the couple had two daughters. Shakuntala was at her maternal house in Farukkhabad when Vipin had a tiff with her over the phone and ended his life. When Vipin’s father Ram Prakash saw the body of his son, he couldn’t bear the shock and died. The family has refused to send the bodies for autopsy as of now, but we have completed the documentation for our records.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-after-seeing-sons-body-hanging-from-fan/articleshow/77356100.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mask is best option to prevent Covid, says court||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday insisted on people wearing masks once they step out and said that this is the best option available in our densely populated country, where maintaining social distancing may not be possible. The HC suggested that the government and civic bodies must consider fixing the fine between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 with such enhancement on repetitions of the violation. For safety of children, the HC suggested that parents must be fined heavily, if they are found outdoors with a child who is not wearing a mask. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “The past few months have shown us that we have no control over the virus, what we have control over is our actions. While practicing social distancing might not work for everyone in this high density country, the best way out for us is masks. Masks certainly do not guarantee 100% protection from the COVID-19 but there is mounting evidence to show that even non-medical, cloth masks help prevent the coronavirus from spreading.” The HC quoted director for the Centre of Disease Control and Prevention, Robert Redfield, saying that if all wear masks for next six weeks, pandemic could be over sooner than we imagined. The high court further said, “It is not only disheartening to see people not wear masks in public places but also extremely worrisome”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mask-is-best-option-to-prevent-covid-says-court/articleshow/77361014.cms||---
August 5, 2020||India||SC: Govt can’t discharge women officers till permanent commission claim settled||NEW DELHI: Considering the delay on the part of Centre in implementing its order on granting permanent commission to women officers in armed forces due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that services of women officers shall not be discontinued till their request for permanent commission is considered. "Prima facie, the Union of India having failed to comply with the directions contained in the judgement of this court dated 17 March 2020 which mandated consideration for the grant of permanent commission within three months, it would be unfair to discharge the short service commissioned officers in the meantime, pending consideration," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph said. "We accordingly issue an ad-interim order and direction that the petitioner(s) shall not be discontinued from service pending consideration of their requests for the grant of permanent commission," the bench said while passing order on the plea of a lady officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-govt-cant-discharge-women-officers-till-permanent-commission-claim-settled/articleshow/77362146.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Kharar man alleged HP ventilator scam’||Shimla: The probe into alleged irregularities in the purchase of ventilators during Covid-19 pandemic has led HP cops to a Kharar resident. Police claim the accused has confessed to having drafted the “anonymous” letter in a cyber café at Khanpur in Mohali district. The man, identified as Shadi Lal Tickoo of Khanpur, but a native of Aragan village of Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, will be arrested soon, SP (law and order) Khushal Sharma said on Tuesday. The accused is presently employed with Harmony Health Care (BPLK) Phase-II Industrial area, Chandigarh, but worked with the Cardio Lab from February 2016 to November 2019 as service in-charge. Sharma said Tickoo was the senior most employee and terminated from Cardio Lab due to salary issue and other administrative reasons. “He had access to account and billing department. He retained some official record of Cardio Lab after termination of job,” the officer added. An FIR in the matter was registered in the CID police station at Bharari, Shimla, a day after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on June 4 announced to register a criminal case against the person who had questioned the purchase of ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-man-alleged-hp-ventilator-scam/articleshow/77360003.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Malls, markets to open under watchful eyes of civic staff||Nashik/Kolhapur: Shopping malls and market complexes are set to reopen in non-containment zones on Wednesday with the relaxation in the Covid-related lockdown across the state. The commercial establishments, however, will have to strictly adhere to all safety protocols as per the guidelines issued by the state government. In Nashik city, which has 15 malls and over 300 market complexes, civic officials are gearing up to ensure adherence to the guidelines. The officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said they have already appointed squads at the divisional level. "These squads will ensure that safety protocols are being maintained inside the malls and shopping complexes," said the officials. In Kolhapur city, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti visited some of the markets and directed the officials to deploy more staff to regulate the crowd.  He said local transmission is on the rise in the city and the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation wanted to check the rise. Mall operators are cautiously optimistic. Though they are relieved to restart the operations, they also want to ensure that they have checked all the safety protocol boxes. “Although the government has allowed us to operate from 9 am to 7 pm, we will be operating our mall only between 11 am and 7 pm. This is because customers may not come in at 9 am,” said an official from one of Nashik city’s largest mall. “We have taken all requirements into account. All arrangements related to social distancing, sanitization and other safety protocols have been made,” he said. In Kolhapur city, which has three malls, the operators are unsure of restarting operations on Wednesday. They first want to ensure all measures are in place before throwing their doors open to shoppers. In Nashik, containment zones drawn up in 1,002 localities have been lifted as no new patients have been detected in the areas. Currently, there are 491 containment zones in the city, comprising 477 building-zones and 14 macro-zones. Gym operators want permission to reopen too Meanwhile, gym operators in Kolhapur protested outside the district collector’s office on Tuesday morning. They held placards and raised slogans — while maintaining physical distance — demanding that the gyms too be allowed to reopen. They pointed out that the gyms have had to stay shut since the first lockdown in March and most of them are on brink of bankruptcy. Viraj Sonsurkar, the owner of Evolution Fitness Gym in Rajarampuri, said, “We met the authorities who asked us to meet district guardian minister Satej Patil. We will be meeting with him on Friday. The Centre has allowed the gyms to reopen. However, the district authorities told us that the state government is yet to issue a notification with respect to the Centre’s decision.” The gym owners said their trainers and supporting staff have been out of work for the past four-and-a-half months now. They said they are ready to follow all guidelines to prevent Covid transmission. Operators of yoga and Zumba classes, nutritionists and nutrition supplement shops also protested for half an hour in the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malls-markets-to-open-under-watchful-eyes-of-civic-staff/articleshow/77357350.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 5, 2020||Goa||Guleli locals form group to garner support for IIT project||VALPOI: The nascent Guleli IIT Bachao Samitee, which was constituted on Sunday in support of the proposed IIT project at Melauli, blamed various associations and people from outside Sattari taluka for backing Melauli villagers in their protests. Melauli falls under the jurisdiction of the Guleli village panchayat. “Outsiders have been feeding the villagers of Melauli with negative information and are also provoking them to go against the proposed IIT project. The villagers do not know anything about the project. They are simply listening to those on the outside,” samitee president Shyam Sangodkar, told reporters. Former Guleli sarpanch Vishant Nabar said the samitee would soon begin a house-to-house signature campaign to garner support for the project. “Everyone will regret it if the IIT project is shelved or shifted out of Sattari,” a member Aarti Gholkar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guleli-locals-form-group-to-garner-support-for-iit-project/articleshow/77360961.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||Seven arrested for dacoity at residence of retired teacher, cash, valuables seized||AGRA: Agra police arrested seven men in connection with a dacoity at the residence of a retired teacher in Barkha Vihar Colony under Sikandra police limits. According to police, the gang targets those residential areas or homes which are located on the outskirts or far from the city. Police seized robbed Rs 45,000 cash and valuables from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/seven-arrested-for-dacoity-at-residence-of-retired-teacher-rs45k-valuables-seized/articleshow/77358565.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CB team to probe treasury fraud||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: The district crime branch will investigate the siphoning off of Rs 2 crore by a senior accountant with the Vanchiyoor sub-treasury. The case, originally registered at the Vanchiyoor police station, here, has been handed over to a CB team led by a deputy superintendent of police (Dy SP). According to the first information report, the first accused, Bijulal M R, has been committing the fraud since December 23, 2019 by using the computer login credentials of a retired official. The FIR names Bijulal’s wife, Simi D Ambi, as the second accused, to whose treasury savings bank account part of the money was transferred. The case has been charged under sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and section 66C of the Information Technology Act. The police investigation will look into the involvement of more persons and also whether anyone in the treasury had abetted the accused in committing the fraud. The government has decided to summarily dismiss Bijulal, whereby his services will be terminated immediately without serving a notice or a hearing. It has also decided to transfer all the officials of Vanchiyoor sub-treasury, except the official who unearthed the fraud. In conjunction with the police investigation, another team, comprising three finance department officials and an official from the National Informatics Centre, will conduct a detailed probe. The government on Monday directed this team to prepare a report within five days. The team has also been asked to probe connivance on the part of higher officials. The government has taken note of the vulnerabilities in the treasury software, which Bijulal took advantage of to carry out the fraud. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has already said that a detailed security audit will be conducted so that the bugs are fixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cb-team-to-probe-treasury-fraud/articleshow/77358571.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ASI’s daughter bags sixth position in civil exams||NEW DELHI: Vishakha Yadav was in a shock. “It took me two hours to register that I had managed to secure the sixth rank in the UPSC exams,” the 26-year-old exclaimed. “My friend informed me about the result, and I had to ask my brother to confirm if the PDF file being circulated was real or fake.” Daughter of a Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector, Yadav was the toast of the city on Tuesday, feted by the lieutenant governor and her father’s boss, the police chief. LG Anil Baijal commended the young achiever on Twitter, saying, “Heartiest congratulations to Vishakha for securing 6th rank. Wish her a successful and fulfilling career. Indeed, a proud moment for Delhi Police.” Police commissioner S N Shrivastava was indeed a proud man. His tweet said, “Very happy to share that at least five successful civil service aspirants come from Delhi Police family.” Apart from Yadav, inspector Sukhdev Mann’s daughter, Navneet, clinched the 33rd rank, with ACP Natisha just four spots below her, ACP Garima at the 459rd place and constable Firoj Alam of the police control room unit rounding off Delhi Police’s successes at the 645th spot. Yadav’s father, ASI Rajkumar, was at work in Dwarka DCP office when he got word about his daughter’s achievement. “I am so happy,” he said. “This was her third attempt. She quit her job in Bengaluru to return home and prepare for the exams.” The civil services results are usually announced in April, but due to Covid pandemic Yadav and many aspirants weren’t expecting them to be declared on Tuesday. “Around 11.30am when I was making noodles, a friend phoned to tell me I had obtained the sixth rank,” said Yadav. “I asked my brother to cross-check. People began calling to congratulate me, but it took me almost two hours to accept my success.” As an Indian Administrative Services officer, she wants to pay special attention to the field of education. Yadav loves playing basketball, and sketched and played Sudoku for stress relief during the preparatory days. “I did not have any particular study routine, only had daily, weekly, monthly and yearly targets,” she said. “I have realised that hard work pays off, but parental support is very important. Every time I was at a low point, my mother pulled me up.” It was her third attempt in the UPSC exams, having taken coaching for her first try and then studied on her own for the subsequent appearances. Navneet Mann’s father is posted in the Vigilance unit. The 24-year-old had placed 501st in her maiden attempt in 2017 and was undergoing training after selection to the Indian Defence Accounts Service. “I was at the hospital for my medicals when the results were announced today,” she said. “I sat for the exams a second time to improve my ranking and I am glad I made it. I want to join the IAS.” Mann may have missed the first reaction of her family, but the flood of congratulatory calls made up for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asis-daughter-bags-sixth-position-in-civil-exams/articleshow/77360017.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid claims 11 lives in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Eleven people succumbed to Covid-19 while 362 tested positive for the contagion in Kolhapur district in the last 24 hours, till Tuesday. The total number of cases has increased to 7,714, out of which 4,048 are active while 217 have died so far in the district, said officials. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation area reported 108 cases, taking the total number to to 2,155. Of the 11 patients who died in the last 24 hours, five are from Kolhapur city, taking the toll to 52. The textile town of Ichalkaranji has reported 62 deaths due to Covid-19 so far. On Tuesday, 293 swabs were tested using the rapid antigen testing kits and 31 tested positive for the contagion. Only 20 swabs have been referred for RT-PCR testing for confirmation. The total number of Covid care centres and hospitals has been increased to 63 in Kolhapur district. A maximum number of 369 patients are undergoing treatment at Shivaji University. The administration has decided to refer critical patients to CPR Hospital in Kolhapur, where 183 patients are undergoing treatment. On Tuesday, 932 people with Covid symptoms were screened at various centres. In Kolhapur city, Rajarampuri reported maximum eight cases, taking the count to 165 while one patient under home isolation was declared free from the disease. Currently, 230 people who did not show symptoms but tested positive are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-claims-11lives-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77358562.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi: Mom sells earrings, buys phone to help daughter attend online classes||BELAGAVI: A 62-year-old Devadasi (Jogati) woman sold her earrings to buy a smartphone to ensure her daughter attends online classes. Prior to the lockdown, Sarojani Bevanakatti begged for a living, a traditional way of earning a livelihood among Devadasi women. She earned between Rs 50 and Rs 100 a day, but with the pandemic hitting her income, Sarojani sold her earnings for Rs 11,000 and bought her daughter a phone for Rs 7,000. With classes now being conducted online, Sarojani’s 16-year-old daughter, an SSLC student, had no means to attend. A teacher suggested she visit a neighbour’s house and follow lessons being aired on television, but her daughter was banned from the neighbour’s house because of her Devadasi background. “My daughter is a remarkably good student and has high aspirations,” Sarojani said. “How can I deny her an education since she has the ability to change our lives?” In North Karnataka over 5.5 lakh children do not have access to television, let alone smartphones. Sarojani’s 29-year-old son lost a leg in an accident and is bedridden. Now she works as a maid and security guard. “Now I earn about Rs 1,000 a month and we dependent on free rations. I made a pledge to educate my daughter, and come what may I will help her,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mom-sells-earrings-buys-phone-to-help-daughter-attend-online-classes/articleshow/77358579.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||UPSC exam: Beed engineer among top rankers in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: Mandar Patki, a 23-year-old from Beed district, has become one of the youngest candidates to clear the prestigious UPSC exam, the results for which was declared on Tuesday. Mandar, who completed his schooling from Sanskar Vidyalaya, a Marathi-medium school in Beed, had completed his engineering from Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, Pune. He is the son of a former Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) engineer. He did his UPSC preparation at Jnana Prabodhini, Pune, and ended-up cracking the exam in his maiden attempt. On the other hand, Aurangabad’s Neha Kirdak, a 24-year-old medical student, bagged the 383rd rank. She, too, completed her schooling from one of the oldest Marathi-medium schools in the city, Sharda Mandir Kanya Vidyalaya, before completing her HSC from Deogiri College and bagging a medical seat at the prestigious Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad. Daughter of a private tutor, she gave credit to her parents, teachers and gazetted officers who helped and guided her. “My father quit his classes to help me with my studies while my mother, who is also a teacher, became the financial backbone of the family,” she said. In addition to Mandar, two more youths from Beed — Dr. Prasanna Lodh bagged 524th rank and Vaibhav Waghmare bagged 771st rank — cleared the UPSC exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-youth-cracks-upsc-in-first-attempt-bags-22nd-rank/articleshow/77358569.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded gurdwara criesfoul as premises dirtied||Aurangabad: Nanded gurdwara officials have strongly objected to the religious premises being littered with cigarette butts and other things by coronavirus patients, calling it a sacrilegeous act . Punjab Bhawan and NRI Yatri Niwas at the Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib, Nanded, have been handed over to the district administration for a covid treatment facility, where a large number of patients are being treated. Both the gurdwara premises are under the supervision of the Nanded Waghala Municipal Corporation. The gurdwara board authorities have said that liquor bottles are seen littered around, people spitting on the walls after chewing tobacco or gutka and cigarette butts and bidis strewn around, all of which are strictly prohibited at the religious place. The municipal corporation officials said they visited the premises after the alleged sacrilege was reported on social media. “We have ordered strict checks. Even tiffin boxes that are provided to Covid-19 patients are being checked.” Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib, main Gurdwara of Nanded, is one of the four high seats of authority of the Sikhs and attracts lakhs of pilgrims from across the world. In a letter to the district collector, gurdwara board president Gurwinder Singh Wadhwa has stated that “These two premises have scores of rooms that have been handed over to the authorities, but some patients have resorted to sacrilege, which should be stopped.” Ravindra Singh Modi, a senior functionary at the gurdwara board, said, “We have demanded that the district administration and the civic body ensure the premises are kept clean all the time.” Municipal health officer Suresh Bisen told TOI that the district collector, municipal commissioner and other officials concerned visited the spots. “Although we didn’t find anything objectionable during the visit, we have decided to thoroughly check patients, their relatives and even tiffin boxes,” said Bisen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-gurdwara-criesfoul-as-premises-dirtied/articleshow/77358573.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||No decision on Punjabi University evaluations||PATIALA: Punjabi University in Patiala is yet to form a panel of experts or apply a formula to declare the pass marks or CGPA of the promoted intermediate student. On July 21, the varsity had announced to promote all intermediate students who are registered with it to the next semester/class, provided that they have submitted the examination form for May 2020 exams. University authorities had then claimed that students who will be having average grades/marks/CGPA less than the minimum pass marks/grades/CGPA will have to fulfil university requirements or conditions for clearing exams of that semester as and when they are held to become eligible for the award of the degree. If at any time, a student is found ineligible to sit in May 2020 exams, the promotion will stand cancelled. “We are working on a formula, as per the guidelines of the state government. A panel of experts will be formed soon to take a decision. We also started online classes on August 1. We are studying the methods applied by other educational institutions, including GNDU, in promotion of intermediate students,” said Jaswinder Singh Khattar, examination controller at Punjabi University. On other hand, uncertainty has also been prevailing among students of terminal or exiting classes as no decision has been taken on their exams. There are around 78,000 such students with Punjabi University, its colleges and private institutions affiliated to it. Khattar said they were waiting for guidelines and instructions of the state government. Punjab secretary (higher education) Rahul Bhandari said Punjab government had already requested Centre for reconsideration of UGC instructions. The University Grants Commission, in its guidelines, has said all universities will have to conduct final-year or final-semester exams before September 30. The university has compiled a merit list of BTech students and is expected to release the final list by Wednesday. The university claimed to have received 1,000 application forms for admissions in the BTech, whereas it received around 600 forms last year. “We have total 800 seats. We have displayed a tentative merit list of around 800-900 B.Tech students today, while final list will be displayed by tomorrow. Around 5,800 application forms of many other post-Class XII courses have also been received,” said Prof Manjit Singh, in-charge of the varsity’s admission cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-decision-on-patiala-varsity-evaluations/articleshow/77360025.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 5, 2020||Mysuru||Sowing picks up pace in Mandya as water is released to canals||MANDYA: Sowing activities in Mandya district are picking up after water was released for irrigation from the Krishnarajasagara (KRS) reservoir, coupled with bountiful rain across Mandya district. Meanwhile, the rate of inflow of water into the KRS dam is also gradually increasing since a week, owing to copious rain in the catchment areas. During the corresponding period last year, the water level stood at 83.5 ft, which is now at 105ft against the maximum level of 80ft. The inflow is at 5,058 cusecs while 4,713 cusecs of water is being let into the canal and river. Farmers are hoping that the reservoir will reach its maximum capacity early in the monsoon season. Mandya farmers are busy in preparing paddy nurseries as most of them are averse to plant sugarcane, given that the two major sugar mills, MySugar and PSSK are closed, and there are no signs that they will be reopened soon. However, farmer leaders are still furious against the state government for not releasing water early from KRS reservoir,as the delay in releasing water disturbed the sowing calendar. “The paddy seedlings should have been ready for transplanting by now. Unnecessary delay in releasing water to canals from KRS reservoir badly affected the sowing calendar, and now farmers are racing against time to adjust to the paddy growing pattern,” said Shambunahalli Suresh, district president of KRRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sowing-picks-up-pace-in-mandya-as-water-is-released-to-canals/articleshow/77358224.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Increasing fatalities blamed on delay in admission to hospitals||HUBBALLI: Although an alarmingly large number of fresh Covid-19 cases are being reported in each district of the state, it is the rising death toll that has made the residents of Dharwad anxious. The death of eight more Covid-19 patients on Monday has now pushed the number of fatalities in Dharwad to 155. Doctors in Dharwad district attribute the rise in fatalities among Covid-19 patients to the delay in their admission to the Covid Care Centres or hospitals. That many patients confirmed with Covid-19, with accompanying medical problems, have managed to recover from the infection is a point that Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi, in-charge superintendent of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, is keen on emphasising. Citing the recovery of many patients with severe comorbidities, Dr Dyaberi told TOI, “Among the reasons for patients to succumb to the novel coronavirus is the time at which they come to the hospital. Many of them arrive when Covid-19 is already at an advanced stage. Also, most of those who have succumbed to the infection in Dharwad had other problems such as diabetes, hypertension, severe asthma and problems with the heart. Quick medical intervention is one of the solutions to prevent death.” Doctors think that the stigma associated with the pandemic is among the reasons why patients are reluctant to consult doctors immediately after they start showing symptoms. A patient in Hubballi, who effected a recovery, admitted to the fear of ostracism. “I had diarrhoea, which is not a common symptom for the pandemic, but my sons insisted I take the test. I was initially very reluctant to do so. But when the test at KIMS confirmed that I was infected, I was admitted there, and subsequently recovered from the infection,” he said. Another patient, who went to KIMS with a high fever, and was admitted after he tested positive for novel coronavirus, said that even a day’s delay in visiting the hospital may have proven dear to him. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, while asking people to take utmost care of themselves, advised them against delaying a visit to the doctor if they exhibited the symptoms of Covid-19. He added that an expert committee had been constituted to deliberate on the actions needed to be taken to arrest the rising number of Covid-19 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/increasing-fatalities-blamed-on-delay-in-admission-to-hospitals/articleshow/77358374.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 5, 2020||Vadodara||With over 100 cases in a day, Vadodara crosses 5,000-mark||TextEditorVadodara: For the first time in the city and district, new Covid-19 cases reported in a day crossed 100. With 102 fresh cases being detected since Monday evening, the total number of cases cross the 5,000-mark. The case tally stood at 5,047 on Tuesday. Covid-19 data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Tuesday evening revealed that 897 tests were conducted since Monday evening out of which the 102 positive cases were detected. The VMC declared two more persons dead on Tuesday taking the total number of persons who died due to Covid-19 to 96 excluding those Covid-19 positive cases where other comorbidities had led to deaths. According to the data, the east, west and south zones of the city witnessed the highest number of cases. While 21 cases were reported from the eastern parts of the city, 20 each were detected in the western and southern parts. Fifteen new cases were found in the northern parts of the city. The localities from the city from where new cases were reported to include Manjalpur, Chhani, Makarpura, Waghodiya Road, Ajwa Road, O P Road, Harni-Warasiya Ring Road, Gorwa, Subhanpura, Gotri, VIP Road, Fatehgunj, Tandalja, Diwalipura, Akota, Panigate, Navapura, Soma Talav, Alkapuri, Sama, Vadsar, Tarsali and Danteshwar. Twenty-six cases were reported from areas of the district outside VMC limits. These were from Dabhoi, Kayavarohan, Karjan, Deroli, Padra, Savli, Shinor, Angadh, Sokhda, Sundarpura, Bajwa, Koyali and Undera. In a major relief, 132 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation. In all, 3,910 persons have been discharged so far, leaving 1,041 under treatment. The number of patients on ventilators or BIPAP machines reached 60 on Tuesday. As many as 159 are on oxygen support while the condition of 822 patients are said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/with-over-100-cases-in-a-day-vadodara-crosses-5000-mark/articleshow/77358051.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai college holds alumni meet online||MADURAI: Fatima College Alumnae Association (FCAA) organized its annual meet completely online this year witnessing participation of 840 alumni from across the globe. Two new chapters of the association were also created. A week-long virtual meet took place between July 20-26 in the presence of Rev Dr Sr Francisca Flora, secretary of the college, Rev Dr Sr G Celine Sahaya Mary, principal and Dr SJ Kala, president of FCAA. The FCAA Newsletter 2019 – 2020 was also released by the principal and the first copy of the same was received by Dr Sr Biji Cyriac, superior of Fatima College convent. Further, FCAA Theni chapter and FCAA Kodai chapters were created this year. Various cultural performances were presented by alumni from various chapters across the globe. The alumni also engaged in intellectual discussions and presented views on emotional intelligence, women empowerment and other issues. Special talks were also organized. Dr Sabra Nasrin, assistant surgeon, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Government Medical College, Ramanathapuram gave a talk to alumni on ‘Happiness is Healthiness’ and recommended lifestyle changes to manage symptoms of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Dr K Aarthy, medical officer, department of public health, Tirunelveli, spoke on Covid-19 and prevention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-college-holds-alumni-meet-online/articleshow/77360956.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||Amid Covid crisis, Ayodhya bhoomi pujan proves windfall for earthen lamp sellers; 2.5 lakh diyas sold in Agra alone||AGRA: August is hardly the peak sale season for potters and earthen lamp sellers in Agra who usually have to wait for Diwali until the end of the year to do brisk business. This year, however, festivities have come a tad early for these small businessmen. With religious and political representatives, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, asking people to light diyas at home to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya — slated for August 5 — residents are now making a beeline to buy these earthen lamps. According to rough estimates, nearly 2.5 lakh diyas have been sold in the city in less than 24 hours — between Monday evening and Tuesday afternoon. Many sellers TOI spoke to said they had sold thousands of diyas and had got orders to supply more. One such potter, 55-year-old Sunita Kumari, said, “We were hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. The bhoomi pujan at Ayodhya has come as a blessing for us. Since Monday evening, I have sold over 4,000 diyas, including some with special designs that were priced at Rs 2 per piece.” Another potter 28-year-old Hariom Prajapati said he had managed to sell over 5,000 diyas till Tuesday afternoon, adding that he had orders for supply of 10,000 more by Wednesday morning. Another potter Pappu Kumhar was busy making diyas on Tuesday afternoon under the scorching sun. “The massive demand for diyas in August was unexpected. I have sold around 5,500 diyas till afternoon and I have an advance order for 5,000 pieces.” Kumhar admitted that he was, in fact, having trouble procuring raw material — mostly mud — to create diyas. Agra Vyapar Mandal President T N Agarwal told TOI the city would celebrate August 5 as a festival. “Shopkeepers have been urged to decorate their premises and light diyas at home. But everyone has been told to follow social distancing. The massive surge in diya sales shows the enthusiasm of people for the occasion.” Mayor Naveen Jain said he, too, would be decorating his residence with diyas. “I will also attend two events in Vijay Nagar colony and Awas Vikas area to celebrate the bhoomi pujan ceremony.” Several social and religious organisations have planned to conduct live telecast of the ceremony on LED screens followed by distribution of sweets in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amid-covid-crisis-ayodhya-bhoomi-pujan-proves-windfall-for-earthen-lamp-sellers-2-5-l-diyas-sold-in-agra-alone/articleshow/77358570.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 5, 2020||Madurai||Cases dip in central TN for third day||MADURAI/TRICHY: The southern region of the state reported 1,525 fresh cases, taking the tally to 57,984 on Tuesday, which include 15,841 active cases. The region also recorded 34 more Covid-19 deaths taking the death toll to 836. Meanwhile, the central region of the state witnessed a drop in the number of fresh cases for the third consecutive day with the region recording 381 positive cases on Tuesday. The new cases pushed the tally to 15,306, which include 4,479 active cases. The number of active cases in the region has also been decreasing in the past three days from 564 to 541 to 441 to 381. The region recorded five more deaths – two patients from Trichy and each one patient from Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts taking the toll to 161. As many as four southern districts, Madurai (40), Dindigul (64), Tenkasi (45) and Ramanathapuram (47) saw less than 100 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Madurai district, which had been witnessing a rapid rise in cases, on Tuesday, recorded only 40 fresh cases, an all-time low in the district since June 18. With 424 cases on Tuesday, Virudhunagar saw the highest rise in cases in the region and the second highest in the state after Chennai. The last time the district reported more than 400 cases was on July 24. With 292 cases on Tuesday, Theni (6,261) became the fourth district in the region to cross 6,000 cases. Theni also has the highest number of active cases in the region (2,691) followed by Virudhunagar (2,377) and Tirunelveli (2,298). Sivaganga suddenly saw a rise of 141 new cases on Tuesday. However, the total active cases in Sivaganga (496) remain the lowest in the southern region. Tuticorin district on Tuesday recorded 189 cases taking the tally to 8,035 cases, including 1,977 active cases. Out of the 34 Covid-19 deaths in the region, nine deaths are from Kanyakumari. All 34 deaths were Covid-19 patients with various co-morbid conditions. One Covid-19 death reported in Dindigul was that of a 54-year-old cancer patient, who died in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Covid-19 deaths were also reported in Tirunelveli (6), Madurai (4), Tenkasi (4), Theni (4), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (2), and Sivaganga (1). None of the districts in the central region crossed 100 daily cases on Tuesday. Thanjavur was on top with 93 cases taking the tally to 3,243 cases. Trichy reported 83 cases taking the tally to 4,603. With the death of two patients, the toll has climbed to 62. Trichy collector S Sivarasu attributed the drop in fresh cases to the fever clinics in the city and rural areas. “Fever clinics helped identify the vulnerable people with the symptoms,” he told TOI. Covid-19 cases were also reported from Nagappattinam (55), Ariyalur (49), Pudukottai (41), Tiruvarur (31), Karur (25) and Perambalur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-dip-in-central-tn-for-third-day/articleshow/77360967.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Getting degree from Delhi University is a nightmare for doctors, says HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up Delhi University for making doctors run around for their MBBS degree. What should be a cause of celebration, has turned into a nightmare for doctors, it said. Justice Prathiba M Singh said there is a “complete collapse of administration” in the varsity and it reflects a “sorry state of affairs” while hearing various petitions by 21 doctors, who completed MBBS graduation in 2018 and 2019 from DU-affiliated colleges, but have not yet received their degree certificates. The court said that despite getting sufficient time, the varsity has not taken proper steps and there seems to be a complete mental block in issuance of digital degrees. “Obtaining a degree, which is a cause of celebration, has turned into a nightmare for these doctors who are otherwise busy in treating Covid-19 patients,” it observed and set up a committee consisting of three officials— an officer from the court’s IT department, a senior officer from DigiLocker and Joint Director of DU Computer Centre—to work on issuance of digital documents. The court said the sample degree certificate be placed before it on the next date of hearing on August 7 and also directed the committee to file a status report. It lamented that doctors have been asked to fill an application and pay Rs 500 for special certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/getting-degree-from-du-is-a-nightmare-for-doctors-says-hc/articleshow/77360031.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Public health is priority, HC tells govt||AHMEDABAD: After comparing the effect of a pandemic to that of a war, the Gujarat high court said the government must prioritize the life of the people over everything else. Hinting at the state government’s position on taking out the Rath Yatra procession, the HC said, “In fighting a public health crisis human life comes first, everything else is secondary. We pressed the urgency and importance of the government’s need to prioritize the life of people over everything else several times before and we do it again.” The court further said, “Our government has nothing to lose if they prioritize the right things. Truth be told, it is impossible to make everyone happy, especially when we are in the middle of a deadly battle against a chaotic virus. There will be decision that may upset one group of people over another and that is okay. The state government is an independent secular body of governance whose foremost duty is the well-being of the people of the state.” The court made it clear that the government must take harsh steps such as banning public and religious gatherings, raising the fines for disobeying mask rules and punishing those who try to profit off people’s illnesses. “These harsh decisions will call for criticisms but they will at the end of the day be saving lives. It is a hard path, but an honourable one. We are hopeful that the government will do what is most honourable. Scoring brownie points by trying to please people will not only be shameful but also extremely dangerous,” it said and added that people falling ill due to social gatherings will turn to the government for medical aid and at such a time the government may need vast health infrastructure and manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/public-health-is-priority-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/77361007.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nashik||3 arrested for assaulting doctor in Cidco area||Nashik: Three people have been arrested by Ambad police for assaulting a doctor of a private hospital in Cidco area of the city on Monday evening. According to police, the suspects were presented before the court and have been remanded in police custody till August 6. Kamlakar Jadhav, senior PI of Ambad police station, said a 43-year-old woman, who was suffering from breathlessness, was admitted to the private hospital. “She died while undergoing treatment on July 31. Being a covid suspect, the woman’s body was cremated as per government guidelines so that her relatives do not catch the infection,” he said. “However, the woman’s relatives learned that she was not Covid positive and started demanding her report from the hospital. Due to some technical reasons, the hospital was not able to give the report when demanded following which the doctor there was assaulted,” he added. Pravin Gadsing, director of the hospital, said, “According to her relatives, five hospitals had turned her away considering to be a suspected case of covid. We got her admitted in the middle of the night and began her treatment. Unfortunately, she passed away and since her swab reports had not arrived she was sent for cremation as per government guidelines. The relatives were angry as they were not allowed to meet her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor-in-cidco-area/articleshow/77357370.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||A’bad Covid number crosses 27K||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending at 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat recorded 1,020 new Covid cases, taking the total to 65,704. It was the 14th consecutive day on which the state posted a 1,000-plus tally. However, after the high of 1,159 on July 30, the state is registering a declining trend: for the past two days, the cases have been below 1,100. The new cases include 245 from Surat, 153 from Ahmedabad, 105 from Vadodara, and 88 from Rajkot. Now the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad have crossed 27,000 (27,122). In Surat, the number is 14,071; in Vadodara, it is 5,046; in Rajkot, it is 2,158; and in Bhavnagar, it is 1,554. The state recorded 25 deaths, taking the toll to 2,534. The deaths include 11 from Surat, four from Junagadh, three from Ahmedabad and Jamnagar, two from Vadodara, and one each from Bhavnagar and Rajkot. It was the highest daily toll for the state in 11 days. In all, 898 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 48,359. The discharges include 213 from Surat, 132 from Vadodara, 107 from Ahmedabad, and 64 from Bhavnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-covid-number-crosses-27k/articleshow/77361009.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada district administration to conduct more tests as 225 more test Covid+ve||MANGALURU: In addition to the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district – the coastal district reported 225 fresh cases on Tuesday – the authorities are saddled with the responsibility of addressing problems that accompany the spike, including the inflated bills that patients are being charged at private hospitals. Now, the district administration has decided to intensify testing, and a dedicated cell has been created in the health and family welfare department to redress grievances pertaining to hospital bills. Meanwhile, neighbouring Udupi district had 170 more people being confirmed infected with Covid-19, its overall tally now at 4,970. But Dakshina Kannada, with a total of 6,393 cases, of which 3,061 are still active, is certainly faced with a challenging task. Fatalities too continued to mount in the two coastal districts, which cumulatively reported the death of 10 Covid-19 patients on Tuesday; Udupi accounting for six, and Dakshina Kannada for four fatalities. Of the 180 people who have succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Dakshina Kannada district, 67 have died in the past ten days. Meanwhile, the overall death toll in Udupi district is 42. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said that the health department was preparing to conduct 4,000 tests daily. “We want to conduct tests in all towns of the district. People can visit the nearest towns before travelling to Mangaluru for treatment. We have chalked out a plan to test anyone having symptoms of Covid-19,” the DC said. Officials at the proposed dedicated cell at the health department will examine bills charged to patients at private hospitals, comparing the sum with the rates prescribed by the state government. Rajendra, meanwhile, said that, in the event of private hospitals facing a shortage of ventilators, patients could be referred to the Wenlock District Hospital, and they would be offered treatment under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-district-administration-to-conduct-more-tests-as-225-more-test-ve/articleshow/77358319.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Students can’t move to next level of MBBS without exam, says MCI||MUMBAI: Medical Council of India has advised universities not to permit any batch of students to move to the next level of MBBS without an exam in a circular on Tuesday. It was meant to clear the air over queries and representations from stakeholders on re-opening of medical colleges and conduct of university exams. The council also indicated that final year MBBS students can join internships after passing final exams. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had earlier directed Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to start classes for first, second and third year undergraduate students. He also told them to allow final year students to start internships and to conduct exams whenever the situation improves. Following this advisory from the council, though colleges affiliated to MUHS can commence lectures, they may not be able to allow students to start internships without exams. The council has told universities to conduct pending supplementary exams for final year MBBS students, scheduled in the first half of 2020, at the earliest “...as the students have completed the course once and need not wait for the formal reopening of colleges. Such students will be joining college/hospitals for internships after passing final exams”. Colleges were directed to complete first year MBBS course for 2019 batch within two months of reopening of colleges and then conduct the exam, preferably within a month. MCI had revised syllabus for first year MBBS batch of 2019 and directed holding of the exam by September, an MUHS official said. But after Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, their course was disrupted midway. MCI also advised universities to complete the course for other classes in two months and then conduct the exams. The council also suggested alternatives to get external examiners for conduct of the exam. For practicals and clinical examination, MCI recommended alternative methods of skill evaluation that can include simulations, case scenarios, objectives structured clinical or practical examinations. The advisory is a one-time measure in view of Covid-19, it stated. MUHS exam controller Ajit Pathak said their priority will be to hold certifying exams first in compliance with MCI and state government directives. But he did not elaborate as the matter is sub judice and is scheduled for hearing later this month. A parent representative, Sudha Shenoy, said the MCI directive was fair as students cannot be sent for internships without clinical exposure, which is a vital part of their final year curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/students-cant-move-to-next-level-of-mbbs-without-exam-mci/articleshow/77359563.cms||Yogita Rao
August 5, 2020||Kochi||3-year-old dies as damaged roads delay treatment||PALAKKAD: The life of a three-year-old boy who fell from the hands of his father while escaping from a wild elephants at Anamada could not be saved due to delay in rushing him into hospital at Nemmara. The delay was caused due to 11km road that was damaged in 2018 floods. While Ramachandran was returning home from work in with his son and wife’s sister Sarojini they saw a wild elephant on the way and started running to escape from it. In the chaos, the boy fell from the father’s arms, hit a rock and was seriously injured. However, the elephant had not attacked the fallen child. The travel from Anamada to Pulayampara in Nelliampathy junction and from there to Nemmara hospital took more than an hour since the roads were damaged in 2018 floods were not reconstructed. Only four-wheel-drive vehicles can travel on this road. KIIFB had sanctioned Rs 22 crore last year to construct the 11km stretch. But work is yet to start. “In the 2018 and 2019 floods, many roads in Nelliampathy hills were damaged but they were not repaired. This made travel difficult to this famous tourism and plantation area,” said V S Prasad, a trade union leader from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-yr-old-dies-as-damaged-roads-delay-treatment/articleshow/77358645.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Home isolation for mild symptoms||Aurangabad: The district administration has decided to follow in the steps of cities like Pune, Nagpur and Amravati where patients with mild symptoms, instead of shifting them to the quarantine centres, are being home quarantined. This, however, would be implemented in the case of patients who have spacious homes or facilities where they could be isolated. District collector Uday Chaudhary on Monday held a meeting with officials and people’s representatives to discuss the current situation in the district and to chalk out a strategy to further check the spread of the contagion. “Home isolation in rural areas could be implemented as people there generally live in farms and naturally maintain distance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/home-isolation-for-mild-symptoms/articleshow/77358576.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||350 patients from outside Ahmedabad getting treatment||AHMEDABAD: Not just people from Ahmedabad, but Covid-19 patients from Surat, Kutch, Bhavnagar and Amreli, and even other states including Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, are being treated at the designated Covid-19 hospitals in Ahmedabad city. Around 350 such patients are admitted on the 50% private quota allotted at the designated Covid hospitals acquired by the AMC. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary forest and environment, who is overall in-charge of activities to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that the public-private partnership model of AMC adopted in middle of May for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals has been endorsed by Gujarat high court, Supreme Court and the Niti Aayog. He said around 350 patients belonging to 25 districts from Gujarat and also from states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have been receiving treatment in 47 hospitals of the city. He said that the AMC had last week declared another 15 private hospitals as designated Covid hospitals in the city. The additional 500 beds were marked as private beds. The hospitals were permitted to admit all patients as private patients. He said more and more hospitals are being notified to accommodate patients from places other than Ahmedabad city. According to the data available, the most preferred hospitals are SAL Hospital, Arthaan, Nidhi, SGVP among others. Gupta said that the AMC has been providing remdesivir and tocilizumab injections to all patients in the city whether on private or AMC quota. Around 1,000 tocilizumab and few hundreds of remdesivir injections have already been provided which have reduced death rate among the Covid-19 patients, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/350-patients-from-outside-abad-getting-treatment/articleshow/77361004.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Rain over next 5 days to determine water supply||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporaiton (NMC), owing to the poor run of monsoon this year, has warned of resorting to alternate day water supply if the city does not receive showers within the next five days. Last year, the water level in Gangapur dam complex and Mukane dam was at 91% and 75%, respectively. This year, however, the water level in Gangapur dam complex and Mukane dam is at 40.48% and 28%, respectively. An NMC official said they will take a call on alternate day water supply in the city if the situation fails to improve in next five-six days. Gangapur dam complex, Mukane and Darna dams are the major source of water for Nashik city. Gangapur dam complex includes three dams — Gangapur Kashyapi and Gautami. The Gangapur dam caters around 80% of the water requirement of the city, while remaining 20% of the supply comes from Mukane and Darna dams. “We have decided to go for water cut in the city in case there is no satisfactory rainfall in the catchment areas of the dam during the next five-six days,” the official said. Of the total capacity of 9,350 mcft, Gangapur dam’s current storage is at 3,785 mcft. During the corresponding period last year, the dam’s storgae was at 8,575 mcft. Mukane dam’s total capacity is 7,230 mcft but the live storage is at 2,043 mcft. The catchment areas of Darna dam has received good rainfall but it provided only 10% of the water supply to the city. The current water storage of Darna dam is 5,032 mcft while it was around 6,320 mcft or 88% at the same time last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-over-next-5-days-to-determine-water-supply/articleshow/77357383.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Goa cops arrest Beed man for sending lewd messages to IAS officer||Aurangabad: Goa police have arrested a man from Beed city in Marathwada region for allegedly sending lewd messages to a woman probationary IAS officer of Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory services.South Goa superintendent of police Pankaj Kumar Singh said, “An offence against the suspect was registered on Friday, following which our team picked him up from Beed on Sunday night and brought him to Goa.”Shailesh Sanap, aged around 28, was on Monday produced in a Goa court, which remanded him in four days of police custody, said the officer. Singh said the suspect has been booked under IPC sections 354-D (stalking) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation), besides sections of the Information and Technology Act.A Goa police team, led by sub-inspector Anant Gaonkar, and made the arrest with the help of Beed local crime branch.The Beed police said that Sanap runs an educational institute in Beed city and does not have any criminal record.Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said the Goa police as well as the administration had contacted him seeking local assistance for arresting the suspect.A Beed police officer privy to the investigation said the suspect and the probationary woman IAS officer knew each other as they had studied in the same institute in Beed city.“The suspect started chatting with the complainant over the mobile phone and recently sent inappropriate messages, which resulted into a heated argument. He allegedly threatened her with dire consequences, following which she lodged a police complaint,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/goa-cops-arrest-beed-man-for-sending-lewd-messages-to-ias-officer/articleshow/77336363.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Marginal rise in average wholesale price of onions||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onion on Tuesday recorded a marginal rise of Rs 50 per quintal at the Lasalgaon APMC. The average wholesale onion price was recorded at Rs 700 per quintal on Tuesday as against Rs 650 per quintal on Friday. The market was closed for three days on account of Rakshabandhan. On Tuesday, around 20,000 quintal of onions were auctioned and the minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 401 and Rs 991 per quintal, respectively. “We expect the average wholesale onion price to be in the same range for next couple of weeks,” an APMC official said. Currently, the onions arriving at the wholesale markets are the ones harvested in summer — between March and April. The shelf life of summer onions is around six months and farmers prefer storing them with a hope of getting a better price. Farmers have been demanding a rate of Rs 2,000 per quintal from the state and central government as they are incurring heavy losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/marginal-rise-in-average-wholesale-price-of-onions/articleshow/77357397.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly reports 72 positive Covid-19 cases, Meerut 52 and Agra 26||AGRA/ BAREILLY/MEERUT: Districts in west Uttar Pradesh saw another spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with Bareilly reporting the highest with 72 cases. Additional chief medical officer, Bareilly, Dr Ashok Kumar said two patients succumbed to the virus. The district tally in Bareilly has reached 2,928 cases and 73 deaths. In Meerut, 52 people, including a police officer and two toddlers, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the tally to 2,287 here, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. Whereas, the death of a 17-year-old boy took the toll to 93. Budaun reported 48 new cases, of these 36 are from the district jail. In Agra, 26 cases of Covid-19 surfaced, taking the district’s tally to 1,928. Among those who tested positive include the 69-year-old mother of divisional commissioner (Agra). His personal driver, telephone operator and two guards also tested positive. However, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar was tested Covid-19 negative, along with over two dozen staffers attached with his office and residence. Meanwhile, 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,928 cases, 79.4% have been declared cured and discharged. Presently, there are 297 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,531 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-reports-72-positive-cases-meerut-52-and-agra-26/articleshow/77366412.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Meerut||Bareilly reports 72 positive Covid-19 cases, Meerut 52 and Agra 26||AGRA/ BAREILLY/MEERUT: Districts in west Uttar Pradesh saw another spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with Bareilly reporting the highest with 72 cases. Additional chief medical officer, Bareilly, Dr Ashok Kumar said two patients succumbed to the virus. The district tally in Bareilly has reached 2,928 cases and 73 deaths. In Meerut, 52 people, including a police officer and two toddlers, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the tally to 2,287 here, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. Whereas, the death of a 17-year-old boy took the toll to 93. Budaun reported 48 new cases, of these 36 are from the district jail. In Agra, 26 cases of Covid-19 surfaced, taking the district’s tally to 1,928. Among those who tested positive include the 69-year-old mother of divisional commissioner (Agra). His personal driver, telephone operator and two guards also tested positive. However, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar was tested Covid-19 negative, along with over two dozen staffers attached with his office and residence. Meanwhile, 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,928 cases, 79.4% have been declared cured and discharged. Presently, there are 297 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,531 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bareilly-reports-72-positive-cases-meerut-52-and-agra-26/articleshow/77366413.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Agra||Bareilly reports 72 positive Covid-19 cases, Meerut 52 and Agra 26||AGRA/ BAREILLY/MEERUT: Districts in west Uttar Pradesh saw another spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with Bareilly reporting the highest with 72 cases. Additional chief medical officer, Bareilly, Dr Ashok Kumar said two patients succumbed to the virus. The district tally in Bareilly has reached 2,928 cases and 73 deaths. In Meerut, 52 people, including a police officer and two toddlers, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the tally to 2,287 here, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. Whereas, the death of a 17-year-old boy took the toll to 93. Budaun reported 48 new cases, of these 36 are from the district jail. In Agra, 26 cases of Covid-19 surfaced, taking the district’s tally to 1,928. Among those who tested positive include the 69-year-old mother of divisional commissioner (Agra). His personal driver, telephone operator and two guards also tested positive. However, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar was tested Covid-19 negative, along with over two dozen staffers attached with his office and residence. Meanwhile, 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,928 cases, 79.4% have been declared cured and discharged. Presently, there are 297 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,531 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bareilly-reports-72-positive-cases-meerut-52-and-agra-26/articleshow/77358627.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi flag-maker faces sharp fall in I-Day orders||Hubballi: With Covid-19 forcing the country into a low-key Independence Day celebration, the sole, authorised tricolour manufacturing unit here, whose revenue spikes during this period, is staring at severe financial losses this year. The Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS), which spins khadi and also makes national flags of nine sizes, has received substantally fewer orders thanks to the three-month lockdown and rising pandemic cases. The KKGSS, nevertheless, started manufacturing flags in May second week, but several organisations, political parties and corporates which used to place bulk orders for flags haven’t sent in their orders yet. Shivanand Mathapati, secretary, KKGSS, said flags worth Rs 93 lakh were sold between April and July last year, but this year, it’s just Rs 42 lakh for the same period. “Due to the pandemic, we haven’t got many orders from schools and colleges. Many people in other states, including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, who would place bulks orders, haven’t done it this year,” he said. Orders from those in other states were worth Rs 10 lakh last year, but it’s only Rs 2 lakh now, he added. Mathapati said August 15 is a major event for sale of national flags, but this time it may be difficult to reach the target of Rs 3.5 crore. “Last year, we sold flags worth Rs 3 crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-flag-maker-faces-sharp-fall-in-i-day-orders/articleshow/77358689.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Centralised O2 system at all DCHCs in rural hospitals||Nashik: The district health department has taken up the work of installing centralised oxygen pipelines at all the district Covid health centres (DCHC) that have been set up in rural hospitals.Senior officials said while Nagarsul, Sinnar and Lasalgaon DCHCs have already had the work done, the centralised pipelines are still being installed at Dangsaundane, Ahbhona and Wani DCHCs. The centralised oxygen pipes would also be installed in the remaining Covid facilities at the taluka level.During a recent review meeting, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had asked the senior health and administrative officers to ensure adequate availability of oxygen facilities at the taluka places. This was to ensure that if the condition of an admitted Covid patient worsened, then oxygen support is available to him/her till the time they are shifted to the district Covid hospital.Officials said that while they had taken up the work of centralised oxygen system from where the oxygen is supplied to every bed in the hospital, after Bhujbal’s instructions the process had been expedited across the DCHCs at the taluka level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/centralised-o2-system-at-all-dchcs-in-rural-hospitals/articleshow/77357415.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||NMMC to add 200 ICU beds, 80 ventilators for Covid patients||Navi Mumbai: NMMC has roped in D Y Patil Hospital at Nerul to set up 200 ICU beds and 80 ventilators to overcome a shortage, for Covid patients. It signed an MOU with the hospital and will pay for treatment of patients there. In phase I, 50 beds will be available on August 10. The beds will take the total to 402, along with 173 ventilators. “In our effort ‘Mission break the chain’, we have initiated various measures to bring down the number of positive cases and mortality rate to zero and providing more ICU beds has been part of it. Timely provision for ICU beds, oxygen and ventilators will save the lives of serious patients. All 200 ICU beds will be ready by September 10 at the DY Patil Hospitals and the patients will be given free treatment here,” said NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nmmc-to-add-200-icu-beds-80-ventilators-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77359565.cms||B B Nayak
August 5, 2020||Kozhikode||New twighopper species named after Keralite researcher||KOZHIKODE: A new twighopper (pygmy grasshopper called so because of its resemblance to tiny twigs) species discovered from the rainforests of Sri Lanka by Croatian and German researchers has been named Cladonotus bhaskari after Dhaneesh Bhaskar, a young conservation biologist and grasshopper expert from Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI). This is the first new twighopper (Cladonotus) species to be discovered in the last 116 years. The discovery of the rare species of twighopper is based on a single female specimen collected and photographed in Sinharaja rainforest. The new species is distinguished from other species of the genus by its long and spine like frontomedial projection and cockscomb-shaped promedial projection. Researchers said that the specimen of the new species is the first known female of the genus and is the first photograph of the member of the genus in the natural habitat. They said that the species has been named in honour of Bhaskar, a specialist in grasshoppers, especially pygmy grasshoppers, of the Western Ghats and member of the Species Survival Commission (grasshopper specialist group) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and hails from Wayanad. “We are happy to name the species after a person from the region as most of the research in grasshoppers in India and Sri Lanka were done by foreign researchers. With this, we want to show how much we appreciate local experts in the forests of the region who are studying the species,” said Josip Skejo of the University of Zagreb in Croatia, who was part of the team. The team which made the discovery also comprised Josef Tumbrinck, Maks Deranja, Karmela Adzic and Marko Pavlovic. “Our study reports the first specimen in the last 70 years, and the first new Cladonotus species in the last 116 years. This is furthermore the first described female and also the first Cladonotus of which we have a photograph of a living individual in natural habitat,” the researchers said in the study published in research journal Zootaxa. The study also stressed the need to act quickly and conduct research before twighoppers become extinct. “Rainforests in Sri Lanka are being destroyed daily. Even though the island is one of the biodiversity hotspots, the aforementioned species may already be in danger,” the study said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/new-twighopper-species-named-after-keralite-researcher/articleshow/77358693.cms||K R Rajeev
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Govt may reverse to monthly billing of power||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is mulling changing the electricity billing cycle of domestic consumers from bimonthly to monthly system, said state power minister P Thangamani on Tuesday. “We will have to discuss it with the chief minister before taking a decision. There is a demand for returning to the monthly cycle. We have to take a call on this,” said Thangamani. Changing the billing cycle with the current tariff system would provide major benefits to consumers as their tariff will remain in lower slabs as most consumers will not cross 500 units. Moreover, the first 100 units are free for all domestic consumers. It is not clear as of now whether the government has plans to tweak the tariff along with change in the billing cycle. Changing the billing cycle without altering the tariff would be suicidal for the power utility, Tangedco. People who cross consumption of 500 units bimonthly, after factoring in the 100 free units, are paying Rs 6 per unit at present. Use of air-conditioners, especially in cities like Chennai, leads to power consumption crossing 500 units in the bimonthly cycle. “The bi-monthly cycle of billing was introduced in August 1987 as the then TNEB did not want crowding of consumers at bill collection centres. But things have changed a lot now. Only a few consumers pay at collection centres at present. Most consumers make online payment, either using Tangedco App or its website,” said Pattabiram-based consumer activist T Sadagopan. Domestic sector alone follows bimonthly billing cycle at present. All other segments like commercial and industrial are paying monthly bills in Tamil Nadu. “Lack of adequate assessors was one of the reasons to introduce bimonthly billing cycle for domestic consumers. Moreover, there was no hand-held machine for taking meter reading those days. Everything was done manually and it was not possible to record meter readings every month. Since technological advancements have simplified everything now, it is time we got back to the monthly cycle,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom has not got any official communication from the government regarding the change in the billing cycle. Hence, even deliberations have not started, he said. Once smart meters are introduced, there is virtually no need for any assessor to visit individual houses to take meter readings. Smart meters will make almost every information regarding power consumption available online. Consumers will also get SMS alerts about their consumption, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-may-reverse-to-monthly-billing-of-power/articleshow/77360069.cms||B Sivakumar
August 5, 2020||India||In a first, women soldiers on combat duty near LoC||NEW DELHI: The Army for the first time has deployed women soldiers for internal security and combat duties near the line of control with Pakistan. On deputation from paramilitary force Assam Rifles, the women platoon has been stationed in the Tangdhar sector of north Kashmir. Around 30 women soldiers are led by Captain Gursimran Kaur of the Army Service Corps (ASC), who herself is a third-generation military officer of her family. “Deployed at security checkpoints leading to the LoC, the women soldiers are also being used for crowd control and frisking of women because there are intelligence inputs of weapons and drugs being smuggled across,” said an officer. The 13-lakh strong Army has been inducting women in small numbers since the mid-1990s but only as officers. Women are also not allowed to join the “fighting arms” of infantry, armoured corps, mechanised infantry and artillery. It was only last year that the Army began the recruitment of the first lot of around 50 women as jawans or soldiers in the Corps of Military Police (CMP), who are undergoing training at present. The Army plans to induct around 800 women in the military police, with a yearly intake of over 50 personnel, to assist in probing criminal cases like rapes and molestations as well as preserving “good order and discipline” in military formations. “A need was also felt for women soldiers in forward locations for frisking and other duties. Women police personnel are not always available in such areas. Till the women in CMP actually join service, we are using women soldiers of Assam Rifles for such duties,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-women-soldiers-on-combat-duty-near-loc/articleshow/77362156.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||In Aurangabad, man held for raping fiancee||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad city police have arrested a 26-year-old man on the charges of raping his Facebook friend-turned-fiancee while his family members have been booked for demanding dowry from the victim’s parents. The suspect has been identified as Amol Chavan hailing from Porgaon Tanda of Paithan tehsil in the district. Investigating officer and police sub-inspector Meera Lad said that the key suspect, a mechanical engineer employed with a company situated in Shendra, has been arrested and would be produced before the court on Wednesday. Police said that the 22-year old woman, currently pursuing her masters in science, came in touch with the suspect through Facebook in February 2013. Over a period of time, the Chavan and the woman fell in love and started seeing each other. It was in the year 2016 that they decided to get married and eventually their parents agreed to it. The woman, in her complaint, stated that they got engaged on October 29, 2019. At the time, the victim’s parents agreed to give the demanded dowry for marriage. This was followed by Amol speaking to her more frequently over the phone as well as visiting her at home. Later, between December 21, 2019, and March 13, 2020, the suspect, first on the pretext of marriage and later by threatening to call off the marriage, raped her on multiple occasions. The alleged rape incidents resulted into friction between the two and while the Chavan’s family allegedly raised questions over her character. This eventually resulted in the Chavan’s family calling off the marriage. Feeling dejected and cheated, the woman reached out to MIDC Cidco police station and lodged a complaint against the suspect as well as his family members. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-held-for-raping-fiancee/articleshow/77358688.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC on migrants, Rajasthan Hospital, social gatherings||‘Take care of migrants’ The Gujarat high court on Tuesday expressed pleasure at the return of migrant labourers to Gujarat. It directed the state government to help them. The judges observed that the helpless workers might have been left with no option but to return to Gujarat. “We expect the state government to help and support all such migrant workers,” the court said. “As on date, they must be without any shelter and income. It is expected of the state government to work out the necessary modalities to help.” Patient death: ‘Why no FIR?’ The Gujarat high court has expressed its dissatisfaction at the state government’s action against Rajasthan Hospital. The hospital has been fined for not attending to a patient who died in front of its gate for want of medical care. The judges said that the authorities have not registered any FIR to investigate the incident on the basis of the CCTV footage. “In such circumstances, we direct the state government to look into this matter very seriously and report to us as regards the necessary action on the next date of hearing,” the court said. Social gatherings face scrutiny The Gujarat high court has ordered the authorities to deal with social gatherings in a very strict manner. The limit on maximum participation at weddings and funerals should be strictly adhered to, it said. The HC said that the responsibility must be fixed on hosts of social gatherings to ensure that the every guest is temperature‐checked, wears a mask and sanitizes the hands at regular intervals. The HC also said that the hosts should be made to maintain a register of all individuals who attended a social gathering along with their contact details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-on-migrants-rajasthan-hospital-social-gatherings/articleshow/77361035.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Covid cases rising among city police||Nashik: Cases of Covid-19 are steadily increasing among city police personnel as 16 policemen tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. So far, 62 police personnel of the city police commissionerate have caught the contagion along with one death that was reported around a month ago. A senior police officer said police personnel were taking all necessary precautions to ensure that they do not catch the infection. “However, the risk of catching the infection is always there when the police personnel are working continuously on the field,” he said. “Over 3,000 police personnel have been given a special health strap that alerts them if they start showing symptoms of Covid-19. Apart from this, they are also being provided with masks and sanitizers on a regular basis at the police station level,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-cases-rising-among-city-police/articleshow/77357469.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: No dog sterilisation in city since February over unpaid dues||JAIPUR: No street dog has been sterilised in the city since February as the firm hired for the purpose has stopped functioning due to payment issues. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has blacklisted the firm due to sudden stoppage in work although the contract was supposed to end in September. JMC will soon invite fresh tenders. JMC officials are claiming that the firm did not function according to the contract and had sterilised dogs from the city outskirts, instead of those in the main city. An official at JMC, who did not wish to be named said, “Instead of sterilising dogs from the city, they started catching dogs from city outskirts and then set them free inside the city boundaries. This has increased the problem of street dogs in the city. When we questioned their way of functioning, they threatened us. One of our senior officials got warning over a phone call from an unknown person for not clearing the firm’s bills.” The firm is claiming around Rs 40 lakh from the JMC, however, according to the JMC officials, the firm has not shown any authorized bills. The firm’s management had written a letter to both the commissioners of Municipal Corporation Greater and Heritage, stating JMC officials are harassing them. The letter states, “Officials of JMC are prejudiced towards our firm as they want this contract to be given to some other firm. Even after completing our work, the officials are not clearing our bills which should be done sooner.” To clear the bills, the firm has to show the number of organs removed from dogs during sterilisation. The firm has claimed that they have the number of organs to justify the bill amount but the officials said, “Around two weeks ago, a few men entered our Jaisinghpura Khor Sterilization office and kept eight containers of dog organs. This firm is running a similar tender in some other city and we have doubts that to show increased numbers, the firm has kept the organs at the sterilisation office. The matter is under investigation,” said a JMC official anonymously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-dog-sterilisation-in-city-since-feb-over-unpaid-dues/articleshow/77360079.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nashik||NMC deploys 32 JEs for bed mgmt in pvt hosps||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has deployed one junior engineer (JE) each in 32 private hospitals across the city for effective management of beds for Covid-19 patients. According to a civic official, the JEs will physically check the availability of beds reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. They will also co-ordinate with the officials in call centres for admission of the patients. The civic body has just set up a war room-cum-call centre that is operational 24x7 for allotment of beds to Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. The NMC has also deployed 10 officials each — for three shifts of eight hours — at the call centre for effective monitoring and management of beds in the private hospitals. The civic body has acquired a total of 1,141 beds in the 39 private hospitals across the city. “We did not have any checks on the ground level to know whether the information provided by private hospitals about the occupancy and vacant beds are true. Considering this fact, we have deployed our JEs from various departments of the civic body in all 32 private hospitals for bed management,” a civic official said. “The JEs will check how many beds occupied by the Covid-19 patients and how many vacant beds in the private hospitals. There will be better co-ordination between officials in war room-cum-call centre and JEs deployed at the private hospitals for allotment of beds to patients in private hospitals, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-deploys-32-jes-for-bed-mgmt-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77357460.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 5, 2020||Ajmer||Three Rajasthan youngsters in UPSC top 50||JAIPUR: Ajay Jain from Sawai Madhopur district bagged the 12th All India Rank (AIR) in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam the results of which was announced on Tuesday. This was Ajay’s fifth attempt in UPSC and he had cleared it three times. Last year, he had ranked 141 and is currently undergoing IPS training at Moradabad. In 2018, he was selected for allied services. Candidates from Rajasthan have performed well in UPSC civil services exam this year. Three candidates from the state have found a place in the top-50. The other two are Pari Bishnoi (AIR 30) and Shishir Gupta (AIR 50). Pari from Ajmer, daughter of woman SHO, is expecting to get Rajasthan cadre this year. Her father was staying in New Delhi leaving his law practice in Ajmer to help her daughter prepare for IAS. Shishir, who cleared the exam in his fourth attempt, is one of the few candidates who chose mathematics as an optional subject. A chemical engineer from IIT-Bombay, he chose to prepare for UPSC to serve the country. Others to clear the exam included Sohan Lal Chaudhary (201 AIR), Devyani, a 26-year-old girl from Behrod Alwar (222 AIR), a resident of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh, 29-year-old Sufiyan Ahmed (303 AIR) and Ankush Kothari from Udaipur (429 AIR). Grandson of a former iman (priest) at a mosque, Sufiyan has done his B.Arch from Aligarh Muslim University and masters from IIT-Kanpur. He is among the first from his community in Chittorgarh to have cracked the UPSC. “Now, it’s a time to give back to the country and people by serving them. I understand the responsibility on my shoulders and will aim to reach out to the last man standing in all my assignments,” said Ahmed, whose parents are retired government teachers. Ankush hopes to get selected in the IRS cadre. A BTech graduate from IIT-Kanpur, he chose anthropology as his optional subject for the main exam. Rajasthan has always given top rankers in UPSC exams. In 2019, AIR-1 Kanishka Kataria and AIR-2 Akshat Jain were from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/three-raj-youngsters-in-upsc-top-50/articleshow/77364662.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Three Rajasthan youngsters in UPSC top 50||JAIPUR: Ajay Jain from Sawai Madhopur district bagged the 12th All India Rank (AIR) in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam the results of which was announced on Tuesday. This was Ajay’s fifth attempt in UPSC and he had cleared it three times. Last year, he had ranked 141 and is currently undergoing IPS training at Moradabad. In 2018, he was selected for allied services. Candidates from Rajasthan have performed well in UPSC civil services exam this year. Three candidates from the state have found a place in the top-50. The other two are Pari Bishnoi (AIR 30) and Shishir Gupta (AIR 50). Pari from Ajmer, daughter of woman SHO, is expecting to get Rajasthan cadre this year. Her father was staying in New Delhi leaving his law practice in Ajmer to help her daughter prepare for IAS. Shishir, who cleared the exam in his fourth attempt, is one of the few candidates who chose mathematics as an optional subject. A chemical engineer from IIT-Bombay, he chose to prepare for UPSC to serve the country. Others to clear the exam included Sohan Lal Chaudhary (201 AIR), Devyani, a 26-year-old girl from Behrod Alwar (222 AIR), a resident of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh, 29-year-old Sufiyan Ahmed (303 AIR) and Ankush Kothari from Udaipur (429 AIR). Grandson of a former iman (priest) at a mosque, Sufiyan has done his B.Arch from Aligarh Muslim University and masters from IIT-Kanpur. He is among the first from his community in Chittorgarh to have cracked the UPSC. “Now, it’s a time to give back to the country and people by serving them. I understand the responsibility on my shoulders and will aim to reach out to the last man standing in all my assignments,” said Ahmed, whose parents are retired government teachers. Ankush hopes to get selected in the IRS cadre. A BTech graduate from IIT-Kanpur, he chose anthropology as his optional subject for the main exam. Rajasthan has always given top rankers in UPSC exams. In 2019, AIR-1 Kanishka Kataria and AIR-2 Akshat Jain were from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/three-raj-youngsters-in-upsc-top-50/articleshow/77364661.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||29-year-old engineer from Jaipur clears exam in 4th try||JAIPUR: 29-year-old Jaipur youth Shishir Gupta has secured 50th rank in Union of Public Service Commission (UPSC) results declared on Tuesday. Shishir made the cut in his fourth attempt. Describing his journey, an elated Shishir said, “I passed out of IIT-Bombay in 2013 with a degree in chemical engineering. After that, I worked in a corporate firm in Abu Dhabi for two years. During this time, I read a lot about world and national events. I got interested and decided to return to India for UPSC preparations.” Going against the norm of opting for humanities subject for mains exam, Shishir chose mathematics. “Mathematics is my favourite subject and in IIT-Bombay, I used to be a teaching assistant for mathematics. Students should opt for subjects based on their interest and scoring pattern. The syllabus is really vast in mathematics but if you are confident then you can clear it,” said Shishir. Everything wasn’t that smooth for Shishir. In 2017 UPSC attempt, Shishir gave his first interview and lost by 6 marks. In 2018 UPSC exam, he wasn’t able to clear his prelims, the result of which affected him mentally and he went into depression. Recalling those times, Shishir’s father, Suresh Gupta, who is a principal at Govt Sr Sec School, Bassi, said, “My son was at his rock bottom. We were worried that he may attempt suicide so we used to sleep in his room to keep an eye on him. Our family supported him and inspired him to attempt again instead of being depressed. Failure is a part of success, I am glad he didn’t lose hope”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/29-year-old-engineer-from-jaipur-clears-exam-in-4th-try/articleshow/77360088.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Ganesh mandals seek waiver of permit fees||Nashik: The Ganesh mandals across the city on Tuesday asked the civic administration to waive the fee of Rs 885 (including GST) it takes for giving permission to celebrate Ganeshotsav that is set to begin from August 22. The divisional officers of all the six divisions held a meeting with the office-bearers of the Ganesh mandals. “We informed the mandals the guidelines that the civic body has stipulated for the celebration of Ganesh festival. We asked the mandals to keep the celebrations low-key on account of the Covid-19 outbreak this year,” said officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “We have already opened e-permission for the Ganesh mandals. We told all the mandals to obtain permission online around 10 days before the beginning of the festival. Permission will not be given at the eleventh hour, said officials. President of Shri Raje Chhatrapati Samajik Sanstha and Kirda Mandal.Ganesh Barve said, “We will not be collecting donations this year for Ganesh festival and will raise funds on our own. We have urged to waive fees for giving permission for the festive celebrations. The officials assured us to discuss the issue with municipal commissioner. We have also decided to meet the civic chief to discuss this issue.” The mandals will have to display the permission for holding the festival on the front side of the pandal a week before the commencement of festival. Otherwise, the pandals will be considered unauthorized and removed by the squads of the anti-encroachment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ganesh-mandals-seek-waiver-of-permit-fees/articleshow/77357495.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 5, 2020||Thane||Thane stops short of 20,000 Covid-19 cases, drop in KDMC areas||THANE: The city stopped short of breaching the 20,000-mark for Covid cases on Tuesday as 212 patients were added, taking the tally to 19,988, while eight deaths were reported, taking the toll to 646. Kalyan-Dombivli, the second worst hit area in Mumbai metropolitan region, on Tuesday reported 154 new cases, that was less than 200 after 50 days. TMC patted itself on the back, claiming how aggressive testing of suspected patients, defined treatment protocol and increased lockdown tenure helped bring the spike in control over the last few weeks. There was a rapid rise in cases from 10,000 on July 4 to 15,000 on July 17, and experts were concerned, but luckily cases slowed down and its nearly 18 days now that the city has not touched the 20,000 mark. Neighbouring Kalyan, which saw a similar rise from 10,000 to 15,000 cases within a fortnight, touched the 20,000-mark within a fortnight. TMC claimed its exercise showed results as active patients here dropped to 3,558 by Tuesday, with an impressive 80% recovery rate; 15,784 recovered, while 529 were discharged, an official said. Covid tests here crossed the one lakh-mark. “The lockdown helped but we simultaneously ramped up testing and aggressively pursued identifying and treating suspected patients. Our team of 300 is reaching out to maximum residents daily and pursuing high-risk contacts,” said municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-stops-short-of-20k-cases-drop-in-kdmc-areas/articleshow/77359567.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Three Rajasthan youngsters in UPSC top 50||JAIPUR: Ajay Jain from Sawai Madhopur district bagged the 12th All India Rank (AIR) in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam the results of which was announced on Tuesday. This was Ajay’s fifth attempt in UPSC and he had cleared it three times. Last year, he had ranked 141 and is currently undergoing IPS training at Moradabad. In 2018, he was selected for allied services. Candidates from Rajasthan have performed well in UPSC civil services exam this year. Three candidates from the state have found a place in the top-50. The other two are Pari Bishnoi (AIR 30) and Shishir Gupta (AIR 50). Pari from Ajmer, daughter of woman SHO, is expecting to get Rajasthan cadre this year. Her father was staying in New Delhi leaving his law practice in Ajmer to help her daughter prepare for IAS. Shishir, who cleared the exam in his fourth attempt, is one of the few candidates who chose mathematics as an optional subject. A chemical engineer from IIT-Bombay, he chose to prepare for UPSC to serve the country. Others to clear the exam included Sohan Lal Chaudhary (201 AIR), Devyani, a 26-year-old girl from Behrod Alwar (222 AIR), a resident of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh, 29-year-old Sufiyan Ahmed (303 AIR) and Ankush Kothari from Udaipur (429 AIR). Grandson of a former iman (priest) at a mosque, Sufiyan has done his B.Arch from Aligarh Muslim University and masters from IIT-Kanpur. He is among the first from his community in Chittorgarh to have cracked the UPSC. “Now, it’s a time to give back to the country and people by serving them. I understand the responsibility on my shoulders and will aim to reach out to the last man standing in all my assignments,” said Ahmed, whose parents are retired government teachers. Ankush hopes to get selected in the IRS cadre. A BTech graduate from IIT-Kanpur, he chose anthropology as his optional subject for the main exam. Rajasthan has always given top rankers in UPSC exams. In 2019, AIR-1 Kanishka Kataria and AIR-2 Akshat Jain were from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-raj-youngsters-in-upsc-top-50/articleshow/77360091.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Udaipur||Three Rajasthan youngsters in UPSC top 50||JAIPUR: Ajay Jain from Sawai Madhopur district bagged the 12th All India Rank (AIR) in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam the results of which was announced on Tuesday. This was Ajay’s fifth attempt in UPSC and he had cleared it three times. Last year, he had ranked 141 and is currently undergoing IPS training at Moradabad. In 2018, he was selected for allied services. Candidates from Rajasthan have performed well in UPSC civil services exam this year. Three candidates from the state have found a place in the top-50. The other two are Pari Bishnoi (AIR 30) and Shishir Gupta (AIR 50). Pari from Ajmer, daughter of woman SHO, is expecting to get Rajasthan cadre this year. Her father was staying in New Delhi leaving his law practice in Ajmer to help her daughter prepare for IAS. Shishir, who cleared the exam in his fourth attempt, is one of the few candidates who chose mathematics as an optional subject. A chemical engineer from IIT-Bombay, he chose to prepare for UPSC to serve the country. Others to clear the exam included Sohan Lal Chaudhary (201 AIR), Devyani, a 26-year-old girl from Behrod Alwar (222 AIR), a resident of Nimbahera in Chittorgarh, 29-year-old Sufiyan Ahmed (303 AIR) and Ankush Kothari from Udaipur (429 AIR). Grandson of a former iman (priest) at a mosque, Sufiyan has done his B.Arch from Aligarh Muslim University and masters from IIT-Kanpur. He is among the first from his community in Chittorgarh to have cracked the UPSC. “Now, it’s a time to give back to the country and people by serving them. I understand the responsibility on my shoulders and will aim to reach out to the last man standing in all my assignments,” said Ahmed, whose parents are retired government teachers. Ankush hopes to get selected in the IRS cadre. A BTech graduate from IIT-Kanpur, he chose anthropology as his optional subject for the main exam. Rajasthan has always given top rankers in UPSC exams. In 2019, AIR-1 Kanishka Kataria and AIR-2 Akshat Jain were from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/three-raj-youngsters-in-upsc-top-50/articleshow/77364660.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Two more positive cases in Goa's Saligao||SALIGAO: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Saligao on Tuesday, taking the village’s total count to seven. Health officer at the Candolim PHC Dr Roshan Nazareth said one of the patients works at Verna while the other is an entrepreneur. “One is in home isolation. The other has been shifted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda,” he said. The village had reported its first case when a boy from Bairo Alto tested positive. A few days later, the boy’s parents had tested positive. A lady police constable working in Ponda but residing in Saligao, had also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-positive-cases-in-saligao/articleshow/77360086.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Move apex court to stop AP GOs, Cong tells KCR||Hyderabad: Stating that there is a threat of drinking water supplies to Greater Hyderabad being adversely affected and south Telangana going dry if Andhra Pradesh goes ahead with Pothireddypadu expansion and Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project, Congress has urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to immediately file a case in the SC seeking directions to scrap GO Nos. 203 and 388 issued by the AP government for taking up the two projects. Congress also reiterated its demand that KCR should attend the Apex Council meeting convened virtually on Wednesday to hear the versions of the two states on river water sharing, particularly to the two projects taken up by AP. In a letter to K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the SC did not admit a PIL and directed Congress leader and former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy to approach the state government when he had filed a case in the apex court on Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme. “The SC may entertain only state governments in river water issues. The state government should approach the apex court at an early date before AP finalises tenders on August 19 for execution of the two projects,” Uttam said and demanded that KCR resign from his post if he fails to stop AP from taking up the two projects. Referring to chief minister’s statement that Telangana would not allow Andhra Pradesh to draw a drop of water from Krishna river, the TPCC chief urged him to immediately intervene as water was being taken outside the Krishna basin to Pennar basin which, he said, was illegal. “It is only after the Apex Council meeting on Krishna river water was called by the Centre that you (KCR) decided to hold a cabinet meeting on the same day to avoid attending the meeting. Is it not possible to hold the cabinet meeting on August 4 or August 6 and attend the Apex Council meeting on August 5,” Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/move-apex-court-to-stop-ap-gos-cong-tells-kcr/articleshow/77360089.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Operators draw up holiday plans to revive tourism sector||CHENNAI: The state and the Centre are yet to come out with a policy to reopen tourism, but individual tour operators are offering packages with flexi-dates in an attempt to create an environment to revive the sector when flights resume. The motto seems to be to encourage people ready to fly abroad to ‘book now and travel in a year or two’ with room tariffs and air fares expected to shoot up the moment flights are allowed from Chennai to southeast Asia or the Middle East. Since many countries, mainly in the Middle East and Southeast Asia, are opening up, tour operators feel the locations may not have competitive pricing. Nevertheless, operators are offering packages from 5 days to a week, which cost close to ₹1 lakh, for ₹35,000-₹50,000. Thomas Cook and SOTC have started to float packages starting with occasions like Durga Puja. Rajeev Kale, president & country head (holidays, MICE, visa) at Thomas Cook (India) Ltd, said, that given the pent-up demand, the festive season offered consumers the first opportunity for travel within India, also outbound - when borders reopen. “We are witnessing an encouraging demand for the upcoming festive season right through to summer 2021, not just for enquiries, but for bookings — and this is driven by our three-pronged strategy — flexible change/cancellation options, affordable pricing, discounts/value adds for our customers,” he said without specifying how many have booked the tours. A few agents are allowing people to book now and travel any time in two years. TOI’s inquiries with one operator showedthe aim was to attract travellers and secure them from inflated costs. As per the agent’s terms, early-bird offers allow one to travel at any point of time in the next two years according to his/her convenience without paying extra. Refund is assured the agent is unable to facilitate the tour on dates demanded by the customer. “We do not receive the package cost through cheque or net banking, but prefer payment gateways since the customer can claim a refund,” a representative said. Experts say such measures are meant to keep the business afloat. J Sethuraman of Travel XS said “These are all steps towards popularizing the brand, grab attention and plant an idea among the people about travel.” Nevertheless, travellers need to be cautious. Advance bookings help companies get an interest-free investment that can be used at least for another six months. Tourism sector insiders say Thailand-based hotels are encouraging Chennai tour operators to book rooms for prospective travellers. There is a huge risk as there would be no refund if the company vanishes. Reimbursement through payment gateways can happen only if the company has a balance in its bank accounts. Sriharan Balan, Travel Agents Association of India chairman (tourism sub-committee) said no foreign country had announced SOPs for Indian tourists visiting for leisure. “Under such circumstances, it is a risk for agents and travellers since they are vulnerable to burn their fingers if things don’t go as per plans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/operators-draw-up-holiday-plans-to-revive-tourism-sector/articleshow/77360095.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Shortage of hospital beds looms in North Karnataka districts||BELAGAVI: Despite multiple warnings from the government, many private hospitals are yet to open doors — some have done so only partially — to treat Covid-19 patients in various districts of North Karnataka (NK). If the current spike in cases continues, this could lead to a huge shortage of beds. Raichur deputy commissioner R Venkatesh on Monday warned the district unit of Indian Medical Association of strict action if private hospitals turned away patients. Only four hospitals in the district have agreed to part with beds and all four need to procure ventilators. As on Monday, Raichur had 916 active cases. “Four hospitals have signed a memorandum of understanding and two will start functioning in a day or two,” Ventakesh said. “The other two have sought a week’s time.” He said the shortage problem would be resolved if two hospitals each come forward in Sindhanur and Lingasugur taluks and he is working towards that end. Syed Hafizullah, an activist from NK, said unless private hospitals come to the rescue, there would be an acute shortage of beds given the daily number of cases. “Hospitals should adhere to govt norms on pricing and should be fully operational. This will strike a balance between government and private facilities and help handle the mammoth caseload.” The situation in Belagavi is grim. Although 18 hospitals were chosen by the state, only four responded positively. District health officer (DHO) Shashikanth Muniyal said private hospitals had readied 400 ICU units, but in reality not even 50 are functional. Ashok Chandaragi, another activist, alleged many private hospitals are hesitant to treat patients. “The four which responded are tactically turning away patients. Soon Belagavi will run out of beds,” Chandaragi said. While four hospitals have opened their doors to Covid patients in Bidar, most private hospitals in the district have less than 20 beds. Dr Maqsood Chanda, who works with the government, said the should make arrangements to treat asymptomatic and moderately symptomatic patients in their homes, thus freeing up hospital beds for those who desperately need them. Chanda said he and other volunteers have readied oxygen cylinders and other kits to treat patients at home. Phone numbers of volunteers have been prominently pasted on each street so that patients can contact them. “This model would reduce the burden on the state,” he said. In Gadag, patients are shunning private hospitals. A source in the district administration said two patients in a private hospital were asked to pay over Rs 20,000 moments after admission. This sent a wrong message to people, which is why they are keeping away from the four private hospitals selected to treat Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shortage-of-hospital-beds-looms-in-north-karnataka-districts/articleshow/77358720.cms||Shreyas HS
August 5, 2020||Chennai||EPS wishes PM on laying foundation stone for Ram Temple||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday extended wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on laying the foundation stone for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. In a statement, the chief minister said the event was realizing the dream of the people. “Myself and on behalf of people of Tamil Nadu, I extend my heartfelt wishes for the successful conduct of bhoomi puja for Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” Palaniswami said. He recalled the remarks of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the National Integration Council meeting held on November 23, 1992 that Temple should be built in Ayodhya. “At the same time, she desired to have a Mosque also in Ayodhya. It is evident that she wished to see unity among Hindus and Muslims for national integration and for the betterment of the country,” the CM said. Palaniswami also said that he wished the Union government for embarking on the construction activities in the wake of a conducive environment following a historic verdict of the Supreme Court that has been welcomed by all sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-wishes-pm-on-laying-foundation-stone-for-ram-temple/articleshow/77360084.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Cases spike in areas under Quepem, Curchorem PHCs||MARGAO: Areas coming under the jurisdiction of Curchorem and Quepem primary health centres have recorded a spike in Covid-19 positive cases over the last four days. Active cases under the Curchorem PHC shot up from 10 on July 31 to 26 on Tuesday, while at the Quepem PHC, the cases rose to 30 on Tuesday from just 9 on July 31. A few housekeeping and sanitation personnel working under a private agency as well as the security guard of the Curchorem PHC have also tested positive for Covid-19. Reports of swab samples of other staff members who came into contact with the affected persons however came negative, it was informed. Sources attributed the rise in cases to the vast geographical areas that these two PHCs cater to. Sources in the Curchorem PHC said 13 of the 26 cases are from Quepem taluka, and four from Panchwadi, and 6 from Curchorem. All four from Panchwadi are from a single family, and also includes a two-and-a-half year old child. Health officer of the Curchorem PHC Dr Mohanrao Dessai said that all four were asymptomatic and their condition stable. Areas coming under the jurisdiction of Curtorim PHC also recorded a rise in active cases over the last few days. From 37 cases on July 31, the cases jumped to 43 on August 1, recorded three more cases on Monday, and two more on Tuesday, to take the count to 48. Other health centres in South Goa which have recorded high number of cases are Urban health Centre, Margao with 114 active cases, PHC Balli with 50, and PHC Cortalim with 347.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cases-spike-in-areas-under-quepem-curchorem-phcs/articleshow/77360092.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors are personification of Gods on earth: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday said that doctors are the personification of Gods on earth. The court appreciated the services rendered by the medical fraternity during the Covid-19 pandemic. In strong words, the court also condemned attacks on doctors. The court passed an order in the suo motu PIL proceedings on Covid-19 and the lockdown. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said about the doctors who have died in the pandemic: “Just like a solder is martyred on the battlefield, these heroes have also been martyred.” The judges went on to say: “…appreciate your doctors, thank them and show them gratitude. Tell them how important their role is and respect their hard work.” The judges further said: “In the past we have seen instances of assaults on doctors and other healthcare workers. That is unacceptable. For those who believe in God to be the life giver and life saver, our doctors are the personification of God on earth.” The judges said that disrespecting doctors, hurting them, or shunning them from the community would not just be “a grave offence but also a despicable sin.” The HC lauded the 50 MBBS students who have volunteered for Covid duty and termed them “braver”. “The addition of these 50 pairs of hands will definitely make a change,” the judges said. “We understand how stressful and precarious their situation is. We applaud them for their courage and dedication to saving lives.” The HC said that after two months of pandemic, people breathed a sigh of relief as life slowly started getting back to normal. “However, our doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff have not had that privilege yet,” the judges said. “They still work unbelievably long hours in suffocating PPE kits and masks, without taking breaks, only to save lives.” The judges went on to say: “We have always heard about how noble the profession of medicine is and today we have witnessed it with their display of undying devotion to saving people’s lives.” They further said: “It is inspiring to see how healthcare workers are risking their lives to protect the lives of others. We must not forget that these healthcare workers are also someone’s child, someone’s parent and someone’s spouse and someone’s friend.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-are-personification-of-gods-on-earth-high-court/articleshow/77361034.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Cong says it will expose BJP’s double standard||Aurangabad: The newly appointed district unit Congress president, Kalyan Kale, on Tuesday said that the party has decided to expose the double standard of the BJP leadership in terms of the agitations they carry out in the name of farmers in Maharashtra. the party will launch agitations to this effect, he said. Kale, a former MLA and Hisham Osmani, who recently took over the party reigns as district and city unit presidents respectively, said that the party has given them the responsibility to work for the benefit of the people and also restrengthen its base in the district. Kale said that he would focus his attention on strengthening the party base in the district as currently there was no party MLA or MP in the district to represent it in parliament or the state assembly. The party has to increase its reach among women and all other sections of the society to fight the forthcoming civic body, gram panchayat and other elections. Pawan Dongre, the party spokesman, said that the district was Congress domain that had ruled the roost in the district, but gradually it lost out space to other parties owing to different reasons. But the situation has changed as the people in general and the activists in particular were disillusioned with other parties paving the way for the Congress to emerge strongly. The meeting was attended among others by former MLC Subhash Zambad, Kiran Patil Dongaonkar, Ibrahim Pathan, Syed Akram Jitendra Dehade, district Mahila Congress president Surekha Pankade and the city Mahila Congress chief Saroj Masalge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cong-says-it-will-expose-bjps-double-standard/articleshow/77358704.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman beaten by ‘witch doctor’ in Karimnagar dies||HYDERABAD: A woman, who was hospitalised after she was thrashed by a man claiming himself to be a witch doctor to rid her of ‘evil spirits’, succumbed to her injuries in the late hours of Monday. Police said both the accused would be interrogated. Rajitha of Jaipur mandal, who has a four-month-old baby, died in a private hospital in Karimnagar and a post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday. “The post-mortem will reveal the cause of the death. We have already registered cases against those involved in the incident,” a police officer told TOI. Asked if a murder case would be booked since the woman had died, police said they are waiting for post-mortem report. Karimnagar police, who arrested the duo, handed them over to Mancherial cops on August 1. Cases have been registered against Rajitha’s in-laws also under sections 304-A (death by negligence), section 498-A (dowry) and section 420 (cheating) of the IPC. Rajitha’s parents, who lived in Gaddapaka village of Shankarampet mandal in Karimnagar, had passed away and the woman, who was married to Mallesh one-and-a-half years ago, was residing with her in-laws in Jaipur. After she delivered a baby four months ago, Rajitha was not keeping good health. The family believed she was possessed by evil spirits. Ravinder called Shyam from Shayampet in Karimnagar to treat her. Shyam slapped her, pulled her by her hair and physically pushed her on the cot to rid her of the evil spirits. As he beat up the frail looking Rajitha as part of his miracle cure, other family members looked on helplessly. When her condition deteriorated, Rajitha’s relatives took her to a Karimnagar hospital.  They lodged a complaint with Jaipur police, alleging that she had died because of the lashes she suffered at the hands of Shyam. When her condition deteriorated, Rajitha’s relatives took her to a Karimnagar hospital. They lodged a complaint alleging that she died because of the lashes she suffered at the hands of Shyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-beaten-by-witch-doctor-in-karimnagar-dies/articleshow/77360118.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Water stagnating at home? Dengue-wary Chennai corporation to slap fines||CHENNAI: Don’t be surprised if the door-to-door survey worker is accompanied by another Greater Chennai Corporation official who will insist on inspecting your terrace or balcony. The civic body has begun implementing anti-dengue measures in full swing. Corporation commissioner G Prakash on Tuesday said they will fine residents if stagnant water, where dengue mosquitoes breed, is found on their premises. According to the fine structure, owners of houses will be issued notices during the first violation, slapped a Rs 100 fine for the second violation and a Rs 200 penalty for the third violation. Apartment complexes will be fined Rs 500 for the first, Rs 5,000 for second and Rs 15,000 for the third violations. Small shops will be fined Rs 500 for first-time violations, Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 for second and third violations. Commercial establishments, government buildings and industries will have to pay Rs 10,000 for first, Rs 25,000 for second and Rs 1 lakh for third violations. Fines are applicable for other schools, colleges and other institutions, construction sites, hospitals among others. Prakash said anti-dengue measures include clearing of solid waste and keeping an eye on empty plots. “The traffic is increasing. So we have to ensure that garbage is picked up quickly. This is why we held a meeting of conservancy inspectors and supervisors today,” he said. Prakash said empty plots, especially in added areas such as Ambattur and Alandur, must be kept under a close watch. “If water stagnates here, it is a danger for neighbours as well. Cleanliness of such plots is the responsibility of the owners,” he said. Prakash said residents should watch out for water stagnation in defrost tray of refrigerators, tyres and coconut shells, tanks on terraces and backyards of homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/water-stagnating-athome-dengue-warycorpn-to-slap-fines/articleshow/77360113.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 20,000 tested with Israeli techs that can give result in 30 minutes||NEW DELHI: The trials for validating rapid test kits for Covid-19 developed in Israel reached a milestone on Tuesday with nearly 20,000 people trying them out at six locations across the city. These included Lady Hardinge Medical College, Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), Lok Nayak, Sir Ganga Ram and Akash Super Specialty hospitals, in addition to a facility run by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Commander Yaniv Meirman from Directorate of Defense Research and Development (DDRD), Israeli ministry of defence, told TOI that the results were being analysed. The four technologies being tested include artificial intelligence to identify changes in a patient’s voice, breath analyser test that requires a patient to blow into a tube and it detects the virus using terra-hertz waves, isothermal testing that enables identification of the novel coronavirus in saliva, and another test that detects proteins of the virus collected in a saliva sample. Meirman said except for the voice test, which they planned to try on 10,000 volunteers, the target for trials of all other tests had been almost completed. “Our aim was to test three technologies on 5,000 volunteers each, which has been nearly achieved. Trials of the voice test are likely to be completed by the weekend,” he added. All the tests being tried under the Indo-Israel collaborative project can give results within 30 minutes. Also, the concept is such that there is no need for a laboratory set up for sample collection or processing, Meirman stated. “Some of the tests, for example isothermal testing, can in future be done at home using a self-help kit, like a pregnancy test,” Meirman said. He added that the voice test was also simple and it could be operated using a mobile phone app. “All technologies already had the proof of concept. We are now validating them on volunteers,” the Israeli official added. The plan is to come up with results of the trial in a few months, following which, depending on the success or failure of the technologies under trial, mass manufacturing and marketing to the world could be discussed. The scientists said it was possible to develop and validate such technology since the entire scientific community was involved, but time was of the essence. Israeli Ambassador Ron Malka on Friday visited RML Hospital to witness the trials being conducted there since the past three days for rapid Covid-19 testing, a statement issued by the Israel embassy stated. Malka was accompanied by professor K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Malka said, “If even one of these tests is successful in detecting the virus in less than half a minute, it will be the biggest breakthrough in Covid-19 identification that the world has been waiting for. By combining advanced Israeli and Indian technology and India’s manufacturing prowess, we can find a way to resume our lives and exist alongside the virus till a vaccine is developed.” The tests have been jointly developed by Israel’s DDRD, India’s DRDO, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and India’s principal scientific advisor, coordinated by the ministries of foreign affairs of Israel and India. Watch Covid-19: 20k tested with Israeli techs that can give result in 30 minutes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20k-tested-with-israeli-techs-that-can-give-result-in-30-min/articleshow/77361038.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Officials raid old-age home, find all inmates sleep on floor in one room||Udaipur: A team from the District Legal Services Authority inspected an old age home operated by an NGO named Lathi Trust in Sarvaritu Vilas area and was shocked to see the pathetic condition in which the senior citizens had been living. Riddhima Sharma, the additional district and sessions judge and secretary DLSA, who went for the inspection last Saturday, found that senior citizens were confined to a common room and kept in unhygienic and pitiful conditions. They did not have beds to sleep and the operator of the home kept a dog to keep a watch to ensure that no elderly person ever used the beds. “The trust running the old age home has been violating all norms. There was no caretaker, no cook or cleaner. The senior citizens were being made to do all the work themselves despite their poor health and ailments,” Sharma told TOI. During the inspection at the old age home, it was found that there were no separate living space for men and women. They slept on the floor in a common hall. The room was in a miserable condition, lacking basic hygiene and sanitation. In times of Covid when social distancing and sanitation is extremely important, it was observed that it was almost impossible to follow the same on the small premises of the home. They were not given masks or sanitisers. “In one of a room, an 80-year-old woman was found in a semi-naked condition. She was wailing out of extreme spinal pain but the home did not arrange any medical treatment for her,” Sharma informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officials-raid-old-age-home-find-all-inmates-sleep-on-floor-in-one-room/articleshow/77360224.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Notorious criminal arrest by Aurangabad police||AURANGABAD: Notorious criminal Lahu alias Jhaglya Chavan (30) has been arrested by the Aurangabad city police under the stringent MPDA (Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act). The accused has over a dozen body as well as property offences including several robbery cases registered against him athe the police stations of Mukundwadi, MIDC Cidco, CIDCO, Kranti Chowk and Pundaliknagar. Crime branch inspector Anil Gaikwad said that the accused is infamous for his alleged criminal activities, especially for using sharp edged weapons to attack and injure people, even on slightest of issue. To keep a check on his activities, preventive action under section 110 of CrPC were also initiated against him, but in vain. Gaikwad said that for a while, the accused has been found posing a direct threat to peace, harmony, public order by getting involved in to arson, robbery and attacking people with shar edged weapons. Police said that even efforts were made to counsel and convince to live a normal and criminal activities-free life, the decision to slap him with MPDA was taken and the accused was arrested on Tuesday before he was sent to Aurangabad Central Prison. Under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act 1981, once detained and approved by the state and after receipt of the opinion from the advisory board confirmed the order by the state , a suspect is liable to remain behind bars for a period of 12 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/040820-hardened-criminal-slapped-with-mpda/articleshow/77358714.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nashik||Outbreak likely to peak in Dhule by mid-August||NASHIK: The Covid-19 outbreak is likely to peak in the Dhule district of North Maharashtra by the middle of this month. Dhule had emerged as one of the Covid hotspot in the state in May with a high mortality rate of around 11.8%. District nodal officer Vishal Patil told TOI that the virus has spread in almost all parts of the district. “Previously, the spread was restricted to Dhule city and the urban parts of Shirpur taluka. But now, cases are being reported from other rural parts too. We are assuming the outbreak to peak in the district my middle of this month,” said Patil. He added that though fresh Covid-19 cases were being reported from different parts of the district on a daily basis, the situation was still under control. Till Monday night, Dhule had registered 3,574 cases, of which 2,358 patients have successfully recovered from the illness. Altogether 122 patients, including 60 from Dhule city, have succumbed to the infection. On an average, about 500 tests are being carried out in the district on a daily basis. According to Patil, the recovery rate has significantly improved from about 55% in the recent past to 66%. The district authorities are confident that the recovery rate would further improve in the near future. “The mortality rate in the district currently stands at around 3.4%. We have registered a significant improvement in this front as it was around 6% earlier. In June, it was around 9.3%. We are carrying out aggressive testing to zero in on the Covid-19 patients and start their treatment early,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/outbreak-likely-to-peak-in-dhule-by-mid-august/articleshow/77357516.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||CMFRI report proposes streamlining fish supply||KOCHI: In a report handed over to state fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma on Tuesday, Kochi-based Central marine fisheries research institute (CMFRI) has recommended streamlining of the supply-distribution value chain in the fisheries sector that is largely driven by middle men. The report, which was prepared on the request of the minister, suggests ways to address the pricing system of fish sold in the state. Primarily the work of scientists of CMFRI and Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), the report also collated inputs from Matsyafed, MPEDA and fisheries officials. Several parts of the report are likely to be integrated into the existing fisheries-related policy instruments, including the proposed Kerala fish auction, marketing and quality control bill 2018. The need for a long-term system of pricing was realized against the backdrop of novel coronavirus pandemic when the fisheries department took a series of initiatives to streamline fishing and marketing activities. A fixed pricing system at landing centres was introduced wherein harbour or landing management committees (HMCs/LMCs) fixed the prices of each species every day avoiding auctions following Covid-19 restrictions. However, even if they worked, the arrangements needed strengthening to enhance viability of transactions. Moreover, long-term solutions are necessary to streamline the marketing system in the state considering all the existing rigidities. Among the key proposals, the report seeks to address the primary mode of price determination when fish arrive at harbours, landing centres and markets. It recommends that auctioning be devoid of any third-party intermediation. In view of Covid-19 and the imperfect fish marketing system, flexi-price system which guarantees minimum price for each species that satisfies prescribed quality criteria should be promoted on an experimental basis, it said. The report calls for a new digitized registration mechanism at harbours and landing centres. Virtual queue and a daily token system can also be introduced. The report says that HMCs or LMCs should be given autonomous powers in decision making and a food safety representative should be present. The other recommendations include setting up of new marketing cooperatives, Kisan credit card schemes for all fishermen and modernization of infra across fish value chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cmfri-report-proposes-streamlining-fish-supply/articleshow/77358768.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 5, 2020||Goa||‘Release dues to mark Ram Mandir event’||PANAJI: Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to announce a financial package for all those who suffered badly during the lockdown and to release pending dues to mark the auspicious occasion of the bhumipujan of the Shree Ram Temple at Ayodhya. The leader of opposition requested Sawant to release pending dues of all social welfare schemes like DSS, pension to widows, persons with disabilities, Laadli Laxmi and Mamata Scheme, senior citizens and bring a smile on people’s faces on the historic day. “The most awaited action of the government will be in line with the teachings of Lord Shree Ram to help the deserving and needy during critical times and extend them a helping hand,” Kamat said. He added that it is a moment of pride that the foundation stone of the sacred Shree Ram Temple will be laid on Wednesday at the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the presence of various spiritual scholars and saints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/release-dues-to-mark-ram-mandir-event/articleshow/77360112.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid claims youngest victim among cops, 2 others||Mumbai: Three police personnel, including an officer, succumbed to Covid on Monday, taking the state police force toll to 107. Among them was Ahmednagar constable Sanjay Pote (31), the youngest personnel in the state force to succumb. There were 9,934 cases in state police but 7,950 recovered till August 3. Reserve sub-inspector Raghunath Manairkar (51) attached to Marol Police Training Centre (PTC) in Andheri (E), succumbed at Jogeshwari’s Trauma Care Hospital on Monday. His condition deteriorated after he did self-medication for fever that he had for almost three days before informing superiors on July 22. Manairkar tested positive on July 25 and succumbed on August 3. “His wife and 15-year-old son at Ghansoli tested negative,” said Marol PTC principal (DCP) Tushar Doshi. PTC officials said his room-mate too tested positive but recovered. “They used to rest in the same room during breaks,” said a Marol PTC officer. Pote had a problem breathing after reporting for duty on July 28. “He escorted a criminal to court and back in July. The accused tested positive and is in hospital. Pote is survived by wife, an elderly mother and five-year-old son,” said an officer at Sanoi police station. Thane city (headquarters) constable Deepak More (46), a Kolsewadi resident, died at 3pm. More had fever, cold, bodyache and cough on July 14. His condition did not improve and he was admitted to a private hospital on July 23 despite testing negative on July 21 but a CT scan showed positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-claims-youngest-victim-among-cops-2-others/articleshow/77359569.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Cuddalore port project gets green nod||Chennai: After prolonged delay, the state government’s ambitious plan to expand Cuddalore port at Rs 135 crore got environment and CRZ clearance from the Union government. The plan is to enhance the Cargo handling capacity with construction of two additional berths with required modifications in the existing breakwaters. An expert appraisal committee of the Union ministry of environment and forests granted clearance, subject to conditions, including independent monitoring by a government/institute to evaluate impact during dredging. “Impact of dredged material on coastal environment along with shore-line changes should be studied by the Tamil Nadu Maritime Board and necessary mitigation measures be taken in case any adverse impact is observed. The details shall be submitted along with the six-monthly monitoring report,” the committee said. No underwater blasting is permitted. The expansion plan has come in the wake of the port, which is in existence since pre-Independence days. It came close to being defunct for want of dredging to make the existing wharf operational for multi-cargo handling for 5.68 million tonnes per annum, including coal, fertiliser, cement and containers and clean cargo. Employment potential is said to be 2,500 both direct and indirect. The plan is to support and sustain the industrial growth in Cuddalore and adjoining districts, especially the serving mines and thermal power stations in Neyveli, besides proposed thermal power plants in the coastal stretch and industrial development in the Union Territory of Puducherry. “The state should ensure the project does not ruin the livelihood of the local community and benefit a private company. In all, there should not be a coal yard,” CPM state secretary and former Chidambaram MLA K Balakrishnan said. The project was in the news for wrong reasons when the expert committee, in its February meeting, found many discrepancies in the presentation of the consultant and sought point-wise compliance of the terms of reference for the environment impact assessment study. In May, the committee again deferred the proposal after the state representatives failed to attend the meeting. In June, the committee ‘discovered’ that the environmental consultant did not have a valid accreditation certificate since February 2019. Still, the state had uploaded an unsigned copy of the consultant’s environment impact assessment report on the ministry’s portal for clearance. On July 2, the maritime board submitted a letter of accreditation issued by QCI-NABET, for the environmental consultant. The expert committee also granted approval to hold an environment study for Nambiar Nagar mini fishing harbour in Nagapattinam at a cost of Rs 34.30 crore with contribution from the state and the public. The fisheries department has planned to construct a harbour with fish handling capacity of 25,000MTPA and dredging for one lakh cubic metre for safe navigation of boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cuddalore-port-project-gets-green-nod/articleshow/77360103.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chennai||DMK MLA denies joining BJP, praises PM||Chennai: DMK’s Thousand Lights MLA Ku Ka Selvam on Tuesday evening denied reports that he was joining the BJP. His denial was preceded by a daylong debate in political circles in Tamil Nadu about Selvam joining BJP. “I came to meet railway minister Piyush Goyal to request him to install two lifts at Nungambakkam railway station that comes under my assembly constituency. The request was pending for long,” he told reporters, after a meeting with BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi. He also utilized the opportunity to call on Nadda and urge him to develop the Rameswaram region at par with Ayodhya. BJP national general secretary Muralidhar Rao and state president L Murugan accompanied the DMK MLA. Selvam and Murugan left Chennai for Delhi on Monday night. Selvam praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his governance and wished him for his efforts to construct Ram temple at Ayodhya. He urged DMK president M K Stalin to hold internal party elections and asked him to condemn the act of people who denigrated the hymn Kandha Sashti Kavasam. “Stalin should snap his ties with Rahul Gandhi and the Congress,” he said. Asked about reaching Delhi without informing the party leadership, the MLA said he was ready to face the party’s disciplinary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-mla-denies-joining-bjp-praises-pm/articleshow/77360115.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation squandered Rs 200 crore allotted to contain waterlogging, alleges opposition||KOCHI: The city continued to face waterlogging despite the Kochi corporation implementing projects worth more than Rs 100 crore for solving the vexed issue. In the past five years, the corporation earmarked Rs 60 crore for projects under Atal mission for rejuvenation and urban transformation (Amrut) besides designing projects worth crores using plan funds as well as the local body’s own funds. Opposition alleged that corporation authorities squandered the fund allotted to contain waterlogging. Government had given administrative sanction of Rs 60 crore for projects under Amrut designed for containing waterlogging in the city. Of this, projects worth Rs 55 crore received technical sanction and the local body has so far spent Rs 34.66 crore. Of the total 49 projects designed under Amrut for containing waterlogging, 39 has been completed, officials said.  “Besides the projects under Amrut, the local body has spent around Rs 55 crore from the plan fund for various projects aimed at addressing the issue during 2017-20. An equal amount would have been spent for the purpose using the corporation’s own fund as well. So, the entire spending for addressing the waterlogging issue would come to more than Rs 200 crore. Even after spending such a huge amount, waterlogging still remains unresolved,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation “This points the finger at the efficiency and credibility of authorities,” he said. However, corporation officials blamed technical, legal and procedural impediments for not completing projects on time.  “While implementing projects we faced many problems, including legal and procedural ones. Moreover, our employees are being deployed for works like rebuilding Kerala post floods and Maradu demolition. As a result, implementation of our projects lagged by at least by two or three months. All these aspects caused delay in implementing projects,” mayor Soumini Jain said. “For implementing mega projects like Amrut, we had deployed Kitco as consultants. This was for utilizing the expertise of such agencies while implementing mega projects,” the mayor said. The local body had included rejuvenation of Thevara-Perandoor canal under Amrut. The Rs16-crore work, which started in 2018, couldn’t even register 50% progress. During the recent rains, waterlogging was mostly reported near the banks of Thevara-Perandoor canal. Waterlogging was severe in many places, including Gandhi Nagar, Kammattipadam and Pachalam. Had the canal been desilted, waterlogging in many places could have been avoided or reduced. According to local body officials, work to the tune of Rs 7 crore has been completed so far. “In the case of Thevara-Perandoor canal rejuvenation project under Amrut, we have to get the boundaries of the canal fixed. It is up to the revenue department to fix the boundaries. They haven’t completed the work till now,” said Jain. However, the question on why the desilting has not been completed still remains unanswered. If removing the silt, which was part of the project, had been done, waterlogging could have been avoided to certain extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-squandered-rs-200cr-allotted-to-contain-waterlogging-alleges-oppn/articleshow/77357518.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Special namaz for BS Yediyurappa’s recovery||SHIVAMOGGA: Leaders of the Muslim community in the district organised a special namaz at Hazrath Sayed Dargh in Shivamogga city on Tuesday for the speedy recovery of chief minister BS Yediyurappa from Covid-19. They offered prayers for 15 minutes in Yediyurappa’s home district. District waqf board president Abdul Ghani told reporters, “Chief minister BS Yediyurappa is from our district. He is a relentless leader and the best CM. He should recover from Covid quickly.” Several BJP party workers offered special pujas and homas in various temples in the district. Meanwhile, Harathalu Halappa, BJP legislator from Sagar constituency in Shivamogga district, who took charge as MSIL chairman on Monday, tested positive. He has stated in a post that his wife, car driver and a staff member have also contracted the virus. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Last week, Halappa had travelled to Hosanagar and Sagar taluks in his constituency and had met hundreds of people, besides politicians and journalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/special-namaz-for-bsys-recovery/articleshow/77358773.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Gyms, yoga institutes to remain shut in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Gyms and yoga institutes will continue to remain shut in Delhi even as these are permitted in many other parts of the country from August 5 under Unlock 3.0 guidelines issued by the central government. Delhi’s over 5,500 gyms and hundreds of yoga institutes are closed for more than four months leaving many owners in deep financial distress. Meanwhile, no decision has been taken on opening hotels and weekly markets yet. While the Aam Aadmi Party government has been favouring their opening, LG Anil Baijal is opposed to the idea. At least four DMs confirmed to TOI that in the absence of any order from Delhi Disaster Management Authority permitting gyms and yoga institutes to open from August 5, the July 31 DDMA order will continue to be implemented. “Action will be taken against the gym and yoga institute owners violating the status quo,” said a senior official. Directions were issued to the DMs on Tuesday evening to strictly maintain the status quo. A final decision on opening the gyms, yoga institutes, hotels and weekly markets may be taken in the next DDMA meeting, which is likely to be held this week itself. A senior government official said that gyms and yoga institutes would not be opening from August 5 in Delhi. “Status quo will be maintained in the capital,” the official added. The Unlock 3.0 order issued by Delhi government on July 31 had asked all the authorities concerned to maintain status quo, except for the lifting of night curfew and allowing hawkers and street vendors. Earlier on July 30, Delhi government had decided to allow hotels and weekly markets to open from August 1. The proposal was sent to the LG who overturned the decision to open hotels and weekly markets saying that the Covid-19 situation has improved in Delhi, but it continues to be fragile. The proposal did not include the opening of gyms and yoga institutes because the standard operating procedure by the ministry of health and family welfare for the gyms and yoga institutes’ functioning was awaited. Sources said that the LG office has not received any proposal from the AAP government for opening of gyms and yoga institutes. There was no response from the state government on when it proposes gyms and yoga institutes located in the capital to be allowed to open. After the LG rejected the elected government’s decisions to open hotels and weekly markets, deputy CM Manish Sisodia had reached out to union home minister Amit Shah asking him to direct the LG to approve its plans to open hotels and weekly markets because they were critical for employment generation and boosting the economy. In the letter, Sisodia had stated that the government will resend the proposal to the LG on Tuesday. The LG office had not received the proposal till late Tuesday evening. The AAP government did not clarify whether the proposal was re-sent or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gyms-yoga-institutes-to-remain-shut-in-capital/articleshow/77361050.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 5, 2020||Goa||Littering, non-segregation add to civic bodies’ garbage woes in Goa||COLVA/VASCO: Rampant littering continues in several areas across Goa, particularly along roadsides, not only posing a health hazard but also attracting birds, stray cattle and dogs that in turn obstruct free movement of traffic. Many civic bodies say they have made little progress in tackling the menace despite their best efforts to clean black spots and bring offenders to book. In Benaulim, a stretch of road flanked by fields has turned into a dumping ground for domestic waste and dead pets. One part of this road runs parallel to the Sal river and is thronged by stray cattle and dogs that not only scatter the garbage around, but also ingest large amounts of plastic in the process. Panch member Glyda Fernandes says she cleans her part of the road regularly, but litterbugs continue to dump waste. “The panchayat has even apprehended and fined many people to curb the menace, but the dumping continues,” she says. “Each panch member spends as much as Rs 3,000 a month to keep their wards clean and though most of it goes in cleaning the roadside, it still appears that we are neglecting our wards.” Baina in Vasco is faced with a similar problem. People residing in wards 7 and 8 complain that garbage dumped at the segregation shed in their vicinity lies there for several days before it is picked up. This, they say, has led to cattle and dogs strewing waste all over the road, causing minor accidents. “Over the past couple of months, compactors of the Mormugao Municipal Council have been lifting garbage from the shed after a week instead of daily,” councillor of ward 7, Shraddha Amonkar, says. “When I complained, the contractor told me that some machinery at the Sada waste treatment plant had broken down and there was no space to dump garbage there.” Murari Bandekar, who represents ward 8, says citizens are also to blame. “Most do not segregate their waste before they hand it over,” he says. When contacted, MMC chief officer Arvind Bugde told TOI that the technical issue at the Sada waste treatment plant had been resolved and that lifting of garbage had resumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/littering-non-segregation-add-to-civic-bodies-garbage-woes/articleshow/77360125.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chennai||BJP leaders seek action against ABVP national president||CHENNAI: Senior BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu have sought action against Akila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) national president Dr Subbiah Shanmugam and demanded his sacking. Party insiders said a senior female functionary and several others have requested the national leaders of the party, national-level office bearers of ABVP and RSS leaders to initiate action against Dr Shanmugam in connection with a woman harassment case. “What he has done was unforgivable. We did not expect such behaviour from a well-educated person like him. It is shocking to us and it will bring disrepute to the organisation, if he continues further,” said a woman BJP leader on condition of anonymity. A few other functionaries echoed similar views. The Adambakkam police had booked him under a couple of IPS sections besides invoking the Tamil Nadu Women Harassment (Prevention) Act following a complaint from his neighbour Chandra Sampath. The complaint was lodged by her nephew Balaji Vijayaraghavan on July 11. The police filed the case, two weeks after the complaint came to them, following social media outcry. Dr Shanmugam is an oncologist in a government hospital in Chennai. According to the complainant, Dr Shanmugam harassed the elderly woman by throwing garbage and used masks at the door of her residence. He also urinated at her door. His act was caught on CCTV camera. It was related to a dispute over a car parking lot issue. “At present, he has been relieved from the critical functioning of ABVP and sidelined. Action will be taken against him following a proper inquiry. It will take some time,” said another functionary of BJP who took the issue to the knowledge of the national-level leaders. Repeated attempts to reach the national general secretary Nidhi Tripathi for comments ended in vain, while another functionary of the organisation denied the charges and said, “He is coming to the office as usual and discharging his duty as the national president.” Meanwhile, the members of the TN unit of the National Students Union of India submitted a petition to health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan a couple of days ago, seeking action against Dr Shanmugam for allegedly harassing the elderly woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-leaders-seek-action-against-abvp-natl-prez/articleshow/77360160.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 5, 2020||Goa||‘Will decide on notices to mining companies within 4 months ’||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday informed the high court that the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) will decide within four months on the show cause notices to mining companies for recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore. Advocate general Devida Pangam told TOI, “We have informed the court that show cause notices would be decided in four months. We will give a hearing to the mining companies and written orders have to be passed.” Goa Foundation, an environmental action group, had approached the court through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to recover Rs 3,431 crore from mining companies within a time-bound period. Director of Goa Foundation, Claude Alvares said that the demand notices worth Rs 1,580 crore were issued in 2016 on the basis of a report by a team of chartered accountants. Those pursuant to the CAG’s report were issued in 2017, which were worth Rs 1,922 crore. “These notices were produced by the Goa government to prove its bona fides during the hearing of the writ petition filed by the Goa Foundation challenging the grant of 88 mining leases. The Supreme Court in its judgement, setting aside the 88 mining lease orders, also directed the Goa government to recover the amounts for which the notices had been issued,” Alvares said. Alvares said that the foundation filed the PIL when it became apparent that the Goa government was not pursuing the recovery of these amounts with any zeal. It sought as an interim relief, a restraint on grant of any mining business to any of the entities till the amounts demanded were paid by them. Goa Foundation said that two other petitions filed by it for recovery from mining companies are pending before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-decide-on-notices-to-mining-cos-within-4-mths/articleshow/77360157.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Owners in a fix over status of their business in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After being closed for more than four months, owners of gyms and yoga centres heaved a sigh of relief when these were allowed to reopen under the Centre’s Unlock 3.0 guidelines. As they prepared to resume operations from Wednesday, the news that Delhi government may not allow them to open for now has thrown them in a quandary. Nitish Yadav, owner of Vasant Kunj’s The Bodyline Gym, was really happy that he would finally be able to reopen it and had taken all measures to ensure social distancing and sanitisation on the premises. On Tuesday evening, however, he didn’t know what to do. “I’m confused as I have learnt that Delhi government hasn’t allowed gyms to open. Hopefully things will be clearer by Wednesday,” Yadav said. “We are confused as there are no specific guidelines even though neighbouring states like Punjab, UP and Haryana didn’t say anything about not allowing gyms to open. Centre has given guidelines and we are ready,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi Gym Association. The association has been unable to get any official statement from Delhi government but gym owners have talked to local MLAs, who have not objected to gyms reopening in their areas, Sethi claimed. Gym owners, Sethi said, have taken all steps as per the norms. Each of around 5,500 gyms in Delhi employs 10 to 15 people, whose livelihoods are at stake. “We will open the gym on Wednesday and if there is any issue, we will close it,” said Dinesh Kumar Khatri of D Fitness First gym and spa in Chittaranjan Park. “We will follow all orders,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/owners-in-a-fix-over-status-of-their-biz/articleshow/77361071.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Join hands, Kochi Corporation & collector told||KOCHI: District administration and Kochi Corporation have filed contradictory reports before the high court regarding the recent flooding of Kochi during rains. The court said there is no point in entering into blame games and asked them to work together to prevent flooding instead. The court had, in an order on July 30, asked both the authorities to explain the reason for the inundation of many parts of Kochi on July 29. With the filing of the contradictory reports, the court has now sought further clarification. The collector’s report said three or four works should be done immediately under Operation Breakthrough and that it would require Rs 5 crore and 50 days. It includes correction of the slope of Mullassery Canal, cleaning of Thevara-Perandoor Canal at its beginning and end, and cleaning of 12 link storm water pathways from east to west across Chittoor Road and from Atlantis Junction to Vaduthala on MG Road. The corporation’s counsel alleged that the flooding became worse due to Operation Breakthrough. The court said the works done following repeated orders for the past one-and-a-half years have resulted in a situation where flooding occurred in some parts of the city while some other areas were spared. The court, in its interim order, said that the district administration and corporation should take it as a learning opportunity since it has now become easier to identify weak spots and rectify them. There is no room for blame-game as the final casualty would be the citizens, it added. With the state government citing fund crunch, the court asked the corporation if surplus Amrut scheme funds can be utilized for emergency works. The case will be heard again on August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/join-hands-corp-collector-told/articleshow/77357534.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Woman posing as CID officer, uncle held for cheating youths||KOLHAPUR: The Bhudargad police have arrested a 22-year-old woman, along with her maternal uncle, for allegedly posing as a CID officer and cheating youths by promising them jobs in the police department. Priyanka Prakash Chavan, a resident of Gargoti, and Vitthal Maruti Nilwarna (38), a resident of Bhudargad, were arrested on Monday, following a complaint by a young woman. A local court on Tuesday remanded the duo in three-day police custody. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the duo might have cheated several young men and women by using the same method over the past few months. According to the complaint by the woman, the duo took documents like marksheet and school leaving certificate and Rs 5.25 lakh from her on July 25, and also handed over a fake appointment letter and an identity card. When victim’s family approached Priyanka, she allegedly threatened them with dire consequences if they discussed the matter with anyone. The victim’s younger brother put the ‘appointment’ letter on social media, which drew the attention of the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-posing-as-cid-officer-uncle-held-for-cheating-youths/articleshow/77357537.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||T BJP plans low-key event to mark Ram temple bhumi puja||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana unit will not hold any public programme to mark the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. It will be a low-key affair as party bosses directed cadre to hold celebrations at individual level. VHP, on the other hand, will hold a ‘havan’ at its office at Koti. Incidentally, no BJP leader from Telangana, including party unit chief Bandi Sanjay, got an invite to participate in the ceremony at Ayodhya. BJP Telangana unit also did not get any instructions from the central leadership on any kind of programmes and celebrations to be conducted. “This is mainly because BJP brass do not want another Tablighi Jamaat, where a large gathering took place during the initial days of Covid-1 9 spread,” BJP sources said. “Our activists may participate in pujas in temples and light diyas at their homes, but we have not given any call for any programme” BJP spokesperson Rakesh Reddy said. Meanwhile, the VHP state unit would conduct ‘havan’ at their main office in Koti and all activists have been invited to participate in the puja. Adresing a press conference on Tuesday, VHP state general secretary Bandari Ramesh called upon people to hoist a saffron flag at their houses and celebrate the day like Diwali and other festivals. “Those who believe in Lord Ram can also see the ground-breaking ceremony live and chant the Ram mantra. People should distribute sweets as a dream is coming true after 500 years,” he said. No BJP leader from Telangana got an invite to participate in the ceremony at Ayodhya. The unit did not get instructions from the central leadership on any kind of programmes to be conducted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bjp-plans-low-key-event-to-mark-ram-temple-bhumi-puja/articleshow/77360159.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 5, 2020||Salem||2 held for smuggling 15 tonnes of PDS rice||SALEM: Fifteen tonnes of public distribution system (PDS) rice were seized and two people were arrested by the civil supplies crime investigation department police officials in the city on Tuesday. Officials also seized the truck used for smuggling. The civil supplies crime investigation department police received a tip-off on early Tuesday morning about PDS rice being smuggled from Villupuram to Karnataka via Salem district. “We were on vehicle check at Seelanaickenpatti area on Chennai-Karnataka national highway in the city,” a police officer said. On inspecting a truck coming from Tirukoilur in Villupuram district, the truck driver said that he was heading to Bengaluru with paddy bags. “On suspicion, we checked the truck and found PDS rice in 300 bags (each 50kgs),” the officer said. Police seized all the 15 tonnes of rice and truck worth Rs 10 lakh. During inquiry, the civil supplies crime investigation department police learned that two people were smuggling the rice to Bengaluru. “We arrested driver K Karthik, 35, and cleaner N Raguraman, 34, of Tirukoilur,” the officer added. The arrested were produced before the judicial magistrate of Salem district combined court and lodged at the Salem central prison on Tuesday under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2-held-for-smuggling-15-tonnes-of-pds-rice/articleshow/77360208.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Doctors not paid as Delhi government yet to give funds: Corporation to SC||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday admitted before the Supreme Court that doctors of its hospitals have not been paid salary since April, but blamed Delhi government for its “lackadaisical” manner in not releasing funds. In an affidavit filed in the apex court, which had sought explanation from it for not paying salary to doctors despite its order, the municipal body said the AAP government had not released the entire amount for the first quarter so far. “Despite direction from the court on June 17 that salaries and emoluments of doctors and health workers, being in the front line as Covid-19 warriors, are released timely, Delhi government in a very lackadaisical manner slept over the matter and released Rs 27.6 crore under the head of health towards grants-in-aid on July 9. It may be submitted that the period of the first quarter ended on June 30 and the amount under grants-in-aid for the first quarter was to be released before that date. However, there are still pending amounts payable by the government. This shows that Delhi government is not honouring its statutory liability,” the affidavit stated. Nearly 1,400 doctors work in various hospitals run by the municipal body and their monthly salary bill works out to around Rs 18.6 crore. Alleging that the state government failed to release the funds, the corporation informed the court that it used its internal resources to pay salaries to safai karmacharis, but could not pay the doctors. “The conduct of Delhi government in not releasing grants-in-aid on time is sought to be highlighted. Due to this, North DMC is facing extremely difficult times in releasing salaries of various employees... Delhi government is still liable to pay a further amount of Rs 135 crore for the first quarter, which ended on June 30. For the second quarter, the government is liable to pay Rs 1,045.2 crore,” it stated The AAP government, meanwhile, sought three days’ time to respond to the affidavit, which was allowed by the bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan. The court, however, turned down the plea of government that SC should not entertain the petition as a similar case was pending in Delhi high court. Aggrieved by non-payment of salary for the last five months, a group of doctors had approached the apex court for release of payment. SC had on June 17 directed the Centre to ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers are given without delay and ordered the government to pass an appropriate order to chief secretaries of all states and UTs to ensure that doctors are paid salary on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-not-paid-as-govt-yet-to-give-funds-corpn-to-sc/articleshow/77361081.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Hyderabad||State govtis anti-Dalit, says Congress||Hyderabad: Congress has charged the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government with being ‘anti-Dalit’, saying that atrocities on Dalits have increased under Telangana Rashtra Samithi rule. “Right from police torture of Dalits in Siricilla to the suicide of a Dalit farmer in Gajwel constituency, atrocities on Dalits have increased,” alleged CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. Vikramarka said they have taken the issue to the notice of DGP but no action has been taken till now. He demanded that KCR stop the Andhra Pradesh government from going ahead with the tender finalisation process of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project. “I have never seen a CM who betrays his own state and acts in favour of another state. I am surprised by the decision of K Chandrashekar Rao not to attend August 5 apex council meeting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govtis-anti-dalit-says-congress/articleshow/77360206.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Covid claims 4 persons, death tally touches 60 in Goa||Panaji: The state’s Covid-19 death tally rose to 60 on Tuesday after four persons with comorbid conditions succumbed at the ESI hospital. A 29-year-old man from Altinho became the state capital’s first casualty of the virus. The state’s tally of active cases crossed the 1,900 mark with 259 new infections detected, while 238 persons were discharged on recovery. As of Monday, 5,114 persons have been cured. City mayor Uday Madkaikar said the man worked as a vegetable vendor and was admitted to the Covid hospital two days ago. Other three deaths reported from the Covid hospital are that of a 79-year-old woman from New Vaddem-Vasco, a 54-year-old man from Margao and a 80-year-old man from Gogol-Margao. On Tuesday, seven cases were detected in Mapusa, of which three were detected in Duler, 2 in Peddem and one each in Karaswada and Ansabhat. Mapusa has a total of 67 active cases. Four staffers of the North Goa district hospital have also tested positive, as well as a sub inspector attached to Mapusa police station. The cop’s wife has also tested positive. However, as they reside in Siolim, both of them will be listed under Siolim primary health centre, a health official said. Test swabs of the cop’s contacts at Mapusa police station were drawn, which have tested negative, the official said. Panaji urban centre saw its tally of active cases increase with ten persons testing positive from various locations in the city. Madkaikar said they several cases were recorded in Mala area where houses are located in close proximity, which also renders the job of sanitisation difficult. On Tuesday, three cases were detected in Mala. “We have continually found cases in Mala since one youth tested positive there, which is a matter of concern,” he said. Dr S M Bandekar, dean, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital has taken charge of the Covid hospital and is set to visit the hospital on Wednesday. On Monday, the government appointed Bandekar to head the hospital’s functioning. Dr Uday Kakodkar, associate professor of department of pulmonary medicine, GMC, is likely to be appointed administrator at the ESI hospital. The order is likely to be issued today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-claims-4-persons-death-tally-touches-60/articleshow/77360192.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Cops close roadlinking Edakochi & Thoppumpady||KOCHI: With police taking over management of containment zones, vehicular movement has been restricted via West Kochi roads. Motorists now have to take the Aroor bypass on NH 66 to reach Kochi city. As police have barricaded the road from Edakochi which leads to Thoppumpady, motorists are left with no other option but to use the national highway and pass through the toll gate at Kumbalam to reach the city. Blocking the road at Edakochi prevents motorists from going ahead and take the Kannangattu bridge which connects Pambayimoola with Willingdon Island-Kundanoor stretch of national highway. Vehicles coming from the southern districts and heading towards MG Road, Thevara and other regions within the city limits often take the Kannangattu bridge or the BOT bridge at Thoppumpady to reach their destinations. This is mainly to avoid the Kumbalam toll plaza and also the heavy traffic on the NH, particularly between Kundanoor and Edappally. K J Basil, who represents Edakochi at Kochi corporation council, said, “Police blocked the state highway stretch from Edakochi on Tuesday morning. Kannangattu bridge has also been blocked. Only vehicles belonging to health department, police, ambulances and those carrying patients to hospitals are allowed to take this road. All other vehicles coming from Aroor are re-directed via highway to reach Kochi.” Councillor K K Kunjachan representing Thoppumpady division said KSRTC buses are allowed to move through this road. “However, police have tied ropes and closed the main road between Thoppumpady and Edakochi. All bridges linking mainland Ernakulam are closed,” he said. “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, people have been avoiding public transport and depending more on private vehicles. It has resulted in rise in number of vehicles on roads. Moreover, with police barricading the state highway at Edakochi, more vehicles have started plying through NH-66. During peak hours there is heavy traffic,” said Sangeeth Ram, a centre government employee, who drives to the city regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-close-roadlinking-edakochi-thoppumpady/articleshow/77357545.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Why rapid antigen tests still being done in non-sealed areas: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Facing intense scrutiny of Delhi high court over the Covid-19 testing strategy, the AAP government on Tuesday urged it to end the monitoring, citing other PILs where the court had been satisfied by the steps taken by the government. But a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad disapproved of the government’s “resistance” to the monitoring, saying the administration appeared to have got “cold feet” as it was raising “technical” grounds in a PIL. The court instead directed the government to explain why it was still using rapid antigen tests (RAT) in other parts of Delhi when the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory said it must be limited to hotspots/containment zones and healthcare settings. It ordered the government to clarify from ICMR on using RAT and RT-PCR tests across Delhi. In its status report, the government said its testing numbers of 27,604 RT-PCR tests per million was double the national average of 13,647 tests and it was only following ICMR’s norms. “Since it is the stand of Delhi government that it is being guided by ICMR, which is a part of the expert panel, it is directed to seek necessary clarifications from ICMR on this aspect right away and strictly adhere to the same instead of drawing its own conclusions,” the bench noted. During the hearing, the AAP government maintained the court supervision could be discontinued as it had taken various steps to plug the original grievance of lack of enough labs. The court then pointed out that the orders disposing of other PILs dealt with several aspects of the pandemic. It underlined that the focus of this bench’s orders over the past couple of months had been on ramping up testing not just through RAT but also through RT-PCR, CBNAAT and true NAT, and the steps taken in that direction by all agencies under ICMR’s guidance. “In the above background, the resistance of Delhi government to this court monitoring the progress made in ramping up the testing is incomprehensible” the court observed. It is “purely in the interest of the citizens of Delhi that all government departments and agencies act in tandem and work collectively to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic for larger public good”. Disagreeing with the stand of additional standing counsel Satyakam, the bench said, “If you are going to get technical with us, we will take another recourse. We are not powerless. In the interests of citizens of Delhi, we have no hesitation in saying that we need to keep you on your toes and we will not let you rest on your laurels for a moment.” It added, “At this time, too much is at stake and if you think these technicalities will impress us, we are sorry. Do you think this will fetter us? Why is Delhi government getting cold feet?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-rapid-antigen-tests-still-being-done-in-non-sealed-areas-asks-hc/articleshow/77361090.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 5, 2020||Surat||Retired doctor returns call of ‘moral’ duty after 15 years||SURAT: Nearly 15 years after retirement, 75-year-old Dr Mohanlal Gamit, has returned to the medical profession to treat the Covid-19 patients. Dr Gamit, who had retired as the resident medical officer (RMO) of New Civil Hospital (NCH) in 2005, has been working in Surat Municipal Corporation-run (SMC) SMIMER Hospital as doctor on special Covid-19 duty for four months now . “I was living a retired life with my family when Covid-19 infections started spreading in the city. When the first case was reported in Surat on March, I was unable to do anything in the medical field despite my experience as I had retired from the profession” said Dr Gamit. “Also, as per the government guidelines, doctors above 60 years of age have been advised to stay away from treating Covid patients as they are more susceptible to the infection. But my wife encouraged me to serve the people, so I joined the hospital to offer service,” he added. “It is my moral duty to support the medical staff fighting the global pandemic. Many patients asked me if I feared infection due to my age. I told them that I am alive to serve you and if I serve with utmost honesty, nothing will happen to me,” said Dr Gamit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/retired-doc-returns-call-of-moral-duty-after-15-years/articleshow/77337905.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Goa CM launches MyGov portal for public participation in governance||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant launched the goa.mygov.in portal on Tuesday. Goa has become the 13th state to join the mygov portal, he said. Stating that citizens can upload their suggestions to the government on the portal, Sawant said that the government will take criticism positively. He said the website will have a local language interface, thus making accessibility easier for citizens. “Besides tasks, discussions, talks and blogs, the portal will promote tourism and connect Goa to the other parts of the country,” he said. The chief minister said there will be healthy discussion on government policies, law and acts. Minister for information technology, Jennifer Monserrate said the portal will encourage people of the state to share their thoughts, ideas and suggestions with the government in areas related to various policies, programmes, schemes, etc. MyGov platform is a citizen engagement platform launched on July 26, 2014, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Goa portal hosts three discussions and two surveys on startups and IT. To increase public participation, the government has requested every citizen to login at www.goa.mygov.in by entering their credentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-launches-mygov-portal-for-public-participation-in-governance/articleshow/77360166.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 fear fuels demand for vehicles on lease in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With increasing number of Bengalureans switching to private modes of transport due to Covid-19 scare, demand for vehicle leasing or subscription model has shot up in the city. Under the subscription model, users need to pay a fixed daily, weekly or monthly rent to the firm. Many people who don’t want to invest in a new or used vehicle amid an uncertain economy are opting for this model. The benefits include zero down payment and avoiding hefty loan, maintenance cost, insurance, registration and taxes. This also means no major additional expenses apart from fuel. Car manufactures like Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor India, Mahindra & Mahindra, Volkswagen, Nissan, Mercedes-Benz and BMW as well car rental firms like Zoomcar, Revv, Myles and Drivezy are offering subscription or leasing programmes. “With subscriptions, consumers have hassle-free access to cars of their choice,” said Greg Moran, CEO and co-founder of Zoomcar. “The number of subscriptions is higher in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune followed by Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi NCR,” said Moran. Mohan K, a resident of Koramangala, said: “It makes more sense to lease a car during this crisis. It’s unsafe to use shared mobility and buying a new car is also risky. So I’m planning to take a vehicle on lease.” “We are already seeing a 400% rise in demand now. Considering the impending recession, car subscriptions will prove to be a better option than ride hailing and public transport,” said Moran.  Vinay Rotti, senior vice-president at Bounce, a two-wheeler rental firm, said: “Our rental plans start from seven days and go on up to 90 days. The response from our customers for vehicle lease subscription has been very positive. In current times, monthly growth rate is at 75%.” Rotti said they are also providing scooters for essential services and blue-collar workers. “The model is perfect for people who have high usage, but don’t want to or cannot incur a capital expenditure,” he added. “In our survey during the lockdown, it was found 18-22% of our users preferred to have their own vehicle and not use shared services, which prompted us to roll out long-term rental. The initial response has been great and citizens are using it for minimal/essential micro trips across Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai,” said Amit Gupta, co-founder & CEO, Yulu. Ravneet Singh Phokela, chief business officer, Ather Energy, an e-scooter firm, said: “Although leasing is a known concept worldwide, in India it is still at a nascent stage. Our customers can avail the leasing plan for an EMI as low as Rs 2,589. This amount is lower than what an average customer spends on fuel and other expenses on a scooter.” “Options like leasing give consumers a chance to experience the product without the hassle of ownership or upfront capital investment,” added Phokela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-fear-fuels-demand-for-vehicles-on-lease-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77358813.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ASP arrested for taking Rs 2L bribe in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: An additional superintendent of police (ASP) of Raisinghnagar of Sriganganagar was arrested by a team of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh through his middleman. The accused sought bribe to settle a domestic violence case between a couple. According to ACB sources, the complainant husband, who is settled in Canada had approached the sleuths of the bureau and stated that ASP Amrit Jeengar had demanded the bribe while investigating a case against him lodged by his wife. “The accused promised to do the investigation in favour of the husband,” said Dinesh MN, additional director general (ADG), ACB on Tuesday. After verifying the complaint against the officer, a trap was laid in which the ACB first arrested the middleman identified as Anil Vishnoi. While the ACB team traced and approached Jeengar, the gunman of the accused officer also opened fire on late Monday evening. However, no one was injured. Later, a team led by DSP (ACB) Zakir Akhtar, who is also in-charge of ACB Sikar, informed the local police. Akhtar had a narrow escape as the bullet passed through his ear. “A separate case against the gunman and additional SP for opening fire on the visiting ACB team has also been registered by the Bikaner police,” said police. While the bribe money was handed over to the additional SP by the middleman, the ACB team raided and arrested the accused police officer. ACB team is on the job of searching the two houses of the accused officer at Jodhpur and Sirohi. “Both the houses are being searched to get the details of his income,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/asp-arrested-for-taking-rs-2l-bribe-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/77360243.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Private entity sought for Benaulim hatchery’s revival||PANAJI/COLVA: The state government intends to set up a state-of-the-art shrimp and fin fish hatchery on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis by redeveloping the existing hatchery spread over 10 acres at Benaulim. The directorate of fisheries has invited an expression of interest (EOI) for the project. “It is expected that the private partner will design, build, finance and operate the proposed project on a long term concession basis and transfer the facility to the government at the end of concession period,” the circular inviting EOI signed by fisheries director, Shamila Monteiro reads. However, the department’s plan has raised eyebrows among villagers and also the 28-odd hatchery staff, some of who said that they are yet to be paid April, May and June salaries. Former Benaulim sarpanch, Royla Fernandes said, “The hatchery should be utilised by local youth as a start-up, and community involvement should be the basis of the project.” The hatchery was set up by the department in 1992 but was closed down in 2008, even though it was considered the best in India as it had a mortality rate of seeds at just 2%. Since then, its infrastructure and equipment has been slowly rotting away, neglected by the government and department. The Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) had proposed to set up an aquamarine amusement park at the spot in 2015, but it never saw the light of the day. About the PPP, Monteiro said, “It is similar to the early prawn hatchery where seeds will be sold to the farmers, but this time around they will also include fish. The department has invited an EOI as it involves expertise and investments among other aspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-entity-sought-for-benaulim-hatcherys-revival/articleshow/77360209.cms||Nida Sayed
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Man held for bid to sell injections worth Rs32k for Rs1L||Mumbai: A 30-year-old man from Uttarakhand, who was selling key injections for Covid-19 treatment like Actemra 400mg (tocilizumab injection) at inflated rates, was arrested by Mumbai crime branch (unit IX) on Tuesday. Azam Nasir Khan used to run a signboard business in Delhi but due to the four-month lockdown he sold sanitisers and face masks. A medical store-owner from Delhi recently offered him a cut of Rs10,000 per injection if he sold them in Maharashtra, where there is huge demand. Khan agreed and landed here but got trapped by inspector Mahesh Desai, Asha Korke and sub-inspector Sudhir Jadhav, along with FDA officials, at Bandra. The cost is around Rs32,000 but he was selling each for Rs 1 lakh. Fifteen boxes were recovered. Police said they had sent a decoy to inquire about the injection, and when he confirmed that he can get the injections they arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-for-bid-to-sell-injections-worth-rs32k-for-rs1l/articleshow/77359570.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||30% hike in green leaf tea price bring cheers to farmers||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Nearly a 30% hike in the price of green leaf tea has brought cheer to small tea farmers in the Nilgiris. The Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Ltd (Indcoserve) has raised the price of green leaf tea to Rs 22 per kg for August. Earlier, this rate was fixed between Rs 14 and Rs 17 per kg. The Tea Board of India (south) has fixed Rs 20.99 for each kg of green leaf tea. The surge in price is attributed to floods in Assam, among other factors. Supriya Sahu, chief executive officer, Indcoserve, said, “An upswing in the market has helped to achieve a record high for tea auctions last month.” Teaserve, an exclusive tea auction platform, saw INDCO tea fetching a high of Rs 158 per kg. The average sale price for leaf-grade tea stood between Rs 122 and Rs 132. “It is a record in the history of Teaserve,” said Sahu. The high price is due to the appointment of four quality officers, apart from training and orientation programmes for officials and tea makers of cooperative tea factories. “We also explored new markets and exported 1,250 metric tonnes of tea to Kerala as part of special Covid supply,” said Sahu. Around 26,000 small tea farmers are attached to 16 Indco tea factories located in various places across the hill district.  M.Balaji, executive director, Tea Board (south) said, “Supply of tea has dipped in the market. There are several factors for the short supply. One among them is floods in northeast states. Due to Covid, demand for tea has gone up. Also, the quality of made-tea has fetched high price in auction centres that has been distributed to small tea growers.” There are about 46,653 small tea growers in the Nilgiris cultivating tea in about 34, 282 acres, as per record available with Tea Board. B J Balasubramaniam, a small tea grower said, “It is a welcome sign for small tea growers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/30-hike-in-green-leaf-tea-price-bring-cheers-to-farmers/articleshow/77360235.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Tamils in Kuwait wait for rescue flight to Trichy||TRICHY: Despite hundreds of Tamils still stranded in Kuwait following the Covid-19 lockdown, not a single service has been operated so far by Air India Express under Vande Bharat mission to Trichy. Though rescue flights were expected in the fifth phase of the mission which began on August 2, it came as a dampener when Trichy didn’t figure in it. In all, 49 services were operated from other countries to Trichy under Vande Bharat mission. Sources said about 20,000 Indians, mostly Tamils, stuck in Kuwait have been waiting for four months to return. Kuwait government had arranged eight services to Trichy, bringing 909 people via Kuwait Airlines. Jazeera Air and IndiGo Air brought back 1,810 passengers in 11 services. “However, the ticket fare and other expenses like Covid-19 test in Trichy, isolation at private hotels and food make it unaffordable. In the case of Vande Bharat exceptflight fare, the others are taken care of,” Nowshath Ali, president of Association of Overseas Tamils in Kuwait, said 2,719 Tamils had so far been brought to Trichy on 19 foreign charter flights including Kuwait Airways. Till August 3, 95 flights have brought 15,768 passengers to Trichy international airport on Vande Bharat mission. Kuwait Air, Jazeera Airlines and IndiGo have so far brought 2,719 Tamils from Kuwait. Yet, hundreds await in the country expecting the Indian government to operate Vande Bharat rescue flights. The flights had also lifted around 100 tonnes of cargo while returning. Some services were operated to Chennai, said AB Khaleel Ahmed Baaqavee, general secretary of Kuwait Tamil Islamic Committee (K-Tic). “We expected that at least the phase five of the mission would include our destination. However, repeated representations made by our association have been ignored”, he told TOI. “We filed a petition before Supreme Court praying to direct the Union government to operate Vande Bharat flight to Trichy and commence regular service between the destination. We hope we will get a favourable direction from the court”, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamils-in-kuwait-wait-for-rescue-flight-to-trichy/articleshow/77361094.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Kochi||Covid care centres to lodge primary contacts||KOCHI: With Covid-19 cases spiralling in West Kochi area, authorities are planning to set up Covid care centres (CCC) to lodge primary contacts of patients who are tested positive. Residents living in crowded houses, which are dank and dark, nudged health officials to mull over setting up CCCs in West Kochi. The area reported 118 positive cases till August 2 and 38 were from Kalvathy, division II of Kochi corporation. “We have asked officials to identify institutions which could be converted into CCCs to lodge primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients as they can’t undergo quarantine at homes in their present living condition. In other places, primary contacts undergo quarantine at their houses. But it’s not possible in West Kochi. We have to understand the magnitude of the infection spread to decide on the number of CCCs. We have started collecting samples in massive scale,” said a district health official. Three mobile teams collected 220 samples from Thuruthy in Kalavathy on Monday and continued the same in other areas on Tuesday too. “Thuruthy is the severely-affected place in Kalvathy. We will get an idea on spread in other areas when we get the results of samples collected from Thuruthy. We can formulate a strategy based on that,” added the official. Meanwhile, Kalvathy councillor said authorities have been ignorant about pathetic living condition of Thuruthy people. “Covid has completely spread in two byroads of Kalvathy. No one has come out to help the residents in the area. I have only 250 kits offered by a charity group. How can I distribute them among thousands of families in the division? So, I handed it over to Kudumbashree groups. Residents in containment areas have already started feeling the pinch of unavailability of essentials. A woman called me today saying she got rice from a ration shop but asked how can she make curry for her children. What reply should I give her? Somebody should help us with food kits,” said councillor of Kalvathy Zeenath Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-care-centres-to-lodge-primary-contacts/articleshow/77357563.cms||T C Sreemol
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||Woman tries to end life with kids as hubby dies of Covid||NAINITAL: A day after her husband died of Covid-19, a 40-year-old woman tried to end her life by consuming poison along with her three children in Kathgodam on Tuesday. According to police, neighbours alerted them about the suicide attempt in the morning after which they reached the spot and rushed the family to the Base Hospital. Kathgodam station house officer Nanda Rawat said, “We got a call from neighbours that the woman along with her three daughters had consumed poison. When we reached the spot, they were in a serious condition.” The doctors at the Base Hospital said that all four of them are now out of danger but will be at the facility for a few days. The woman’s 50-year-old husband had died of Covid-19 on Monday. Their daughters are 13, 11 and 5, all students of a private school in Kathgodam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-tries-to-end-life-with-kids-as-hubby-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77357560.cms||Prashant Jha
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||With 624 Covid beds vacant, govt hospitals breathe easy||Nagpur: The decision to allow various facilities to admit Covid-19 positive patients, like Covid Care Centres (CCC), private hospitals and even home isolation, has reduced the burden on the three government Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) to a great extent. These three hospitals are now giving proper treatment to moderate and critical symptomatic patients, and still have enough beds to take in more serious patients as number of active patients increased to 2,420. As on Tuesday, the three government DCHs — Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and AIIMS — had 636 (26.28%) positive patients. GMCH has 331 patients followed by 259 in IGGMCH. The capacity in Covid Isolation wards of these two hospitals is 1,200. AIIMS had 46 patients in its 60 beds. Since the city registered its first case on March 11, GMCH and IGGMCH were treating all types of positive patients — asymptomatic, moderate and critical symptomatic. AIIMS started services in middle of May. These three DCHs took care of all patients for 112 days till July 6. With 2,420 active patients as on Tuesday, these three DCHs could have accommodated only 1,260, if other facilities had not been started. Officials from GMCH told TOI, “It is a very big relief for government DCHs as we stopped getting asymptomatic patients. Now, we are concentrating on critical symptomatic and comorbid patients. But, with rise in number of cases, patients with symptoms and comorbidities also increased. Staff crunch is still a big issue.” After a hue and cry from GMCH and IGGMCH for treating only moderate and critical symptomatic patients, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had started CCC at MLA Hostel on July 6, which is taking care of most of the asymptomatic positive patients. As on Tuesday, 235 asymptomatic positive patients were admitted at this facility. In a hush-hush manner, NMC had also started more CCCs at Vanamati, Pachpaoli and VNIT. The latter, VNIT, has 22 patients while there are 2 at Pachpaoli and none at Vanamati as on Tuesday. Later, the defence department started CCC for its staff and family members at Kamptee cantonment, jail administration began one at Central Jail for its inmates, and zilla parishad too began one each in all 13 tehsils. Some 300 asymptomatic patients are undergoing treatment in these for a total of 563 (23.26%) patients in all CCCs. Collector Ravindra Thakare had identified two trust-run hospitals with capacity of 1,200 beds but only one — Shalinitai Meghe Institute — has started accepting Covid patients, and had only 2 patients on Tuesday. Lata Mangeshkar Hospital at Hingna is yet to be started. Kumar had also given permission for one private hospital. Then, Mundhe on July 24 had issued orders directing 10 private hospitals to start Covid-19 services, of which only two started. Two more private hospitals started services on its their wish. Around 200 (8.26%) patients were admitted in these five private hospitals as on Tuesday. Though NMC and ZP do not have exact figure of home isolation on Tuesday, over 600 (24.79%) patients are said to be under home isolation in the district and remaining 419 under process of admission in various facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-624-covid-beds-vacant-govt-hospitals-breathe-easy/articleshow/77360250.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||MC, zila parishad slug it out over multi-level parking||Ludhiana: The ongoing tussle between the civic body and zila parishad over the construction of a multi-level parking lot in the Books Market under the smart city mission can have a solution if the land is not transferred to the MC and rather a parking lot is constructed to be managed by the zila parishad only. This proposal has been in the planning stage for almost two years but due to this tussle it could not make any further progress. The aim behind this step is to decongest the markets in Chaura Bazaar. Though a parking lot is already functioning on at this land, which has been given on contact by the zila parishad at an annual cost of Rs 53 lakh, but this is not sufficient enough to tackle the rush in the markets. The zila parishad is in no mood to transfer this land to the civic body by saying that they generate revenue from this parking site and give salaries to the staff. It says that if they would give this land to the civic body then they would not be able to manage things. Sources revealed that recently when cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had conducted a review meeting of smart city mission projects, he had suggested the officials to convince the chairman of zila parishad that instead of transferring the land to the civic body they should only give land for constructing the multi-level car parking and then run it on their own. The minister claimed that the income would be in crores and it would prove beneficial for them. However, when contacted, the cabinet minister said, “This week we will be conducting a meeting with the chairman of the zila parishad and will try to convince him about the proposal, so that this car parking could become a reality.” He said there was a great need of parking in this market as traffic congestion was a major issue and since there was no other land available, so they have to get multi-level parking constructed here. Meanwhile, the residents demanded early construction of the multi-level parking here by saying that it would help in solving the parking as well as traffic chaos issue. Harpreet Singh, a resident of Civil Lines, said it was a tough task to enter the old markets of the city due to congestion and if there would be proper parking facility at both sides then there would be an opportunity to declare the market no vehicle zone. He said the MC officials should also repair the multi level parking near zone A as well because it was in a pathetic condition. Another resident from Shivpuri Karan Gupta said if he had to visit the Chaura Bazaar then he would think twice because of the traffic jams and congestion in the market, otherwise it was a good place for shopping, where there was a separate market for commodities. He said the authorities should definitely go ahead with multi-level parking in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-zila-parishad-slug-it-out-over-multi-level-parking/articleshow/77358809.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Courtesy Covid, tattoo contests go virtual||CHENNAI: For the last few weeks, Devanand Sha has been prepping physically and mentally to get inked by his friend Navya Rao, founder of tattoo studio Madras Inkwork. “I’ve never been a canvas before for an artist. And definitely not a tattoo artist,” says the 30-year-old Chennai-based entrepreneur, who has been eating healthy to keep his skin nourished. “But I am thrilled.” Navya too is excited as this is her first online tattoo competition. “I have decided to integrate neo-traditional and tribal elements into my design. I am pretty nervous about how the judging is going to be done.” Tattoo competitions mainly take place at tattoo conventions held in different cities across the globe. Some of the biggest conventions in India take place in Delhi, Goa, Bengaluru, and Pune. However, due to Covid-19, conventions, and competitions have started going online. The country’s first virtual contest, organized by artists Mukesh Waghela and Sameer Patange and sponsored by several tattoo organizations across India opened for registration on July 20. This competition, which has an international panel of judges, is seen as one of the biggest in the industry. “In post-Covid times, virtual competitions will be important. They open avenues for artists who cannot travel,” says Mukesh, who plans to make the online competition an annual affair and go international from 2021. Participants have to submit a photo and video of their work, under a chosen category ranging from small black and grey to large colour tattoos. All through lockdown, artists meanwhile are on the lookout for human canvases to showcase at the e-contests, trying to persuade family members and friends or as a last resort, tattoo themselves. “Considering the Covid-19 situation, I have to stick to friends in my locality. Convincing clients is almost impossible now,” says ink artist Sasi Kumar. Kunal Solanki, 35, a city-based tattoo artist, believes that online competitions are bringing inclusivity into the industry. “Earlier only those who can afford to set up a booth and participate in conventions could take part in these competitions. Now, every budding artist has the opportunity to display their work,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/courtesy-covid-tattoo-contests-go-virtual/articleshow/77360264.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
August 5, 2020||Jaipur||45-year-old Jaipur woman found killed, police suspect family feud||JAIPUR: A 45-year-old woman was found murdered at her house in Vidyadhar Nagar in the city on Tuesday. Police suspect that a close relative may be behind the murder due to family feud. A few persons within the family are being questioned by the police. According to police, the incident took place at 9.45 am on Tuesday when some of the relatives of the woman identified as Abeeda Bano informed the police about the murder. After hearing some screams, the people in the neighbourhood informed the police control room. A team of senior police officers along with experts of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) rushed to the spot to take a stock of the situation. “The woman was lying in a pool of blood. It appeared that she was hit by a blunt weapon on her head. She was rushed to the nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead,” said Radha Raman Gupta, circle inspector, Vidhyadhar Nagar police station. “Prima facie, it appears that her close relative could be behind the murder. There was confrontation between the deceased and her daughter-in-law. Both were not even in talking terms for a long time, despite living in same house,” he added. “The preliminary investigation also suggested that extra-martial affair of the daughter-in-law could be the reason behind her day-to-day confrontation with her deceased mother-in-law,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-yr-old-city-woman-found-killed-police-suspect-family-feud/articleshow/77360256.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Father-in-law bars ‘possessed’ woman from sex||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Vadodara filed a complaint with the women’s police station in Gandhinagar, alleging that her father-in-law had barred her from having sex with her husband, saying that the ‘ghost spirit’ he believes she is possessed by would enter her husband’s body. When the complainant remonstrated, she was beaten by her in-laws and her husband at their home in Sector-22 in Gandhinagar. She finally had to seek help from the police and filed a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act, the FIR filed on Sunday states. According to the FIR, the complainant, 43, a resident of Alkapuri in Vadodara, married her husband, a resident of Gandhinagar, on February 6, 2020, at a court in Vadodara. She said, “My father-in-law believes I am possessed by some spirit and if I have sex with my husband the spirit will enter his body.” “As I protested against this behaviour, I was mentally harassed and assaulted by my in-laws and husband,” she added in the FIR. She also alleged that her mother-in-law would instigate her father-in-law to molest her. “Whenever my mother-in-law found me alone, she would tell my father-in-law to go and sexually harass me,” she alleged in the FIR. The woman states that she was forced to leave her husband’s house on March 10, and since then she and other family members tried to arrive at a compromise but her in-laws refused to take her into their home. She alleged that her in-laws had threatened her with dire consequences if were to file a police complaint. She filed a complaint of domestic violence, causing hurt, criminal intimidation and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/father-in-law-bars-possessed-woman-from-sex/articleshow/77358814.cms||Ashish Chauhan
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Eureka! Children’s bookshop returns, and it’s a double treat||NEW DELHI: When businesses are tottering and many establishments are complaining of few customers, a new sign has gone up in the GK-II market. ‘Eureka!’ The joy of rediscovering this bookshop for children that disappeared from Alaknanda Market in 2014 is heightened when you discover that Roli Books too is back with its CMYK bookstore, which is the go-to place for aficionados looking for books on creative arts, design, architecture and food. How did this turning of the page happen when bookshops, particularly in the time of the pandemic, are writing their epilogues? Swati Roy and M Venkatesh had been in business for over a decade before their bookstore, ‘Eureka!’ shut shop. Their passion for children’s books had created a “safe space” of discovery and exploration for kids. They could interact with authors and take part in storytelling sessions and other creative activities. What kept the two partners going was their series of Bookaroo festival for kids, now a landmark event. This time the ‘Eureka!’ moment came when CMYK publisher and entrepreneur Kapil Kapoor approached Venkatesh and Roy to run a bookstore together. “Brick and mortar stores allow customers to browse through books, which is an essential part of exploring what a person wants to read next. It leads to discoverability, which is not possible with online stores,” said Roy. Venkatesh added that the algorithms followed by online retailers like Amazon and Flipkart will never be able to replace human recommendations. “Browsing and recommendations are essential aspects of buying a book. The process involves several cognitive aspects, and those cannot be replicated digitally,” he said. It’s a risk but they all agree that bookstores will not get erased from people’s memories. “When we decided to share the space with ‘Eureka!’, we didn’t have a short term-vision. We were planning for the long term and looking at the next 10 years at least. Once the fear of the virus goes away, the experience of browsing, holding the book in your hand and personal recommendations will take precedence once again,” Kapoor said. CMYK had shifted from Meharchand Market to GK-I over one-and-half-years ago. The Kapoors shuttered the shop again for over six months to alter the design for accommodating ‘Eureka!’. “Every neighbourhood needs a good bookstore. When we opened our store here, we realised that customers are also looking out for bestsellers and children’s titles. So, we decided to have a dedicated space for popular titles, young adults and children. We roped in Venkatesh and Swati because they are the experts in children’s literature,” said Kapoor. The new store overlooks a park and has enough space for workshops and story-telling sessions. “We will start organising small events at the shop once the threats associated with coronavirus go away. The only challenge right now is to make sure we survive till the end of the lockdown,” added Kapoor. Roy has, meanwhile, been disseminating information about new releases, delivering orders that customers place on phone and WhatsApp and connecting readers and authors by organising online meets. A week ago, a girl with learning disabilities wrote to Roy about a session conducted by author Nandita Basu about her new title ‘The Piano: Story of a Friendship’. “The story is built on the premise that inanimate things, too, can be a person’s friend. The girl who wrote to us finds it difficult to socialise but after listening to Nandita, she realised she can have as many friends as she wants. And we passed on her message to the author. It’s these moments that cannot be replicated when you buy books online,” said Roy. Watch Eureka! Children’s bookshop returns, and it’s a double treat in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eureka-childrens-bookshop-returns-and-its-a-double-treat/articleshow/77361097.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 14 cases, 22 discharged||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris logged 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking its tally to 863, of which 139 are active cases. Among the new cases are girls aged two and four years and a 57-year-old woman who went to Coimbatore for treatment. Most of the cases were reported from Ooty town. According to an official source, 10 of the new cases are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. Two women were tested positive for the virus on their return from Coimbatore, where they were working. A health official said the two cases would be cross-notified to that district. Meanwhile, 22 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. So far, 722 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the hill district, where the recovery rate stands at 83.7%. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya inspected containment zones in HPF area and on hospital road in Ooty. According to officials, only three of the seven cases at the Madras Regimental Centre are active at present. They are being treated at the Wellington Cantonment Hospital. The centre has been cordoned off as a measure to contain the virus spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-14-cases-22-discharged/articleshow/77360247.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records highest single-day Covid-19 deaths, cases cross 8,000 mark||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded the sharpest rise in the Covid-19 mortality on Tuesday with five deaths pushing the toll of the virus to 95. The state also recorded 208 fresh infections taking the total case count of the state to 8,008. On the day, a 56-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). Another death reported was of a 37-year-old woman, who breathed her last at city-based Swami Rama Himalayan Hospital. Three other Covid-19 patients had succumbed to the virus on Monday. The patients included an 80-year-old man, a 55-year-old woman, and a 52-year-old man. All of them died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani and suffered comorbidities. Their death summaries cite bilateral pneumonitis and Covid-19 as the causes. On the day, Udham Singh Nagar recorded the maximum of 63 cases, followed by 48 cases from state capital Dehradun, 32 cases from Pithoragarh, 23 cases from Haridwar, 10 cases each from Nainital and Champawat, eight cases from Uttarkashi, six cases from Pauri, three cases each from Tehri and Almora, and one case each from Chamoli and Rudraprayag districts. Only Bageshwar district didn’t report any new cases on the day. Among the positive patients found on Tuesday were health workers, returnees from South Africa, Maharashtra, Haryana, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh. In view of the surge in cases, containment zones were also increased to 343 from 330 in the state on the day. Incidentally, the day also saw the highest number of patients conquering the disease. As many as 309 patients recovered fully from the virus, taking the tally of cured patients to 4,847 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-deaths-cases-cross-8000-mark/articleshow/77357575.cms||Shivani Azad
August 5, 2020||Trichy||‘NIT-T already aligned with NEP, will remove unnecesary separations’||TRICHY: The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has said that it has already aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP) in its multidisciplinary approach. Director of NIT Trichy, Mini Shaji Thomas said that it was the first step in removing unnecessary separations between arts, science and technology. As per NEP, there shall be a fast-track promotion system for recognizing high impact research and contribution. It is a welcome move which will reward sincere and dedicated teachers, and this will also attract more qualified individuals to the teaching profession, she said. The NEP also suggests that all fresh PhD entrants, irrespective of discipline, will be required to take credit-based courses in teaching, education, pedagogy, writing related to their chosen PhD subjects during their doctoral training period. Many research scholars will go on to become faculty or public representatives, communicators of their chosen disciplines. PhD students will also have a minimum number of hours of actual teaching experience gathered through teaching assistantships and other means. PhD programmes at universities around the country will be reoriented for this purpose. As PhD is a basic essential qualification for entry level assistant professor job in higher education institution, this policy will help PhD students get into the groove of teaching profession before they graduate. “This will ensure quality teachers with necessary experience which will help them explore the good qualities of teaching and NIT Trichy is in the process of implementing this,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-already-aligned-with-nep-will-remove-unnecesary-separations/articleshow/77361098.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pupil leaked GTU data to avoid exam||AHMEDABAD: In a bid to get his final-semester exams cancelled, an engineering diploma student of the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) allegedly leaked the institution’s data on other websites and social media platforms, police said on Tuesday. Mohit Chothani, 23, was nabbed from his home in Junagadh on Tuesday by officers of the cybercrime unit. Chothani was in his final semester at RC Technical Institute in Ahmedabad, which is affiliated to GTU. On July 30, GTU officials found that someone had stolen photographs and identity documents of some of its final semester students and uploaded them on other websites and shared them on social media. After conducting an internal inquiry, the university filed a complaint at the cybercrime police station on August 2. Chothani was unhappy about GTU’s decision to hold the final semester exams while the Covid-19 pandemic rages on and was hoping the leak would compel the varsity to postpone it. He allegedly stole personal information of some students from the GTU server and shared them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pupil-leaked-gtu-data-to-avoid-exam/articleshow/77358833.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Sunni cleric seeks release of religious leader held for ‘blasphemy’ in Pakistan||BAREILLY: A prominent Sunni cleric here has demanded the release of another cleric booked and arrested in Pakistan for his alleged objectionable comments against the Prophet’s daughter. Muhammad Asjad Raza Qadri demanded immediate release of Ashraf Asif Jalali. In his letter, Qadri said, “I strictly condemn the arrest of Jalali and the baseless accusations made against him.” Qadri said, “It is sad that a few good scholars of the Ahl al-Sunnah (Barelvi movement in Sunni Islam) have become victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sunni-cleric-seeks-release-of-religious-leader-held-for-blasphemy-in-pakistan/articleshow/77357577.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||BRS Nagar shopkeepers complaint against pavement fence||Ludhiana: One of the shopkeepers in BRS Market has submitted a complaint against the parking contractor there for installing a fence on the pavement as well. On Tuesday, he submitted a written complaint at the MC office as well. He claimed that the parking contractor had installed the fence on the pavement facing the road side that can prove dangerous for the commuters if they parked at night and were not able to see the fencing. One of the shopkeepers Abhiskek Arora in his complaint mentioned that the contractor had installed fencing at the pavement just to generate more revenue but it could lead to some accident. He said he had asked for a copy of agreement with the MC where the contractor had the permission to install the fence on the pavement but the employees deputed in the parking did not give anything. He said the parking lot had been started recently after lockdown but shopkeepers in adjoining parking lot had protested against fencing there and so contractor removed his staff from there and now they had started installing the fence here. Meanwhile, when contacted the secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said he had come to know about the complaint and so he had sent the staff to check what was the issue. He said if anything was found wrong, they would take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brs-nagar-shopkeepers-complaint-against-pavement-fence/articleshow/77358830.cms||---
August 5, 2020||India||Sister of slain kar sewaks in Ayodhya as trust’s guest||AYODHYA: In 1990, Purnima Kothari’s brothers, Ram (22) and Sharad (18), headed towards Ayodhya from their Kolkata home as kar sewaks to participate in the Ram mandir movement and promised to return before their sister’s wedding later that year. They did not return as they died in police firing in the temple town. For Purnima, who is in Ayodhya to witness the bhoomi pujan, the visit spells closure. “After their death, I would visit Ayodhya every year on Kartik Purnima. Once our father passed away in 2002, the annual visits stopped. ... In 2015, which was my brothers’ 25th death anniversary, I tried to organise a programme in Ayodhya, but the Akhilesh Yadav government did not allow me,” she said. Kothari is in Ayodhya as a guest of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and is accompanied by her daughter. They have brought with them soil from three RSS shakhas in Kolkata, which the two brothers would often visit. “My brothers could not be a part of this historic moment, but I brought soil from three shakhas, ensuring that a part of them is here as well,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sister-of-slain-kar-sewaks-in-ayodhya-as-trusts-guest/articleshow/77362163.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Allow us to open shops daily: NVCC urges NMC||Nagpur: With the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowing shops to open daily by scrapping the odd-even formula, a traders’ body on Tuesday met municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and demanded implementation of a similar pattern for shops within the city limits. President of Nag Vidarbha Chambers of Commerce Ashwin Mehadia, secretary Ramawatar Totla and others submitted a memorandum to Mundhe and pointed out that businessmen across the city faced severe financial loss due to the lockdown amid the coronavirus scare. The traders, however, extended full support to the administration during the complete lockdown but now they are facing acute financial crisis to meet their mandatory expenditures like shop rent, salary to their staff, bank EMIs etc Mehadia claimed that traders are facing severe hardships as they could do business only 15 days a month. According to Mehadia, small traders and citizens have to visit a market twice for their work and so, there is always a huge rush, violating Covid-19 guidelines, including physical distancing. Thus defeating the odd-even formula which is a complete failure, he pointed out. Already traders had faced a crisis due to demonetization and implementation of goods and service tax and before they could recover, the global pandemic hit them hard, said Mehadia. “The NMC should also scrap the odd-even day rule like the BMC which is going to implement it from August 5. We are ready to do business from 9am to 7pm,” the NVCC memorandum stated. A senior official from NMC ruled out any such decision to be implemented in the city and said that it was not the government’s decision but of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-us-to-open-shops-daily-nvcc-urges-nmc/articleshow/77360268.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Woman dies after bike hits buffalo in Budaun||BAREILLY: A 34-year-old woman died while her husband and two children sustained minor injuries after their motorcycle hit a buffalo that suddenly came in the way on Dataganj road in Budaun on Tuesday. Police said Harnesh, his wife Rajbala, and their two children aged six and four were on way home from Bhairon Nagla village after celebrating the festival of Raksha Bandhan with relatives, when the accident took place. As the bike hit the buffalo, the woman was thrown off the pillion and crashed on the road. The family was taken to a nearby hospital in an ambulance but Rajbala succumbed to injuries. Indranesh Kumar, station house officer, Musajhag police station, said, “The deceased’s husband and children sustained minor injuries and their condition is stable. The body has been sent for a post-mortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-dies-after-bike-hits-buffalo-in-budaun/articleshow/77355305.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Office, McDonald’s outlet sealed for violations||AHMEDABAD: After sealing the Ahmedabad One Mall in Vastrapur on Monday, a team of the solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed the office of one Saviour Pharmaceuticals and the McDonald’s outlet in Himalaya Mall on Tuesday, for violations of social distancing and people not wearing masks. Harshad Solanki, director of the solid waste department, said the Saviour office on the 11th floor of Synergy Building on Corporate Road was sealed as workers were not wearing masks and the authorities had not maintained social distancing. The team also checked the McDonald’s in Himalaya Mall it, as social distancing was not being followed and customers sitting there were not wearing the masks. Officials said the rules mandate proper distancing between customers and the wearing of masks. Customers were found to be sitting close to each other. The officials said that in the case of the office it was observed that majority of the staff was not wearing masks and were sitting close to each other. Solanki further said that teams have been tasked with carrying out checks in offices, showrooms, malls and restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/office-mcdonalds-sealed-for-violations/articleshow/77358853.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Decomposed body of woman found||COIMBATORE: A woman’s decomposed body was found wrapped in a polythene cover at Kannarpalayam near Periyanaickenpalayam on Tuesday evening. Police said the deceased was aged about 35 years and she might have been murdered a week ago. According to a police officer, the body was found on a private land, where railway department has been dumping construction materials. “Workers were staying there in temporary shelters. On Tuesday evening, one of them stumbled upon the body that was wrapped in a blue polythene cover.” The workers alerted the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who recovered the body and sent that to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The officer said the woman was strangulated. “We are trying to trace the identity of the deceased woman and collecting the missing women details for the same.” The Periyanaickenpalayam police have registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/decomposed-body-of-woman-found/articleshow/77360258.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Seven special teams formed to probe Lankan don’s death||COIMBATORE: Seven special teams have been formed to probe the death of Sri Lankan don Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka, CB-CID inspector general of police K Shankar said on Tuesday. “We have started the investigation today (Tuesday). Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) O H Raju has been appointed the investigation officer. We will probe various angles, including the cause of his death,” the officer said. Addressing the media at the CB-CID office in the city, he said the district police had already arrested two women and a man for forging documents and hiding Lokka’s citizenship. “We will take them in our custody.” Shankar said they have registered two cases – one regarding the death of the don and the other in connection with forging documents. “Many details on Angoda Lokka are available in the public domain. We have to verify (cross check) them. A woman, who stayed with him, has confirmed Lokka’s death. We are trying to ascertain if the deceased person was Lokka or not,” the officer said. On Tuesday evening, the DSP and team searched the house at Green Garden in Cheran Maa Nagar, where Lokka stayed with the woman on Monday. They checked all the rooms and dust bins there to collect material evidence, if any. Meanwhile, Sri Lankan police officials have approached the Indian embassy in Colombo, seeking details on the don’s death. Lankan media reports said the woman, who was staying with Lokka, had staged his death and the don was planning to escape to some European country after undergoing a plastic surgery. Lokka reportedly died of cardiac arrest on the night of July 3 in his house at Cheran Maa Nagar. The body was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where postmortem was performed. Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari subsequently approached the Peelamedu police on July 4 stating the deceased was Pradeep Singh and he was a relative of her. She said he had died of cardiac arrest and there wasn’t any foul play behind his death. She took to the body to Madurai, where it was cremated. The Peelamedu police have registered a case against Amani Dhanji, who was staying with Lokka, Sivakami Sundari and her friend Dhayaneswaran and arrested them for assisting the don to obtain Aadhaar card and rent a house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-special-teams-formed-to-probe-lankan-dons-death/articleshow/77360297.cms||A Subburaj
August 5, 2020||Mumbai||Good news: Recoveries in Maharashtra twice as many as active cases||MUMBAI: In a happy milestone for the worst-hit state, the number of recovered patients in Maharashtra is now double those under treatment. On Tuesday, the total recoveries crossed 2.99 lakh while active cases were 1.42 lakh. With a recovery rate of 65%, Maharashtra is now nearing the country’s average of 66%. There were a record 12,326 discharges on Tuesday as against 7,760 new cases. Among districts with a high caseload, Mumbai has the highest recovery rate of 77% followed by Raigad at 70%. Experts say if recovery numbers consistently remain higher than active cases, a better control over the infection can be safely assumed. “As the pandemic progresses, any state or region is likely to see a rise in recovery numbers. But, if new cases are not swamping the recoveries, then it’s a good sign,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of IndiaAn analysis of Maharashtra’s numbers bears out the fact that recoveries from the novel coronavirus are fast outstripping the addition of active cases. This, in turn, has freed up teams to provide even better care to incoming patients, leading to a virtuous cycle that accelerates discharges further. In June, against an addition of 39,948 active cases, there were 61,582 patients who recovered fully, while in July, 74,683 active cases were added and 1,65,247 discharged. While active cases grew by 87% in July, recoveries went up by 168%. Through April and May—when Mumbai is said to have seen its peak—recovery rate for both the state and city languished at 12% and 26% respectively. It began to rise when the discharge policy was altered in May, omitting the need for two successive tests to confirm the absence of infection. In July, total recoveries went up to 2,56,158 from 90,911 in June, a 181% jump, while active cases saw a 98% increase from 75,979 to 1,50,662 during the same period. Easier supply of drugs, better handling of critical cases and streamlining of protocols are cited as reasons that led to an acceleration in recoveries. A significant number of people opting for home isolation has also lessened the load on hospitals, making their task less difficult. Conversely, regions weighed down by a sharp, sudden spurt in fresh hospital admissions may have seen their recovery rate take a beating. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said the recovery rate was a tricky parameter to analyse the situation across a big state with megacities like Mumbai and Pune. “It’s not so much about which area handled it better but more about the volume of cases added by them and at what interval,” he said. That could explain lower recovery numbers in Thane district (see graphic) after hospitals in Mumbai Metropolitan Region were inundated with cases in July. Or even Pune district which has a low recovery rate of 54%. “In Pune district, even rural talukas have started adding 100-150 cases, a change in recovery rates will be visible only when the addition slows down and discharges begin,” he said. A state official concurred that cases are going up in the rural areas whereas municipal corporations are recording a growth rate below 3%. Dr Archana Patil, director of the state health services, agreed that districts now seeing a rise in cases have lower recoveries. “A lag in reporting discharges on the Covid portal could also be pulling down numbers for a few districts,” she said. Among the districts with the lowest recovery rate in the state is Nagpur that currently has 3,633 active cases out of 5,952.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/good-news-recoveries-in-state-twice-as-many-as-active-cases/articleshow/77361108.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 5, 2020||Ludhiana||MLU area factory owners want these declared industrial areas||Ludhiana: Amid the ongoing debate about whether or not an industrial park should be set up near Mattewara forest or not, city businessmen having their factories in mix land use (MLU) areas have opened a new front against the state government. These businessmen are now demanding that the state government should declare the MLU areas in 72 areas of city as industrial areas, where only 30% houses are located while in the remaining 70% only factories are located. A meeting of prominent businessmen belonging to these areas was also organised at Janta Nagar in which they shot off a memorandum of their demands to the Punjab Regional Town Planning and Development Board, which has to take a call on the masterplan of Ludhiana as per which the industry in MLU areas will have to be shifted from there by 2023. Giving more information on the issue, Jaswinder Thukral, who presided over the meeting, said, “On one hand the government and departments are planning to set up new industrial areas but on the other hand everyone has forgotten the trauma being faced by the factories located in the MLU areas, which are lifeline of Ludhiana as the entire medium and large scale units are dependent on us for supplies. The factories in MLU areas have always been deprived of all facilities like better roads, sanitation, better financing facilities, etc. just because these have not been declared industrial areas despite the fact that these MLU areas comprise more than 70% factories while only 30% residences are located here.” Thukral added that, “As the 40th meeting of the Punjab Regional Town Planning and Development Board is about to take place in the next few days, where the final call on the masterplan of Ludhiana will be taken. Earlier also, during the previous government’s regime, the industry of MLU areas was bluffed by not declaring these areas as industrial, but instead we were given time till 2023 to uproot our factories and shift to designated industrial areas. This is practically impossible for every factory to comply with. Not even a single small factory owner in MLU area is so financially sound to set up a new factory at some other place in lieu of the existing units, which took ages and generations to make. Therefore, we have asked the board to declare the MLU areas with more than 70% industry as industrial areas.” According to Vlaiti Ram Durga, another prominent businessman having his unit in MLU area, “There are close to 72 such mohallas (areas), where more than 70% factories are located while remaining are houses. But when the masterplan of Ludhiana was made these were declared either MLU areas while some like New Shimlapuri, Shimlapuri and New Janta Nagar were even declared as residential. This is nothing less than a fraud with the industrialists who spent their entire lives here earning their livelihood and giving employment to others. How can the government expect such industrialists who started from a scratch to move out of here. We are totally against shifting of factories from MLU areas. The projects like Mattwera industrial park can wait and first the MLU areas should be declared industrial at the earliest.” Rajinder Singh Kals,i another businessman, said that, “There are a lot of flaws in the masterplan of Ludhiana due to which the industry, particularly factories of MLU areas, are facing huge problems. We have explained our stand to the general manager of the district industries centre as well and urged him to declare the 72 MLU areas as industrial and also ensure that New Janta Nagar, Shimlapuri, New Shimlapuri which have been declared as residential, are also made industrial areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mlu-area-factory-owners-want-these-declared-industrial-areas/articleshow/77358894.cms||Mohit Behl
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||June footfalls at airport down by 86%||AHMEDABAD: It almost seems like a bygone era when airports were busy and bustling with people rushing to get to the check-in counter or past security or to find a seat near the boarding gate. After all, what is an airport without travellers? Infrequent flights, travel restrictions, lockdowns in various states, quarantine rules and a general apprehension have indeed deterred travellers. Domestic passenger footfalls at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in June crashed by a whopping 86% this year. According to data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), domestic passenger footfalls fell from 7.4 lakh people in June 2019 to 1.04 lakh this year. The decline is attributed to infrequent flights. After the airport resumed operations, roughly one-third of flights have been allowed to operate by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). The city airport saw 1,513 domestic flight movements in June 2020 against 5,500-odd in June 2019. Manish Sharma, secretary of the Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) said, “There is a greater uncertainty associated with inter-state travel owing to the lockdown imposed by several states and quarantine rules. Due to this, corporate and business travel, which accounts for 35% of domestic passenger traffic, has taken a hit. Several companies have also imposed an embargo on travel.” “On the other hand, holidays have come to a grinding stop. There are no events or social occasions to give people any reasons to travel. As a result, the number of travellers has declined,” Sharma further added. Sources also said that a number of airlines are cancelling unviable flights at the last minute due to low passenger turnout. This adds to the apprehension of people because seeking refunds for booked tickets is a concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/june-footfalls-at-airport-down-by-86/articleshow/77358903.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Politicians testing Covid-19 positive shy away from government hospitals||BENGALURU: Besides chief minister BS Yediyurappa and opposition leader Siddaramaiah, a majority of politicians who have contracted Covid-19 have checked into private hospitals, raising suspicions about facilities in government ones which common people are forced to contend with, and also belittling government healthcare staff, who have been at the forefront of the pandemic. Of the 19 public representatives who have tested positive so far, 15 chose private healthcare facilities over state-run hospitals, while four decided to remain in home isolation in the care of private practitioners. The list includes three ministers, 10 MLAs, three MLCs and one MP, besides Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa. Three ministers — BC Patil, Anand Singh and CT Ravi — and Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh chose to remain in home isolation after testing positive. “The trend of ministers checking into private hospitals for treatment isn’t new, but if the CM, opposition leader and ministers have more faith in private hospitals, what message are they sending out to people, who reposed faith in them?” said former speaker KR Ramesh Kumar, who served as health minister in Siddaramaiah’s government. During his stint as minister, Kumar had tabled the Karnataka Medical Establishment (Amendment) Act, 2017, that mandated public representatives and government officials seek medical treatment only in government hospitals. While the Act was passed and rules framed after the governor’s assent, the law hasn’t come into force as the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) is dithering on notifying it. “It’s the moral obligation of public representatives to build confidence in people about government institutions,” said Dr Shashidhat Buggi, renowned thoracic surgeon and retired director of Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. “If they don’t have confidence in their own institutions, how can ministers and legislators expect people to trust government hospitals?” He sought to point out that all government hospitals, including Victoria and Bowring which are governed by the medical education department, are equipped with modern infrastructure and have eminent doctors. Ironically, medical education minister K Sudhakar, who is in charge of the Covid task force in Bengaluru, admitted his family members to a private facility when they tested positive in June. This was also true of several MLAs regardless of party affiliation. However, Congress legislator HD Ranganth defended the trend, saying, “I agree public representatives should lead by example and be treated at government hospitals. But, the principle is applicable only during normal times. It is better we [politicians] are treated in private hospitals during such a crisis since it will help a poor person who is struggling to get a bed in a government hospital. We realise there are many who cannot afford private treatment.” A senior police officer in the CM’s security detail, also defended the move saying: “Their [VIP politicians] security and privacy are some factors that need to be kept in mind. This cannot happen in government hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/politicians-testing-positive-shy-away-from-government-hospitals/articleshow/77358891.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Wind uproots tree and mobile tower, claims two lives||COIMBATORE: Heavy wind claimed a life in the district and another one in neighbouring Tirupur when a tree and an abandoned 80-ft tall mobile tower were uprooted on Tuesday. In the district, a 29-year-old medical representative was killed after a tree fell on him at Theethipalayam near Perur while he was returning home on a motorcycle. Police identified the deceased as K Sathish Kumar, of West Street at Sennanur, on the outskirts of the city. The Perur police said the tree was uprooted in the heavy wind that accompanied rain. “He suffered severe head injuries and other motorists took him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he died around 4.50am,” an officer said. The body was handed over to his family members after postmortem. Kumar’s father R Karuppusamy, 59, a farmer, has lodged a complaint with the Perur police, who registered a case. In Tirupur, a 53-year-old man was killed after the mobile tower, which was not in use for years, fell on him while he was riding a motorcycle at Veerapandi. Police identified the deceased as S Sengishkhan, a native of Namakkal district. Employed as a supervisor with an export company in Tirupur, he was residing at Kongu Nagar. While a truck was also trapped under the mobile tower, neither the driver was injured, nor the vehicle was damaged. Traffic came to a grinding halt on Tirupur-Palladam road following the incident. The Veerapandi police rushed to the spot and removed the tower from the road. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan also visited the accident spot. Traffic was restored on the stretch after 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wind-uproots-tree-and-mobile-tower-claims-two-lives/articleshow/77360273.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||Minor bureaucratic rejig in Uttarakhand, R Meenakshi Sundaram made DG College Education||DEHRADUN: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle, five IAS and four PCS officers were given new postings by the state government on Tuesday. IAS officer R Meenakshi Sundaram, the secretary of animal husbandry, was given the additional charge of Director General of College Education on the day. The charge of director audit was withdrawn from IAS officer SA Murugesan. However, he will continue to hold the posts of secretary in-charge of disaster management and managing director of SIDCUL. The charge of additional secretary of skill development was withdrawn from officer Iqbal Ahmed, who has now been made the additional secretary of finance. IAS officer R Rajesh Kumar, who was in the waiting list, was made the additional director of skill development. The charge of additional secretary of Ayush Ministry was withdrawn from Anand Swaroop. Meanwhile, there are possibilities of another bureaucratic rejig as the positions held by state’s new chief secretary Om Prakash, including that of additional chief secretary to the CM, are likely to be given to other IAS officers. Om Prakash had taken charge as the chief secretary of the state on July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-bureaucratic-rejig-in-state-r-meenakshi-sundaram-made-dg-college-education/articleshow/77357603.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||New ordinance if MLAs don’t give 30% of benefits to Covid fight: Govt||DEHRADUN: Caught on the wrong foot over a cabinet decision making it mandatory for all MLAs to give 30% of their salary and perks to the state to help fight Covid-19, the government on Tuesday maintained that it will bring an ordinance in this regard, if required, to implement the measure. A recent RTI reply had revealed that several BJP MLAs were not contributing the adequate amount, whereas all the 11 Congress MLAS were giving Rs 57,600 as per the directive. The basic salary of an MLA in Uttarakhand is Rs 30,000 per month and the total comes to over Rs 3 lakh per month with all the perks. Recently, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, Manoj Rawat, had filed an RTI in the state assembly seeking details of the contributions made by each MLA after the cabinet decision. According to the reply, 16 BJP MLAs are contributing Rs 30,000 per month, four Rs 12,600 and another 13, including party state chief Bansidhar Bhagat, are giving only Rs 9,000. This is in contrast to the opposition Congress MLAs contributing Rs 57,600 for the cause. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “We will look into the matter and bring an ordinance, if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-ordinance-if-mlas-dont-give-30-of-benefits-to-covid-fight-govt/articleshow/77357608.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Parents need to pitch in for educating kids now: Teachers||TRICHY: While free textbook distribution to government primary and middle school children started from Monday, many teachers made use of the opportunity to discuss with parents on various modes to engage children in academic activity. While audiovisual classes are being telecast through Kalvi Tholaikaatchi and other channels, textbook distribution has now come as a medium to restart the academic activity. However, parent’s role has become pivotal, says teachers as the possibility of school reopening appears bleak. Making use of the textbook distribution some teachers even prefer going to children’s place as it may not be possible to interact individually with parents when they come to school. G Moorthy headmaster, panchayat union primary school (PUMS), Thottiyapatti in Karur district distributed books at children’s place and even had an informal textbook reading session with some children. “Many children are touching textbooks after a long time and it was necessary to bring them back to academic activity,” he said. Interacting with parents, he asked them to assist their children in revising textbook content. “While only a few parents have smartphones, I formed a WhatsApp group and asked them to update academic activity in the group, he said. K S Jeevanandhan, headmaster, Subbiah Memorial Middle School at Tennur asked parents to make their children read the textbooks and call teachers in case of doubts and clarification. We are also looking at the possibilities of conducting online classes as it is gaining momentum in private schools, he said. Assistant teacher H Pushpalatha from a corporation primary school in Edaimalaipattipudur said that books with QR code will help them learn in a better way. While not many parents have smartphones they can make use of the Kalvi Tholaikaatchi by keeping textbooks in hand for a better learning, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parents-need-to-pitch-in-for-educating-kids-now-teachers/articleshow/77361117.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former DGP passes away||Ahmedabad: Former director general of police of Gujarat, K Chakravarthy, who was police chief of the state during the 2002 riots, passed away in Mumbai on Tuesday evening. He was 73 and was battling cancer. Chakravarthy was admitted at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai where he breathed his last, said Gujarat DGP Ashish Bhatia. Bhatia instructed all members of Gujarat Police to observe two minutes of silence on Wednesday afternoon. Chakravarthy was known for his role during the 2002 Gujarat riots. He had in April 2002 taken over the office of the then police commissioner PC Pande, as the city police chief drew flak during the massacre. Chakravarthy had in 2004 stated before a riot probe panel that he did not remember who was present at a meeting held at the CM’s house in Gandhinagar on February 27, 2002. In 2011, he stated before the Supreme Court that then IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt did not attend the February 27 meeting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-dgp-passes-away/articleshow/77358930.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Flood-affected Kheri villagers shifted to relief camps, given ration kits||BAREILLY: The district administration on Tuesday distributed ration kits worth Rs 1,525 each among all families affected by floods in Lakhimpur Kheri district, and advised sugar mills to immediately clear sugarcane dues of farmers belonging to the affected villages. They are also carrying out medical check-ups of people in flood relief camps and advising them to continue maintaining social distancing. Residents of dozens of villages were forced to evacuate and shift to flood relief camps, after huge amounts of water were released from upstream dams and barrages into the Sharda, Ghaghara and Mohana rivers last week. The most affected village is Raini in Dhaurahra tehsil. Most of its houses and nearly all standing crops have been destroyed by flood waters, affecting 110 families who have been relocated to relief camps. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We’ve distributed ration kits to 215 families in the relief camp in Dhaurahra tehsil. More affected families were provided ration kits at other relief camps across the district. Besides rations, we have also ensured free medical check-up, vaccination of infants and medical camps for rescued livestock belonging to the flood-affected families. We’re advising them to try and maintain social distancing, and alert us the moment anyone exhibits symptoms of Covid-19. The suspect will be sent to a community health centre.” “We’ve also instructed Aira sugar mill to clear pending dues of all flood-affected farmers immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/flood-affected-kheri-villagers-shifted-to-relief-camps-given-ration-kits-sugar-mills-asked-to-immediately-clear-dues-of-affected-farmers/articleshow/77356325.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold bangle stolen from dead Covid patient in CMCH||COIMBATORE: An unidentified person has stolen a gold bangle weighing three sovereigns from the body of a Covid-19 patient, who died at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Monday evening. The Race Course police identified the deceased as a 60-year-old woman from Ukkadam. A diabetic, she was taken to a private hospital with breathing difficulty on Monday morning. As hospital authorities asked the family members to pay an advance of Rs 40,000 to hospitalize her, the woman’s kin rushed her to CMCH, where she was admitted to the Covid-19 ward. A police officer said, “Her daughter stayed back in the hospital to attend to her. The woman’s condition was steady till 3pm. Her breathing difficulties aggravated and she died around 4pm. When her daughter came out of the ward, an unidentified person stole the gold bangle from the body.” The woman’s daughter informed ward doctors about the theft and the latter advised her to lodge a complaint with the Race Course police. The kin of the deceased subsequently approached police on Monday night. “A similar incident had taken place in CMCH in the past and we have collected details of suspects. We will register a first information report and arrest the culprit,” the officer said. The dead body was, meanwhile, handed over to the family members on Tuesday afternoon after postmortem. Dr P Kalidas, dean, CMCH, said he had ordered a detailed inquiry into the incident. “Stringent action will be taken against the guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-bangle-stolen-from-dead-covid-patient-in-cmch/articleshow/77360306.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur sees 76 containment zones, over 1k fever camps||THANJAVUR: Following the spike in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in Thanjavur district, 76 containment zone have been established across the district to combat the spread. In the last 15 days, health workers have conducted 1,222 fever camps across the district. On Tuesday, 93 fresh positive cases were recorded in the district, taking the count to 3,243. As the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the district, particularly in Kumbakonam municipality, the district administration has taken several steps to contain the spread including contact tracing through door-to-door screening and fever camps. Wherever positive cases are reported by health workers, even one, the entire area is to be brought under containment zone. 76 containment zones have been established in the district to curtail unnecessary entry and exit in the area. Volunteers have been nominated to monitor each of the containment zones across the district. “In the last 15 days, 1,222 fever camps have been conducted in the district to trace contacts. Around 71,300 people have been screened so far in the fever camps”, district collector M Govinda Rao said. Among those screened, swab tests were taken from 1,500 and 600 tested positive, he added. People with symptoms can isolated themselves at their homes, if they fulfill certain conditions. On this line, 23 symptomatic people have been allowed to quarantine themselves at their homes itself, if they have a separate room with a separate toilet. The district collector has appealed the general public to adhere to lockdown norms and help the administration to contain and combat the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-sees-76-containment-zones-over-1k-fever-camps/articleshow/77361112.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||Locals upset as rainwater damage roads outside Suman Subharti Medical College||DEHRADUN: The residents of Sehespur Kotda Santur locality are upset with the local administration as poor-quality roads leading to Subharti Medical College and Hospital are causing frequent accidents and causing inconvenience to the patients coming to the medical facility. The locals say that rainwater has been damaging the road which was repaired just a while back. The residents say that the drains have also got choked, forcing the rainwater to remain stagnant in the potholes. This not only poses threat to the commuters but also becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Anil Raj, a resident of the area, said, “We often see bikers losing their balance because of these potholes. They pose a threat to the lives of both the pedestrians and the motorists who use this stretch. The road was repaired some time back but the rain spells have once again washed off its layers.” Bhajan Singh Dhami, another resident of the locality, said, “If the drains are cleaned regularly, the rainwater will flow out causing less damage to the roads.” “We have a hospital on the damaged road. This may prove fatal for patients as well,” he added. Meanwhile, Jagmohan Chauhan, executive engineer at Public Works Department, said, “We are maintaining some of the roads in the locality but some stretches are also being maintained under projects being carried out by other agencies. The maintenance work will resume soon after the monsoon season culminates as maintaining roads during the rainy season incurs losses at several levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-upset-as-rainwater-damage-roads-outside-suman-subharti-medical-college/articleshow/77357628.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||NMC skipping mandatory RT-PCR if swab tests antigen -ve||Nagpur: Many high risk suspects testing negative in the rapid antigen tests need confirmatory RT-PCR, as chances of false negatives are as high as 60 to 70%. Yet many are not opting for the confirmatory RT-PCR test, which is more reliable as far as a negative test is concerned. Even NMC does not have procedures in place to conduct the mandatory RT-PCR test as follow-up. A positive report in antigen test is confirmed, as there is negligible chance of error, say experts. Private practitioners have complained that symptomatic cases referred by them to NMC’s newly-established 21 testing centres are flashing negative antigen certificates to roam freely in the city, thereby increasing spread of Covid-19. As per ICMR norms, testing agencies need to simultaneously collect two swabs — one for antigen test and other for RT-PCR, if needed. Yet, NMC testing centres are not inclined to do so. A senior doctor told TOI that half the centres can be made exclusively RT-PCR test centres for high risk groups and confirmatory tests. “RT-PCR is being done only at OPDs of IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS and certain special camps. Rest all other places, antigen is used because it gives a quick report and positive is never false,” the doctor said, adding that second sampling is not being done. The doctor said even if anyone tests positive in antigen, there is no reason to worry because most patients are advised home isolation nowadays. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patturkar said repeat sampling is needed for RT-PCR in case symptomatic person tests negative in antigen test. “It is being done at all testing centres under me,” he said. An official said many of the samples coming from district places are for confirmatory test only. Infectious disease expert Dr Nitin Shinde said the burden on government and private labs has increased due to which people are forced to opt for antigen test. “We have been counselling patients to get RT-PCR done as many of them, though asymptomatic, show signs of Covid-19. They are not ready to listen and argue with us. They are roaming around freely,” he said Dr Shinde suggested that testing needs to be further increased at the level of each colony to contain rapid spread of the disease. Dr Meena Mishra, professor and head of the department of microbiology, AIIMS, Nagpur, told TOI that according to ICMR guidelines, if symptomatic persons are testing negative in antigen test, they need to be tested by RT-PCR test. “In case of asymptomatic patients who are in high risk category or in early stage of infection testing negative by antigen test, they will spread the disease if not tested with RT-PCR test,” she said. Dr Mishra said, “The need is to properly counsel people to go for RT-PCR whenever indicated. A strong message must go out that it is not about false negative or testing positive but getting a correct report, which helps in early intervention and control further spread of the virus.” Dr Mishra warned that early detection is key in Covid management as the virus directly hits the lungs. “We are following the ICMR guidelines and taking two swabs of suspects who fit the criteria. Same swab can’t be used for two different methods,” she said. NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai didn’t respond to TOI’s repeated calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-skipping-mandatory-rt-pcr-if-swab-tests-antigen-ve/articleshow/77360307.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 5, 2020||Chennai||NGT: Do petrol bunks have vapour recovery systems?||CHENNAI: Following a complaint that petrol bunks in Tamil Nadu didn’t fit Vapour Recovery Systems (VRS), the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a status report from oil companies. Several reports have stated that residing near a fuel station can pose a health risk because petrol, which has volatile organic compounds such as benzene and other carcinogens, can be harmful once it evaporates. This was one of the most-discussed topics in New Delhi during the 2019 air pollution crisis. So the NGT principal bench in July 2019 directed all oil companies to fit VRS at all retail outlets that have a sales potential of 300 kilolitres a month. Citing this, advocate VBR Menon filed a case with NGT Southern Zone in Chennai, which was taken up for hearing on Tuesday. His petition said that a large number of fuel stations are situated near residential buildings, schools and parks and petrol vapour escaping from stations could cause serious harm. The oil companies must be well aware of the serious environmental hazards and air pollution and yet they were ignoring their social responsibility, he said, requesting the NGT to issue directions to put opening of new bunks on hold until VRS were fitted. Objecting to this, advocate Abdul Saleem, who was appearing on behalf of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), Baharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) and Nayara Energy Limited said the petitioner’s similar plea in the Madras high court had been dismissed. Referring to Central Pollution Control Board guidelines, Saleem said VRS should be installed within three months only from the day sales touch 100 kilolitres a month. After listening to arguments, NGT members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta directed oil companies to file a status report on VRS implementation in Tamil Nadu along with sales details. Next hearing is on September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-do-petrol-bunks-have-vapour-recovery-systems/articleshow/77360305.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||Monday -ve, Tuesday +ve: 4 close contacts of Covid-19 deceased get NMC shocker||Nagpur: Surging cases, frequent policy revisions and multiple responsibilities seem to have thrown Covid management out of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) control to a large extent. After several complaints of people getting different reports from private labs, TOI received two more complaints from relatives of Covid deceased.NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai and concerned zonal medical officers didn’t respond to TOI’s repeated calls and messages. In the first case, a North Nagpur family of five said they had to insist four days to get tested and finally when the report result was disclosed to them, they were shocked to know that none of them was positive. On July 25, the family’s 62-year-old patriarch passed away at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Though the elderly man had tested positive soon after getting admitted on July 23, none of the family member was tested. The family members said they only received a call informing them after the death but they were not advised Covid testing. Despite mourning the sudden loss of their family head, the 28-yeard-old younger son called up the NMC officials requesting a test. “Finally, on July 31, five of us were taken to the NU lower hostel for an overnight stay. Our swabs were taken the next morning and we were sent home,” the son said. On Monday, when the family again called up to know their result, the NMC officials told them that they were negative and need not worry. The family informed their family doctor who too asked them to stay isolated and spoke to NMC officials. When the doctor pointed out that they were all high risk group, and some had symptoms, the NMC officials agreed there was an error. “They took their names and addresses again and told them that it was a mistake. The whole family was declared positive on Tuesday,” sources said. The result sheet given to the family had the ‘+ve’ remark hand written, raising further doubts. No plausible cause for the goof up has been given to the family. After further insistence, only a corona alert sticker was pasted on their door and they have been asked to remain in home isolation till August 9.Another high risk family from West Nagpur went untested though a member passed away of Covid-19 at IGGMCH on Monday. This family lives in a building comprising eight families. As some others are out of the city, three families are living there. The flat owners complained that the NMC zone officials didn’t come for contact tracing and sanitization of the area. “We sealed the building on our own. Owners who are out of station won’t be allowed till the next 14 days. The family of four is very cooperative and all of them have isolated themselves inside their home since Monday,” a resident said. Another flat owner said, “The NMC officials were taking proactive measures and would rush to an epicentre immediately. Cops too would be brought. All this while, they accused innocent people of not cooperating though it was not true as can be seen now. The civic officials are completely missing from the scene.”WHAT HAPPENED* Jul 25: 62-yr-old man dies after testing positive on Jul 23* Family members wait for four days to get tested * July 31: Five members taken to NU Hostel for overnight stay * Sent home after swabs taken in the morning* Told by NMC tests negative* Family doctor pointed out symptoms* NMC admits to error* Family declared positive on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/monday-ve-tuesday-ve-4-close-contacts-of-covid-19-deceased-get-nmc-shocker/articleshow/77360320.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Bhavani river rising, flood alert in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: District collector K Rajamani sounded flood alert along the Bhavani river banks after the quantity of water that was released from the Pillur Dam was increased to 22,000cusecs (cubic feet per second) from 6,000 cusecs on Tuesday around 8am, following the water level in the dam touched 97ft against its maximum storage capacity of 100ft. People have been advised not to bathe, swim or wash clothes in the river. Evacuation of people, who were living along the river banks, was put on hold after the quantity of water that was released from the dam was reduced to 14,000 cusecs later in the day. Pointing out that the water level in the Pillur Dam had been steadily rising in the early hours of Tuesday, a source said the same was brought to the attention of the district administration by the officials with the public works department (PWD) and the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco). The water level in the dam, the source said, rose to 97ft at 6.15am from 93ft at 3.15am. Mettupalayam tehsildar Shanthamani said, “We were informed that they would start releasing 22,000cusecs water from 8.15am to maintain the water level in the dam below the maximum storage capacity of 100ft and not to strain sluice gates.” The revenue department immediately sprang into action and alerted people living along the Bhavani river banks and asked them not to venture into the river. “We have deployed a fire service vehicle. Police personnel have also been roped in to assess the situation and render help,” the tehsildar said. However, people were not evacuated. “They will be moved out only when water release level touches 40,000cusecs as water is likely to enter their houses then,” the tehsildar said. According to another official, around 160 houses are located along the banks of the river. “They will be relocated to the slum clearance board’s housing unit, which will be ready in another eight months.” The water level in the Siruvani dam, meanwhile, rose by 7.6ft to 24.1ft overnight after the area recorded 300mm rainfall. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) is now likely to draw more water from the dam for its drinking water scheme. This would ensure more water supply to the city residents. A TWAD official said, “We are planning to draw 100MLD (millions of litre per day) water from the dam from today (Tuesday), compared to 63MLD on Monday. If that happens, the city corporation will get around 90MLD water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flood-alert-sounded-along-bhavani-river/articleshow/77360326.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Bareilly||Patrolling along Indo-Nepal border in UP intensified||BAREILLY/PILIBHIT: Sashastra Seema Bal and Uttar Pradesh Police have intensified patrolling along the 551km-long Indo-Nepal border in the state ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to Ayodhya for Ram Temple bhoomi pujan on Wednesday. Senior police officers are keeping a tight vigil on movements along the border and have asked people living in villages adjoining the border to alert security officials if they come across any suspicious activity or element. The security arrangements across the state, especially in Ayodhya and on the Indo-Nepal border, beefed up after intelligence agencies warned of a possible terror attack during the ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5. Intensifying security arrangements, Pilibhit police has installed five barriers at different checking points along the 56km-long Indo-Nepal border in the district to prevent infiltration bid by anti-social elements in the Indian territory, while an additional barricade was erected on the Pilibhit-Lucknow highway for intensive checking of suspected vehicles. Deputy inspector general of police, Bareilly range, Rajesh Pandey, who has been camping in Pilibhit for the past three days, said, “I have been monitoring policing during Eid and Raksha Bandhan, but I have held the string of security and vigilance myself since Tuesday considering the high-profile ceremony in Ayodhya.” “I have patrolled the Indo-Nepal border stretch in the district along with police force and the SSB to take stock of the security arrangements and vigilance, which is capable to thwart any unlawful bid of infiltration,” said the DIG. “Besides, orders have been issued to take into custody a person who appears suspicious. The villagers have also been alerted to keep a close tab on the activities of unidentified persons and to alert police or SSB immediately if they come across any suspicious activity or element,” added the DIG. Pilibhit superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav said, “We will not allow any foreigner to go Ayodhya via Pilibhit without an authorised invitation. Policemen in civil dresses have been deployed in border villages to keep a tab on activities there, while barricades have been erected on roads leading to Nepal and Uttarakhand for checking vehicles and identification of people.” Both police and SSB personnel deployed on the Indo-Nepal border in Kheri are on their toes, keeping a tight vigil on suspicious activities, while forest officials have been alerted to remain vigilant and share information with security agencies if they find any suspicious movement in the forest area. Kheri ASP Arun Kumar Singh said, “Local police are in regular touch with SSB and even carrying out joint patrolling in the border areas. Following a security alert ahead of the ceremony in Ayodhya, the district borders have been sealed and the duty hours of policemen extended until the function gets over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/patrolling-along-indo-nepal-border-in-up-intensified-ahead-of-pms-ayodhya-visit-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-today/articleshow/77357660.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 5, 2020||Dehradun||With 43rd rank, third-time civil services aspirant emerges Uttarakhand topper||DEHRADUN/NAINITAL: It’s the third time lucky for Shubham Agrawal. The 25-year-old, working as a general manager at Reserve Bank of India’s Kanpur branch, has passed the 2019 UPSC civil services with the 43rd rank. Son of a Ramnagar-based businessman, Agrawal, who cleared the civil services examination in the third attempt, has emerged as the state topper. Apart from him, around a dozen aspirants too have cleared the examination, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. His uncle Arvind Agrawal said, “Shubham had passed Class X from Ramnagar after which he went to Delhi for further studies. He pursued mechanical engineering at the Delhi Technical University and graduated in 2017. He appeared for the civil services exams the same year but could not clear it. He then appeared again in 2018 but was again unsuccessful. Around the same time, he cleared the examination for the Reserve Bank of India and secured a job in Kanpur. He appeared for the civil services again last year and passed with flying colours.” Apart from Agrawal, the toppers include Vishakha Dabral from Dehradun who secured the 134th rank and Mukul Jamloki from Rudraprayag who secured the 260th rank. Jamloki is a final phase probationer with the postal department in Dehradun at present. He, too, cleared the civil services examination in the third attempt. He said, “For a year I worked in the private sector but it was the desire of serving people which encouraged me to appear for the civil services examination.” The others who cleared the civil services examination from the hill state include Ojaswi Raj from Roorkee (rank 227), Prashant Badal Negi of Khal Bhikona village in Chamoli district (rank 397), Hrijul from Bajpur (rank 702), Amit Dutt of Almora (rank 760), Shruti Sharma of Tyuni in Jaunsar (rank 775) and Shrishti from Jaunsar (rank 7345).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-43rd-rank-third-time-civil-services-aspirant-emerges-ukhand-topper/articleshow/77357655.cms||Prashant Jha
August 5, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to private hospital in Nagpur for excess bill to Covid-19 patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has served show cause notice to Wockhardt Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH), Corporation Colony, for excess charges levied to Covid-19 patients and violation of 80:20 bed ratio formula. One of the Covid-19 patients was reportedly charged Rs7 lakh. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday issued show cause notice to the hospital’s executive director/ manager directing to reply within 24 hours. “Why action shall not be taken against you and your hospital for violations under The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, the Disaster Management Act 2005, Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance (Amendment) Act 2011, Mumbai Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006, Bombay Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006 and Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950,” he said. The hospital is the city’s first DCH and equipped with 40 beds. Citing the state government’s order dated May 21, Mundhe had fixed charges for Covid-19 and non-Covid services. Also, the civic chief said first 80% of total beds should be occupied and patients should be charged as per rates finalized by the government. Then, the hospital can charge as per its rates for remaining 20% beds. In the notice, Mundhe said, “On inspection and verification of records and information submitted by you, it is observed that your hospital has not followed guidelines and discrepancies were found. Violation, misrepresentation and misinterpretation of guidelines of 80% bed were found.” A NMC official told TOI, “The hospital did not fill 80% beds first, and gave choice to patients whether they want to get treatment in government finalized charges or those of the hospital. The hospital also informed patients that government rate facility was available only in general ward. Guidelines are very clear that the hospital has to ensure 80% beds in all types of facilities,” he said. The notice added the hospital charged much more than finalized rates to many patients. “Hospital was supposed to charge 70% of rates prescribed in the circular but charged more than that.” The notice also said, “Hospital took deposit amount from the patients, which was excess to final amount of the bills. The hospital also did not refund excessive advance deposit payment against final bills of the patients.” Wockhardt Hospital centre head K Sujatha said, “We have partnered government to fight this pandemic and we are making all efforts. Whatever is expected from Wockhardt, we will do our level best in that direction. We need support and guidance from private as well as government authorities. Managing a Covid hospital is a very complex process. Wockhardt has tried to provide best clinical team, trained para clinical team, comprehensive care under one roof. Our clinical outcome so far has been exemplary and we are the preferred hospital by majority private patients. We thank divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar in placing his trust in us. And we assure municipal commissioner our cooperation and adherence in this fight against Covid.” TOI was the first to highlight private hospitals were charging much more than fixed rates from Covid-19 positive and suspected patients. A delegation of Youth Congress led by state secretary Rohit Khairwar met IAS officer Jalaj Sharma, also additional municipal commissioner, and requested action against two private hospitals for charging excessively on Covid-19 positive and suspected patients. He presented all bills and details to Sharma, who is heading NMC’s squad for monitoring and taking action against private hospitals charging above fixed rates and guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-private-hospital-in-nagpur-for-excess-bill-to-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77360324.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Man murders woman for failing to repay loan in Guntur district||VIJAYAWADA: A man killed a 55-year-old woman by running her over with a tractor at Sivapuram in Nakarikallu mandal in Guntur district on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Ramavat Matrubhai. According to Nakarikallu police, the woman and her husband had borrowed Rs 3.8 lakh from the accused Bonamukkala Srinivas Reddy by pawning 2.7 acres of farmland two years ago. The couple were unable to repay the loan. Srinivas Reddy demanded that the money be returned with interest and threatened to take away the land if he wasn’t repaid. However, the couple who were solely dependent on agriculture for their livelihood started tilling the field without repaying the loan. An infuriated Srinivas Reddy went to the field with his tractor and ran over the woman killing her on the spot. Reddy fled the scene and is currently absconding. Police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC (murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-murders-woman-for-failing-to-repay-loan/articleshow/77357683.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Deoghar boy secures 9th position in UPSC civil services exam||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO/DUMKA: Ravi Jain of Deoghar secured ninth position in the All India Ranking (AIR) of the UPSC civil services examination, 2019, the result of which was announced on Tuesday. Over half a dozen candidates from Jharkhand also cracked the examination. Ravi, a resident of Jain temple road in Deoghar, is currently serving as a sales tax officer at Jamui in Bihar. His father Ashok Jain is a businessman. An elated Ravi said, “I had done well but was not expecting such a high rank.” His father said, “After his selection in the Bihar Public Service Commission, Ravi joined service at our insistence but he was still optimistic about cracking the UPSC exam.” Another Deoghar resident, Tanya Ambasth, secured 237th rank. Tanya’s father is a TTE at the Jasidih railway station. She passed her matriculation from the local institute, St Francis School and studied Plus 2 at Jawahar Vidyalaya Shyamli, Ranchi. Tanya pursued her B Tech degree from BIT Mesra. Priyank Kishore, son of a police officer Kamal Kishore, also cracked the examination and secured AIR 61. In his first attempt in 2019, Priyank had got 274th rank. His father, Kamal Kishore, who served as a police inspector in Jamshedpur, is currently posted in Hazaribag as deputy superintendent of police. Moomal Rajpurohit, daughter of an Indian Forest Service officer in Jharkhand, secured the 173rd rank. “I will get an IPS post if not IAS,” Moomal said, stressing that civil services was her childhood dream. “In my previous four attempts, I could not qualify for the interview but they made it very clear where my mistakes or weaknesses were. I kept on improving continuously. This time, I was confident of clearing the examination,” she said. A gold medallist graduate from Delhi University, Moomal said she prepared for the examination in Delhi, which has the advantage of getting easy access to study materials and provides a competitive environment. “However, students can succeed in the examination while preparing from small towns as well,” she said. On taking private coachings, she said the classes are useful to get guidelines on how to prepare, but the hard work is ultimately for the students. Moomal said she opted for political science with international relations in the mains examination. A doctor from Dhanbad also cracked the examination and secured 165th rank. Dr Harsha Privamvada is the daughter of Dhanbad-based eye specialists Dr D Kumar and Dr Rekha Nayak. Dr Kumar said his daughter completed her primary schooling from Saraswati Vidya Mandir Peterwar in Bokaro and when he was transferred to Sindri, Harsha passed her 10th exam from Carmel School, Digwadih. She passed Plus 2 from DPS, Bokaro. After completing her MBBS from PMCH, Patna, she started preparing for the civil services exam and except for joining a three-month condensed course at a coaching institute in Delhi, she prepared for the examination from her Dhanbad home. Anthropology was her subject in the examination, he added. Abhishek Garg of Pentecostal Public School (PAS) has made his school proud by securing 456th rank in the examination. In a press statement, PAS said Garg called up to thank his principal and teachers who have contributed to his success. “The self-discipline instilled in me in the early years of schooling helped me study 12 to 13 hours regularly,” the statement quoted Garg as saying. Kumar Satyam from Godda district of Santhal Pargana division also secured 696th position in the UPSC merit list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/deoghar-boy-secures-9th-position-in-upsc-civil-services-exam/articleshow/77370372.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC extends interim bail of undertrials||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday extended the interim bail of around 3,000 undertrial prisoners by another 45 days to decongest jails in the capital in the wake of the persisting Covid-19 pandemic. Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh passed the order in view of the Delhi-specific high-power committee's observation that it may not be possible at this juncture to predict a definite cut off date for resumption of normal functioning of the courts' system, and there is no certainty as to when the pandemic threat will be over. The high court said the interim bail of these undertrials is extended by 45 days from the date of expiry of the relief on the same terms and conditions and listed the matter for review on September 18. The bench, which was conducting the hearing through videoconferencing, ordered the director general (Prisons) to ensure that the order was conveyed to all 2,901 undertrial prisoners by telephone and other available modes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hc-extends-interim-bail-of-undertrials/articleshow/77362168.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Ranchi||State edu minister questions fate of para teachers under NEP||RANCHI: State education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Tuesday said the Jharkhand government needs to review some provisions of the National Education Policy (NEP), passed by the Union cabinet recently, before its implementation in the state. Mahto said, “NEP needs to be discussed thoroughly by the state cabinet along with leading experts and academicians before its implementation. Certain provisions, including those related to permanently stopping the services of para teachers, appointed under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan by 2022, need to be deliberated thoroughly.” The minister also questioned the fate of the thousands of para teachers and how the schools will run without them. He said Jharkhand will request the Centre to continue providing funds to the para teachers till the state regularizes their services in the education department. The remunerations of the para teachers are shared by the Centre and the state in the 60:30 ratio. Mahto further said the provision under NEP to provide quality education to children at aganwadi centres, which do not have adequate teachers at present, would be hard to implement. Terming his statements on NEP as suggestions for betterment of Jharkhand’s people and their education, the minister said the policy should not be mere eyewash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-edu-minister-questions-fate-of-para-teachers-under-nep/articleshow/77359183.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 5, 2020||Ranchi||Deoghar boy secures 9th position in UPSC civil services exam||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO/DUMKA: Ravi Jain of Deoghar secured ninth position in the All India Ranking (AIR) of the UPSC civil services examination, 2019, the result of which was announced on Tuesday. Over half a dozen candidates from Jharkhand also cracked the examination. Ravi, a resident of Jain temple road in Deoghar, is currently serving as a sales tax officer at Jamui in Bihar. His father Ashok Jain is a businessman. An elated Ravi said, “I had done well but was not expecting such a high rank.” His father said, “After his selection in the Bihar Public Service Commission, Ravi joined service at our insistence but he was still optimistic about cracking the UPSC exam.” Another Deoghar resident, Tanya Ambasth, secured 237th rank. Tanya’s father is a TTE at the Jasidih railway station. She passed her matriculation from the local institute, St Francis School and studied Plus 2 at Jawahar Vidyalaya Shyamli, Ranchi. Tanya pursued her B Tech degree from BIT Mesra. Priyank Kishore, son of a police officer Kamal Kishore, also cracked the examination and secured AIR 61. In his first attempt in 2019, Priyank had got 274th rank. His father, Kamal Kishore, who served as a police inspector in Jamshedpur, is currently posted in Hazaribag as deputy superintendent of police. Moomal Rajpurohit, daughter of an Indian Forest Service officer in Jharkhand, secured the 173rd rank. “I will get an IPS post if not IAS,” Moomal said, stressing that civil services was her childhood dream. “In my previous four attempts, I could not qualify for the interview but they made it very clear where my mistakes or weaknesses were. I kept on improving continuously. This time, I was confident of clearing the examination,” she said. A gold medallist graduate from Delhi University, Moomal said she prepared for the examination in Delhi, which has the advantage of getting easy access to study materials and provides a competitive environment. “However, students can succeed in the examination while preparing from small towns as well,” she said. On taking private coachings, she said the classes are useful to get guidelines on how to prepare, but the hard work is ultimately for the students. Moomal said she opted for political science with international relations in the mains examination. A doctor from Dhanbad also cracked the examination and secured 165th rank. Dr Harsha Privamvada is the daughter of Dhanbad-based eye specialists Dr D Kumar and Dr Rekha Nayak. Dr Kumar said his daughter completed her primary schooling from Saraswati Vidya Mandir Peterwar in Bokaro and when he was transferred to Sindri, Harsha passed her 10th exam from Carmel School, Digwadih. She passed Plus 2 from DPS, Bokaro. After completing her MBBS from PMCH, Patna, she started preparing for the civil services exam and except for joining a three-month condensed course at a coaching institute in Delhi, she prepared for the examination from her Dhanbad home. Anthropology was her subject in the examination, he added. Abhishek Garg of Pentecostal Public School (PAS) has made his school proud by securing 456th rank in the examination. In a press statement, PAS said Garg called up to thank his principal and teachers who have contributed to his success. “The self-discipline instilled in me in the early years of schooling helped me study 12 to 13 hours regularly,” the statement quoted Garg as saying. Kumar Satyam from Godda district of Santhal Pargana division also secured 696th position in the UPSC merit list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deoghar-boy-secures-9th-position-in-upsc-civil-services-exam/articleshow/77359212.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||State moots industrial safety policy after series of mishaps||Vijayawada: The state government is planning to bring in a new industrial safety policy in view of the repeated industrial mishaps being reported across the state. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meet on industrial safety on Tuesday. At the meet, the chief minister sought suggestions from officials on the present industrial policy and the regulatory and monitoring mechanism in place to prevent accidents. Officials told the chief minister that they are preparing a safety policy. As part of the new industrial safety policy, the government has proposed that industries have to submit compliance reports twice a year, besides ensuring third-party inspections and strict compliance of safety measures. Besides, it has also proposed penalisation of industries if they were to be found not complying to safety and other norms. The chief minister directed officials to study industrial safety measures in various countries before finalising the new safety policy. The chief minister proposed that severe punishment should be meted out in case of accidents and a compensation of Rs 50 lakh be paid to families who lose their loved ones in the accident. He referred to the recent accidents reported from Visakhapatnam and asked the officials whether the victims had been rehabilitated and compensations paid. The chief minister ordered the officials to complete one round of inspection of all industries in the next two months, before the new industrial safety policy is ready; integrate all inspection reports and include them in the proposed industrial safety policy. Besides, they were asked to prepare a map showing all existing industries in all the 13 districts. A brief note on every industry should be made available in the map, he told them. Environment special chief secretary Neerab Kumar Prasad, industries special chief secretary, Karikala Valavan, and other officials participated in the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-moots-industrial-safety-policy-after-series-of-mishaps/articleshow/77357697.cms||Gopi Dara
August 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Revamp schools by September 5: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday asked officials at a review meet to keep the renovated schools ready for reopening on September 5. He told officials to complete the work, including provision of additional facilities like toilets, drinking water and classroom furniture, before the schools are reopened. Besides, the chief minister also asked the officials to ready the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka (gift)for every student by the time the schools are reopened. The Vidya Kanuka would provide school uniforms, school bags, shoes and books for the students. The officials briefed him on the progress of work under Nadu-Nedu and showed him a sample of the shoes, uniforms and books which would be distributed to students. The officials also gave a power point presentation on the renovation work of the 15,000 schools taken up in the first phase. The quality of classroom benches, cupboards, chalkboards and paintings on the walls to attract the students were also shown to the chief minister. The chief minister told the officials to set up a mineral water plant in every school to provide safe drinking water for children. He asked them rope in corporate companies and voluntary organisations to take care of the maintenance of these water plants. The chief minister also reviewed the progress in the planning of the 31,073 schools proposed in the second and third phases of the scheme. He also finalised the designs for the centralised kitchens in the schools to provide mid-day meal and told them to ensure that every kitchen is built and maintained properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revamp-schools-by-sept-5-jagan/articleshow/77357729.cms||Gopi Dara
August 5, 2020||Noida||As Noida scales up testing, positivity rate dips to 4%||NOIDA: The positivity rate — the total number of Covid patients vis-à-vis the samples tested in a particular period — has come down in Noida from 17% in mid-June to around 4% towards the end of July. Officials have, however, warned residents against letting their guard down, saying it would take little time for the infection to spread if people do not follow safety protocols The Uttar Pradesh government had last month ordered a review of the positivity rate in its 75 districts after concluding a 10-day drive during which the state had set a target of 4,000 tests daily. The government was keen on reviewing the positivity rate in the NCR districts of Noida and Ghaziabad. The reason was their proximity with Delhi, where cases have been rising by leaps and bounds. Three dates were considered for comparing the number of cases and the samples tested — July 16, 17 and 18. The positivity rate during this period was 3.6% for Noida and 3.4% for Ghaziabad. At that time, the overall positivity rate was 5.7% in the state. The government had raised an alarm in the middle of June, when the positivity rate in Noida had touched the peak at over 15%. Worried over the trend, residents had flooded the CM’s office with grievances, alleging mismanagement of the Covid situation by the Noida administration. Noida’s chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said, “Irrespective of the positivity rate, we have continued to maintain the increased testing rate since July 12. Close to 2,500 tests are being conducted on a daily basis. A majority of these tests are being done through rapid antigen kits.” In May and early June, the Noida administration had been accused of not conducting enough tests. It was only during the latter part of June and early July, when the10-day drive was conducted, that testing was scaled up in the district. Over the past one week — between July 29 and August 4 — 657 new cases have been reported in Noida. In the same period, about 15,900 tests have been conducted, which translates into a positivity rate of 4.1%. Officials said that on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, lower number of tests could be conducted since a lot of staff members were on leave on account of Bakrid and Rakshabandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-noida-scales-up-testing-positivity-rate-dips-to-4/articleshow/77360329.cms||Shalabh
August 5, 2020||Chennai||NEP is Indian education’s bhumi pujan||S VaidhyasubramaniamThe shelf-life of any nation building policy needs to be long enough to accommodate short, medium and long term strategies. Education policy is no exception and in its longevity lies a country’s socio-economic growth. India’s socio-economic growth in the past has been largely possible through various policy reforms of which education plays a significant role. To rest on laurels at a time when the global shift in education landscape is tectonically disruptive is certainly not policy perfect. The recent announcement of India’s New Education Policy (NEP) is its educational Pokhran, signalling the country’s entry into the global realms of progressive, inclusive and sustainable education.NEP 2020 is India’s third, the first in 1968 when education was on the union list and the second in 1986 (and PoA in 1992) after it was moved to the concurrent list through the 46th constitutional amendment in 1976. There are many common issues in all the three but what makes NEP 2020 stand out is its contemporaneous and comprehensive outlook that was possible through a massive crowd-sourcing of inputs from various outreach mechanisms that covered the entire spectrum — from gram panchayats to global pundits.The moment the NEP was approved and announced, my mind built a wonderful education castle with NEP’s strong foundational pillars, high quality building material, interior décor, bright lighting with natural ventilation. The strong foundational pillars span across school education, teacher education, higher education, vocational education and research, all of them positively impacted through new reforms, regulatory mechanisms and technology, the details of which is a common man’s wish list.The unbundling of school education into the 5+3+3+4 mode with calibrated accent on sports, vocational skills and a cruise-mode promotion to various school levels make school education elders’ envy and the next generation’s pride. The move towards a holistic development during the formative years of a child through multilingual and next generation assessment and evaluation mechanisms is all set to make the school a fun-lab than a rote-factory. The triangular mix among arts and sciences, vocational and academics and curricular and extra-curricular activities is a much needed trinocular vision to catalyse school education for desirable learning outcomes.The higher education orbit is poised to charter new territories with various path-breaking reforms that transcend different levels — from enrolment to enlightenment. The planned phasing out of statutory bodies like the UGC, AICTE to be replaced with an omnibus Higher Education Council of India with four supporting verticals to ‘regulate’, standardise, fund and accredit is all set to push higher education from strangulation to much needed oxygenation. The entry-exit mechanism at staggered levels in a four-year undergraduate programme, integrated masters and PhD, multi-disciplinary approach through credit banks and robust faculty development are symptomatic of a functional recharge of colleges and institutions of higher learning. Common and frequent national tests for admissions with scope for state specific customisation is a welcome move to curb the capitation fee menace and proliferation of entrance exams which are best revenue lifelines for many private universities adding no value. This national test plan was part of the 1986 education policy but unfortunately kept in cold storage when it should have actually galvanised merit and transparency in professional college admissions. Better late than never.The bedrock of India’s future, teacher education, which always was a hard nut to crack seems to have found its cracker in the NEP. Phasing out stand-alone teacher education institutions with 4-year integrated BEd programmes in university and multi-disciplinary colleges gives teacher education a fine blend of learning. A special purpose vehicle to fund teacher education programmes is a necessary and sufficient form of investment that shall return with the highest form of Indian intelligentsia. The proposed National Research Foundation on the lines of the National Science Foundation with a view to create a vibrant research ecosystem is NEP’s response to address socially relevant research. The policy promises equal access to research funds for all types of institutions (public or private). Hope the spirit in the letters stays live in action as well. The categorisation of higher education institutions as research universities, teaching universities and autonomous institutions is not only a significant leapfrog from the present regimental affiliated system but also an incentive to move up the academic value chain.A visionary policy of this type has a long shelf life, usually more than 25 years. The foundational pillars need strong superstructures and attractive interiors. The success of NEP lies in its calibrated and accelerated implementation pathway through statutory and regulatory interventions. Rightly timed acceleration and finely tuned calibration holds the key to NEP implementation. The message is however loud and clear: NEP is Indian education’s ‘bhumi pujan’.(The author is vice-chancellor of SASTRA Deemed University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nep-is-indian-educations-bhumi-pujan/articleshow/77362172.cms||---
August 5, 2020||India||Hope temple ritual marks nat’l unity: Priyanka||NEW DELHI: On the eve of the Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya on Wednesday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said Lord Ram was a part of every Indian, and that she was hopeful that the ground-breaking ceremony would serve as a “marker” of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony. Priyanka’s message, coming at a time when the event is seen by some quarters as being “usurped” by the BJP-RSS to the exclusion of all other political parties, was seen as Congress’s effort not only to show support for construction of the Ram temple but also claim its own part in it. In her statement on Tuesday, the first by a Gandhi family member, Priyanka said that for ages, Lord Ram’s character had served as a source of unity for the Indian subcontinent. “Lord Ram belongs to everyone. Lord Ram wants everyone’s welfare. That is why he is called ‘Maryada Purshottam’,” she said, adding that Ramayana left an “indelible mark on the civilisation of the world”. Several Congress members had earlier come out in support of the Ram temple. Party veteran Kamal Nath had announced last week that Madhya Pradesh Congress will contribute 11 silver bricks for the bhoomi pujan. On Tuesday, Nath hosted a ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ recital at his residence in Bhopal. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel announced his government’s plan to construct a grand temple in the name of Lord Ram’s mother, Kausalya, near Raipur, in addition to developing important locations on the ‘Ram Van Gaman Path’. Priyanka’s message focused on Lord Ram’s righteousness, sacrifice and his ability to unite people across caste and class barriers. Her support for Ram temple construction, however, was not received well by the IUML, an ally of Congress in Kerala and a key partner in Rahul Gandhi’s Wayanad constituency. The party has convened a meeting on August 5 to discuss Congress’s change of stand on the Ram temple issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-temple-ritual-marks-natl-unity-priyanka/articleshow/77362173.cms||Swati Mathur
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Folk balladeer, people’s poet Vangapadu Rao passes away||Visakhapatnam: Folk balladeer and ‘people’s poet’ Vangapadu Prasadu Rao passed away on Tuesday at the age of 78 at his home in Pedabondapalli in Vizianagaram district after a brief illness. Fondly called Vangapadu, the balladeer was popular among the youth of both Telugu states. Towards the end of his life, he was serving as a visiting professor of the theatre of arts wing of Andhra University. The state government had felicitated him with the Kala Ratna award in 2017. He has also received the Suddala Hanumanthu National Award Sangita Ratna and TANA’s Akkineni Foundation award— Rangastala Ratna. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. His daughter Vangapadu Usha is also a folk balladeer and is currently the head of Andhra Pradesh state creative and culture wing. Vangapadu, known for his rousing songs to inspire the youth to fight against oppression, used to work at Hindustan Shipyard Limited from 1976 to 1999. He is reported to have often said that his voice would always be raised against oppression. Many of his songs have been translated into various languages including Hindi, English, Tamil, Bengali and Kannada. His song Yantrametla Nadustunna Date garnered a great deal of admiration in the US as well as in the UK. His songs have also featured in films of famous directors such as T Krishna, Dasari Narayana Rao and R Narayana Murthi. His songs: Jajjanakari Janare, Namapalli Station Kadi and others were very famous in undivided AP. He has also published his songs in two books, one of them dedicated to farmers called Yeruvaka and another dedicated to tribals called Adavi Divitilu. Bhoomi Bhagavatam— a play by Vangapadu that dealt with corruption among elected and government officials at the village level had become famous in the 1970s and 80s. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao paid tribute to the deceased poet. His funeral was held with full state honours following orders of the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/folk-balladeer-peoples-poet-vangapadu-rao-passes-away/articleshow/77357766.cms||Siva G
August 5, 2020||Chennai||Rajapaksas calling the shots in Lanka election||Col R HariharanSri Lanka is one of the few countries going to polls in the midst of the Covid pandemic. The date for the parliamentary election was reset twice due to the legal complications of holding it during the pandemic threat. Successful management of the pandemic with the Covid accounting for only 11 deaths of the close to 3,000 cases, however, gave the government confidence to go ahead with it.India has ceased to be a major ‘vote catching’ device in Sri Lanka elections, particularly after the defeat of the LTTE in May 2009. The August 5 election is no exception to this norm. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-Rajapaksas equation, however, seems to have been strengthened after President Gotabaya’s election. Despite hiccups in executing Indian projects, the Rajapaksas know India can lend a helping hand to Sri Lanka to tide over its dire economic situation particularly when it is negotiating for $906 million loan.There are three major alliances of national parties, apart from the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) led by the Ilankai Tamil Arasu Katchchi (ITAK), which are reckonable in the election scene.Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa leads the Sri Lanka Peoples Freedom Alliance formed by his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) and former President Sirisena-led Sri Lanka Freedom Party has 15 other smaller parties as partners. The Alliance has adopted President Rajapaksa’s vision statement "Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour" as its manifesto. Its ten key policies include priority to national security; friendly, non-aligned, foreign policy and disciplined, law abiding and value based society.The SLPP hopes to retain the support of the Sinhala majority, who overwhelmingly voted for President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to power in last presidential election. President Rajapaksa has strongly come out in favour of abolishing 19th Amendment to the Constitution to restore full powers to the executive presidency; he does not favour the 13th Amendment which created the provincial councils to give level of autonomy to the minorities (Tamils). The SLPP alliance hopes to win two thirds majority of the seats, so that a new constitution can be drafted keeping these aspects in view.The Samagi Jana Baalawegaya (SJB), formed by deputy leader of the United National Party (UNP) Sajith Premadasa, has emerged as the main challenger to the Rajapaksas. Its manifesto supports a unitary state with 13th amendment, with dilution of power within the state. Importantly, it calls for de-politicisation of the army and the police.The Marxist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP)-led National Peoples Power (NPP) alliance consisting of 28 leftist organisations, hopes to transform the socio-economic structure, abolish executive presidency and wean away the people from communal politics.The United National Party (UNP) debilitated by the breakaway SJB, focuses mainly on upgrading the economy affected by Covid pandemic in its manifesto.The Tamil National Alliance manifesto has focused on the need for the international community continuing to play a role to ensure Tamil speaking people achieve permanent peace and live as equal citizens. Though it hinted at the fears of President Rajapaksa’s rule ushering in authoritarianism, leaders of the TNA with strident Sinhala nationalism have indicated their readiness to work with the Rajapaksas. Former Northern Province chief minister CV Wigneswaran’s Tamil National Peoples Front (TNPF) with strong emphasis on Tamil nationalism, has sidelined itself into irrelevance. Overall, in spite of internal dissensions, the TNA is likely to do well as alternate options for Tamils are few.The Rajapaksas hope to win at least 130 seats in the 225-member Parliament — a clear majority but 20 seats short of two-thirds votes they need to push through their "constitutional" agenda. Even if they do not reach that figure, they will probably win close to the majority. If we go by past experience, PM Mahinda Rajapaksa can probably attract members of other parties to crossover to his coalition; so it seems the Rajapaksas are calling the shots in this election.(The writer is a former MI specialist on South Asia. He served as Head of Intelligence of the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajapaksas-calling-the-shots-in-lanka-election/articleshow/77362176.cms||---
August 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Former MLA, CPM leader Sunnam Rajaiah dies of Covid-19||RAJAHMUNDRY: Former MLA Sunnam Rajaiah died of Covid-19 at the age of 62 at midnight Monday. The CPI(M) leader had been elected to the state assembly thrice, in 1999, 2004 and 2014 from Bhadrachalam constituency. Rajaiah’s two daughters had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. At the time, he too got tested as he was ill. But the test came out negative. However, he fell ill again and upon undergoing the test for the second time he tested positive for Covid-19. He breathed his last on Monday midnight at Vijayawada Covid-19 hospital. Rajaiah led a largely simple and austere life. He used to take the bus or an auto-rickshaw to the assembly. Once, he was stopped by assembly security when he took an auto-rickshaw to the legislature. Rajaiah stood for the rights of tribals and had fought for the proper implementation of the 1/70Act and the Forest Rights Act. —Samson Raj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/former-mla-cpm-leader-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77357775.cms||Samson Raj
