August 6, 2020||Thane||Thane: Short circuit in AC kills 70-year-old woman, husband sustains burns||MUMBAI: A 70-year-old woman died of suffocation while her elderly husband sustained serious burns after their bedroom air conditioner caught fire in their Mira Road home in the wee hours of Wednesday. Neighbours in the morning alerted the Kashimira police and the Mira-Bhayander fire brigade after they saw smoke coming from flat no 72 in Vrishparva building. Firemen forced entry into the room and found Geeta Anand and her husband Anil lying on the bed. The bedroom was badly charred. Firemen suspect a short circuit in the AC to be the cause. The couple was moved to the hospital where Geeta was declared dead. Anil, who sustained burns, is under treatment. Firemen said that the couple could have been fast asleep when the fire broke out. Geeta may have died of suffocation after inhaling the smoke. The body has been sent for autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. The couple's children, a daughter who lives in Mira Road and a son who stays in Singapore have been informed. A case of accidental death has been registered. Police are investigating that with heavy rains in the region on Wednesday, why the couple needed to switch on the AC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-short-circuit-in-ac-kills-70-year-old-woman-husband-sustains-burns/articleshow/77380816.cms||Sandhya Nair
August 6, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Only 3% jewellers in state have hallmarking certificate||INDORE: Just around 3% jewellers of Madhya Pradesh have so far taken hallmarking certificate as per Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), a government body that certifies the purity of gold. Madhya Pradesh Sarafa Association has around 20,000 jewellers, of which just 600 of them have availed the mandatory hallmarking certificate. The Centre has made hallmarking mandatory for gold jeweller and artefacts to ensure sale of pure quality though the deadline for hallmarking has been extended to June 1, 2021 from earlier 15 January 2021 amid the disruption due to the pandemic. The pace of applications from jewellers for hallmarking certificates has slowed down steeply since pandemic, said officials, receiving just 2-3 applications in a month since April as against over a dozen pre Covid-19 period. BIS (Bhopal) head Priti Bhatnagar said, “Very few applications are coming from jewellers. About 600 jewellers have so far opted for hallmarking certificate in the state. There was some momentum early this year but lockdown slowed down the pace.” Amid a crawling pace of hallmarking certificates in the state, BIS is now roping in jewellers associations in every district to create awareness and speed up the process of certification. The association has received bulk applications from jewellers of Dhar, Ujjain, Indore and few other districts but the drop in sales after spread of coronavirus and towering old inventories are discouraging many to opt for certificate. Jewellers said with launch of digital platform for Sarafa jewellers, the process of hallmark certification will expedite. As per the rule, jewellers will be allowed to sell only 14, 18 and 22 carats of gold jewellery from June next year and any violation will attract penalty and imprisonment. The association secretary Santosh Saraf said, “Now as sarafa jewellers are coming online for business, they will require hallmarking certificates to develop trust among customers and bridge the gap between them and branded chains.” Sarafa jewellers have launched an online platform for sale, purchase of jewellery. Indore Sarafa Association secretary Basant Soni said, “Jewellers have now started enquiring about the certification because they will need to woo customers online. Jewellers are understanding the importance of the certification but need some time to clear unsold old stocks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-only-3-jewellers-in-state-have-hallmarking-certificate/articleshow/77381041.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
August 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 52 CRPF men test positive for Covid-19||PATNA: At least 52 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel stationed at the Bihar sector headquarters of the paramilitary force on Ashiana-Digha Road in the city have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Bihar sector commandant (operations) MK Singh, who is also the public relations officer, told TOI that four more personnel tested positive on Wednesday. “Till Tuesday, the figure of positive personnel from the sector headquarters was 48,” he said. Singh said that out of 48, 45 were have been kept in a Covid-19 care centre run by the district administration near Kangan Ghat in Patna City, while three more were sent to the Patliputra Sports Complex in Kankarbagh. “All three are symptomatic due to which they have been sent to the sports complex where the district administration is keeping others patients also,” he said adding that all 45 at Kangan Ghat are asymptomatic. Commandant Singh said the four fresh cases will be sent to an isolation centre at CRPF’s composite hospital in Muzaffarpur on Thursday which also has a Covid-19 care cell. He said that there are quarantine centres at group centres in Mokama and other places having battalion headquarters of para-military forces. “Several others had undergone the antigen test even on Wednesday whose results are expected to come by Thursday,” he said adding, “Utmost precaution is being taken inside the sector headquarters after so many jawans tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/52-crpf-men-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/77380448.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 6, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Revised guidelines may reduce unwanted waste to incinerators||INDORE: Lack of proper segregation of food waste and other general solid waste from hazardous biomedical waste at healthcare facilities and quarantine centres has led to a jump in volume of Covid waste across state. The fourth revision in guidelines by Central Pollution Control Board for handling waste from Covid patients and suspects at different levels of waste generation is likely to aid in reducing unwanted waste going for incineration and proper segregation at source. Incinerator operators and officials of pollution board have pegged Covid waste generation in state at about 20 tonne per day. Hemant Sharma, director, environment, Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board said, “The fourth revision is aimed at reducing unwanted items going into Covid-19 waste for incineration. Everything is not meant to go into incineration with Covid waste but due to concerns around this pandemic almost everything is piling up as Covid waste and efforts are on to have proper segregation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.” The new note on revised guidelines has suggested to use non-disposable items for serving food and cleaned and disinfected after use as per the hospital guidelines. In case of disposable items, it is advisable to use bio-degradable cutlery. As per the latest addition to the guidelines, general solid waste comprising wrappers of medicines/syringes, fruit peel offs, empty juice bottles or tetra packs, used water bottles, discarded papers, carton boxes of medicines, left-over food and disposable food plates among other should be collected separately as per Solid Waste Management Rules. Aasd Warsi, owner of an incinerator service in Indore said, “Food waste is not getting segregated from Covid waste at most centres in state. Leftover food waste should go with municipal waste where it turns into compost or go for methanation. Mixing of unwanted items creates an unnecessary volume of Covid waste but in Indore a proper segregation system is already in place.” Indore generates an average of 4,000 kg per day of Covid waste, according to regional pollution control board. The volume had dropped to 2,500 kg a day past month but rose again after a spike in positive cases in the city. The incinerator capacity in Indore is 500 kg per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-revised-guidelines-may-reduce-unwanted-waste-to-incinerators/articleshow/77381343.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala sees 1,195 new Covid cases, 1,234 recoveries in a day||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Positive cases, contact cases and recoveries crossed 1,000-mark on Wednesday in Kerala which reported 1,195 new Covid-19 cases, 1,004 contact cases and 1234 recoveries during the day. Of the cases reported through local transmission, the source of 79 cases are unknown. There are 66 cases among those who arrived from foreign countries and 125 from other states. The state also witnessed seven Covid deaths. Thiruvananthapuram continued to report the highest number of Covid cases with 274 new patients followed by 167 in Malappuram, 128 in Kasaragod, 120 in Ernakulam, 108 from Alappuzha, 86 in Thrissur, 61 from Kannur, 51 in Kottayam, 41 from Palakkad, 39 each in Idukki and Kozhikode, 37 from Pathanamthitta, 30 in Kollam and 14 cases are from Wayanad. As many as 13 healthcare workers were diagnosed with the disease of which four are from Kozhikode, three from Thiruvananthapuram, two from Ernakulam and one each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kannur. Among the contact cases, 12 KSE employees and three 3 KLF employees in Thrissur, three INHS personnel in Ernakulam and two DSC personnel in Kannur are among those infected. So far, 17,537 people have been cured of Covid-19 and at present, 11,492 patients are undergoing treatment. As many as 1,47,974 people are under observation in various districts of the state. Meanwhile, 21 new places were declared as hotspots while 15 were excluded from the list. There are currently 515 coronavirus hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-sees-1195-new-covid-cases-1234-recoveries-in-a-day/articleshow/77381474.cms||Rajiv G
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Financial assistance for Malayali NRIs stranded in Kerala due to lockdown||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced a financial assistance package for pravasi Malayalees (Non-Resident Keralites) who could not go back to their place of work abroad and are stranded in the state since the Covid-19 lockdown. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, it has been decided to allot Rs 50 crore from the chief minister's Disaster Relief Fund to Norka Roots to provide financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each to expatriates who are unable to return to other countries. This is in addition to the Rs 8.5 crore given earlier. The chief minister also said the remuneration of National Health Mission (NHM) employees, both on contract and on daily basis, will be increased in addition to incentives and risk allowances. “Since the remuneration of NHM employees, who are involved in Covid defence work is limited, those on contract and also those employed on a daily basis will be provided additional benefits. Incentives and risk allowances have been introduced. There will incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 22.68 crores per month,” he said. The minimum wage for Grade I (medical officer and specialists) will be raised from Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per month with a risk allowance of 20%. Grade II (senior consultants, dental surgeons and Ayush Doctors) will be given a 20% risk allowance. The minimum monthly salary of Grade III (staff nurses, junior health inspectors, pharmacists and technicians) will be increased from Rs 13,500 to Rs 20,000 along with a 25% risk allowance. Last grade employees will be given a 30% risk allowance in addition to their daily wages. Incentives and Risk Allowances will be given to all newly hired employees engaged in Covid related work. The Covid Health Policy packages for various ailments will also be provided to employees who are not covered under the KASP scheme. It was decided to give a Chief Minister’s certificate of appreciation to all the members of the Covid Brigade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/financial-assistance-for-malayali-nris-stranded-in-kerala-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/77381709.cms||Rajiv G
August 6, 2020||World||'Do you really need to party?' WHO asks world's youth||GENEVA: Young people must curb their party instincts to help prevent new outbreaks of the COVID-19 disease, officials at the World Health Organization (WHO) pleaded on Wednesday.  Tired of lockdowns and eager to enjoy the northern hemisphere summer, young people in some countries have been contributing to resurgences by gathering again for parties, barbecues and holidays.  Even in Geneva, where the global UN health body is based, cabarets and clubs were closed last week after evidence that nearly half of new cases were coming from there.  "Younger people also need to take on board that they have a responsibility," said WHO emergencies chief Mike Ryan in an online discussion. "Ask yourself the question: do I really need to go to that party?"  Young people are less likely to suffer a severe form of the respiratory disease than their parents or grandparents, but the proportion of those infected aged 15-24 has risen three-fold in about five months, WHO data shows.  Ryan said young people were often reticent in giving their details or disclosing friends' names to contact tracers. "It's tough but it is what is needed to stop the virus," he said.  Swiss newspapers said that in one night club in Zurich from which cases emerged recently, party-goers had given fake names including "Donald Duck".  As well as reducing risks to others, WHO epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove said young people should be careful as even a mild version of the disease might have long-term consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/do-you-really-need-to-party-who-asks-worlds-youth/articleshow/77381896.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||HC notice to Raj speaker on merger of BSP MLAs with Cong||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Wednesday issued notice to the state assembly speaker, CP Joshi, seeking his reply by 10.30 am on Thursday on an appeal petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and Bahujan Samaj Party questioning the merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress and seeking a stay on the speaker’s order on the merger. BSP and Dilawar had challenged a high court single bench order that declined to stay the speaker’s ex parte order allowing the merger on September 18 2019. The single bench order of July 30, while rejecting the plea for a stay on the speaker’s order, issued notice to the speaker and the six MLAs asking them to file replies by August 11. A division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Prakash Gupta issued notice after the petitioners pleaded for a stay on the merger order which the court refused to grant ex parte. The petitioners said all six BSP MLAs who joined Congress are now with the Gehlot camp under tight security in a hotel in Jaisalmer and serving a court notice to them was impossible. In such a case there could not be any hearing in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-notice-to-raj-speaker-on-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77381914.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 6, 2020||India||Now, five-judge SC bench to hear EWS quota pleas||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday referred to a constitution bench of five-judges, a batch of pleas and transfer petitions challenging the Centre’s decision to grant 10% reservation in jobs and education to economically weaker section and Constitution (103 amendment) Act 2019. A bench of Chief Justie of India SA Bobde, R Subhash Reddy and BR Gavai said that it is of the view that the questions raised in a batch of pleas and transfer petitions “do constitute substantial questions of law to be considered by a bench of five judges”. They said, “It is clear from the language of Article 145(3) of the Constitution and Order XXXVIII Rule 1(1) of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, the matters which involve substantial questions of law as to interpretation of constitutional provisions they are required to be heard by a bench of five judges”. It had reserved its verdict on July 31, 2019, a little over a year on the limited point of reference to the larger bench. The bench said whether the impugned Amendment Act violates the basic structure of the Constitution, by applying the tests of ‘width’ and ‘identity’ with reference to equality provisions of the Constitution, is a matter which constitutes substantial question of law. The Supreme Court allowed the transfer petition filed by the Centre seeking transfer of writ petitions filed before various high courts to the apex court involving the challenge to the validity of the Constitution (103 amendment) Act 2019. It said this court has issued notice in a writ petition, wherein validity of the very same Amendment Act is questioned before this court; “We deem it appropriate that these transfer petitions are fit to be allowed”. “For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the transfer petitions and refer this batch of cases, including the cases covered by transfer applications, to a bench of five judges,” it said. Petitioners which include several NGOs, individuals and lawyers have argued that the impugned amendments violate the basic structure of the Constitution mainly on the ground that the existing provisions empower to provide affirmative action only in favour of socially backward classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-five-judge-sc-bench-to-hear-ews-quota-pleas/articleshow/77381846.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||August 22 CLAT postponed||The Common Law Admission Test, set to be held on August 22 in 67 cities, has been postponed indefinitely, according to Sudhir Krishnaswamy, vicechancellor of National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. About 68,000 students had registered for the test for undergraduate admissions and 9,000 for postgraduate admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/august-22-clat-postponed/articleshow/77381985.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Jaipur’s Ramganj back on its feet after being knocked out by Covid||Covid flew into Ramganj on the breath of a 45-year-old businessman. He had returned from Oman and mingled with his friends and neighbours in the packed bylanes of this old Jaipur pocket until he tested positive for the disease on March 26. The aftershock was severe. Ramganj was declared a red zone and the epicenter of Jaipur’s Covid outbreak. Three difficult months followed during which 23 residents died of Covid, 5,157 were placed in institutional quarantine and more than 1 lakh isolated themselves at home. “It was a very bad time for us,” says Nazneen Bano, a housewife. “We were strictly confined to our homes and ran out of flour twice as the government’s ration was not enough.” The restriction on people’s movement hurt livelihoods. Many of the residents are artisans who work in Jaipur’s famous gems and jewellery workshops. Others drive e-rickshaws and cabs, or work as guards. “Many lost their jobs,” says Sandeep Agarwal, a jeweller in Ramganj. And as the area became synonymous with Covid in Jaipur, landlords lost tenants. “People moved out as their employers were wary of letting them come to work,” says Agarwal. Read more from this seriesThey might never forget it but Ramganj’s long nightmare is over. There have been few new cases since late June. Most residents have found work, and the streets are alive again. The people have had to adapt. Some are stitching masks for a livelihood now. Others sell vegetables and even work as casual labour. “We are determined to get our lives back on track. I am sure once this pandemic is over, all these hardships will be forgotten,” says Muzaffar Aqleen, a resident. Qayyum Akhtar, another resident, says the city administration, police and the health authorities all played a role in the fight, but ultimately, “people overcame the fear of Covid with patience.” Officials in Jaipur agree. “When the first case was reported in Ramganj, local people were scared and we encountered stiff resistance from them. They were not cooperating,” says Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer for the area. The health department roped in religious leaders, local doctors and other influential people to convince them about the importance of contact tracing, testing and screening. Slowly, they cornered the virus. “They have won their battle against the disease,” declares Sharma. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Covid-19: Jaipur’s Ramganj back on its feet after being knocked out by virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaipurs-ramganj-back-on-its-feet-after-being-knocked-out-by-covid/articleshow/77375931.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 6, 2020||India||NRN, Pitroda to speak at meet for GATE, ESE aspirants||BENGALURU: Online learning platform Unacademy, in association with The Times of India, will hold a live virtual summit for GATE and ESE aspirants across the country on August 7-9. The summit, Unacademy EnGenius, will provide learners the opportunity to connect with top educators, visionaries in the field of engineering and senior leadership team at Unacademy to gain insights into cracking two of the toughest examinations in the country. The summit will include sessions of 42 high-profile speakers including Prakash Javadekar, Union cabinet minister; NR Narayana Murthy, chairman emeritus and co-founder, Infosys; Sam Pitroda, former telecom engineer, inventor and entrepreneur; Sonam Wangchuk, engineer and reformist; R Madhavan, actor and Balaji Viswanathan, CEO, Invento Robotics. The event is open to all — participants have to register in advance. To view the complete schedule and to be a part of the summit, learners can visit the Unacademy En-Genius page and register for free at www.unacademy. com/event/engenius||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nrn-pitroda-to-speak-at-meet-for-gate-ese-aspirants/articleshow/77382295.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Ayodhya erupts in tears of joy, diyas usher in early Diwali||AYODHYA: While PM Narendra Modi performed bhoomi pujan, the city erupted in celebration. As sound of conch shells, bells and firecrackers rent the air, more than one quintal sweets were distributed by residents. And in the evening, it was yet another Diwali here with lakhs of diyas lit in temples and along the banks of the Saryu. Patna’s Mahavir Mandir Trust got 1.25 lakh ‘Raghupati’ laddoos prepared, reportedly with besan from Australia and ghee from Kerala. Another 1.15 lakh laddoos were prepared by devotees of Devraha Hans Baba. Read AlsoRam temple in Ayodhya: How events unfolded over the yearsMore than 230 years after the construction of Babri Masjid, the first recorded incident of religious violence over the site took place in 1853, as Hindus believed the site to be Lord Ram's birthplace . In the 1980s, the temple movement started and the masjid was demolished in 1992 by Kar Sevaks. TheThough the temple town was fortified and its borders sealed, excitement brimmed over in every heart. Muslims too have welcomed the bhoomi pujan. “It’s the beginning of the making of a new India in which both Hindus and Muslims will live in harmony. My best wishes to my Hindu brothers for the Ram Mandir,” said Mohammad Rashid, trustee of mosque Trust set up by Sunni Waqf Board for constructing alternate mosque in lieu of Babri Masjid. Athar Hussain, secretary of Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, said “We welcome the ceremony at Ramjanmabhoomi just like we accepted the verdict of the apex court, which has many positive aspects for Muslims. It’s a good beginning and an end to a centuries-old conflict.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-erupts-in-tears-of-joy-diyas-usher-in-early-diwali/articleshow/77382795.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 6, 2020||India||‘Jai Siya Ram’: PM sends out a subtle message of benevolence||When PM Narendra Modi chose to hail Lord Ram with the ‘Jai Siya Ram’ chant instead of the popular ‘Jai Shri Ram’ after the bhoomi pujan, it left many curious. “First let us remember Lord Ram and Mata Janki ... Siyavar Ram Chandra Ki Jai… Jai Siya Ram,” the PM said in his speech. Since the launch of the Ram Temple movement in 1984, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ has been the most popular mode of greeting among the saffron forces. It took the form of a war cry in the heat of the temple moment. However, votaries of ‘Jai Siya Ram’ believed that Jai Shri Ram was a militarised way of greeting and took away the benevolence and benign nature. It also de-emphasised the role of Sita. Read AlsoRam temple in Ayodhya: How events unfolded over the yearsMore than 230 years after the construction of Babri Masjid, the first recorded incident of religious violence over the site took place in 1853, as Hindus believed the site to be Lord Ram's birthplace . In the 1980s, the temple movement started and the masjid was demolished in 1992 by Kar Sevaks. TheThey felt that Jai Siya Ram represented the benign character of Ram — who is known as ‘maryada purushottam’. “While Jai Shri Ram reflected belligerence, the driving sentiments in Jai Siya Ram are love and submission,” said Mahant Girishpati Tripathi of the Tewari Mandir. Jai Shri Ram supporters, however, say there was no difference between the two usages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jai-siya-ram-pm-sends-out-a-subtle-message-of-benevolence/articleshow/77383017.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||India||My tweets are for good of judiciary: Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Facing contempt proceedings for criticising the CJI and his four predecessors, advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that his tweets were not malicious and referred to the 2018 press conference of four senior most judges of the SC against the then CJI in a bid to convince the court that fair criticism cannot be termed contemptuous and it is for betterment of the institution. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Bhushan, told a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari that even retired judges had made statements that “judiciary is under challenge” and Bhushan tweeted his opinion out of “love and affection” for the institution as he was concerned about its functioning which has recently been criticised by different sections of people. Referring to Bhushan's contribution in development of jurisprudence in the country, Dave told the bench that around 50 judgements have been pronounced on his various pleas against corruption, environment protection and other public issues. "The tweets are not with malice but it was done out of love and affection as we want to strengthen the judiciary. If the court fails to check the Executive and does not protect citizens then people have right to raise question. So please do not misunderstand it. Your lordships have themselves said that survival of democracy depends on Bar and Bench," Dave said. "Hundreds of people tweeted that picture (of CJI S A Bobde) and wrote many things. Can the court take action against all of them. The tweets were not contemptuous," he said and pointed out that many people were hounded and suffered during Covid-19 pandemic but the apex court did not intervene on time to protect their interests. "I beg and beseech lordships not to proceed in this case. His tweet was a criticism. It needs to be taken objectively. If former judges can criticise the institute then why cannot Mr Bhushan?," Dave said. Referring to sexual harassment allegation against the then CJI Ranjan Gogoi, Dave said the SC staff who had made the allegation has been reinstated by the apex court itself and raised question on whether she can also be hauled up for contempt. The bench, after holding hearing for about three hours, reserved its verdict. Dave at the outset of the proceedings said that the court wrongly took cognisance on a plea filed by one lawyer as the rule says that opinion of the attorney general was required to take cognisance on a contempt plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/my-tweets-are-for-good-of-judiciary-bhushan/articleshow/77383027.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 6, 2020||India||PM Modi: Ram popular in Muslim nations too||In his Ayodhya speech, PM Modi sought to contradict the depiction of Ram in certain quarters as a phenomenon confined to Hindus of the Hindi belt and as a patriarchal figure. He referred to versions of Ramayan in all Indian languages, including one written by Guru Gobind Singh, as well as the popularity of the epic in Indonesia, home to the single largest concentration of Muslims; Malaysia, another predominantly Muslim country; as well as Ajmer, the site of a revered Sufi shrine besides the Muslim-majority Union Territory of Lakshadweep. "Ram belongs to all, Ram lives in all," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-ram-popular-in-muslim-nations-too/articleshow/77383067.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Centre agrees to CBI probe into Sushant’s death||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput even as the Supreme Court sought details of Mumbai police’s investigation so far to determine whether it has done a professional job. “In a matter like this, involving the unfortunate death of a very gifted and talented actor under circumstances which are unusual, it is to be investigated whether criminality is involved. When some high-profile person of the cinema world dies in such circumstances, everyone has an opinion. The court will go by what the law says. Let the Maharashtra government show details of the probe. Till the next hearing, we will expect everyone to have a hands-off approach,” Justice Hrishikesh Roy said. While disapproving quarantining of a Bihar police officer by Maharashtra government as “not a good signal”, Justice Roy granted three days to all parties— Rajput’s father, Bihar government, Maharashtra government and Mumbai police—to place on record their stand on actor Rhea Chakraborty’s petition seeking transfer of the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father against her in Patna to Mumbai. It will hear the case again next week. Before the Bihar government and Rajput’s father K K Singh sparred with the Maharashtra government over who should probe the actor’s death, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the SC that the Centre had accepted Bihar government’s proposal for a CBI probe and that a notification would be issued shortly. Mehta said the in-principle decision to accept the recommendation was taken in view of demands for a CBI probe by Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, his father and the Bihar government. Chakraborty, who had tweeted to home minister Amit Shah demanding a CBI probe later moved the SC seeking transfer of the FIR to Mumbai. Counsel for Rajput’s father, senior advocate Vikas Singh, said, “There is clear evidence of Rajput being beaten up mercilessly and strangled to death prior to stage-managing of the suicide. There must be a CBI probe as the Bihar police is being obstructed by Mumbai police from investigating the case,” he said. For Maharashtra government, senior advocate R Basant asked, “Is there any cause of action for registration of FIR in Patna? Look at the consequences. It affects federalism. Rajput’s father has not said or given anything in writing to Mumbai police till date. Now, the case is being driven by politics. If at all Bihar police registered an FIR, it should have been transferred to Mumbai. Bihar cannot recommend CBI probe into a case over which it has no jurisdiction.” Appearing for the Bihar government, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and the state’s standing counsel Keshav Mohan said, “It is strange that Maharashtra is talking of federalism. They quarantined a senior Bihar police officer when he reached Mumbai for investigation of the case. As the CBI has taken over the probe, this petition (by Chakraborty) has become infructuous.” Justice Roy said Maharashtra police has to satisfy the court that it has done a professional job, but disapproved of the quarantining of a Bihar police officer. “The case has hogged so much media time. Quarantining a Bihar police officer does not send a good signal. When so many eyes are focussed on the case, are you sending the correct signal? Whatever the nature of the case Mumbai police has registered, you give details and ensure that it is done in a professional way,” he said. Watch Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case: Breather for Nitish Kumar as Centre accepts Bihar government’s plea for CBI probe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-agrees-to-cbi-probe-into-sushants-death/articleshow/77383103.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 6, 2020||India||Over 40,000 Covid deaths in India now, record 918 on Wed||NEW DELHI: Deaths from Covid-19 in India crossed the 40,000 mark, the fifth highest in the world, even as the country recorded its biggest single-day surge in fatalities at 918 on Wednesday, with the count crossing 900 for the first time. Fresh cases too surged to 56,695 on Wednesday, the second-highest in a day so far, after a slight dip over the past two days, as per data collated from state governments. The country’s Covid-19 caseload stood at 19,61,357. Although India’s coronavirus mortality rate is one of the lowest among the worst-hit countries, the death toll has been rising sharply with a spurt in cases in recent days. The country has recorded 20,000 deaths in the past 30 days, with the last 10,000 coming in 13 days and nearly 5,000 in the past six days. The previous highest daily Covid-19 toll was 848 recorded on August 1. On Wednesday, at least seven states/UTs reported their highest daily death tolls, led by Maharashtra, which reported as many as 334 fatalities. The other states were Tamil Nadu (112 deaths), Andhra Pradesh (77), Bengal (61), Punjab (29), Bihar (22) and Puducherry (7). Karnataka recorded 100 deaths, although the state has reported higher numbers in the recent past. Delhi, on the other hand, reported 11 deaths, its lowest single-day toll in over a month. Both Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh reported fresh cases in excess of 10,000 on Wednesday, with Maharashtra reporting 10,309 and Andhra 10,128. At least four states/UTs reported their highest jump in infections — Bengal (2816 cases), Assam (2,886), Goa (348) and Puducherry (286). In Maharashtra, on the 150th day since the first Covid19 case was reported, the state reported 334 deaths, its highest in a single day so far. The state added 10,309 new Covid19 cases on Wednesday taking the total Covid cases in the state to 4,68,265 and fatalities to 16,476. Pune became the second district after Mumbai to enter the dubious club of one lakh cases. In a happy milestone for the state, the number of recoveries crossed the 3-lakh mark to touch 3,05,521. The state’s recovery rate rose to 65.25% after 6,165 discharges on Wednesday. Mumbai though was back to reporting 1000-plus cases after a decline in daily cases in the last two days. It reported 1,125 cases and 42 deaths, taking the total tally to 1,19,240 and deaths to 6,591. For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 100 mark to a record 112. The victims included a four-day-old baby from Madurai. Among the deceased, five were brought dead to hospital and eight others had no comorbidities. The state's overall Covid-19 toll is now 4,461. On the positive side the number of people getting discharged following treatment was above the 6,000-mark for the past two days. With 6,031 patients getting discharged on Wednesday, the state now has 54,184 active cases. Tamil Nadu reported 5,175 new Covid-19 cases, with Chennai continuing to report the highest cases (1,044) and deaths (25). Bihar reported 2,701 fresh cases and 22 more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. The number of deaths surpassed the previous single-day record. A 10-day-old male child was found infected and admitted at AIIMS-Patna. With 42,370 recoveries, there were 21,991 active cases in state, which surpassed its previous one-day record of samples testing as 51,924 people were tested in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-40000-covid-deaths-in-india-now-record-918-on-wed/articleshow/77383140.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||179 professional colleges seek closure, approval dropped for 44||MUMBAI: Several engineering, management, pharmacy and other professional colleges have either downed shutters or trimmed their capacity this year, reducing the number of seats by over 1.5 lakh. Also, several institutes that had the requisite government approval in 2019-20 have not renewed it for the academic year 2020. A total of 179 professional colleges have applied to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for campus closure. While the maximum closures will be in UP (31), Maharashtra and TN are at the second spot with 22 institutes having applied to shut down in each of the state. The developments could increase competition for seats. “Few AICTE-approved colleges have not sought approval this year in view of large number of seats lying vacant over the last 5 years, making it unviable to continue the institutions,” AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabuddhe said. “Moreover, pharmacy and architecture seats have now come under their respective regulatory bodies after a Supreme Court ruling stated that for the functioning of existing colleges and setting up of new ones, approval of only the Council of Architecture and Pharmacy Council of India will be mandatory,” Sahasrabuddhe added. Pan-India, 72 undergraduate/postgraduate engineering colleges, 58 MBA schools, and 71 diploma-granting institutes and polytechnics are among those that will down shutters. This will result in the reduction of 34,553 seats for 2020-21. Also, colleges have trimmed their capacity. While some courses are not on offer in some cases, the class size has been reduced in others—762 institutes have shaved off 69,965 seats. On the other hand, the AICTE has approved the starting of 164 new colleges besides okaying an increase in capacity in 1,311 colleges. “Fearing Covid, several colleges may actually not start this year despite have AICTE nod. Many don’t have facilities for holding online classes, and students too may not seek admissions in brand new institutes that they have not visited,” an officer from the Directorate of Technical Education, Maharashtra, said. “In fact, several colleges that applied for increasing intake last year may not actually offer those additional seats in this year and may effectively use the AICTE’s permission only from the next year’s admission process. For many, the reason to close a few course offerings or trim capacity is also because some colleges have terminated faculty members to cut costs. Then, to maintain the prescribed teacher-student ratio, colleges have had to reduce intake capacity,” said a senior faculty member from Mumbai. Vaibhav Narawde, president of Mumbai University and College Teachers Association, said, “Students are finding it difficult to pay fees, government scholarship is also not coming through, hundreds of teachers have not been paid salaries since March. We feel more college closures are on their way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/179-professional-colleges-seek-closure-approval-dropped-for-44/articleshow/77383176.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 6, 2020||India||On August 5 anniversary, J&K LG Murmu resigns||SRINAGAR: In a surprise development, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor G C Murmu resigned on Wednesday, exactly a year after the nullification of Article 370 in the erstwhile state and barely nine months after he took over the reins of the newly created Union territory. His resignation comes in the wake of controversies over his comments on restoration of 4G services at a time when the matter was in the Supreme Court and the Election Commission's objections to his remarks on the timing of the assembly polls in the UT. Home ministry sources confirmed that Murmu had put in his papers. It was not immediately known who will replace him in J&K. There was speculation whether Murmu could be the next Comptroller and Auditor General CAG with incumbent Rajiv Mehrishi being appointed LG, but there was no confirmation. Though the reason for Murmu’s exit is not clear, TOI has learned that the Centre was unhappy with his recent statements to the media on both issues — the timing of the J&K polls and the restoration of 4G services in the UT. The resignation though was a surprise as he had given interviews on Tuesday and scheduled more media interactions on Wednesday that were cancelled. The Election Commission had taken exception to the LG’s repeated remarks during media interviews regarding the time-table for polls. Stating that any decision regarding polls and their timing is the sole remit of the EC, the commission had, in a rare statement against another constitutional authority, stated: "It would be proper for authorities other than the Election Commission to refrain from making such statements which virtually tantamount to interfering with the constitutional mandate of the Election Commission". Surprisingly, Murmu in fresh media interviews on Tuesday, again spoke on timing of the polls and even commented on EC's criticism. On 4G restoration, too, the issue had caused embarrassment as his statement on early restoration came even as the matter is pending in court and was not in line with the Centre’s submissions before the court. A senior J&K government officer said he left for Jammu on Wednesday by chopper. Murmu was to meet a media delegation from Delhi on Wednesday afternoon but it did not materialise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-august-5-anniversary-jk-lg-murmu-resigns/articleshow/77383195.cms||Bharti Jain
August 6, 2020||India||MoD document details PLA intrusions in May||NEW DELHI: The defence establishment has officially acknowledged that Chinese soldiers intruded into Indian territory in eastern Ladakh in May, amid the ongoing deadlock over troop disengagement at the faceoff sites in Pangong Tso and Gogra despite five rounds of top-level military talks. “The Chinese side transgressed in the areas of Kugrang Nala (near Patrolling Point-15, north of Hot Springs), Gogra (PP-17A) and north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-18,” a document, uploaded on the defence ministry’s website on Tuesday, said. The word ‘transgression’ — used by India as a euphemism for ‘intrusion’ across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China — has not found mention in any official statement or document since the military confrontation erupted after the first clash between rival troops on the north bank of Pangong Tso on May 5-6. The document said the stand-off could be prolonged and the evolving situation may need prompt action. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, in a television interview in end-May, had said a sizeable number of Chinese soldiers had “come a little further than they used to earlier”. But it was officially clarified that it should not be “misinterpreted as if Chinese troops entered the Indian side of the LAC”. After the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15, which left 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops dead, the external affairs ministry said the Chinese attempt to erect structures “just across the LAC” had led to the clashes. The MEA also said China had hindered “traditional” Indian patrolling patterns. Subsequent MEA statements stressed the need for restoration of status quo through early and complete disengagement of troops “along the LAC” and de-escalation in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols. TOI has been reporting since May that PLA soldiers have intruded into Indian territory at multiple points in eastern Ladakh. The MoD document, which recounts the “major activities” undertaken in June, uses the word ‘transgression’ to describe the Chinese aggression on the LAC since May. After the Chinese transgression, the first corps commander-level talks were held on June 6 to defuse the situation, but the “violent faceoff” took place on June 15, “resulting in casualties of both sides”, the government said. Taking note of the second corps commander-level talks on June 22, it said, “While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged. The situation in eastern Ladakh arising from unilateral aggression by China continues to be sensitive and requires close monitoring and prompt action based on the evolving situation.” As reported by TOI earlier, the fifth round of corps commander-level talks on August 2 failed to break the stalemate over the stalled troop disengagement in the Pangong Tso area, where a large number of PLA troops have occupied the 8-km stretch from ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-8’ (mountainous spurs jutting into the lake) since May. A smaller number of PLA troops have not withdrawn from PP-17A at Gogra. The PLA has also remained intransigent about its deep intrusion into what India considers its territory in the strategically-located Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sector. Sources on Wednesday reiterated that more military talks, with higher politico-diplomatic intervention, will be required to break the stalemate. “There was no meeting ground during the military talks on August 2. Both sides did not agree to each other’s proposals,” said a source. Watch LAC row: MoD document details PLA intrusions in May||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mod-document-details-pla-intrusions-in-may/articleshow/77383206.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 6, 2020||India||On 370 anniversary, China calls move ‘illegal’, draws flak from India||NEW DELHI: India on Wednesday asked China not to comment on internal affairs of other nations after Beijing said India’s reorganisation of Jammu & Kashmir was illegal. On the first anniversary of India’s reorganisation of Jammu & Kashmir into two Union Territories — J&K and Ladakh — China had said “any unilateral change to the status quo” was “illegal and invalid”. “...The Chinese side has no locus standi whatsoever on this matter and is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The remark by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin was in response to a question about China’s “principled stance” of calling for resolution of the Kashmir issue under the UN Charter and India’s “unilateral measures” to change the demography of J&K. Wang said China was paying a “high degree” of attention to the Kashmir issue and its position was clear and consistent. “This issue is a dispute left over from history between Pakistan and India. That is an objective fact as laid out by the UN Charter, UN Security Council resolutions and the bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India. Any unilateral change to the status quo is illegal and invalid,”he said. The official went on to add that the issue should be resolved peacefully through dialogue and consultations between the parties concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-370-anniversary-china-calls-move-illegal-draws-flak-from-india/articleshow/77383229.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa fish vendor tests +ve, mkt shut||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) on Wednesday shut the town’s fish market after a fish vendor from Nerul tested positive for Covid-19. She had got tested for the virus at the North Goa district hospital. After she was found to have contracted Covid-19, MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza directed all other fish vendors who may have come in contact with the woman to get themselves tested. “Till then, the Mapusa fish market will remain closed,” he said. Following relaxations in the lockdown, the council had reopened the town’s fish market in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-fish-vendor-tests-ve-mkt-shut/articleshow/77382227.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Covid survivors recall sleepless nights at hospitals||PATNA: It was a nightmare for some Covid-19 fighters as they had to spend over a month in hospitals as their test results came positive 5 to 6 times before they finally tested negative and got discharged. Some of them claimed they had spent restless nights at isolation wards while weeping and praying with little hope of survival. A 63-year-old man from Bikram, who was discharged from the AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday after spending almost 27 days there, was tested positive on July 12 and admitted the next day. “I don’t know how I got infected, but I’m glad to have been cured now. I have seen deaths in the hospital over the last 27 days I spent there. I was scared and spent sleepless nights praying for my test results to come negative. The positivity, proper diet, care by medical staff and timely medicine intake helped me recover,” he said. A 54-year-old man from Buddha Colony, who was also admitted at AIIMS-Patna on July 2 but got discharged on July 9, said his stay in the isolation ward was ‘the darkest time of his life’. “Every time I had horrible dreams in my sleep. I was suffering from fever, cough and insomnia. I always felt uneasy and lost appetite. I still easily get fatigued. I’m taking precautions at home and regularly exercise,” he said. Another 60-year-old man from Jamalpur in Munger district, who spent almost 21 days at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, said he had lost hope when his fifth report came positive. “I was tested positive in April first week through contact tracing. I was having mild fever and dry cough since March, but I thought it was because of change in weather. I spent over a week in Munger health facility before being referred to NMCH on April 15 after breathlessness. I thought I would not recover as my fifth report also came positive. I started imagining things, mainly worst, which I don’t want to remember now,” he recounted. “I’m a diabetic. So, I had taken more precautions than any other patients admitted at that time. I was under psychological pressure even after my discharge from the hospital on May 1. It still scares me when I hear about the Covid deaths,” he said. Meanwhile, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar Chapter, Dr Rajiv Ranjan told this newspaper on Wednesday that some people suffered for longer period because of various strains of the virus. “Since, it is a novel virus, the experts are still not sure about its presence, response and fatalities, Around 75-80% people recover with little or no medication while 10% need more care and 2-5% need ventilator support. These variations are mainly because of different strains of virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-survivors-recall-sleepless-nights-at-hospitals/articleshow/77380416.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 6, 2020||Patna||Special prayers performed at Gaya Vishnupad Temple||GAYA: Special prayers were performed in the world famous Vishnupad Temple at Gaya to mark the occasion of Bhumi Pujan in Ayodhya for the construction of a magnificent Ram temple. Murlidhar Acharya, the chief priest of the Vishnupad Temple, led the prayers. As per programme, 5100 earthen lamps were lit at different points in and around the shrine in the evening. “It is a dream come true,” said Udai Verma, one of the founders of Gaya unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Verma is a patron of the VHP’s state unit. VHP leader Mani Lal Barik said special programmes organized by the Hindu body spearheading the Ram Temple movement, included honouring five kar sevaks, who took part in the 1992 ‘kar seva’ in Ayodhya. Though a large number of kar sevaks from the district had participated in the yatra, symbolic honour was given to five of the participants. The kar sevaks, honoured with a saffron scarf, included Chitranjan Kumar, Shiv Lal Bhaiyya and Dinesh Gandhi. “Tributes were also paid to an anonymous kar sevak from Manpur locality of the town, who was killed in the police firing in Ayodhya,” Barik said. Recalling Lord Ram-Sita’s Gaya connect, a retired professor of Philosophy, Arun Kumar Prasad, said the Lord’s footprints can be felt in the holy city even today. “As per the religious scriptures, Lord Ram and his consort Goddess Sita visited Gaya during the period of their banishment to the forests to offer pind-daan to their ancestors,” he said. According to Gayawal panda Mahesh Guput Pitalkewadwale, Lord Ram and Goddess Sita separately performed pind-daan. “Goddess Sita offered ‘pinds’ made of Falgu sand as the required materials like barley flour, sandal and flowers were not instantly available. Lord Ram performed the rituals as per the tradition at the point which is now known as ‘Ram Gaya’. Sita Kund, located in the vicinity of Vishnupad Temple, is also one of the pind-daan vedis,” Mahesh said. Believers also attribute the perennial dryness of Falgu river to a curse by Sita as the river, despite being a witness to the ritual performance, denied having seen it when asked by Lord Ram. Since then, the river flows sub-surface, believe the followers of the faith. Earlier, the district unit of the VHP handed over a silver brick and Falgu sand to Kameshwar Chaupal, the kar sevak who had been the first one to lay the brick at the Ram Janmbhumi in Ayodhya in 1992.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-prayers-performed-at-gaya-vishnupad-temple/articleshow/77380665.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 6, 2020||Patna||NDA hails Ayodhya event, opposition flays BJP for delay||PATNA: Leaders of most political parties hailed the Bhumi Pujan for Ram Temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. However, opposition parties criticised BJP for delay in the Ram temple resolved and performing Bhumi Pujan in an inauspicious month of ‘Bhadra’. BJP leader and Union minister Giriraj Singh called the event as an ‘end of India’s religious slavery’. “Lord Shri Ram will no longer be imaginary at his own birthplace. It is not only the foundation of Lord Shri Ram’s magnificent temple but an end to India’s cultural and religious slavery,” Giriraj tweeted. BJP’s ally LJP also expressed pleasure over the Bhumi Pujan. “Best wishes to everyone for Bhumi Pujan for Ram Temple. I wish that love and peace prevails across the world with the blessings of Lord Ram. I would also like to thank PM Narendra Modi on this occasion,” LJP chief Chirag Paswan tweeted. Another NDA ally, the JD(U), also called it a historic event. “After dispute over the land for 492 years, including prolonged legal battle, the Supreme Court gave a final verdict, following which Ram Temple is now being constructed. JD(U) always maintained its stand that this issue can either be resolved through judiciary or mutual dialogues. We wish harmony and peace prevails with the blessings of Lord Rama,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Congress’ workers also put up posters at a few places in Patna, wishing everyone on the occasion. But it asked BJP to apologize to the country for delay in getting the Ram Temple issue resolved. The poster also raised questions over not inviting the President of India as well as opposition parties in the Bhumi Pujan ceremony. “Lord Ram is for everyone and Bhumi Pujan for the temple is also a historic event. But it should have been an inclusive event and representatives of all stakeholders, including President of the country and political parties should have been invited,” Bihar Congress’s spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said. RJD, the principal opposition party in the state, claimed that the event was held in an inauspicious month. “The month of Bhadra, as per the Hindu calender, is not considered auspicious for initiating any good work. Thus, questions are being raised on the belief of BJP in Hindutva. Besides, religious issues should not be linked with politics,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-hails-ayodhya-event-opposition-flays-bjp-for-delay/articleshow/77380720.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 6, 2020||Patna||People in Bihar chant bhajans, light diyas to celebrate ‘Bhumi Pujan’ at Ayodhya||PATNA: Lakhs of people across the state remained glued to their TV sets and felt elated over the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ for Ram Temple at Ayodhya by PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Many performed puja, organized bhajans and ‘hawans’ and lit ‘diyas’ at home and in temples to celebrate the occasion. Janki Sthan temple and Punaura Dham temple in Sitamarhi were decked up as the two places have been closely associated with Goddess Sita (Janki). Vinod Das, the mahant of Janki Sthan temple, said chanting of Vedic mantras and bhajans marked the celebration there. It is believed that Sita was born at the place, which is known as Janki Sthan. Roads in the town were painted in saffron. “We lit earthen lamps in our houses,” said Priya Ranjan Singh, a retired public servant and resident of Dumra in Sitamarhi. Places like Fulhar, Girijasthan, Kalaneshwar and Vishwamitra Ashram in Madhubani district were also decorated for the occasion. According to the mythology, Sita had her first ‘encounter’ with Ram in a garden at Fulhar under Harlakhi block in Madhubani district, close to Janakpur in Nepal. Tourists visit the Vishwamitra Ashram where the Guru along with Ram and Lakshman had stayed before taking part in the ‘Swyambar’ of King Janak’s daughter Sita. Mahanth Braj Mohan Das said, “Kanyas (unmarried girls) lit 1100 ‘diyas’ and performed puja to celebrate the historic moment at Ayodhya. Many places in Madhubani have been associated with Goddess Sita, he added. The Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction was also decked up for the occasion. Though the temple is closed for devotees, puja was performed by the priests. Some devotees lit ‘diyas’ outside the temple in the evening. The Mahavir Temple Trust has already provided ‘Raghupati laddoos’ to be distributed among people at Ayodhya on the occasion. It was an emotional moment for Vijay Rai (55) of Gopalpur Parsauni village under Kuchaikot block in Gopalganj district. He was seriously injured during the kar seva at Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He had to remain in Faizabad jail for nearly a month. Rai, the lone Bihar resident to be named as accused in the case related to demolition of the disputed shrine at Ayodhya, performed puja at his home with his mother Uma Devi (70) and wife Maitray Devi (50). “Had it not been Covid-19 lockdown, I must have visited Ayodhya today,” he said and recalled how the CBI grilled him on many occasions in the case. Initially there were 40 named accused, including L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Ashok Singhal, Uma Bharti and others. Later nine others were included in the case. “I was released on bail on January 9, 1993,” Rai said. In Ara, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) workers led by its Bhojpur district president Prakash Singh prepared and distributed 1.25 lakh laddoos among the poor. Earlier, priests recited ‘Sundar Kand’ from the Shri Ramcharitmanas and performed hawan at the Ram Janki temple at Gausganj in the town.  “We planned to celebrate this historic occasion by serving the poor. Our workers and leaders fanned out in Ara and it’s adjoining areas to distribute laddoos among the poor. We also distributed earthen lamps among them,” Prakash said. In Bhagalpur and Banka, people bowed in reverence at the entrance of the Hanuman temples. In the evening, the residents lit up diyas and candles on their terraces to celebrate the occasion. Members of local unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Bharat Raksha Manch, Nar Seva-Narayan Seva and others offered prayers and hoisted flags at temples and houses besides reciting couplets of the Ramayana. (With inputs from Praveen in Ara and Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-chant-bhajans-light-diyas-to-celebrate-bhumi-pujan-at-ayodhya/articleshow/77380601.cms||Ramashankar
August 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid infrastructure ready at Bambolim stadium||PANAJI: In the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases in Goa, a 275-bed care centre has been established at the Dr Shyamaprasad Mukherjee stadium in Bambolim. “The Covid care centre was activated on Wednesday. We have done up the infrastructure and handed it to the directorate of health services (DHS),” North Goa deputy collector, Guru Dessai said. Built during the third edition of the Lusofonia Games in 2014, the stadium was used for concerts and other major events in the state prior to the lockdown. Workers from the Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) will maintain the records at the stadium while the DHS will take care of medical emergencies, nodal officer at the centre, Dr Kedar Raikar said. “The stadium will have only asymptomatic positive patients. The patients will be sent back home on recovery or to the Covid hospital if they show symptoms,” he said. There are demarcated beds for male and female patients at the stadium, as well as for paediatrics and senior citizens. A separate enclosure of 20 beds has been earmarked for relatives and caretakers of very old patients. All these beds have been placed in the central area of the hall. The doctors, nurses and paramedics deployed at this centre will be from the primary or urban health centres at Panaji, Khorlim, Porvorim and Chimbel. These health centres will be sending their staff over to the stadium on rotation basis. In addition to this, staff will be outsourced from hospitals as and when required. Along with the existing toilets at the stadium, about 12 to 14 mobile toilets have been added for the convenience of the users. The toilets have been segregated for use of Covid patients and the frontline workers and housekeeping staff. “The toilets are going to be manned to ensure that there is no rushing,” Raikar said. Food for patients has been outsourced by the collectorate office. The menu will vary based on the patient’s health conditions. For instance, there will be a separate diet for diabetic patients, or patients with hypertension, senior citizens, etc. A recreational area has also been arranged for the asymptomatic patients to keep themselves busy. There is a separate agency hired for the disposal of bio-medical waste. Also, the staff have been trained to collect, segregate and dispose of waste responsibly. The corporation of the city of Panaji has been roped in to collect the dry waste after proper handling by the Covid care centre’s staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-infra-ready-at-bambolim-stadium/articleshow/77382213.cms||Nida Sayed
August 6, 2020||Business||Gold’s record run continues on global liquidity deluge||MUMBAI: As central banks across the world continue to infuse money into the system to insulate their economies from the impact of a Covid-induced slowdown, investors globally have stepped up their safe-haven play by betting increasingly on the yellow metal. The sharp decline in demand for jewellery in the world’s two largest markets — China and India — was more than offset by the jump in demand by gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Along with gold, the demand for silver as an investment avenue is also on the ascent. Combined with industrial demand for silver, the price of this precious metal is also nearing record levels globally, industry experts said. On Tuesday night after the gold futures price on Chicago exchange topped the $2,000-per-ounce mark for the first time in history and raced above the $2,050 mark, the price in India for the precious metal crossed the Rs 55,000-per-10 gram mark on MCX, an all-time peak, on Wednesday. And silver, after breaking above the Rs 70,000-per-kg mark, is within striking distance of topping its all-time peak of Rs 75,000 mark, recorded on April 25, 2011. So far this year, gold has risen 40%, outperforming all other asset classes substantially, except silver which is up 50%. In India, silver went past the Rs 70,000/kg mark on Wednesday and was on course to cross the all-time high of Rs 75,000 mark recorded on April 25, 2011. In the last five days, silver prices have rallied over 10%. The hope of another stimulus and economic uncertainties around the world are also driving prices of these two precious metals, analysts said. A report by World Gold Council said that global investors added record amounts of gold-backed ETFs to their portfolios in the first half of 2020. “Inflows into these products reached 734 tonne by the end of June, taking total global holdings to a new record high of 3,621 tonne, with assets under management hitting a record $206 billion,” the report said. So far in the year, investors have put in a record $47 billion into gold ETFs, WGC report said. In comparison, the demand for gold for jewellery in China was down 52% in the first half of 2020 while it was down 60% in India during the corresponding period, the same report pointed out. In both the countries, the sharp slide was due to Covid-related market disruptions. Analysts feel the rally in these two precious metals is far from over. According to Kishore Narne, head — commodity & currency, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, a host of positive global and domestic factors have combined for continuing up-trend in the prices of both the precious metals. “Slowing jewellery demand is more than replaced by investor demand in to ETFs as well as coin and bar sales. We continue to be bullish on gold with a potential targets range between Rs 65,000 and Rs 68,000 and for silver between Rs 82,000 and Rs 88,000 over the 12-15 months,” Narne said. “We continue to recommend investors to keep a higher allocation towards gold and use every dip to accumulate the metal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/golds-record-run-continues-on-global-liquidity-deluge/articleshow/77382293.cms||Partha Sinha
August 6, 2020||Patna||We may move court if IPS officer not ‘freed’ by BMC: Bihar DGP||PATNA: Bihar Police may move court if IPS officer Vinay Tiwari is not exempted and released from his 14-day ‘home quarantine’ by the Mumbai civic authorities, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said on Wednesday. Tiwari was allegedly forcibly quarantined till August 15 late on Sunday evening after he reached Mumbai to lead the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “If our officer is not released by Thursday then we may move court to get him released,” DGP Gupteshwar Pandey told TOI, adding, he would wait to see if BMC authorities changed their minds after adverse observations made by Supreme Court on the Patna SP’s quarantine on Wednesday. Pandey said the BMC in its response to the state police on Tuesday refused to give Tiwari any exemption from home quarantine. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu replied to IG (central range) Sanjay Singh’s letter that in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic in Bihar, it is advised that the officer (Tiwari) can conduct his proceedings with Maharashtra government officials via video conferencing facility. “This will not only ensure that the officer does not transmit the infection (if at all he is asymptomatic of Covid-19 infection) to the officials to whom he will contact, in view of coronavirus pandemic prevalent in Bihar, nor he gets infected by coronavirus during his physical visit to various officers of the government of Maharashtra in Mumbai. However, the officer has to be in compliance with all the rules and regulations prevailing in the state of Maharashtra,” the letter reads, a copy of which is with TOI. The DGP also alleged that the Mumbai police has not conducted investigation properly and impartially in Sushant’s case. “Bihar police, in less than a week of investigation, has gathered enough evidence to prove that Sushant’s death is not a normal one,” Pandey said. He said statements of Sushant’s friend Mahesh Shetty, cook Ashok, sister Meetu Singh, former friend Ankita Lokhande, Dr Chawra, who was treating the actor, and sweeper Neeraj recorded by Patna police team has enough material to nail the culprits. Pandey also told TOI that the state police team in Mumbai has found strong evidence to prove embezzlement of money from Sushant’s bank accounts. “This case needs deep investigation,” DGP said, adding, the investigating team will soon return to Patna. CBI takes over case: Sources in the state police headquarters said the CBI took over the case formally on Wednesday. “A notification was issued by the central government’s department of personnel and training in this connection on Wednesday. CBI’s crime branch in Delhi is expected to investigate the case. An IPS officer will go to Delhi to handover relevant documents. The Patna police team in Mumbai will no longer carryout investigation,” a senior IPS officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/we-may-move-court-if-ips-officer-not-freed-by-bmc-dgp/articleshow/77380777.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 12 drown as boats capsize in Khagaria and Saharsa districts||PATNA/KHAGARIA: At least 12 persons, including a three-year-old male child, drowned and four others were missing as two boats capsized in Khagaria and Saharsa districts on Tuesday evening. While the body of the Saharsa child was fished out on Tuesday night, the other 11, including nine were in Khagaria, were found on Wednesday. Police said both the boats capsized due to strong winds following storm. Most of the people on the two boats were returning after celebrating rakhi. The respective district administration handed over cheques for Rs4 lakh as ex gratia payment to the next of kin of each of the deceased. In Khagaria, the motorized boat was going from Ghat number 5 at Ekaniya under Mansi police station to Teekarampur under Mufassil police station area in Munger district. Mansi police station SHO Deepak Kumar said the deceased were identified as Rekha Devi (30), Shivani Kumari (14), Sushant Kumar (18), Dulari Devi (24), Rupam Devi (35), Ankush Kumar (13), Viveka Devi (52), Abhimanyu Raj (14) and Neeraj Thakur (30). He said the boat lost balance in the middle of the swollen Ganga due to strong winds at around 6pm. Ten people managed to swim to safety. Two persons were still missing, he said. “The boat capsized near Bheemtola under Mufassil police station,” he said. He said the deceased were mostly from Ekania, Englishtola and neighbouring areas in Khagaria. In Saharsa, a countrymade boat capsized in a seasonal rivulet at Sahuria village under Chiraiyya police outpost of Salkhua police station area at around 5.30pm on Tuesday. Chiraiyya outpost incharge Birendra Sah said the child was identified as Prem. “Two more bodies were fished out on Wednesday morning. One was Prem’s father Sanjeet Kumar Chaudhary (40) and the other was a girl Shobha Kumari (15),” he said. Sah said search was on to find Sanjeet’s wife Rajni Devi (36) and a four-month-old male infant named Shivam. His mother managed to survive. Sah said nine people swam to safety. “The boat was going to Sauri Tola from Chiraiyya when it capsized in the strong winds as the rivulet has only seven to eight feet deep water,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-drown-as-boats-capsize-in-khagaria-saharsa-dists/articleshow/77379832.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Deputy demands floor test against Patna mayor Sita Sahu||PATNA: The controversy refuses to die down despite Patna mayor Sita Sahu defeating the no-trust motion moved against her by 41 ward councillors last week. Deputy mayor Meera Devi on Wednesday sent a letter to the Patna Municipal Commissioner Himanshu Sharma and state urban development and housing department alleging that illegal proceedings on the no-confidence motion were held on July 31 as she had postponed the meeting. She demanded that the voting on no-confidence motion should be held again on August 17 as the floor test continued even after the special meeting was postponed. “Several ward councillors were not present at the meeting on July 31 and even the mayor reached the SK Memorial Hall venue almost 30 minutes late. I postponed the meeting after several ward councillors started protests after Sahu did not turn up,” Meera said. “The entry of people should be closed ten minutes before the proceedings, but no such rule was followed. Section 144 was imposed at the meeting place, but people were freely moving in and out. If she (mayor) is so much confident about her winning then why she is opposing the re-voting,” Meera asked. Former deputy mayor Vinay Kumar Pappu backed Meera over the re-voting issue. “There was no point of voting after several ward councillors had left the venue and the meeting was adjourned by the person presiding over it. However, Sahu still held the meeting after reaching the venue with few of her close ward councillors and continued the proceedings in an undemocratic way,” he alleged. Patna mayor, on the other hand, said the deputy mayor did not have the power to postpone the meeting when 62 ward councillors were present at the proceedings. “As per the Bihar Municipal Act, when 1/3 of the ward councillors are present at the meeting, she can’t postpone it. By 12.30pm, around 35 ward councillors were present at the meeting. Secondly, it was not mandatory for the mayor to be present for the floor test,” Sahu told this newspaper. “Everything was done in a democratic way. Deputy mayor postponed the meeting in an unethical way and left the venue. We will move the court against her for misusing her power,” Sahu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dy-mayor-demands-floor-test-against-mayor/articleshow/77379851.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: International flyers plead for resumption of flights||KOLKATA: Hundreds of people who hail from Kolkata and had travelled abroad on a short business trip or a holiday and have been stuck there since lockdown was suddenly imposed in India in May have urged the Bengal CM to consider their plight and allow international flights so that they can return to Kolkata. “My parents are stuck here in the UK for the last several months. My young sister is all alone at home in Kolkata. My father is 65 and mother is 55. Since they are so stressed, they had even decided to travel up to Delhi but looking at the situation and quarantine protocols, we are still waiting for the Kolkata airport to open and allow Vande Bharat flights to land,” pleaded London resident Moon Sharma, who has been writing on micro-blogging and social networking sites nearly everyday. The Bengal government has refused no-objection certificate to international flights since July 1, citing the rising Covid cases. Several flights that were scheduled to operate from the US, the UK and the Gulf were cancelled. These include Vande Bharat repatriation flights operated by Air India as well as Gulf carriers like Kuwait Airways, Etihad and Emirates. Twitter has been abuzz with requests from hundreds of passengers from the UK, the US, Saudi Arab, Qatar and several other nations for resumption of international flights to Kolkata. “My father is stranded in Dubai since February. He is not being able to return due to the ban on international flights. When are you planning to open the airport for international passengers?” wondered Maitreyi Sen Paul. Travel agents said they had received requests from families in Kolkata to facilitate the return of those held up abroad but have been unable to help. “There are people who had gone abroad for a fortnight and are held up now for well over four months. They have exhausted all their funds, resources and energy,” a travel agent said, The state government has extended the embargo on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities to Kolkata till August 15 but is silent on the status of Vande Bharat flights and when it intends to lift the ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/international-flyers-plead-for-resumption-of-flights/articleshow/77382211.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Patuli-Baghajatin in focus after case spurt||KOLKATA: Seventeen active cases in the past week from Baghajatin G block have led to the creation of three more containment zones in the Patuli-Baghajatin belt. The additions may have taken the total containment zones in this area to 12, but cops and KMC officials said they have already begun to witness “dramatic improvements on the ground”. Even as the rest of Patuli saw a rise in cases, areas in containment zones did not report any fresh case. “The health officer and the area coordinator apprised the local OC of the situation on the ground. It was decided to introduce multiple containment zones — some of them spread over 300m-400m, unlike most other areas where single houses are being brought under containment,” said an officer. In all, 12 people from the area have died after contracting novel coronavirus and 153 are active Covid patients. The worst affected are three blocks — I, B and D — in Baisnabghata-Patuli Township along with Baghajatin G Block and Baghajatin Place. Ward coordinators in the Baghajatin-Patuli belt have been struggling with the rising number of Covid cases. According to Bappaditya Dasgupta, coordinator of Ward 101, there were just 19 cases in his ward till the end of June. But by August 5, the number has risen to 263. To tide over the crisis, the Trinamool ward coordinator has adopted a two-pronged strategy — one is to tighten the leash on a section of positive patients whose families are roaming freely in the neighbourhood and the other is to deliver medicines and other essentials to senior citizens who have tested positive and are in home quarantine. “Besides, I have been arranging tests for a large number of Covid suspects regularly,” Dasgupta said. Arup Chakraborty, a ward coordinator who represents the Patuli area said, “Though I have 73 positive cases to deal with in large areas of Patuli, I still can’t stay disconnected from the city-wide spread of the deadly virus. The number of positive cases is steadily rising in our ward too.” He said that instead of imposing restrictions on people, he was eager to spread awareness on the disease and stressed on augmentation of testing facilities. Thirty-one buildings in Patuli and 39 in Baghajatin Place-Talpukur have been brought under containment zones. Another 15 buildings were added to the list on Tuesday. Cops have further split four high-risk zones in Baisnabghata-Patuli Township into eight pockets for quick response. “We want to focus block by block. But we did not want to trouble people in unaffected houses,” said an officer. After I, B and D Blocks, with Covid cases also spreading towards Patuli’s E Block, cops believe smaller restriction zones will help arrest the virus. “Mukundapur is affected. If strict steps are not taken, newer areas will be affected. Earlier, we had to put in a lot of effort to control the spread in Panchasayar and Shahid Smriti Colony, which have apartments, houses and slums. We have now shut smaller arterial roads in I, B and D Blocks,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patuli-baghajatin-in-focus-after-case-spurt/articleshow/77381127.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Pinning hopes on weekend biz, restaurant owners welcome change in lockdown dates||KOLKATA: The changed lockdown dates for August has brought back some cheer for restaurant owners in the city. The new dates do not include Saturdays and Sundays, barring one instance of August 8, though there are two Fridays. Following Unlock 1 in June, city restaurants resumed operation, but with seating restrictions and much lower footfalls. The secretary of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), Sudesh Poddar, who himself owns Manthan and Songhay, pointed out that the business of fine dining always depends on weekends and it is more so in these times. The weekends include Friday night, Saturday and Sunday. “If there was a lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays, then the business would have further suffered,” he added. According to Poddar, the weekends account for almost 55%-60% of sales of a restaurant in a week. “Even after Unlock, a majority of our business is being made from only weekends. It would have been better if liquor was allowed,” he said. According to him, a majority of restaurants have yet to cross 30%-40% of the pre-Covid business. The president of HRAEI Pranav Singh pointed out that bar-cum-restaurants have so far achieved only 30% of pre-Covid sales, and a large chunk of that is from weekends only. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia, agreed with Poddar that it is good for restaurants that the lockdown dates do not include weekends much. “Our footfalls are growing and we are hoping for good business on the August 15 weekend. We have now reached 50%-55% of pre-Covid sales. For us, weekend sales are around 50% of the total week sales,” he added. The chairman of Speciality Restaurants, Anjan Chatterjee, said that globally, weekends are the best contributors to the sale volume at fine-dining restaurants. “We are operating our standalone Mainland China, as well as Mainland China in South City, Oh! Calcutta at Forum and Haka at City Centre, along with Mainland China and South City in Silver Spring. The weekends are good, though not on a par with the pre-lockdown days,” he added. Nitin Kothari, who owns restaurants like Peter Cat, said, “The new lockdown dates have brought some solace for our industry.” For Kothari, the last few Saturdays and Sundays have been good. Now we are operating at 50% occupancy and keeping open till 10.30pm,” he added. S Ramani, co-director of 6 Ballygunge Place Group, said, “We serve Bengali cuisine and lunch is predominantly our main business, Saturday and Sunday mornings are very important.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pinning-hopes-on-weekend-biz-restaurant-owners-welcome-change-in-lockdown-dates/articleshow/77381170.cms||Udit Mukherjee
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Tribal accuses Bajrang Dal members of assaulting him||MANGALURU: A member of the Malekudiya tribe in Karkala taluk in Udupi has accused an activist of the Bajrang Dal of stripping him and assaulting him in public, besides making derogatory remarks about his caste. The complainant said that the entire episode occurred in the presence of police. Seetharam Malekudiya, a resident of Jagottu Colony in a village called Idu in Karkala, has raised the issue with Udupi superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhan. The SP confirmed to TOI than a senior cop had been directed to probe the incident and submit a report, based on the findings of which action necessary action would be initiated. Seetharam, a farmer engaged in the rearing of goats and cattle, said that he had purchased a calf from a neighbour. On the same day, Seetharam was approached by Abdul Rehman, who wished to procure a goat from the former. Rehman was attacked while he was returning home by activists of the Bajrang Dal, who suspected him of smuggling cattle for slaughter. On July 22 evening, nearly 50 activists of the Bajrang Dal, accompanied by the police sub-inspector of the area arrived at Seetharam’s house. The complainant was subsequently stripped and assaulted. Seetharam also accused the cops of pushing his wife, while searching his home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tribal-accuses-bajrang-dal-members-of-assaulting-him/articleshow/77382580.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Rivers full, many villages marooned in Uttara Kannada district||KARWAR: Many villages in Uttara Kannada were marooned on Wednesday due to heavy rain. Gangavali and Aghanashini rivers are flowing over the danger mark and 40,000 cusecs of water was released from Kadra dam in Karwar taluk. Officials have warned people living on the banks of different rivers including Sharavati to move to safer places as the water level is continuously increasing in different dams and water may be released soon. Several streams in Siddapur taluk are in spate and more than 15 villages have been marooned. People have been shifted to safer places by the administration. Around 3.30pm on Wednesday, Karnataka Power Corporation authorities opened six crest gates of Kadra dam to release 40k cusecs of water. As the inflow from the Kali river is very high, officials expect the water level to increase substantially by night. Bedthi river in Yellapur taluk is flowing to its full capacity and boats are being used to shift peoiple to safer places. Although the rain which started on Tuesday evening gave some respite by Wednesday evening, many low-lying areas in Karwar were marooned and rainwater entered houses. Officials of the revenue and police department visited the affected areas and shifted people. With Covid cases increasing, the district administration is struggling to keep people at relief centres and ensure social distancing. (PIC: Water released from Kadra dam on Wednesday)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rivers-full-many-villages-marooned-in-uttara-kannada-district/articleshow/77380422.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||322 test positive on coast; 11 succumb in DK, Udupi||MANGALURU/ UDUPI: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi received some respite from the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, with their combined tally coming up to 322 on Tuesday, as compared to 395 on Tuesday. More importantly, as many as 206 patients who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged on Wednesday in the two districts, which helped considerably offset the rising curve on the coast. Dakshina Kannada district on Wednesday reported 149 fresh cases, its overall Covid-19 tally rising to 6,142, while 173 more were confirmed infected in Udupi, which has thus far reported 5,141 positive cases in all. Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja who had recently met CM B S Yediyurappa too tested positive, which he confirmed in a FB post. He is in home isolation. Although the health department officials in the two districts could give themselves a pat on their backs for the discharge of more than 200 patients, the death of a dozen patients in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada dampened their spirits. Dakshina Kannada accounted for 10 fatalities, of which Mangaluru reported seven, while Puttur and Belthangady recorded one death each, and one victim was from outside the district. Both the victims in the neighbouring district were from Udupi taluk. All the 12 patients who succumbed to the pandemic had co-morbidities, officials said. In Udupi district, patients with a history of influenza-like-illness (ILI) accounted for 73 of the fresh cases, while 46 were found to have been primary contacts of previously infected patients. Meanwhile, the health department officials are still tracing the source of the infection among 51 patients, while three were found to have travelled to the district from other parts of the country. On the other hand, in Dakshina Kannada, 64 of the newly confirmed patients had ILI, while 12 had a history of severe acute respiratory infection, and 27 found to be primary contacts of previously infected patients. Authorities are still tracing the source of the infection among 41 patients. In the meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, who after having met chief minister BS Yediyurappa recently, had opted for home quarantine – the CM tested positive for the novel coronavirus – informed the public through a tweet that he was not infected with Covid-19, and assured them of being at their service at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/322-test-ve-on-coast-11-succumb-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/77380336.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 6, 2020||Business||HDFC launches Rs 14,000 crore QIP, Axis to raise Rs 10,000 crore||MUMBAI: HDFC and Axis Bank have kicked off their qualified institutional placement (QIP) issues to raise equity worth Rs 14,000 crore and Rs 10,000 crore respectively. HDFC’s fund-raise is through a hybrid programme comprising Rs 14,000 crore by way of equity shares and warrants and up to Rs 9,000 crore by way of secured redeemable non-convertible debentures (NCDs). In a statement to the BSE, the corporation said the pricing of shares according to Sebi’s formula would be Rs 1,838 per equity share and the corporation may offer a discount of not more than 5% per share. Axis Bank informed the exchanges that the price for its QIP has been fixed at Rs 442 per share with a committee of directors of the bank authorised to offer a discount of up to 5%. The bank’s QIP is understood to have drawn interest from investors such as the Norges Bank Investment Management, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Fidelity Investments and Nomura. Overall, lenders will have raised over Rs 40,000 crore this financial year. Kotak Mahindra Bank was the first of the block to raise Rs 7,442 crore in May followed by IndusInd Bank, which raised Rs 3,288 crore. Yes Bank has been the largest issuer with its Rs 15,000-crore follow-on public offer. Other private lenders including ICICI Bank also are expected to hit the market. SBI has obtained shareholders’ permission to raise up to Rs 20,000 crore capital but has been non-commital in respect of the timing of the issue. Other public sector banks are also expected to announce their capital raise once the impact of Covid-19 on their borrowers is known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-launches-rs-14k-cr-qip-axis-to-raise-rs-10k-cr/articleshow/77382233.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Business||Tyagi gets extension as Sebi chief till February 2022||MUMBAI: The government on Wednesday extended the tenure of Ajay Tyagi as Sebi chairman by 18 months till February 2022. The extension comes at a time when the economy and the markets are passing through a tough phase, mainly induced by the coronavirus pandemic. This is the second extension for the Sebi chief. Earlier this year, Tyagi was given a six-month extension. Tyagi, a 1984-batch IAS officer of the Himachal Pradesh cadre, took over as chief of the markets regulator on March 1, 2017, succeeding U K Sinha. He was then appointed for three years. After taking over as Sebi chairman, one of the first things that Tyagi had embarked upon was to turn retail investors towards investments over “speculation”. Deepening the bond market is another focus area. Tyagi had recently said that brokers and other market participants should pitch investments in government bonds, which are risk-free. Subsequently, experience in the market would be helpful to these retail players invest in stocks, which are relatively risky assets compared to government bonds. Before heading Sebi, Tyagi was an additional secretary in the department of economic affairs. While at the ministry, the portfolios of capital market, investment, infrastructure and currency and coinage divisions were under Tyagi. An engineer by training, Tyagi also holds a master’s degree in public administration from Harvard University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tyagi-gets-extension-as-sebi-chief-till-feb-2022/articleshow/77382114.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Ram Mandir bhoomi puja: Environmentalist marks occasion by planting saplings||MANGALURU/UDUPI: On a day when saffron was the colour that was foremost in the minds of the public when Prime Minister Narendra Modi kept his date with history by performing the bhoomi puja for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, an environmentalist on Wednesday chose to mark the occasion with a green gesture, by planting saplings of four distinct mango trees, and one jackfruit sapling on his plantation at Belman in Dakshina Kannada district. Ashok Bhat, who planted the saplings on the momentous day along with his friend Deepak Kamath, said that his gesture was one in a series of like actions, which he undertook on each national event. “These saplings, which grow into trees and yield fruits one day, will remind us of a very special time in Indian history when the moment that devotees had waited for many years came true. The challenge now lies in rearing these saplings,” Bhat said. Meanwhile, at Mangaluru’s Vishwa Hindu Parishad office, bhajans serenading Rama were played in the morning, and Karnakata BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Mangaluru City South MLA Vedvyas Kamath were among the visitors at the celebrations at the VHP office on Wednesday. Nalin dubbed the occasion ‘historic and memorable’. “This is the day when BJP’s longstanding pledge has been fulfilled,” said the Dakshina Kannada MP. It was a nostalgic moment for journalist PB Hariprasad Rai, who as a 21-year-old youth, had accompanied Pratapsimha Nayak, incumbent MLC and former MLC Anna Vinay Chandra, to Ayodhya. Rai was jailed in a school that had been turned into a temporary ‘jail’ to house kar sevaks, who had participated in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in 1990. “Memories of those days remain fresh in my mind,” said Rai. Meanwhile, members of various organisations under the umbrella of the Sangh Parivar braved the heavy showers to celebrate the historic occasion, releasing saffron balloons at Chitrapura along the coast. Meanwhile, in Mangaluru, special pujas were offered at the Venkataramana temple, while a rangoli of the proposed model of the Ram Mandir adorned a thoroughfare in the coastal city. Special pujas were also offered at temples in Puttur and Sullia. In fact, members of the Sullia Block Congress Committee too offered pujas at the Sri Chennakeshava temple. Ram statue at Kalaburagi temple anointed The Karnataka unit president of the Sri Rama Sene and seer of Siddalinga Mutt on Wednesday anointed a 15-foor statue of Rama at the Sharanabasaveshwara temple to mark the occasion of the stone-laying ceremony for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. The statue of Lord Rama was brought to the temple on a truck, and members of Sri Rama Sene subsequently proceeded to distribute sweets to visitors to the shrine. Meanwhile, Bhavani Raju, a pious devotee of Rama, donated a 9kg silver brick to the Ayodhya Trust. “The brick will be sent to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath through the trust this week,” said Raju. BJP workers and activists gathered at the Rama temple in Kalaburagi city to offer special pujas to mark the occasion. MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor was among those in attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ram-mandir-bhoomi-puja-environmentalist-marks-occasion-by-planting-saplings/articleshow/77382620.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||12-year-old raped, left to die at residence in Delhi; no arrests made yet||NEW DELHI: A 12-year-old girl was sexually assaulted, brutally injured and left to die in her one room flat in outer Delhi’s Peeragarhi on Tuesday evening. Neighbours spotted the bleeding girl and rushed her to a hospital. She was later referred to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where her condition is now stable. Police found a pair of bloodstained scissors at her house. There have been no arrests so far. Doctors at AIIMS who operated on the girl said that she was brought in a critical condition. “She has a fracture on her skull and her intestine was ruptured, indicating injury by a foreign object. Two surgeries were carried out on her on Wednesday. She was moved to the ICU and taken off the ventilator on Wednesday night,” said a source at AIIMS. Preliminary investigations revealed that the survivor was alone at home when she was attacked. The girl lived with her parents and an elder sister who all work at a nearby factory. Around 18 other families of daily wage workers and labourers also reside in the same building. The girl was attacked at least five times. One of the neighbours who rushed her to the hospital said that the child was spotted on her balcony around 5.30pm. “There were several wounds on her face, back, and stomach,” he said. “A case of attempt to murder and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), 2012 has been registered,” said A Koan, DCP (outer). An officer privy to the investigation said the accused may have found the pair of scissors in the house as the cops found a a sewing machine there too. “The child’s parents usually came home for lunch around 1.30pm and left for work again. So far, CCTV cameras do not show any outsider entering the building. We suspect the involvement of another resident who was aware that the girl was alone at her home,” said the police officer. “We have recorded statements of several residents of the building.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Delhi: 12-year-old girl raped, left to die at residence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-year-old-raped-left-to-die-at-residence-no-arrests-made-yet/articleshow/77380808.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar SP quarantined after Mumbai DCP calls Patna officer offering ‘help’||PATNA: A Mumbai Police DCP had allegedly called a senior officer in Patna to know the whereabouts of SP (central) Vinay Tiwari in Mumbai after which he was quarantined. “The DCP had called around 7pm on Sunday on the pretext of providing proper accommodation to the visiting officer,” a senior officer at the state police headquarters said on condition of anonymity. “The Mumbai Police DCP, after taking the senior Patna police officer into confidence had asked where the SP was staying in Mumbai. He had even asked if Tiwari had got accommodtiuon in IPS officers’ mess in Mumbai,” the officer said. “The DCP assured the senior Patna police officer that he would try to get accommodation arranged for Tiwari in the IPS officers’ mess,” he added. Within an hour of the DCP getting the information that Tiwari was staying at the Maharashtra Police guesthouse in Goregaon, BMC officials called Tiwari asking him to immediately return to his accommodation while he was in the middle of questioning someone. “They told the SP that he would be informed about the quarantine rules. The SP immediately understood the situation and informed us here in Patna,” he said. The officer added that the BMC team for four hours till around midnight to put the quarantine stamp on Tiwari’s hand to ensure he does not leave the premises the next day for any investigation. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey had earlier said Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma could not contact Maharashtra Police IG (headquarters) to arrange Tiwari’s accommodation in IPS officers’ mess. Pandey too had alleged that Mumbai police quarantined the SP after knowing his location from Patna police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sp-quarantined-after-mum-dcp-calls-patna-officer-offering-help/articleshow/77380795.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Buxar boy secures 107th rank in UPSC exams||Anshuman Raj of Nawanagar block in Buxar district has secured 107th rank in the civil services examination 2019 conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), results of which were declared on Tuesday. Son of former mukhiya Sudarshan Gupta, and Government Girls’ Middle School teacher Meena Gupta, Anshuman did his schooling from Jawahar Navoday Vidayalaya (JNV), Buxar, till Class X and his Plus Two from JNV, Ranchi. He had qualified for the civil services examination in 2018 also and had joined the Indian Revenue Service (IRS). However, Anshuman, in his second attempt managed to get what he desired. “My hard work and blessings of my parents helped me to succeed,” he said. Three arrested in bank robbery case: Aurangabad police on Wednesday arrested three robbers involved in the Indian Bank loot case. In this incident, Rs 65 lakh were looted from the Jinoriya branch of Indian Bank under the Daudnagar police station area on July 30. Police have also recovered Rs 3.74 lakh robbed from the bank. Two motorcycles, two SUVs, one JCB machine have also been seized from the possession of those arrested. Demand for incentive to AIIMS-P, IGIMS health workers: The Indian Medical Association ( IMA), Bihar unit, has urged the chief minister and health minister to give an incentive to doctors and paramedical staff of the AIIMS-Patna and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) also. IMA state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said doctors and staff of these two hospitals are also rendering valuable services for treatment of corona patients. An incentive to doctors and health workers of AIIMS-P and IGIMS will only encourage them to work more dedicatedly, he said. The government has approved an incentive for doctors and staff working in government hospitals and medical colleges. Body recovered: Police recovered the body of a youth killed at Surwabari village under the Laukaria police station area at Bagaha block in West Champaran district on Wednesday. Police sources said the youth identified as Motilal Bhar (35) of Kalighat locality under Bagaha Nagar Parishad had gone to his one of relations house, where a dispute took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buxar-boy-secures-107th-rank-in-upsc-exams/articleshow/77379869.cms||K Kamlesh
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Asiatic Society to enter digital space with e-book release||KOLKATA: The 236-year-old Asiatic Society will make a bold statement on August 15, when it digitally releases its first e-book that had originally been planned as a printed volume, which got stalled due to the Covid situation. The ministry of culture has been behind the choice of the release date. Interestingly, even as the strings are being tied up for the release, the key person behind the initiative is fighting Covid at a city nursing home, but coordinating the process from there. ‘Prabuddha Bharat — Understanding Ambedkar in the passage of time’ was put together as a digital book in the months of the lockdown. Several scholars have written on different aspects of Ambedkar and these were at different stages of completion when the lockdown was announced. “So right from getting the manuscripts from the writers for the editor to work upon, composing them at the residences of the editorial team of the Society and then getting the production of the book done, everything was done from different locations because everyone worked from home. This was a completely new experience for all the scholars because we are from the paper and pen generation, but we decided to adapt fast,” said Ramkrishna Chatterjee, historian and publications secretary of the society, who is recuperating from Covid. The book has been edited by historian Arun Bandyopadhyay, who is the history and archeology secretary of the society. Among the scholars (historians, sociologists and political scientists), who contributed to the book are, Sabyasachi Bhattacharya, Umesh Bagade, Swapan Pramanick, Raj Shekhar Basu, Biswajit Ghosh, Siddhartha Guha Ray, Adapa Satyanarayana, Maidul Islam, Basudeb Barman and Raj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asiatic-society-to-enter-digital-space-with-e-book-release/articleshow/77381274.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 6, 2020||Business||Uber’s 10% recovery in India is its slowest||BENGALURU: Uber’s ride-hailing business is seeing the slowest recovery in India compared to other large markets like the US and Brazil, both of which even have more Covid-19 cases as of now. Uber’s India ride-hailing volumes have recovered by around 10% while it is at 39% in Brazil, 23% in the US and about 29% worldwide (excluding India), according to anonymised billing data sourced from Israel’s Superfly Insights. This data, which covers a part of Uber’s total rides starting from mid-March to the week ended July 26, shows the recovery for ride-hailing would be gradual and slow in India as more lockdown restrictions get lifted in the coming months. In India, segments like digital payments, e-commerce, online grocery have shown much sharper recovery. The data showed Uber India operations were virtually shut till about the middle of May and started signs of mild recovery only towards the end of May and in early June. By the second half of June, Uber staged an 8% recovery on a weekly basis here with the highest jump in rides during the first week of July at around 13%. In the same week, Brazil and the US saw demand jumping back to 28% and 20% respectively. A similar growth trajectory has been seen for the rest of July but India demand stabilised at around 10% of pre-Covid-19 demand, as most companies including large sectors like IT/ITeS are in work-from-home mode. Experts said, India’s slower recovery is linked to lockdown restrictions which are slowly opening up in large cities in a staggered manner compared to higher activity in countries like the US and Brazil, both of which are also battling the virus outbreak. In June, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, during a conference with analysts, had said ride requests were down by 70%. The company will report its second-quarter earnings on August 6, where it might share further updates on the overall recovery. A spokesperson for Uber India declined to comment on the matter. “The policies there (global markets) are much clearer than here, in terms of where people can ply. Then, in general, the level of fear in India is significantly higher and the level of economic activity the US and Brazil are seeing is more than India. So, pretty much it’s linked to overall economic activity (for ride demand),” said Ankur Pahwa, partner and national leader — e-commerce and consumer internet, EY India. According to Pahwa, recovery of over 50% might happen in next calendar year only as more organisations are allowing extended periods of work-from-home for the rest of the year. Uber, which sold its India food delivery business to Zomato in January, has had to fire 6,700 people globally, including around 600 in India in May due to the pandemic’s impact on its operations. Its local rival Ola had laid off 1,400 in May as revenue fell by 95%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ubers-10-recovery-in-india-is-its-slowest/articleshow/77382082.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 6, 2020||Allahabad||AU to remain closed till August 31||Prayagraj: An Allahabad University (AU) notification issued by its registrar stated that the varsity and its constituent colleges will be closed till August 31. The notification was issued on Wednesday, two days after the varsity opened for faculty and administrative staff. However, AU’s administrative offices would continue to function with a minimum staff. AU would begin online classes from August 17. When the campus reopened on Tuesday, several faculty members, non-teaching staff and research scholars were seen in the various departments. However, the campus would be closed again in cognizance of the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on July 29. The letter of the registrar, NK Shukla, states that during the period the academic and administration work in AU and its constituent colleges will continue in accordance with the earlier instructions issued on July 3. Further, essential services offered by the university will remain functional during the period. In case of an emergency, faculty members, non-teaching staff and researchers may be asked to report for work. The registrar also urged the staff to follow social distancing and observe other precautionary measures on campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-remain-closed-till-august-31/articleshow/77379220.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||2 Sikh men jailed for role in London brawl that killed 3 Punjabis||Naomi Canton London: Two Sikh builders involved in an armed brawl that led to the death of three of their colleagues, who were illegal Sikh immigrants in Britain, were on Wednesday sentenced to jail here. Narinder Lubya, 29, from Hoshiarpur, Malkit Singh Dhillon (known as Barjinder Singh), 37, from Sultanpur Lodhi and Harinder Sharma, 30, known as Honey, from Patiala, all working as builders in London, died in a brawl they themselves had initiated in Seven Kings, East London, on January 19. In a plot twist, Tim Hunter, prosecuting, told the Snaresbrook Crown Court that the three dead men, together with their colleagues Harpreet and Sandeep Singh, from Romford, had plotted to attack another Sikh man, Gurjeet Singh, 29, from Ilford, with hammers and knives in revenge for a row that had taken place at the celebration of the birth of a Sikh baby the night before, at which there had been a brawl between Narinder and Gurjeet. Gurjeet survived the group attack, but three of the attackers, Narinder, Barjinder and Harinder, were killed by Gurjeet acting in self-defence, the court heard. Gurjeet was left with a number of lacerations and crush injuries on his head and a wound on his hand. On Wednesday, at the sentencing of Harpreet and Sandeep, CCTV was shown to the court which showed Gurjeet leaving the temple at 7.30pm and being set upon by the three deceased men and Sandeep in a dark alleyway. Gurjeet tries to flee Narinder, Barjinder and Sandeep but then is met by Harinder. He produces a knife to defend himself and eventually flees the scene as three of his attackers collapse to the ground dead. Sandeep is the only individual who survived. Sandeep, 29, an unskilled labourer from Romford, is an overstayer, whose parents live in Punjab. He was sentenced to four years in prison. He will be deported to India once he has served his sentence. His brother Harpreet, 27, was sentenced to 12 months in jail. Sandeep arrived in the UK in 2014 with his brother Harpreet, on a temporary visa, which has now expired. Both defendants did not speak English and required Punjabi interpreters and their family members were present in the public gallery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-sikh-men-jailed-for-role-in-london-brawl-that-killed-3-punjabis/articleshow/77382783.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 6, 2020||Business||Byju’s buys online coding classes startup for $300m||BENGALURU: Byju’s said it has acquired online coding classes startup WhiteHat Jr for $300 million in one of the rare all-cash deals in the startup ecosystem. The deal, which has been in the works for the last few months, will help the education unicorn startup foray into the fast-growing segment as WhiteHat Jr claims an annualised revenue run rate of $150 million. The deal will give the founders and investors of Mumbai-based WhiteHat Jr — founded less than two years ago — one of the fastest and most profitable exits in the startup ecosystem. The startup was founded by former Discovery Networks India CEO Karan Bajaj and backed by Nexus Venture Partners, Omidyar Network and Owl Ventures. WhiteHat Jr was also in talks to raise venture capital funding and had got offers at valuations ranging from $200-250 million, but it chose to go with Byju’s offer, said sources familiar with the matter. WhiteHat Jr said recently it will expand to Canada, UK, Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) after the US, which accounts for a majority of its revenues. Byju’s was recently valued at over $10 billion after it raised funding from famed Silicon Valley investor and analyst Mary Meeker’s Bond Capital. It claimed that it has doubled its revenues from $189 million (Rs 1,430 crore) in financial year 2019, when it was also profitable, to Rs 2,800 crore in financial year 2020. It also said that it has 64 million registered students, over 4 million paid subscribers and annual renewal rates as high as 85%. Over the years, the company has also signed up a partnership with Walt Disney to use its characters to teach kids besides also becoming the lead sponsor for the Indian cricket team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/byjus-buys-online-coding-classes-startup-for-300m/articleshow/77382275.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Trichy||TN: Contact tracing on as two MPs test Covid-19 positive after public hearing||TRICHY: The Nagapattinam district administration and health officials have launched an intensive contact tracing exercise after two MPs who attended a public hearing on bifurcation of the district on July 30 at Mayiladuthurai tested positive. The MPs were part of about 30 people on the stage including officials and politicians whereas another hundred people were part of the audience. There is some relief as about 90 people including the district collector, minister O S Manian, revenue - police officials as well as other staff and assistants who participated have since tested negative. Nagapattinam MP M Selvarasu and Mayiladuthurai MP S Ramalingam have been undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital and at a private hospital in Chennai respectively after testing positive. Besides the MPs, the meeting was attended by commissioner of revenue administration K Phanindra Reddy (who chaired it), handloom and textile minister O S Manian, district collector Praveen P Nair, special officer R Lalitha, Thanjavur range DIG Rupesh Kumar Meena, Mayiladuthurai SP Srinatha, sub collector (District Rural Development Agency) M S Prasad and Keelvelur MLA U Mathivanan. Apart from them, political cadres, social activists, representatives of farmers’ organisations and the general public participated in the meeting held at a private college. According to the Covid-19 protocol, no gatherings are also allowed and not more than five people can gather at a place. Despite these norms, the participation of minister, MPs, MLAs and police officials at the public hearing has raised eyebrows. District epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali and collector Praveen P Nair told TOI that they have taken all steps to trace the contacts as soon as possible. “We have segregated the people who participated into three categories such as people on stage, off the stage and their contacts. We almost completed the test for 92 including me and those who were on the stage and all turned negative. Some more officials have to be tested and that process is on. We intimated officials who came from Chennai including minister O S Manian”, the collector said. They have formed teams to trace people who contacted the officials, political leaders and police officials on the day, assuming that they were positive. “Because it was only after attending the meeting that two MPs tested positive,” he further said. Since every speaker arrived there with their assistants and supporters, there was a crowd. “After sensing the swelling of the crowd, we allowed only the speakers to remain inside the meeting hall. It was only after rearranging with proper social distancing that we started the meeting”, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/contact-tracing-on-as-2-mps-test-ve-after-public-hearing/articleshow/77382216.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 6, 2020||Business||Laptops and tablets replace desktops, dominate PC market||Chennai: The pandemic-driven transformation in workplaces and digital disruption in the education sector has turned the personal computers (PC) market on its head, as portable notebooks (laptops) and tablets are replacing traditional desktops as industry vanguards as users seek flexible tools for remote work, learning and leisure. Estimates for the April-June 2020 by research firm Canalys show desktops were underperformers with shipments halving from 8,84,000 in the same period last year to 4,40,000 this year. However, notebooks grew 15% during the same period, after discounting the effect of Lenovo’s bulk laptops deal with the TN government last year, Canalys said. Sequentially, desktop shipments fell 22% while notebooks grew 54%. “Given that the quarter had just 45 operational days, that is an incredible feat,” Canalys research analyst Varun Kannan said. “Covid-19 and lifestyle changes such as remote working and learning have accelerated the cycle of replacement,” he added. Rising demand for Tablets as an alternate device at home for kids and elders is also taking the place of smartphones, analysts note. The number of tablets shipped in April-June rose 21% compared to the previous quarter, notes Canalys. Analysts at Counterpoint Research also see laptops emerging as the driving force of the PC market and estimate “double digit” growth in 2020. Desktop demand is anticipated to drop 8%-10% in the same period. “The decline in desktops has been quite knee-jerk this year and the fall may not be as steep in the coming years but the segment will see a dip,” Prachir Singh, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said. PC maker Lenovo noted a shift in demand from desktops to notebooks since the pandemic. “As the situation tapers down, we expect educational institutions to promote virtual classrooms, as well as companies to continue working from home or follow a hybrid model of 2-3 days of WFH. Due to these changes, we expect a spike in the overall demand for laptops in India, across consumer and commercial markets,” a spokesperson for Lenovo said. Industry analysts expect the slowdown in desktop demand to be more lasting even as the world returns to near normalcy. Desktop buying may be restricted to enterprises with superior computing needs and use cases with high security, they said. As people try to adjust to remote working requirements, the priority is to get functional and productive fast and hence demand for notebooks will remain strong in coming quarters, IDC notes. “The demand for desktops may not go back to its pre-Covid levels, but will likely recover sometime next year,” IDC analyst Jaipal Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/laptops-and-tablets-replace-desktops-dominate-pc-market/articleshow/77379721.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 6, 2020||Business||HP starts production at new facility in Sriperumbudur||Chennai: In a fillip to domestic manufacturing, computer maker HP said it has commenced PC manufacturing at its new facility located in Sriperumbudur in collaboration with electronics maker Flex. HP did not disclose the amount of investment involved in the facility, where Flex will manufacture HP desktops and workstations to help HP meet current and future demands on a contractual basis. The capacity of the plant also remains undisclosed. The geographical location of the new facility provides access to a nearby port and our spare parts facility in Bengaluru, helping us procure materials from other parts of India and Asia more efficiently, HP said. “With the inauguration of this new facility, we aim to strengthen our commitment to India and support the growth of the local manufacturing ecosystem,” Ketan Patel, MD, HP India Market, said. As per research firm IDC, as of March 2020, HP Inc.leads India’s PC market with a market share of 28.2%.The company has a R&D center in Bengaluru and operates a manufacturing plant in Uttarakhand since 2006.Commencing operations in the time of a global pandemic, HP and Flex said the facility adheres strictly to guidance from government and public health authorities including maintaining physical distancing and hygiene protocols like regular sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hp-starts-production-at-new-facility-in-sriperumbudur/articleshow/77379699.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||No video calls with sons, court tells estranged dad||Vadodara: Spending too much time on smart phones for video conferences is not good for children. This is what the court observed while dismissing an estranged father’s plea to talk to his two sons via video calling facility last Friday. Udaipur resident 46-year-old Vikram Singh (name changed), who has separated from his wife, had approached the district court with an unusual request to be allowed to have 30 minutes each virtual meeting with both the sons through video calling daily. Singh’s teenage sons, aged 16 and 13 years live with their mother, 44-year-old Shruti (name changed), in Vadodara. Earlier, the court had allowed him to meet them once in a month for three hours in the court premises. But he has not been able to meet them since February. He also said he could not travel owing to the restrictions during the lockdown and now because of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. However, the court of additional sessions judge H I Bhatt rejected Singh’s plea. In its order, the court said that it is not in the interest of minor kids that they spend more time on smartphones and on video conferences as the kids are already getting online education through video conferences in the present situation. The court also observed that the estranged father had failed to establish the urgency in the matter. The lower courts have been asked by the Gujarat high court to take up only urgent cases for hearing. In his petition, Singh had also told the court that a child’s human rights have to be protected and daily contact with the non-custodial parent should be granted by default. “We put forth our point that the applicant wants to meet his children. However, why did he not pay the maintenance amount for those same children throughout the entire lockdown? Also, he has often made attempts to instigate the kids against their mother and the kids too did not want to meet him due to his conduct,” said Shruti’s advocate Niraj Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-video-calls-with-sons-court-tells-estranged-dad/articleshow/77374042.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 6, 2020||Trichy||11 injured as rooftop wall collapses in Lalgudi||Trichy: A rooftop retaining wall of a two-storey commercial complex collapsed injuring 11 people including three children in Lalgudi of Trichy district on Wednesday. The injured were walking on the road adjoining the building when the debris fell on them. All the injured were taken to Lalagudi and Trichy government hospitals for treatment. Among the injured are D Vinoth, 10, K Sanjay, 12, Nishanthi, 17 and Kavitha, 24. According to Lalgudi police, the building, which is over 30-year-old, had its retaining walls on the rooftop constructed using hollow blocks. In the afternoon on Wednesday, the wall collapsed due to heavy winds. Case has been booked against the owner of the building and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11-injured-as-rooftop-wall-collapses-in-lalgudi/articleshow/77382226.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||20 more die as Covid cases cross 64,000-mark in Bihar||PATNA: The state reported 2,701 fresh cases and 20 more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. The number of deaths surpassed the previous single-day record. Total 64,732 people have tested positive for the virus and 369 patients with coronavirus have died in Bihar so far. Noted surgeon Dr RB Jha of Bhagalpur died on Wednesday, taking the death toll of doctors to 16 in the state. Six of the deceased in the last 24 hours were from Patna, which has reported 60 Covid deaths so far. A 10-day-old male child was found infected and admitted at AIIMS-Patna. With 42,370 recoveries, there were 21,991 active cases in state, which surpassed its previous one-day record of samples testing as 51,924 people were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of tested samples to over seven lakhs across the state. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said Dr Jha, 70, died at JLNMCH in Bhagalpur. As per the health department’s data, six deaths were reported from Patna, two each from Jamui and Muzaffarpur and one each from Aurangabad, Banka, Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Gaya, Jehanabad, Madhepura, Munger and Vaishali. AIIMS-Patna covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said five deaths were reported there, including a 54-year-old male of north SK Puri, a 65-year-old man from Patliputra Colony and a 55-year-old man of Sabazpura in Phulwariusharif. Two other deceased were from Bardiha and Ramadi in Rohtas. A newborn, who was admitted on July 30 at AIIMS-Patna after testing positive, was discharged on Wednesday. NMCH nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said three Covid patients died there. “One was a man (58) from Koilwar in Bhojpur with a medical history of hypertension. Another man (65) was from Chand Sarai in Jandaha in Vaishali. He had a medical history of hypertension, TB and diabetes. The third deceased was a man (54) from Baithi in Goriya Kothi area of Siwan district. He had hypertension and pneumonia,” said Dr Mukul. As per the health department, 478 cases were registered in Patna on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 10,989. However, with 7,128 recoveries and 60 deaths, active cases stood at 3801 in the district. Other districts with large number of Covid-19 cases included Katihar (196), Samastipur (164), Vaishali (104), East Champaran (103), Begusarai (99), Bhojpur (90), Muzaffarpur (90) and Madhubani (90). The health department reported 1610 recoveries in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 65.45%. 100-bed Covid centre inauguratedHealth department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Wednesday inaugurated a 100-bed Covid health centre and a telemedicine centre in the district school at Darbhanga. District magistrate Thiyagarajan SM said all the 100 beds in two isolation wards were equipped with oxygen supply. Amrit also interacted with three home quarantined people to inquire about their health. Patients said they had been supplied with medicine kits and health workers were regularly visiting them. (Inputs from B K Jha in Darbhanga)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-more-die-as-covid-cases-cross-64k-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/77380372.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Final semester UG, PG exams of Mangalore University to start from Sept 15||MANGALURU: The final odd semester undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) examinations for students of Mangalore University for the academic year 2019-20 will be held from September 15 to 30. If students are not able to appear for the same due to prevalent circumstances, they will be given another chance to appear for the same examinations as freshers on January 2021, said vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya on Tuesday. Chairing the special meeting of the academic council of Mangalore University for the academic year 2020-21, Yadapadithaya said the supplementary examinations for other even and odd semesters will also be conducted during the above dates next month and on January 2021. This will give the final semester students who have not yet cleared the examinations of previous semesters to pass those examinations, Yadapadithaya noted. The regular and supplementary examination in January will be conducted as a one-time measure due to the prevalent circumstance caused by the pandemic, and this will help students to complete their courses at one go. Separate seating arrangements will be made for students coming from containment zones and those who have tested positive for Covid-19 to appear for final semester examinations on lines with the SOP drawn up for the SSLC examination. In line with the decision taken at the state higher education council, no end-semester examinations will be conducted for second and fourth semester UG students and second semester PG students. In normal circumstances, their examinations would have been conducted in April and May, he said, adding they will be promoted through “formula based” marks. Students not happy with this will be given a chance for improvement in the above schedule of examinations. “The university will go for digital evaluation of answer scripts of all final semester examinations which will be conducted. This will obviate the need for teachers to come to the centralised evaluation centre in Mangaluru. Arrangements will be made to have three digital evaluation centres in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts, respectively. Computer labs of educational centres will be converted into makeshift digital evaluation centres,” he said. The academic year 2020-21 will start from September 1, by conducting online classes. If the Covid-19 situation is under control, classroom teaching will start from October, else they will be conducted whenever the situation is favourable. “The thrust will be on both online and classroom teaching during the 2020-21 academic year ,” he said, asking teachers to use the virtual tools to reach out to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/final-semester-ug-pg-exams-of-mangalore-university-to-start-from-sept-15/articleshow/77382577.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar, MLA GT Devegowda test positive||MYSURU: District minister ST Somashekar and Chamundeshwari MLA GT Devegowda have contracted Covid-19 and are under treatment. Both the leaders are asymptomatic. Disclosing that he has tested positive on his Twitter handle, GT Devegowda has appealed to his followers who have come in contact with him since a week to take care of their health and get tested if they develop any symptoms. According to BJP workers, Somashekar has been hospitalized in Bengaluru and his condition is stable. Relief to journos, ex-CM’s acquaintances Much to the relief of Mysuru journalists who had attended a meet-the-press of leader of opposition Siddarmaiah, the Covid test results of all of them, has come negative. They were tested on Wednesday. The former CM’s staff in Mysuru have also tested negative. Mysuru District Journalists Association general secretary KJ Lokesh Babu said 29 members including three officer bearers underwent rapid antigen tests on Tuesday and all tested negative. However, all of them have been asked to stay indoors for a few more days as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-district-in-charge-minister-st-somashekar-mla-gt-devegowda-test-positive/articleshow/77380375.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hubballi||Incessant rain inundates roads, houses in Hubballi-Dharwad||HUBBALLI/DHARWAD: The poor infrastructure of Hubballi-Dharwad lay exposed as rain lashed the twin cities relentlessly since Tuesday evening, with several arterial roads in Heggeri, Anand Nagar, Hosure Cross, et al, getting waterlogged, rendering commute nigh impossible on these thoroughfares. Worse still, commuters had to wade through knee-deep water in Cotton Market and near Tulajbhavani temple, with rain adding to the woes of travelling on roads that are being upgraded and repaired. The other consequence of the inclement weather was that weekly markets at Lingaraj Nagar and Ashok Nagar wore a desolate look with most residents staying inside their homes. Other commercial hubs in the twin cities such as Janata Bazaar, Koppikar Road, Durgad Bail, et al, too had very few customers, the lean spell they had to endure owing to the Covid-19 crisis now being extended because of heavy showers. Heavy showers in its catchment areas resulted in Unkal Lake not only getting filled to the brim, but overflowing. Many low-lying areas such as Gangadhar Nagar, Aravind Nagar were waterlogged, while houses in Hanumanth Nagar, Vidyanagar, Channapet, Bani Oni, etc., were inundated. Complaints of power outages too flooded the offices of the civic agencies concerned. Tuppari Halla overflowing In addition to the twin cities, villages in Dharwad district too reported heavy rain, with normal life in the rural pockets being thrown out of gear. The Dharwad-Savadatti Road was blocked after the temporary bridge across Tuppari Halla near Harobelawadi being breached. The temporary bridge had been constructed by the authorities to ease traffic movement between Dharwad and Savadatti, but the damage to the structure has compelled motorists to take a circular route via Belawadi, Tadakod, Garag or via Uppinabetageri, which increases the length of the journey by 40km to 50km. The road near the Kalghatagi toll overflowed resulting in water gushing on to the Bus rapid Transit System lane. The residents of Channabasaveshwar .Nagar, Vijayanand Nagar had to bear the brunt of the waterlogging. Dharwad district superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar has appealed to the people against venturing near the Tuppari Halla bridge. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre data shows that Dharwad district recorded 36.2mm rain till 8am on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/incessant-rain-inundates-roads-houses-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/77380458.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Rain likely to lash Kolkata for two more days: Met||KOLKATA: The city continued to receive sporadic showers on Wednesday, triggered by a low-pressure that hovered over Gangetic Bengal and adjoining Odisha. While the low-pressure is set to move away towards Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on Thursday, showers could continue since the monsoon trough has slid down to south Bengal. The Met office forecast another low-pressure that could trigger rain in the city on August 9 and 10. Kolkata received 12mm rain till 5.30pm on Wednesday. “We expect normal monsoon rain over the next 48 hours. Over the last two days, monsoon has been hectic and it will continue to remain so under the impact of the trough. Even though heavy rain is unlikely, there will be consistent, short showers,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added that another low-pressure was likely to develop over north-west Bay of Bengal, close to the Odisha coast. It could have a significant impact on south Bengal. “It is still too early to predict if it will trigger heavy rain. But we expect showers on August 9 and 10,” added Das. Some areas of Kolkata received 24mm rain on Tuesday even as waterlogging was reported form several pockets. The monsoon rain, however, has pulled the mercury down and the temperature will now remain around 30°C-32°C, said weathermen. “The consistent showers have pulled the mercury down. Even though it had touched 37°C on Monday, the maximum temperature will now remain low,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-likely-to-lash-kolkata-for-two-more-days-met/articleshow/77381295.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Demand for internet gets big boost in Patna||PATNA: With thousands of employees, especially from the IT sector, logging into the work from home (WFH) mode, ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, telecom players and internet service providers are witnessing a major spike in demand for home broadband connections and internet dongles in the city “My clientèle has increased manifold since April. They not only request for installation of broadband services but also want high bandwith. Our central server is capable of hosting a large number of connections. The only problem is shortage of manpower for installing devices at the location of the clients,” said an ISP Neeraj Singh, based in Haroon Nagar locality. Considering the high consumption of data by corporates, some companies are also providing special allowances to their employees for setting up internet routers at home and reimbursing their internet bills. “My company paid me a special allowance for setting up the basic infrastructure at home. I work on a licensed software that consumes data 24X7. My internet bills have drastically increased. But thankfully it is reimbursed by my company,” Raj, a resident of Patel Nagar area said. This pandemic phase has also witnessed many embracing a quieter life. The cacophonous physical world outside has fallen silent, only to be replaced by a vibrant virtual life — experiences streaming via cable, broadband connections and 4G. News, fantasy, crime, comedy, mythology all jostle for attention, offering home-bound people. Boring Road resident Sonal Seema said, “In April, my webpages used to get loaded slowly and movies took longer than usual to buffer. Even images were blurred during video conferencing. I then requested my ISP to upgrade my broadband plan to a higher bandwidth. My problem has been resolved.” Anil Kumar, who runs a transport company, is also busy these days watching movies online. Talking to this newspaper he said, “Earlier I preferred to watch news instead of a movie. But ever the since lockdown, I have become a big fan of OTT platforms. I binge all trending shows and movies. My wife too accompanies me. I have upgraded my internet plan for better video quality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/demand-for-internet-gets-big-boost-in-patna/articleshow/77380546.cms||Arunima Lal
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Waiting in the wings: A safer, better Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Even as Kolkata airport struggles to come to terms with unprecedented revenue loss owing to frequent suspension of flight operations and the resultant lower passenger movement as the state battles the pandemic, the airport authorities are rolling out new low-cost initiatives to enhance passenger safety and comfort. Four self check-in kiosks that are present in the domestic wing are being converted into contactless devices that will allow passengers to henceforth print out boarding cards without touching the screen. The airport has entered into an agreement with logistics solution provider SITA to roll out the technology. While Air India and IndiGo has already come on board, the system will be functional once other airlines operating from the city join the initiative. “Before the airport reopened, we had laid out distance markers for passengers to queue up at the self check-in kiosks. But since operation of the kiosk requires touching the screen, we have turned to a solution that will enable flyers to transport the screen on to their cellphone to print out the boarding card,” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said. While passengers are now required to do online checkin prior to arriving at the airport, a few passengers still reach the airport without prior check-ins and are guided to the self check-in kiosks to collect their boarding cards. Once the touchless facility is functional, passengers have to switch on WiFi data that will be provided free of charge near the kiosks. Thereafter, the flyer will receive a prompt on the cellphone to scan the QR code on the kiosks. Once that is done, the screen can be accessed on the phone where the passenger can punch in the PNR number and give the command for a boarding pass printout. While this facility is expected to be online in a week or so, the comfort level at the airport has already been upgraded with 50 recliners in the security hold area for passengers to relax after the stressful check-in. “The recliners were to arrive in February but was delayed by a month. Unfortunately, lockdown was announced and everything was stalled. We have finally got the recliners and deployed them in the terminal — 40 in domestic and 10 in international,” said Bhattacharjee. The recliners will be of special help for transit passengers who at times have to wait for several hours to board the next flight. TOI had earlier reported how a domestic transfer facility was being readied for commissioning early next month to enable swift security check for transit passengers that will both ease congestion at the airport and reduce hassle that transit passengers currently face in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/waiting-in-the-wings-a-safer-better-city-airport/articleshow/77382225.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 6, 2020||Business||Covid health insurance claims near 1 lakh as private treatment grows||MUMBAI: Health insurance claims related to Covid-19 are inching towards the one-lakh mark, with the value of the claims at around Rs 1,400 crore. Even as Mumbai continues to lead in the number of cases, claims from Delhi and Chennai are steadying, while Bengaluru private hospitalisation claims are on the rise. Around to data collated by the General Insurance Council, 85,000 cases were reported up to Tuesday, which is for a value of around Rs 1,400 crore. On an average, 2,000 claims are being reported per day out of the 50,000-odd positive results. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesInsurers said the sharp jump in the number of claims is because of treatment shifting from government to private hospitals. For instance, in Bengaluru until recently most treatment was happening in government centres, however, now there are around 5,000 patients in private hospitals. At current levels, claims are relatively low compared to the Rs 51,000-crore size of the country’s health insurance market. Despite the rise, insurers are not expecting a surge in claims for two reasons. First, there are indications that Covid-19 is slowing in metros and moving to interiors where insurance penetration is lower. Second, the local administration is increasingly prescribing home treatment. According to Bajaj Allianz General Insurance health claims head Bhaskar Nerurkar, there is a slight tapering in claims being registered. “Earlier, claims were doubling in 15-16 days and now it is taking 21 days. Part of the reason could also be that home quarantine is being increasingly recommended for asymptomatic cases,” he said. While home treatment is also covered as insurers reimburse cost of home treatment packages (which are usually under Rs 15,000), these claims are lodged after recovery when the claimant submits documents. In the case of hospitalisation, most claims are cashless and recorded immediately. Bajaj Allianz has recorded around 3,000 claims, which is around 4% of its total claims. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news According to Atul Sahai, chairman, New India Assurance Company — the country’s largest non-life insurer, the claims received until recently would have been within Rs 100 crore. “A large part of our health insurance business is from group policies. Most of the Covid-19 claims are from individual policies,” said Sahai. One reason for lower group claim is believed to be the fact that such policies are taken by service firms, which have shifted to a work-from-home mode. According to PWC leader — insurance Joydeep Roy, only 14-16% of Indians have health insurance with premiums worth Rs 51,637 crore and 80% of the premium is paid out as claims. As against this, the hospital industry is around Rs 4 lakh crore. Watch Health insurance claims related to Covid-19 inching towards one-lakh mark, as private treatment grows||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-health-insurance-claims-near-1-lakh-as-pvt-treatment-grows/articleshow/77382208.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to review PMCH facilities||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will review the functioning of the newly created 100-bed Covid ward in PMCH on August 7, hospital superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said on Wednesday. “There are 40 patients in this ward,” he said. The ward has 25 ICUs for critical patients. “Final work on the supply of oxygen by pipes to all beds is in progress. Three doctors and paramedical staff would be on duty in each shift,” he said. “Call bells are attached to 36 beds, but this facility would be provided to every bed of this ward so that in case of sudden complication, patients may call the nurse or doctor on duty any time,” he said. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary said following a direction by divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agrawal on August 3, CCTV cameras have been installed in the Covid ward, so that the control room may view the activities of the admitted patients. “Also, all the admitted patients are being provided wrist bands for identification as Covid positive. The PMCH administration is releasing daily bulletin of health status of the patients in Covid ward from Tuesday from its ‘May I help you’ desk and it came as a big relief to families of those under treatment,” Dr Choudhary said. “There were 190 patients admitted in the isolation ward as suspected cases of coronavirus while about 200 antigen tests and 200 RT-PCR tests were being done by the microbiology department every day,” he added. “The hospital also constituted Covid 19 task force comprising one doctor from every department to coordinate between a patient’s kin and the Covid ward,” Dr Karak said. “The CM may also interact with some patients in the Covid ward,” he said, adding that other clinical departments like medicine, orthopaedics, gynaecology and others were asked to remain attentive so that non-Covid patients did not have to suffer in treatment for their diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-review-pmch-facilities/articleshow/77380436.cms||VK Tripathi
August 6, 2020||Trichy||Covid awareness video earns praise from Trichy city police||Trichy: A creative video on Covid-19 awareness by a group in Pudukottai has received appreciation from Trichy city police commissioner J Loganathan on Wednesday.The two-minute video, ‘Mission Possible,’ shows the age-old Indian martial arts silambam and Korean martial art form, taekwondo. The video tries to convey the ways to tackle the invisible enemy, coronavirus, by adopting measures such as maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands regularly.Speaking to TOI, the commissioner said the video would be shared on various social media pages of the city police.“The creators of this video used adopted a unique way in highlighting the ancient martial art forms and this will attract the attention among people,” said the commissioner.M Thajudeen, an architect from Pudukottai, initiated the idea of making a short video on Covid-19 awareness. While he approached filmmaker Jeyakanthan, he suggested that they focus on silambam and taekwondo.“The martial arts were chosen to highlight the human tendency to fight enemies. While it has no direct connection in curing Covid-19, it will help in gaining the public’s attention and thereby help in spreading Covid-19 awareness,” said Jeyakanthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-awareness-video-earns-praise-from-trichy-city-police/articleshow/77382231.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt ramps up hospital beds by 732; fresh Covid cases at 2,816||KOLKATA: The spike in Covid cases in Kolkata and its immediate suburbs — North 24 Parganas and Howrah — has prompted the state government to increase beds in the state-run Covid facilities in these affected zones. Beds were also added in districts like Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur. In two separate notifications issued by the state health department on Monday, it has been said that 110 beds have been added in NRS Medical College Hospital for Covid treatment. In Kolkata, of the 2,225 Covid beds across seven facilities, only a third is empty. This is significantly higher than the 39% Covid bed occupancy state-wide. In North 24 Parganas, the government has taken over the 200-bed Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital, run by the Techno India Group. The state has also added 322 beds in three hospitals — 138 beds in Naihati SG hospital, 104 in Sree Balaram Seva Mandir and 80 in Ashokenagar SG hospital — in the district to cater to the increasing caseload. In Howrah’s Satyabala ID hospital, 20 beds have been increased. On Wednesday, Kolkata had 6,781 active cases, North 24 Parganas 5,437 and Howrah has 2,072 cases. These comprise 62% of the total active cases in Bengal. “The 732 bed increase across the state may ease the pressure from city hospitals,” said a senior official. The state has already increased nearly 800 beds in Kolkata and its adjacent districts in the last one month and hopes to add another 2,000 across the state in the next couple of weeks. From July 1 onwards, 1,533 beds have been increased in the state, of which 996 are in highly infected districts like Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah. The most number of beds — 396 — was added in North 24 Parganas, followed by Kolkata — 368 — and Howrah (232). Apart from these newly included hospitals, there has been substantial increase of beds in several hospitals, including 160 beds in MCH, Kolkata, 53 in Desun hospital, 50 in Megacity Nursing Home in North 24 Parganas and 200 in Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah. Also, 180 beds have been added to Old Matrisadan Hospital in Murshidabad, 25 in Malda Trauma Care Centre and 50 in Mikki Megha Hospital in North Dinajpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-ramps-up-hospital-beds-by-732-fresh-cases-at-2816/articleshow/77382235.cms||Saibal Gupta
August 6, 2020||Trichy||Karpaga Kumaravel is new acting VC of CUTN||Trichy: Karpaga Kumaravel, a senior professor has assumed office as acting vice-chancellor Central University of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. He replaces A P Dash, who completed his 5-year term. Kumaravel is the dean, school of education and behavioural sciences at CUTN besides being the executive council member of the university. He has previously served as the vice-chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University. He emphasized that the driving philosophy behind all his decisions will be that the interest of the institution should always be above that of an individual. Pointing out that the responsibilities are numerous and varied, especially in this pandemic period, Kumaravel assured that collective wisdom and participatory management in a transparent and democratic way will be his style of administration, maintaining neutrality and objectivity. “All-round efforts for the developmental activities to accelerate the growth of CUTN in terms of NIRF ranking, as well as NAAC scoring will be my priority,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karpaga-kumaravel-is-new-acting-vc-of-cutn/articleshow/77382237.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||Candolim reports two more cases||Calangute: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Candolim on Wednesday. The two were close family contacts of a man from Orda who was detected with the virus on Sunday. Medical officer of the Candolim primary health centre Dr Roshan Nazareth, said they had tested 15 close contacts of the three people who had tested positive on Sunday, out of which 12 have tested negative. The two positive patients have been quarantined at the Covid care centre in Calangute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-reports-two-more-cases/articleshow/77382232.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Haven’t been paid since Feb: Forest dept contractual workers||Dehradun: The outsourced workers of the forest department have once again raised their voices against not being paid salaries in the past couple of months. They have alleged that since February this year they have not received any salaries, and earlier also, they got their salaries only after a gap of several months. “Despite the pandemic, we are regularly attending office and following all norms while discharging our duties, but still we are not being paid on time. After contacting several divisional forest officers we have been told that due to budget constraint our salaries are stuck.” said Chandrakant Joshi, deputy chairperson of the outsourced employees union of the state forest department. Though the department had earlier assured them that their wages would be paid on time and some extra support through Employee Provident Funds and state insurance, none of these assurances have fructified till date, he added.T hese outsourced workers include those who work as Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD) jawans, fire watchers, beat watchers, rescue centre workers, drivers, and computer operators, among others. The forest department’s finance section said that some of them got paid and others’ files are under process, and soon their dues will be cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/havent-been-paid-since-feb-forest-dept-contractual-workers/articleshow/77379330.cms||Shivani Azad
August 6, 2020||Varanasi||Live-in couple murdered in Gorakhpur district||Gorakhpur: A live-in couple on Wednesday morning was found dead at their house. They were killed with a spade at Thakurpur area under Gulriha police station in Gorakhpur district. The cause behind the double murder is yet to be ascertained. The probe is underway, said police. As per reports, Anarjeet Gupta (40) and Rima Gaur (35) were living together in Thakurpur area for the last three years. Around 9 am, villagers found them soaked in blood in their room. A blood stained spade was also found near the bodies. The villagers immediately informed the police. “Anarjeet and Rima were not married to each other. Anarjeet was married to another woman who lived, along with their two sons at her parents’ house. Whereas, Rima had married twice. Her first husband had died, and she left her second husband,” said Chauri Chaura CO Rachna Mishra said. “Probe has been initiated and the bodies have been sent for postmortem. The motive behind the murder is not yet clear,” She added. Villager told police that the couple had no animosity against anyone in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/live-in-couple-murdered-in-gorakhpur-district/articleshow/77382241.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||ITIs with 1.4 lakh seats open for pupils keen on trade skills||PUNE: About 1.4 lakh seats for industrial training institutes (ITI) in Maharashtra opened up for admission to students online from Monday. Students can login to the admission website which is also compatible on cellphones to fill application forms. There has been an increase of nearly 4,000 seats across the ITIs this year, as per the state directorate of vocational education (DVET) After logging in to the DVET website, students must click on admissions to begin the process for registrations. After giving basic details, the students can register using a permanent cellphone number and create an admission account, director of DVET Deependra Sinh Khushwa said. For the first time, the DVET has also launched an app for admissions to the ITI courses. Students will have to fill up their seat number and all the details will automatically load on the app. Preference of colleges and branches will have to be selected by the students. The forms can be filled till August 14 and any changes made. They can also fill up the options and preferences for institutes during this period. The preliminary list of candidates with marks will be declared on the DVET website and candidates will be sent a notification on their cellphones on August 16 around 11am. The first merit list will be announced on August 20, second list on August 30, third list on September 7 and final list on September 15. The Maharashtra government concerned about the outdated courses overhauled many of them to keep the students in tune with industrial needs. The demands came from specific industries to start courses.  The Aundh ITI was the first in the country to offer a course in robotics and mechatronics two years ago.  Such courses help students increase their employability, while providing the industry with expert hands that need not be retrained . Those already employed can go back to the ITI for reskilling thus enhancing their productivity.  After completing ITI, tradesman can undergo apprenticeship training in different industries. Private MNCs tie up with ITIs for apprenticeship programme, campus placement to provide skilled workforce. Public sector units BHEL, IOCL, BPCL,Indian Railways, ISRO and others also take apprentices .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/itis-with-1-4l-seats-open-for-pupils-keen-on-trade-skills/articleshow/77382274.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Trichy||VCK chief’s sister dies of Covid-19||Trichy: G Banumathi, 62, the elder sister of VCK founder and MP Thol Thirumavalavan, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai on Wednesday. She is survived by two sons and a daughter. The party has declared seven-day mourning. Down with Covid-19 positive, she was under treatment for the past three weeks. In a condolence statement issued by the party, it said that her health condition also improved following the treatment. While doctors hinted at her discharge from the hospital in the next few days, she died of heart attack. Banumathi’s body was taken to Thirumandhurai village in Ariyalur district where people paid homage. Later, it brought to her native Anganur village in Ariyalur district. Thirumavalavan was present in all the funeral events. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vck-chiefs-sister-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77382263.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Trichy||Man, 29, kills sister, 38, in tiff over buying phone||Thanjavur: Police arrested a 29-year-old man in Thanjavur on charges of murdering his elder sister on Wednesday. The incident happened following a scuffle with his mother demanding a mobile phone. Police identified the accused as P Arunkumar, a native of Thamarankottai near Pattukottai in the district. He had been residing with his mother P Dhanaroja, 62, as his father Palanivel, a farmer, passed away a few years ago. His elder sister P Vallikannu, 38, who is married, has also been staying with them in Thamarankottai for the last six years, police said. Arunkumar, a diploma holder in air-condition mechanic, is left without any work and has no income. He had been insisting his mother to buy a mobile phone for him and two days ago he picked up a quarrel with Dhanaroja. However, she told him that he could buy a phone after pledging her jewellery. She also pacified him after promising to buy a new phone within a few days. However, he again picked up a quarrel with his mother and suddenly attacked her with a wooden log. She managed to escape from him and ran out of the house. In a fit of rage, Arunkumar started assaulting his sister Vallikannu. He thrashed her and strangulated her using his leg which led to her death. On information, Mathukur police inspector Senthilkumar (in charge), Athirampattinam sub-inspector George Raja conducted an inquiry and arrested Arunkumar. They booked him under sections of IPC including 302 IPC. He has been remanded in judicial custody by a court in Orathanadu and is sent to Kumbakonam prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-29-kills-sister-38-in-tiff-over-buying-phone/articleshow/77382242.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Bengali researcher’s violent death in US shocks diaspora||KOLKATA: The Bengali diaspora is shocked and pained at the brutal killing of Indian-origin pharmacist and researcher Sarmistha Sen on August 1. Sen was killed when she went out to jog near her home in Plano, a suburb near Dallas. Sen, who studied molecular biology and worked at UT Southwestern as a clinical research manager focused on cancer, was found dead in a creek by Legacy Drive and Marchman Way. Sen was born on January 2, 1977, in Sindri, Jharkhand. She grew up in there before moving to Bengaluru for higher studies and work. In 2004, she got married to Arindam Roy and moved to Plano. She studied in UT Dallas and University of Birmingham, Alabama. She is survived by her husband and two sons aged 12 and 6. Law enforcement officers are collecting evidence to build a case. They need time to finish their job. There is no evidence that there has been any injustice on their part. On the contrary, they have regularly kept me updated on the case. Sarmistha was at the wrong place at the wrong time and this was an isolated incident in 15 yearsJournal entry of Sen’s husband Arindam RoyThe incident led to an outpour of grief and support for the family. Dallas resident Andy De, who started an online petition with the #JusticeForSarmistha addressed to the Plano police, described Sen as an “exemplary wife, mother, daughter, sister, citizen and contributor to the Dallas Fort Worth (DFW) community”. “Not only was she a passionate cancer researcher, she was also a gifted singer and accomplished music teacher. She taught the children of the community. She would often seek my advice regarding her career as one would of an elder brother. We would always have plenty to talk about, given our shared passion for music. My heart goes out to her family members whose lives have been upended by this tragedy. May God bless them,” De said. His petition went viral and received “an overwhelming response” from across the globe. “In less than two days, we have collected nearly 25,000 signatures. This is incredible. We are confident that the local police in Plano will do everything needed to apprehend the criminal who attacked and killed her and bring him to justice,” De added. Another senior Plano resident, who knew the couple for a decade, was equally perturbed. “She was very active within the community. The couple used to perform at cultural programmes. Plano has a large Bengali population and it was so unfortunate. People have have been paying their tributes to her by laying pairs of running shoes near the site of the incident. On Sunday, we went to her memorial,” he said on condition of anonymity. On Tuesday, an NGO picked up more than 1,000 pairs of donated shoes at her memorial. Bikas Saha, who has been living in the Plano-Frisco area of Texas for 30 years now, too, attended her memorial on Sunday. “I lived in Plano for 18 years and have never come across any such horrific incident. This incident has shocked everyone in Plano. My niece was very close to her. Together, they would perform at a lot of cultural programmes,” Saha said. According to him, every person in the community wants to know who killed Sen and is demanding for justice. “Meanwhile, we have lined up a series of events to pay our tributes to her. Since she was a jogger, we are trying to organize a memorial at a morning walk next Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengali-researchers-violent-death-in-us-shocks-diaspora/articleshow/77382244.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 6, 2020||Pune||School blocks students from online classes||Pune: Ryan International School, Bavdhan, has allegedly blocked students from their online classes for non-payment of fees. The students’ parents had demanded that the school take only tuition fee for the year and waive off other utility charges. However, when they tried to log in on Tuesday, the students found themselves blocked from online classes. “The school started its online classes in April. Due to the pandemic, on behalf of the parents, the Parent Teacher Association sent fee waiver proposals to the school requesting a waiver for unused facilities (such as computer lab, library, transport and term fees) and only charge tuition fees for online sessions. There was no response from the school and, since Tuesday, the school has blocked all students yet to pay the fee, from their online learning platform, without prior notice, intimation to parents or the PTA,” said a parent. Another member of PTA, said that two proposals were sent to the school management regarding the fee. “The first proposal, apart from deducting the fee for unused facilities also sought a 25% waiver in tuition fee but the principal replied asking us to revise the proposal. Then, we decided that only the fees for unused facilities will be deducted. However, since then there has been no response. Some parents had gone to the school hoping to meet the principal but the representatives told us that she is working from home. They are not even ready to do an online meeting to resolve the issue,” said the member. A spokesperson for Ryan International School said, “The Ryan group has adhered to all government directives and is sensitive to the financial concerns faced by the parents due to the current pandemic situation. We have been running the online classes at a lot of expense in terms of additional infrastructure, training, licenses, bandwidth and equipment. We have been cooperating with and supporting parents for the past several months. To ease their situation, we have also offered a monthly payment structure to provide financial planning flexibility. In addition, we have partnered with a third party to provide an EMI facility to parents for fee payment and the entire interest cost of this is being picked up by the school. Even if the schools are shut, almost all our expenses in terms of teacher salaries, support staff salaries, bank loan payments, maintenance, equipment costs, etc, are still the same. We are looking into all issues raised by parents and hope to come to a mutually agreeable solution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-blocks-students-from-online-classes/articleshow/77382281.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga at 39ft alert mark, many start relocating||Kolhapur: The Panchaganga river water level reached the alert mark of 39 feet by 10 pm on Wednesday. If the rain continued in the catchment areas, then the Panchaganga river water level may cross the danger mark of 43 feet by early morning, said a senior official. In just 24 hours, the catchment areas have received between 200 to 250 mm rainfall. Following an appeal from Kolhapur collector Daulat Desai, the residents of the Ambewadi and Chikali villages have started shifting either to their relatives’ homes or to shelter camps identified by the administration. Six state highways and 20 district highways are submerged. Also, 102 barrages along several rivers have gone under water. The Radhanagari dam is 90% filled and the automatic gates will open once the dam attains 100% water level. The Koyna dam in Satara district has filled up to 75% of its capacity. Meanwhile, water discharge from the Almatti dam has increased to 7,000 cusec. Prasad Sankpal, the district disaster management officer, said, “Two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have already arrived. One is stationed at Kolhapur and the other at Shirol. Two more teams will arrive by Thursday morning.” In Kolhapur city, waterlogging has started in low-lying areas. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti visited some of the places, including Kadamwadi and Lakshmipuri, and requested residents to relocate. He directed the fire officers to keep the shelter homes ready while ensuring that social distancing is observed. In some localities, overflowing sewage from the nullahs started entering the residential areas and roads. Kalshetti has asked the sanitation inspectors to carry out disinfection immediately after the sewage water subsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-at-39ft-alert-mark-many-start-relocating/articleshow/77379337.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Epic to ordinary: Covid-19 likely to affect Ramlila plans in Delhi||NEW DELHI: There were questions about whether the annual Ramlila spectacles would be possible in Delhi under the shadow of the novel coronavirus. However, some organising committees, heartened by the reducing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, have filed applications with the Archaeological Survey of India, which manages the Red Fort grounds, the hub of the enactment of the mythical destruction of evil during Dussehra. However, a lot will depend on the relaxation of the Covid restrictions in the coming weeks. The three oldest Ramlila organisers at Red Fort are now contemplating Ramlila manchan on a less grander scale than usual to keep the tradition alive. Prakash Barathi, mantri, Sri Dharmic Ramlila Committee, which has been putting up the Ram plays for 97 years now, said that in a normal year, preparations began six months before Dussehra. “We don’t want a gap in our tradition, and even if we get permission for only 50 people to attend our Ramlila, we will go ahead,” Barathi said. “This year the construction of the Ram temple has begun in Ayodhya, so it is an important time for us.” Barathi added that even if they got 15 days to organise the show, they would go forward. “Normally, by this time, we would have been finalising deals on tents, catering and contractors. Donation collection would have been in an advanced stage,” he said. “But we don’t want people to come for the shows and get infected by the virus.” His colleague Ravi Jain said a meeting is planned after August 15 to assess the situation, and they were in touch with artistes from Moradabad who customarily perform for the Sri Dharmic Ramlila Committee’s events. The Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, known for its glitzy performances featuring TV and Bollywood actors, is preparing as usual and some new songs have already been recorded for the manchan. “We will apply to ASI in a day or two. We want to organize the Ramlila at any cost, even if it warrants inviting only those who have recovered from Covid,” said Ashok Agarwal, who heads the organising team. He claimed that finances and donations wouldn’t be a problem. A committee member claimed, “We will be ready to organise the Ramlila at a week’s notice once the guidelines are announced.” The Nav Sri Dharmic Committee has been a regular at the Red Fort grounds for 62 years. Rahul Sharma, member of the committee, said the chances of a large-scale event were slim at this point. “Usually, we begin work in May and the budget would be discussed in meetings in August. But this year, the pandemic has disrupted the schedule,” Sharma said. “We will wait and watch for how the situation develops in the coming weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epic-to-ordinary-covid-likely-to-affect-ramlila-plans/articleshow/77382282.cms||Paras Singh
August 6, 2020||Pune||State declares TET results, grievance claims till Aug 15||Pune: The Maharashtra State Council of Examination has released interim results on Wednesday for the Teacher’s Eligibility Test conducted on January 19, 2020. The result for paper 1 (class I to V) and Paper 2 (Class VI to VIII) is available for the candidates to check using their login id and password at the official website https://mahatet.in from 5pm onwards. “If there are any grievances regarding reservation category not applied while declaring the result etc, candidates can fill up the form online and upload the documents proving their claims before August 15. These claims will be reviewed and appropriate action will be taken,” Tukaram Supe, chairman of Maharashtra State Exam Council, said. Qualified candidates will receive their certificates from the respective education offices, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-declares-tet-results-grievance-claims-till-aug-15/articleshow/77382287.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Boat overturns in Ghaghra, three kids among five found dead||GORAKHPUR: Five bodies of victims of a boat tragedy were fished out from the Ghaghra (Saryu) river near Teliakala village under Mail police station limits in Deoria district around 6.45 pm on Wednesday. “A boat carrying around half-a-dozen people of Chakki Musadohi area under Madhuban police station limits in Mau district overturned in the river in that district. So far, five bodies, including three of children and two of women, have been found near Teliakala village under Mail police station in Deoria district ” said DM Deoria Amit Kishore. Reports said around half-a-dozen people were coming towards Teliakala village from Mau district and due to the overflowing river, the boat went out of control and overturned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/boat-overturns-in-ghaghra-5-bodies-found/articleshow/77382279.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Four arrested in a robbery bid case||DEHRADUN: Four persons, who tried to loot the employees of a liquor store and even opened fire on them on August 8, were arrested by the Vikasnagar police of Dehradun on Wednesday. The police also recovered items — which they had looted from a grocery shop on July 31 – from their possession. The mastermind of the crime was identified as Saurabh Kumar, who works in a grocery shop and is a resident of Vikanagar, and the three others gang members — Narendra, Kapil, and Vipin — are his relatives. During the interrogation, Saurabh told the police that he was an alcohol addict and his salary could not meet his expenses. Thus, with the help of three of his relatives, Saurabh hatched a conspiracy to loot the staff of a liquor shop in Barotiwala area. “On August 8, when Shankar Singh and Satya Singh, employees of the liquor shop, were carrying the proceeds to Dehradun, the accused tried to intercept their vehicle in the jungle area of Dhulkot. When the liquor shop staff did not stop the two-wheeler, Saurabh reportedly opened fire on them with a country-made pistol, which he claimed he purchased from Saharanpur. The bullet struck Shankar. Apprehensive of getting caught, Saurabh and his aides escaped from the spot,” said a police officer. With the help of CCTV camera footage, the four accused were identified and arrested on Wednesday. The police have also found the country-made pistol from the jungle area of Dhulkot. Earlier on July 31, the four accused had also looted the grocery store where Saurabh worked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-arrested-in-a-robbery-bid-case/articleshow/77379346.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 6, 2020||Pune||Housing societies upped staff wages by 50% during Covid curbs||PUNE: Workers relying on a daily wage were the hardest hit during the lockdowns. While residents of some housing societies did continue to pay staff, many others cut off salaries shortly after restrictions were enforced. But the Prism housing society in Aundh went a step further to ensure staff were protected during the curbs. They increased salaries of housekeeping and security staff by 50% and provided the guards accommodation within premises. Raghvendra Singh (23) and Sunil Kushwaha (20), two of the complex’s six guards, have been staying at the society since the very first lockdown in March. “We lived in the nearby slum, where the risk of Covid-19 infection was high,” said Singh. “We are provided three meals a day and we plan to continue staying here until we’re allowed. It’s safer here than inside the slum.” Everyone entering Prism goes through temperature checks and is asked to rub hands with a sanitiser. Pulse oximeters have also been deployed to assess health. Cleanliness is also of the highest priority. All table counters and common surfaces throughout the premises are wiped clean every day. Shaheen Kazi, one of the housekeeping staff at Prism said, “We were given an increased salary for the three months of the first lockdown. They have promised us an increase in salary now.” Sudhir Jain, chairman of the housing society, said, “We have also made provisions for the clubhouse to be turned into a quarantine centre if need arises.” For essentials, residents organised vegetable and fruit sales inside the premises twice every week, with assigned time slots to maintain social distancing. “There are 251 flats in five buildings. For the elderly residents, we deliver essential products to their doorstep,” said Ajit Petkar, the secretary of Prism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-soc-upped-staff-wages-by-50-during-covid-curbs/articleshow/77382292.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 6, 2020||Goa||Online show to raise money for Covid fund||Panaji: Percept Live, which organises the Sunburn event in Goa, has been granted approval to hold an online fundraiser event, proceeds from which will go to the Goa CM’s Covid Relief Fund. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the online event is also a way of promoting Goa as a tourism destination anew. “Percept Live will organise a live event, and whatever donations will come in, they will give them directly to the Covid Relief Fund. It is musical event organised and already held in Berlin. The same event will now be shown online. There will be nothing held in Goa. Everything will be online. It is a free and open to anyone to join in. And those who feel like donating can do so. It is a way to promote tourism activity in Goa anew. We are not spending and neither are they charging any fee,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-show-to-raise-money-for-covid-fund/articleshow/77513840.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik gets some rain, but needs more||Nashik: The city and parts of Nashik district received moderate rain on Wednesday, after the monsoon played truant for two weeks, bringing some relief to citizens as well as farmers. However, the district needs much more showers to meet the water demand, said officials. According to IMD officials, Nashik city recorded 4.7mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday. The city had received good rain during the corresponding period last year, but a poor show in the catchment areas of the dams this time around has led to a drop in their water levels. The Ganagapur dam complex and Mukane dam are the major source of water for the Nashik city. The water level in both the dams, which was 90% by this time last year, has decreased to 40% and 28% respectively this year. Although Mumbai and Pune have got heavy rain, Nashik city is still waiting for it. The civic body is planning alternate-day water supply if the rain continues to elude the city. State agricultural department officials said that kharif sowing in some parts of the district has also been affected to some extent and that around 82% of the kharif sowing has been completed so far. “The paddy plantation has been affected in Igatpuri, Trimbakeshwar and Peth areas of the district due to inadequate rain. By August 3, 52% of the sowing of paddy was completed,” added the officials. The revival of monsoon is expected to speed up the paddy plantation of paddy in the district, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-gets-some-rain-but-needs-more/articleshow/77379364.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Justice for Rs 10: In Uttarakhand hills, residents turn to local deities than courts to resolve disputes||DEHRADUN: For residents of 360-odd villages in Uttarakhand’s Jaunsar Bawar region, seeking justice neans approaching their local deities and not the courts. The residents of the area — who trace their lineage to Pandava brothers of the epic Mahabharata — approach ‘devtas’ instead of courts in case of disputes. A token amount of Rs 10 is deposited by the applicants and justice is delivered in less than a fortnight by a person elected for the purpose called ‘Syana’. Syana also consults the khat panchayat — made up of members from eight to 10 villages — for the purpose. Once the verdict is delivered, both parties take a pledge in front of local deity, Mahasu Devta, to accept the decision. This system of justice practised by 367 villages is referred to as Khumdi by local residents. The villages fall under revenue police — a colonial-era system that exists only in Uttarakhand wherein the patwaris (revenue officials) also double up as policemen in villages in hills. Matters of family discord and land disputes are mostly settled through Khumdi. A prominent priest in the region, Chandram Rajguru, said a khat panchayat meeting to resolve such issues is held once or twice in a month and up to 10 matters are taken up in each meeting. Sandeep Singh Chauhan, a Syana from Jogiyo village, said the practice has lasted because not many can travel to Dehradun — which is four to six hours by road — to attend hearings or afford fees of lawyers. Another unique aspect of the system is that views of not just the accused and complainant but that of other residents are also taken into account. “This helps us arrive at an amicable solution,” said Harish Chandra Rajguru, general secretary of Chakrata Pradhan Sangathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/justice-for-rs-10-in-ukhand-hills-residents-turn-to-local-deities-than-courts-to-resolve-disputes/articleshow/77379373.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||Auto-rickshaw driver held for abducting, raping woman||Vadodara: An auto-rickshaw driver was arrested on Tuesday for abducting and raping a 36-year-old woman last month. The accused Jigar Darji, a native of Halol, had kidnapped the woman, who suffers from mental health problem, near GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri on July 30. He drove her in his auto-rickshaw on Race Course Road and Fatehgunj before taking her to his home in Halol. The woman later told police that he raped her there and while driving back to Vadodara he raped her twice on the way in bushes. The woman was dropped off near Amitnagar circle. A local had informed 181 Abhayam helpline about the woman. The helpline counsellors took the woman to her home and helped her file a police complaint at Gotri police station. “We had got the auto-rickshaw’s registration number and the driver’s details from the footages of CCTV cameras installed around the city. We tracked the entire route in the city and also found out that he had escaped towards Vadodara-Halol road,” said inspector A B Gohil of Gotri police station. But when cops checked at his house in Halol, he was not there. “We took help of human intelligence and kept a watch at possible hideouts. But later we got information that he was hiding at his aunt’s home in Dhantej village in Savli so we were able to nab him from there,” Gohil added. The auto-rickshaw used by Darji was also seized from the same village. On Thursday, Darji will be produced before a judicial magistrate’s court and his custody will be sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/auto-rickshaw-driver-held-for-abducting-raping-woman/articleshow/77378500.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||One dead, 33 positive on Friday||Yavatmal: One more death due to Covid was recorded of Friday. Apart from the death, 33 tested positive, while 21 patients are discharged. The deceased is a 73-year-old woman. Of the 33 positive, 20 are men and 13 women. 122 persons are in the isolation wards of GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-dead-33-positive-on-friday/articleshow/77417985.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Man travels 130km daily for call of duty as lockdown halts trains||PUNE: For Dilip Holkar, commuting to Pune from Kedgaon, around 65km from the city, once meant chatting and sharing jokes with fellow passengers on train. But the lockdown has put paid to such pleasant journeys. Now Holkar (36), a security guard, dreads every time he undertakes the journey on his two-wheeler. Severe backaches and anxiety have become his constant companion and taken a toll on his health. “It has been four months now that I have been travelling the distance six days a week on my motorcycle. I have visited doctors twice for my back pain and it has not helped,” he said. Holkar said driving at a stretch for an hour and half or, sometimes, two hours on the highway has made him anxious. “My workplace is in Camp area. I need to leave home at least two-three hours before my shift begins. For example, if my shift ends at 11pm, I can only reach home by 1am or, sometimes, 2am. I don’t have any option since my salary doesn’t allow me to rent a room in Pune. I am trying to get one on a sharing basis,” he said. “Driving on the highway, especially during the night, is risky and the rains have made things even worse. There have been occasions when I have had a narrow escape due to oil spillage on road stretches. I request the authorities to begin public transport without any delay,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-travels-130km-daily-for-call-of-duty-as-lockdown-halts-trains/articleshow/77382298.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Mini-Diwali: Prayers on lips, residents rejoice with diyas, crackers & sweets||Lucknow: For city residents, Wednesday was no less than a Diwali as they illuminated their houses with diyas, distributed sweets and burst firecrackers to celebrate Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. Chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and waving saffron flags, residents came out to celebrate the occasion. Prominent streets and crossings were decorated with colourful lights. Residents of Alambagh, Krishnanagar, Indiranagar and LDA Colony among others welcomed the move with fireworks and decorated their houses with lights and earthen lamps. Saurabh Minotra, a resident of LDA Colony, and his two sons burst firecrackers. “Our kids are lucky that they were able to witness this historic moment. Both my sons are young but they know the importance of Ram temple and are very much eager to visit it. Therefore, we celebrated the day like any other special occasion,” he said. Some of the families even put up speakers and played bhajans dedicated to Lord Ram. They also lit diyas in their houses. “It is a moment of celebration. Though we are far from Ayodhya, we are vert excited,” said Nilesh Rai, a resident of Rajajipuram. Residents of Purana Qila fed cows and marked the day with chants of ‘Hare Krishna, Hare Rama’, and ‘bhajans’ and ‘kirtans’. Members of Sindhi community in Alambagh, Krishnanagar and Indiranagar welcomed the move by bursting firecrackers and decorating their houses. “This is a historic moment for all. After performing ‘aarti’ of Lord Ram inside our houses, we celebrated the occasion as a mini-Diwali and distributed sweets among residents. After the pandemic ends, we will visit the grand Ram Temple,” said Ashok Motiyani, spokesperson of UP Sindhi Samaj. Conch shells and dhol beats resonated in Aminabad as residents and members of Aminabad Vyapar Mandal took part in celebrations. The members also honoured kar sevaks associated with the Ram temple movement. “It is a moment of joy for all of us. Due to security and other reasons, we couldn’t be there in Ayodhya to witness the event but we celebrated the beginning of the construction of Ram temple,” said Atul Awasthi of Aminabad Vyapar Mandal. Residents of Ashiyana recited ‘Sundarkand Path’ in their homes. ‘Ram dhun’ reverberated in Kudiyaghat as residents of Chowk lit earthen lamps and remembered those who were associated with the Temple movement. They also performed ‘Gomti Aarti’. Over 501 earthen lamps were lit at Aishbagh Ramlila ground as Ramlila Samiti members celebrated ‘deepotsava’. The samiti had also handed over a pot full of soil from Aishbagh Ramlila ground for bhoomi pujan. “After chanting mantras and performing ‘havan’ and ‘puja’, we celebrated the occasion by lighting lamps,” said president samiti Harish Chandra Agarwal. Members of Kayasth Mahasabha performed online ‘aarti’ for Lord Ram. “This is the beginning of a new era,” said OP Srivastava, national president of Kayasth Mahasabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mini-diwali-prayers-on-lips-residents-rejoice-with-diyas-crackers-sweets/articleshow/77382824.cms||Aditi Singh
August 6, 2020||Pune||Prayers & chants mark Ram temple celebrations||PUNE: Prayers, sweet distribution and ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants at various parts of the city marked the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police said the celebrations, primarily organized by BJP and Shiv Sena workers, went peaceful. “Barring one or two incidents of attempting to install Gudi flags in public places, the overall law and order situation in the city was peaceful,” Pune police’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said. Pimpri Chinchwad police’s deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sudhir Hiremath said, ”Local residents celebrated the event at their houses and not on the roads. Some members of the BJP and Bajrang Dal distributed sweets to people at important chowks. No law and order problem was reported.” BJP Pune city office-bearer Yogesh Gogawale said, “Commencing construction work of the temple after the Supreme Court verdict is result of various struggles and agitations.” Shiv Sena city functionary Kiran Sali said his party workers had formed small groups and visited various parts of the city to distribute pedhas and ladoos. BJP’‘s Pimpri Chinchwad unit attended the online ground breaking ceremony at their Morwadi office in presence of the city president MLAs Mahesh Landge and Laxman Jagtap and Mayor Usha Dhore among others amid the chanting of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and distributed sweets to party workers and others. “Many generations have worked for the temple and this day is the symbol of their effort and commitment,” Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prayers-chants-mark-ram-temple-celebrations/articleshow/77382373.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Major bureaucratic rejig in Uttarakhand, 18 IAS officers transferred||DEHRADUN: Within 48 hours of a minor bureaucratic reshuffle in Uttarakhand, the second transfer list of IAS officers was announced in the state. While the first one had names of five IAS officers, the second list released on Wednesday gives transfer and postings to as many as 18 IAS officers. The charge of additional chief secretary of inter departmental coordination for development work, urban development and energy was withdrawn from Radha Raturi. She was given the charge of technical education and also appointed as the chairperson of Uttarakhand Transport Corporation. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar has been made the commissioner of agriculture production. The charge of principal secretary of planning was withdrawn from Anand Bardhan, who was given charge of principal secretary of mining, inter departmental coordination for development work, urban development and energy. The charge of director general (DG)/commissioner Industry was withdrawn from IAS officer L Fenai. He will continue to hold the charge of secretary social welfare and minority commission. Similarly, the charge of secretary agriculture education was withdrawn from IAS officer R Meenakshi Sundaram, who will continue to hold other portfolios given to him. Shailesh Bagauli was given the charge of housing but the responsibilities of the disaster management department were taken away. D Senthil Pandiyan, who was in the waiting list, has been made secretary of Ayush Ministry and Ayush education. Harbans Singh Chugh was made secretary agriculture education and the post of secretary Ayush and Ayush education was taken from Dilip Jawalkar. The charge of secretary housing was withdrawn from Nitish Jha and the charge of secretary rural development was taken away from Radhika Jha. However, Radhika Jha will continue to hold the office of secretary to chief minister. S A Murgesan has been given additional charge of DG/Commissioner Industry and Harish Chand Semwal was made secretary in-charge of Excise and Panchayti Raj. Besides, Brijesh Sant was made the secretary of rural construction and Chandresh Kumar Yadav was named the new secretary in charge of census. Neeraj Khairwal was given charge of managing director of Power Transmission Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (PTCUL) and Vinay Shankar Pandey was given the charge of additional secretary urban development. Pandey also holds the post of municipal commissioner of DehradunAdditionally, Ahmed Iqbal has been named as the new director audit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/major-bureaucratic-rejig-in-ukhand-18-ias-officers-transferred/articleshow/77379389.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 6, 2020||Nashik||2 major Covid hotspots in city under control: NMC||NASHIK: The situation in Wadalgaon in Nashik East and Naikwadipura in the old city area of the Nashik city, both major Covid-19 hotspots, is under control as no new cases have been reported from the areas for over a week, said civic health officials on Wednesday. The number of cases have also reduced in Phulenagar, another major hotspot in the Panchavati area, said the officials. According to the officials, tracing of suspects and co-morbid patients, health inspection and increased testing in containment zones have helped bring down cases in all major Covid-19 hotspots in the city. In May and June, Wadalagaon and surrounding areas emerged as major hotspot with over 150 Covid-19 positive cases. Naikwadipura was also one of the major hotspots with over 120 positive cases. “We increased tracing of risk contacts of patients from the previous 20 to 30 people, including both high- and low-risk contacts. We also conducted surveys in the hotspots to find people with coronavirus symptoms, said the officials. “We also conducted rapid antigen tests for early detection of positive patients. All these measures helped us bring down new cases in Wadalagaon and Naikwadipura,” they said. The officials said the antigen tests helped the health department in providing early treatment to patients, leading to a drop in the death rate from 4.81% to 2.67%. The number of cases in Phulenagar have also reduced. Over 180 cases have been reported so far from this hotspot. Nashik APMC workers, residing in the areas, were infected due to the drivers transporting vegetables to Mumbai. Some drivers tested positive and they had infected APMC traders and workers. The APMC management took several measures to curb the outbreak of Covid-19, following instructions by the NMC. The city had recorded the first Covid-19 patient on April 6, and 214 cases with eight deaths were reported by May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-major-covid-hotspots-in-city-under-control-nmc/articleshow/77382318.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||Registration certificates of over 60k vehicles above 15 years suspended||BAREILLY: The Bareilly Regional Transport Office (RTO) has suspended registration certificates of around 60,688 vehicles above 15 years, yet most of the owners failed to get their RCs renewed. According to RTO officials, owners of private vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, did not apply for the renewal of RCs despite repeated reminders and extension of deadlines, and thus, their RCs have been suspended for six months. The registrations would be "cancelled permanently" if they failed to get their RCs renewed within six months, they said. Speaking to TOI, Bareilly senior assistant regional transport officer RP Singh said, “Vehicle owners willing to get their RCs renewed, can apply within six months and their suspended RCs will be renewed. However, if the owners still do not follow the instructions and fail to get the RCs renewed, their RCs will be permanently cancelled and legal action will be initiated against them.” “Such vehicle owners are requested to submit their old RCs at the RTO and do not operate their vehicles until they get the RCs renewed. In case such vehicles are caught plying on the roads, those will be impounded and legal action will be initiated under the Motor Vehicles Act,” added the ARTO. Besides, owners whose vehicles are about to complete 15 years may also apply for the renewal of RCs within a month. The RTO will charge a renewal fee of Rs 500 for four-wheelers and Rs 300 for two-wheelers along with a 10% green tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/registration-certificates-of-over-60kvehicles-above-15-years-suspended/articleshow/77376795.cms||Maria Khan
August 6, 2020||Kanpur||Develop Bithoor as sister city of Ayodhya, say ecstatic locals||Kanpur: Being the ‘nanihaal’ of warrior queen Rani Laxmibai and the place where goddess Sita gave birth to her sons Luv and Kush, Bithoor receives its fair share of tourists every year. Until this year, the Covid-19 outbreak put a stop to the stream of tourists which usually pours in. On Wednesday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, cheers rang through the silence of the town as the residents celebrated. Many believe that given the mythological relevance of Bithoor, it should be developed as a sister city to Ayodhya. Durganand, a local priest, said, “Bithoor Dham is the centre of the world. Sita lived here with her sons as ‘van devi’ (goddess of forests).” According to Hindu mythology, Sita came here after being turned away by her husband Lord Rama. She gave birth to her sons Luv and Kush here, who were taught by Valmiki at his ashram in Bithoor. The remains of the ashram can still be found in the city. Sita Rasoi, a place along the banks of river Ganga and near Valmiki’s ashram, is considered to be the site where she cooked food. “Places like Sita rasoi, the utensils found in it, the prayer room and the ‘swarg naseni’ (ladder to heaven) still attract many tourists. All these attractions are closely related to Lord Ram. If this city is developed on the lines of Ayodhya, it would attract more tourists,” he added. It is believed that as Valmiki’s ashram was located at a great height, a circular staircase of 49 steps was constructed to help visitors reach the ashram. It was believed that the staircase connects heaven and earth. One can even see the whole Bithoor from atop the staircase. Local resident Pradeep Shukla said, “Bithoor is a mythological city and should be connected to Ayodhya so that devotees could visit other places related to Lord Ram and Sita.” Another local resident, Ram Kumar, said, “Bithoor’s significance has now grown as it is related to Lord Ram and Goddess Sita. The government should make arrangements for easy transport so that more and more people are able to discover this relevance of this ancient town.” Baba Rameshwar, another local, said that given its connect with Sita and Valmiki, it is about time that Bithoor received its fair share of attention. “The state government should pay attention to this city as it has a rich mythological heritage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/develop-bithoor-as-sister-city-of-ayodhya-say-ecstatic-locals/articleshow/77382306.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Mini-Diwali: Prayers on lips, residents rejoice with diyas, crackers & sweets||Lucknow: For city residents, Wednesday was no less than a Diwali as they illuminated their houses with diyas, distributed sweets and burst firecrackers to celebrate Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. Chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and waving saffron flags, residents came out to celebrate the occasion. Prominent streets and crossings were decorated with colourful lights. Residents of Alambagh, Krishnanagar, Indiranagar and LDA Colony among others welcomed the move with fireworks and decorated their houses with lights and earthen lamps. Saurabh Minotra, a resident of LDA Colony, and his two sons burst firecrackers. “Our kids are lucky that they were able to witness this historic moment. Both my sons are young but they know the importance of Ram temple and are very much eager to visit it. Therefore, we celebrated the day like any other special occasion,” he said. Some of the families even put up speakers and played bhajans dedicated to Lord Ram. They also lit diyas in their houses. “It is a moment of celebration. Though we are far from Ayodhya, we are vert excited,” said Nilesh Rai, a resident of Rajajipuram. Residents of Purana Qila fed cows and marked the day with chants of ‘Hare Krishna, Hare Rama’, and ‘bhajans’ and ‘kirtans’. Members of Sindhi community in Alambagh, Krishnanagar and Indiranagar welcomed the move by bursting firecrackers and decorating their houses. “This is a historic moment for all. After performing ‘aarti’ of Lord Ram inside our houses, we celebrated the occasion as a mini-Diwali and distributed sweets among residents. After the pandemic ends, we will visit the grand Ram Temple,” said Ashok Motiyani, spokesperson of UP Sindhi Samaj. Conch shells and dhol beats resonated in Aminabad as residents and members of Aminabad Vyapar Mandal took part in celebrations. The members also honoured kar sevaks associated with the Ram temple movement. “It is a moment of joy for all of us. Due to security and other reasons, we couldn’t be there in Ayodhya to witness the event but we celebrated the beginning of the construction of Ram temple,” said Atul Awasthi of Aminabad Vyapar Mandal. Residents of Ashiyana recited ‘Sundarkand Path’ in their homes. ‘Ram dhun’ reverberated in Kudiyaghat as residents of Chowk lit earthen lamps and remembered those who were associated with the Temple movement. They also performed ‘Gomti Aarti’. Over 501 earthen lamps were lit at Aishbagh Ramlila ground as Ramlila Samiti members celebrated ‘deepotsava’. The samiti had also handed over a pot full of soil from Aishbagh Ramlila ground for bhoomi pujan. “After chanting mantras and performing ‘havan’ and ‘puja’, we celebrated the occasion by lighting lamps,” said president samiti Harish Chandra Agarwal. Members of Kayasth Mahasabha performed online ‘aarti’ for Lord Ram. “This is the beginning of a new era,” said OP Srivastava, national president of Kayasth Mahasabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mini-diwali-prayers-on-lips-residents-rejoice-with-diyas-crackers-sweets/articleshow/77382835.cms||Aditi Singh
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP celebrates with prayers, Hanuman Chalisa recital||BHOPAL: BJP ministers and leaders in Madhya Pradesh celebrated the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya by offering prayers and holding the recitation of Hanuman Chalisa and Akhand Ramayan at their residences. The BJP workers also lighted lamps and distributed sweets to mark the occasion. Home minister Narottam Mishra performed aarti and held recitation of Ramayana at his residence. Mishra said that the entire country is celebrating Diwali on the foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya. "The entire country has plunged into the faith and devotion of Lord Ram. The event has fulfilled the desire of centuries. There is a saying in our culture, those who do not belong to Ram, do not belong to anybody," said Mishra, indirectly hitting at the Congress leaders who were also celebrating the occasion. State urban development minister Bhupendra Singh and PWD minister Gopal Bhargava also celebrated the occasion by offering pooja and reciting Ramayana at their respective places due to Covid induced restrictions on gatherings at public places. Other BJP leaders celebrated the occasion by lighting lamps at the party head office and bursting crackers. Pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma lit lamps in Kolar area with the supporters while BJP state president VD Sharma shared greetings from hospital where he is recovering from Corona infection. BJP Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur said, "I am glad and happy. The entire atmosphere has changed. I am able to say only Jai Shri Ram. We have done what we had promised," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-celebrates-with-prayers-hanuman-chalisa-recital/articleshow/77380811.cms||Rajendra Sharma
August 6, 2020||Chennai||The capital issue||R RangarajChennai: On March 15, 1981, the chief minister of Tamil Nadu M G Ramachandran sprang a surprise when he said the capital of the state should be shifted from Chennai to Trichy. Pointing out that people had to travel long distances to reach Chennai to meet ministers and officials at the secretariat to make themselves heard, he said the capital should be in the centre of the state. Trichy was, according to him. The decision to shift the capital was met with stiff resistance from many quarters but none was harsher than the Supreme Court senior advocate Ram Jethmalani, who said "the brain, which was the most important part, was not at the centre but at the top of the head". As neighbouring Andhra Pradesh goes for three capitals after shelving the Amaravathi project, it reminds of the talk of similar change in Tamil Nadu, which were mooted for convenience, better governance or to establish an expansive power centre.In 1981-82, MGR went ahead with the proposal to move the capital to Trichy, citing the acute drought situation that caused a severe drinking water crisis in Chennai. A war of words followed between the then DMK president M Karunanidhi and MGR and his ministers over the ‘capital’ issue. MGR suggested that instead of spending nearly `500 crore on drought relief and water supply measures in Chennai, the capital at Trichy could be built with that money. Karunanidhi retorted that it would cost at least `1,000 crore, and wondered how a government which could not spare `50 crore for drought relief, would spend `1,000 crore on a new capital. Karunanidhi also took a personal dig at MGR, and said he was not serious about the proposal and merely wanted to divert attention from the issues and corruption charges against the government at the time. When some argued that the capital should be close to the coast to avail of port facilities, MGR pointed out that Washington and Delhi did not have ports.Sources in his government said the real reason for MGR’s decision to shift the capital was the successive defeats of his partymen and the victories of DMK stalwarts from constituencies in Chennai, which was then described as DMK’s fortress. It must have been galling to sit on the throne in an area from where mostly DMK men were elected. Those who sought development work or even civic work in Chennai would be told that they had elected DMK leaders as their representatives. An adamant MGR went ahead with his plan and Navalpattu near Mundhipatti, a suburb of Trichy, was identified for the capital as the government was assured of land. But eventually the idea got shelved as the government had other priorities and and he fell ill in 1984.J Jayalalithaa too wanted to change the capital from Chennai to Chengalpattu district. Land was identified at Thiruvidanthai, which houses a famous Srinivasa Perumal temple along the East Coast Road. And the plan was to shift the secretariat, all government departments from Fort St George. Since it was away from the city, townships were planned to house bureaucrats, virtually moving the capital there. While the official reason was the need for a bigger space for the ministries and government departments to work, the decision came after unseemly incidents over an army officer’s vehicle being refused entry into Fort St George, which houses the army headquarters as well as the secretariat, as the convoy of Jayalalithaa was proceeding towards the Fort. The issue was said to have rankled Jayalalithaa who wanted full control over the space that is the seat of the government. However, a few months on the project was abandoned.In all practicalities, whether a capital needs to be shifted should be based on the problems with the present system and the infrastructure at the proposed location. At present, the state needs dispersal and decongestion of Chennai by creating a second capital at Trichy or Karur. Trichy has a good network of premier educational institutions, an airport, and an IT Park. Karur has plenty of land available for a massive second capital.Like the Maharashtra government conducts a ‘winter’ session of its assembly at Nagpur, treated as a second capital, Tamil Nadu’s second capital could also have one or two assembly sessions in a year, where people could meet ministers, MLAs, public servants in person to put forward their representations. It would also take the administration closer to the people. At least departments like agriculture, irrigation milk and dairy development, fisheries, forests textiles, animal husbandry and rural industries could move to the second capital. With digital communication, this is workable. The main departments like home, education, health, commercial taxes, law and public works departments could operate from Chennai.The Tamil Nadu government needs to initiate a policy of consensus towards decongestion of Chennai and promoting a second capital in the interest of better governance and increased responsiveness to its citizens, trade and industry bodies.(The writer is a veteran journalist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-capital-issue/articleshow/77380850.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||State death toll up to 64 after 4 more succumb; 348 new infections detected||Panaji: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 64 on Tuesday after four persons succumbed to the infection. It also recorded its highest single-day spike so far with 348 new cases, taking the number of active cases past the 2,000-mark for the first time. While two persons — a 71-year-old woman from Khandola -Marcel and a 63-year-old man from Farmagudi — died of the virus at the ESI-Covid hospital, two — a 65-year-old man from Bicholim and a 79-year-old woman from Torda-Porvorim — died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. All four had comorbidities. The pace of infection spread too intensified, as 19 new cases were detected in Mapusa alone, taking its tally to 68. Also, the town’s fish market was shut after a vendor tested positive. The man is a resident of Nerul, which is under the jurisdiction of the Candolim primary health centre (PHC), but sold fish in Mapusa. A health official said that all his contacts in the market, as well as other fish vendors, would be tested on Thursday, and that arrangements have been made to collect their swabs. The official also said that the new patients were sent to Covid care centres. Some have opted for home isolation, and their requests are being assessed, she said. Meanwhile, 15 new cases were detected in Porvorim, taking its tally up to 53. A health official said that most of these cases were detected in Betim, Penha da Franca, and central Porvorim. One person in Socorro too tested positive. The health official said that three areas in Porvorim have been sealed, including a centrally-located supermarket that was found to be crowded most of the time with hardly any social distancing norms followed. A couple of cases have been found in the vicinity of the supermarket, he said. The official added that most new cases are contacts of known positive cases. Meanwhile in Panaji, four more cases were found, with two each in Mala and Chincholem. In Candolim, two contacts of a man from Orda who had earlier tested positive, tested positive on Wednesday. PHC health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth said that they had tested 15 contacts, of whom 12 returned negative. The two have been placed at a Covid care centre in Calangute. Meanwhile, most health officials said that they were able to secure beds in Covid care centres as a 500-bed centre has been made operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-death-toll-up-to-64-after-4-more-succumb-348-new-infections-detected/articleshow/77382320.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Show-cause notices to 11 civic officials||JAIPUR: Show-cause notices have been issued to 11 revenue officers of Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater and Heritage for sending negligible notices to people defaulting urban development tax or property taxes. At a review meeting on Wednesday, both the commissioners Dinesh Yadav and Lok Bandhu issued the showcause notices. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater’s commissioner Dinesh Yadav said, “Strict action will be taken against officials who are not taking steps to collect revenue. Sending notices is not enough but action should be taken against the defaulters and their properties be seized.” It was decided that all the vegetable vendors who were recently identified and given identity cards will again be tested for coronavirus. This will be done to avoid making them a super spreader in the city. According to the officials, it has been decided that every two months, random testing of vegetable vendors will be done. Testing will begin from next week. Both the commissioners instructed all officers that the complaints filed on PMO, CMO, Sampark portal helpline should be disposed of within the next three days to reduce the pendency. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/show-cause-notices-to-11-civic-officials/articleshow/77382356.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||NCC academy will stay in Tehri: Uttarakhand govt to HC||NAINITAL: The state government on Wednesday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it will not transfer the proposed NCC academy from Tehri Garhwal’s Hindolakhal block to Pauri Garhwal. The shifting of the NCC academy – its foundation stone was laid in 2016 by the then chief minister Harish Rawat — has been a contentious issue in Tehri Garhwal district which has led to a maha panchaya. As reported by TOI, the locals wrote a protest letter in blood to the Prime Minister as well as education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. A public interest litigation (PIL) was also filed by the locals against the decision. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik were hearing the PIL when they were informed by the counsel appearing for the state government that the decision to move the NCC academy has been scrapped. “The counsel appearing for the state government informed the bench that they have scrapped their decision to move the NCC academy from Tehri to Pauri,” said MC Pant, the lawyer appearing for the petitioners.After the state’s submission, the bench disposed of the PIL. “After the state government’s submission, the bench disposed of the PIL. This is a major victory for the locals who have been protesting the decision for almost two years,” said a resident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ncc-academy-will-stay-in-tehri-state-govt-to-hc/articleshow/77379403.cms||Prashant Jha
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lord forgive us for Bhoomi Poojan on inauspicious day, says Digvijaya Singh||BHOPAL: Four hours before PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on Wednesday, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh asked for forgiveness from Lord Ram, saying the ceremony is against astrological beliefs. “Today’s foundation stone ceremony of Ram Lalla’s temple in Ayodhya is going against the established principles of astrological science mentioned in the Vedas, Lord forgive us. Our prayer to you is that construction of this temple is completed without disruption. Jai Siya Ram,” he tweeted. Over the past week, Digvijaya has repeatedly voiced the concern expressed by a section of Hindu seers, who say the Bhoomi Poojan for Ram temple in Ayodhya should have been done on an auspicious muhurat since no auspicious work is done during Chaturmas -- the four holy months when the gods, including Vishnu, sleep. “In thousands of years of Sanatan Dharma tradition, no sant or mahatma leaves his place during Chaturmas. No auspicious work is done. I am a disciple of Jagatguru Shankaracharya of Dwarkapeeth Swaroopanand Saraswati. When I asked him why Ram temple Bhoomi Poojan is being held on August 5, in the month of Bhado, he referred to the Vedas and astrological calculations and said this is not right,” he argued. Other Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Kamal Nath, however, have welcomed the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lord-forgive-us-for-bhoomi-poojan-on-inauspicious-day/articleshow/77380830.cms||Suchandana Gupta
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University writes to Manish Sisodia for release of funds to colleges||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has written to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asking him to release funds for the 12 colleges funded by Delhi government. According to the university, payment has been stopped for the past three months and the government owes each college about Rs 5-6 crore. “I myself wrote the letter asking the government to release funds. They have not given any reasons on why the funding has been stopped. We hear it is in relation to the governing body. But out of the 12 colleges, eight already have a functional GB. Why is the government not giving them the funds then?” asked Balram Pani, dean of colleges. For want of funds, the colleges have not been able to pay their teaching and non-teaching staff. “Security and sanitation staff members have not been paid for the past six months. It is getting very difficult,” alleged Pani. Delhi government had released Rs 18.75 crore as grant-in-aid for payment of salaries to employees of 12 DU colleges in June, which was called “insufficient”. The government had earlier also sanctioned grant-in-aid in May. The university is yet to receive any response from the government. Over delay in clearing names, Pani said: “Of the 140 names sent by the government, 134 have been cleared. There were certain reservations on six names, so we sent them back to the government. The government reverted to continuing with those names. But before sending these names to the colleges, it has to be cleared by the executive council. It is the government, which is delaying the process by writing letters that the members’ names have not been cleared.” Earlier, Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) had staged a protest at the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding release of the funds. Now, they have started an online petition requesting the visitor, the President of India, to intervene in the matter. “Several thousand employees are without salaries from May onwards. Some colleges could only pay partial salaries for April. Colleges have not received any funding for infrastructure or teachers’ posts towards EWS expansion,” said Rajib Ray, DUTA president. Officials from Delhi government did not respond to calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-writes-to-sisodia-for-release-of-funds-to-colleges/articleshow/77380891.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Madurai||24-yr-old man hacked to death after bid to steal sheep from pen||Tenkasi: A 24-year-old man, who allegedly tried to steal sheep, died on Wednesday after being hacked by a gang on Tuesday night. His friend suffered grievous injuries in the attack. The incident took place in Natchiyarpuram village near Veerakeralampudur in Tenkasi district.The deceased was identified as Muthupandi alias Vijay of Nettoor village near Alangulam and his friend as Parthiban, 25, of the same village who is undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli medical college and hospital. His condition is said to be critical.According to police, the sheep belonged to S Ayyanar, 40, of Kayathar in Tuticorin district. After taking them for grazing he took the flock to the pen in the farm of Pandidurai.Ayyanar was sleeping nearby when a group of six people came on two bikes. He alerted his friend Pattan, who reached the spot with few others and started attacking the six.Vijay and Parthiban were grievously injured while their four friends managed to escape. Vijay died on Wednesday. Surandai inspector K Mareeswari said that based on a complaint lodged by Vijay’s side, a murder case was registered against under Ssection 302 of the IPC and a case of attempt to murder under section 307 of IPC against the victims and their gang on a counter complaint. Meanwhile, the victim’s side claimed they had gone there to hunt hare when they were mistaken for thieves by the accused.“Three persons have been arrested so far,” the inspector said. Inquiry is on to ascertain the claims made by both sides.In another incident, the Kovilpatti West police in Tuticorin district are on the lookout for a gang that hacked a 30-year-old painter to death near the municipal middle school. The victim, M Koteeswaran was going on his two-wheeler when he was attacked. Preliminary inquiry revealed that he got married only a year ago but is separated from his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/24-yr-old-man-hacked-to-death-after-bid-to-steal-sheep-from-pen/articleshow/77382845.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi, UP CM Yogi Adityanath and Mohan Bhagwat invoke temple ‘Martyrs’||LUCKNOW: After performing bhoomi pujan to pave way for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat invoked the “sacrifices” made by scores of Ram bhakts over the years for the fulfilment of the Ram temple dream. While Modi compared the occasion with August 15 (Independence Day), saying that like people sacrificed their lives for the country’s freedom, there were many who laid their lives for Ram temple, CM Yogi said it was an occasion to remember the sacrifices of those who spent their lives waiting for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Those who sacrificed their lives for the movement, can’t come here to witness the moment. There are those who are alive but can’t come here. Advani ji (former deputy PM LK Advani) led the struggle at so many fronts but must be sitting at home and watching the event on television. Then there are many who could have come but were not invited due to the prevailing condition.” Bhagwat not just remembered those kar sewaks who lost their lives during the course of Temple movement but also leaders like Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi who, despite their old age, are still being summoned by court to depose in the demolition case. Remembering kar sewaks, PM Modi said, “August 15 symbolises lakhs of sacrifices made by people for the country’s independence. Similarly, August 5 is the symbol of lakhs of sacrifices for the temple.” CM Yogi Adityanath also said generations had been waiting for this “great moment” but it finally came to fruition after following a democratic process. Among special invitees to the limited attendance was Purnima Kothari, the sister of kar sewaks Sharad and Ram Kothari who were killed in police firing in Ayodhya in 1990.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-yogi-bhagwat-invoke-temple-martyrs/articleshow/77382870.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||NMC allots 49 beds, admits 27 patients in pvt hospitals||NASHIK: The war room-cum-call centre started by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is receiving good response from citizens with over 255 calls received, including 91 bed-related queries in the last six days. The NMC had allotted 49 beds to the patients and admitted another 27 to private hospitals. The municipal corporation has centralized the bed allotment system for private hospitals. The NMC has upgraded its help desk into war room-cum-call centre. The civic body has acquired a total of 1,141 beds in 39 private hospitals across the city to treat Covid-19 patients. “We had received complaints of patients not getting beds in private hospitals. Hence, we have started allotment of beds and admission in private hospitals. The call centre is operational 24x7. We have appointed 10 officials in each of three shifts of eight hours,” said NMC officials. The beds in private hospitals are now to be allotted through the call centre of NMC. Patients or their families may call the helpline number to get beds in private hospitals. These beds are to be allotted as per the condition of the patient and depending on the symptoms. If patients are asymptomatic, they are to be isolated and treated in Covid Care Centres of the NMC. Patients who are looking for beds in private hospitals may contact NMC helpline on 9607623366. The civic body has also deployed its junior engineers (JEs) from various departments to co-ordinate for bed management in all private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-allots-49-beds-admits-27-patients-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77382322.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Few gyms, yoga hubs open, others to wait for few days||JAIPUR: For people who were missing sweating it out in gyms or breathing exercises in yoga centres, the day arrived. However, many skipped their visits on the first day when the centres reopened on Wednesday after the state government’s Unlock 3.0 order. Operators and owners of the centres said people are generally reluctant initially which has been a pattern with many other services. But once they come to know about the social distancing norms and other precautions that have been put in place for safety, fottfalls will increase. “We have kept oximeters, temperature measurement equipment and sanitizers to ensure a healthy atmosphere inside the yoga centre. Social distancing is also a major component of precautions. Where 18 people were participating in sessions, that place is now used for 10,” said Dr Anchal Uppal of a yoga centre in Raja Park offering solutions for fitness, disease and stress management, weight loss and immunity. Uppal said whichever facilities reopened attracted regular customers but it took time. “We also see a similar trend. Once people come and see the precautions, confidence will increase and the number of people coming will increase gradually,” added Dr Uppal. But many have not opened and will take time. Similar is the decision by gym owners. While some small gyms have opened on Wednesday, many premium gyms have decided to delay the opening. Chetan Chouhan, a gym owner and a member of the Rajasthan Gym Owners Association, said that they are talking to their customers to ascertain time slots. “First we need to talk to our customers as to their time slot. Because, we have to maintain social distancing so the time slot will be disturbed and everything needs to be re-arranged. So, we have decided to open on August 10,” said Chouhan. Chouhan said that the lockdown has wiped out their business. “We run the gym from a rented space. The owner has told us to restart the gym and then the rent part could be discussed later,” added Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/few-gyms-yoga-hubs-open-others-to-wait-for-few-days/articleshow/77382382.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Open book exams: DU panel to monitor answer scripts||NEW DELHI: With the first phase of online open book examinations set to begin from August 10, Delhi University has formed a committee to monitor the answer scripts being uploaded by the final-year students. The committee has been formed at the university level, college level and department level. Issuing a notice on August 4, the examination department, stated: “A committee has been constituted to deal and resolve issues related with answer scripts received in PDF format from the final-year UG/PG students, appearing for the first phase of OBE. The answer scripts will be received in PDF format from such students who for any reason are unable to upload the same on the designated portal.” With the open book examination, students are required to write the answers and scan each answer sheet before uploading it to the university portal. During the mock test, a number of students had faced problems while uploading the answer sheets. At the university level, the committee consists of four members headed by professor KS Rao of DU’s department of botany. For the 55 departments, there is one nodal person who is in charge of monitoring the answer scripts received on emails. Similar is the process for the 64 colleges under the varsity. Students have been provided with the email ID, phone number and WhatsApp number of the concerned faculty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-exams-du-panel-to-monitor-answer-scripts/articleshow/77380926.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Students to get degrees online||DEHRADUN: The state’s department of higher education has decided to provide college degrees and marksheets to students through the DigiLocker app. “This decision has been taken keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation where holding large gatherings will put many at risk. The students will need degrees and marksheets in order to apply for higher studies. Therefore, the department has come up with the decision to give away degrees to the students virtually,” said an official. According to the department of higher education, the admission procedure in different state universities is likely to start from this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-to-get-degrees-online/articleshow/77379462.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||Inmates & guards among 91 test Covid +ve at Budaun jail in 5 days||BAREILLY: At least 91 people, including inmates, security guards and a jail doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 at Budaun district jail in the past five days. Officials said, of these, 86 patients are asymptomatic and have been isolated in a separate building of the jail where doctors and other staff are deployed. A temporary jail has been set up outside the campus where new prisoners are being kept. On Tuesday night, 36 people from the district jail were tested positive for Covid-19 while 11 were found infected on Monday and 44 on Saturday. Budaun district magistrate (DM) Prashant Kumar said, “After the first Covid case was detected here, we conducted contact tracing and tested inmates and staff. Most of the patients are asymptomatic and they have been isolated in a separate facility on the jail campus. We have deployed a team of doctors and other staff for treatment of inmates and jail staff. Besides, five symptomatic patients have been undergoing treatment at medical college which has been designated as Covid-19 level two hospital.” Jail authorities claimed that after inmates and staff tested positive for Covid-19, the jail was properly sanitised. Besides, a police outpost has been made into a temporary jail to lodge new inmates. At present, 118 inmates are lodged at the temporary jail. DM Kumar said, “The temporary jail has been made separately so that the inmates here do not get in touch with inmates of the district jail. The inmates of temporary jail live here with social distancing and separate food arrangements have been made for them. After examination by doctors, a new inmate is sent to the temporary jail.” District administration had initially planned to make the temporary jail at a sports stadium, but it was later changed to police outpost on the request of jail authorities so that location of the venue is near the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inmates-guards-among-91-test-covid-ve-at-budaun-jail-in-5-days/articleshow/77376818.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Teachers work hard, should be paid justly’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday observed that teachers’ efforts to teach children online during this Covid-19 pandemic should not be ignored and they “must be paid for their time and service justly”. The high court also said that private schools should avoid other overhead fees for bus service, sports and recreation and they may “adopt a non-profit outlook for the next few months”. This is because many people have lost jobs and thousands of others are working on reduced salaries and schools must take this into consideration. The HC based its decision on these observations and junked the state government’s resolution banning fee collection by unaided schools till they remain physically shut. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered the state government and the association of self-financed schools to sit at a table to negotiate with “open mind and open heart” and ordered the government to see that there is a balance of interests of financially distressed parents and school managements. “Keeping in mind the current situation, a balance has to be struck between providing children a reasonable education and allowing schools to stay afloat,” the court observed and added, “It would be too much to say that private schools shall not demand any fees.” The HC asked both parties to negotiate 10 different issues including fees and how long online teaching will continue. After negotiations, the government has been ordered to issue a fresh resolution. The HC passed the order in response to PILs complaining against private schools pressuring parents to pay fees for the lockdown period, schools teaching toddlers online, the negative impact of the government’s no-fee diktat as well as the private schools’ challenge to the government decision. The high court acknowledged the teachers’ work in these times and observed, “Managing the education of students remotely by conducting online classes is a tedious job. As individuals, their efforts and hard work shouldn’t be ignored. As professionals, they must be paid for their time and service justly. Thus, it is acceptable for schools to charge a reasonable tuition fee for the online classes they conduct.” The HC also said that parents must acknowledge that online teaching is not futile and they need to pay appropriately. The HC also said that life has been thrown off track completely for the past few months. “What children need most is a sense of continuity and routine to make them feel like life is back on track. Schools are the best way to provide a child this sense of normalcy, even if the schooling is online. In the best interests of children, we must strike a healthy balance to keep their education intact,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-work-hard-should-be-paid-justly/articleshow/77382385.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||City Centre Mall to make pre-appointment mandatory for customers||Nashik: Nashik’s biggest City Centre Mall has decided to make pre-appointment mandatory for visitors besides having parking spaces on alternate days as part of safety measures in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “We had a lukewarm response on the very first day. We have taken all the safety measures and have maintained all the safety protocols in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said mall’s marketing manager Supriya Arora. “We have developed two systems to avoid crowd inside the mall. One is a mobile application for pre-booking visit to the mall. People will have to book the time slot before coming to the mall. This new app will be launched in a day or two,” said Arora. In addition, the mall has also developed a camera-based footfall tracking system. The system sounds an alert as soon as the footfall in mall is increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-centre-mall-to-make-pre-appointment-mandatory-for-customers/articleshow/77382371.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Has rugged life of Chambal helped locals beat Covid?||BHOPAL: The rugged lifestyle of Chambal — infamous for dacoits and ravines — is also helping people cope up with Covid-19. Of the total Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, Morena district in Chambal reported the fourth highest number of cases in the past one month. However, the number of active cases has declined now. Officials are attributing this to the topography, ruggedness and mental strength of the locals as one of the causes for their speedy recovery. The recovery rate of Morena is around 90%, which is 20% higher than that of the entire Madhya Pradesh. This too when a whopping 1,278 new cases were reported in Morena between July 1 and August 4. Morenahas reported the fourth highest number of cases in Madhya Pradesh after Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior. On June 15, there were only 84 active cases in Morena. The number increased to 404 on July 15 and now it is less than 150 — despite the fact that more and more people tested positive during this duration. Officials attribute this to wedding shopping done by people from Dholpur of neighbouringRajasthan, where there was a lockdown at that time. But since then, the disease has again come under control. Overall, the death rate in the state is around 2.7% but in Morena, it is only 0.5% and only nine casualties have been reported so far. Chief medical and health officer, Morena, Dr RC Badil, says, “There is no escape from early detection and early treatment if we wish to fight Covid-19, but there is a local saying here that Chambal river’s water is in the veins of the people of Morena, it makes them strong both physically and mentally. Due to stronger immunity, there were very little casualties and people recovered faster.” “But this strong immunity also threw a bigger challenge — a majority of the people were asymptomatic in our district, it was difficult to screen patients. We had to travel with police at some places. At some places, our teams went with local teachers and in other places, some prominent people of the locality. We asked questions and talked to a lot of people in a bid to screen the patients earlier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/has-rugged-life-of-chambal-helped-locals-beat-covid/articleshow/77380875.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP leaders offer special prayers to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony||JAIPUR: Special prayers to mark the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya was held at the governor house, houses of state ministers, party offices and households. Governor Kalraj Mishra held a Sunder Kand (recitation of hymns) in front of a picture of Lord Ram at the governor house. The ceremony was attended by his wife and his personal staff. “I am mesmerised by the bhoomi pujan ceremony in Ayodhya,” said Mishra in an official release. The BJP office in Jaipur was the epicentre of celebrations in the state. It was cleaned in the morning and decorated with flowers and colourful rangolis by its leaders. Special arrangements were made to live telecast the ceremony from Ayodhya in the central hall. The programme started with a prayer before a king-size picture of Lord Ram by BJP state president Satish Poonia. Slogans such as Jai Siya Ram were raised during the entire programme broadcast live from Ayodhya. After the ceremony, the BJP leaders came out to greet party workers gathered in large numbers and distributed sweets. The celebration didn’t stop here. At sunset, party workers lit firecrackers and lamps to express their happiness. “I am among those fortunate people who may not have seen the struggle for Independence but participated in the temple movement twice. It took 500 years and sacrifice of many devotees to see the historic moment which will take India to the path of becoming a superpower,” said Poonia. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje recalled the contribution made by her family. In a tweet, she talked about how her mother Vijaya Raje Scindia had participated in a party meeting where the proposal of establishing grand Ram temple was discussed and she had faced the accusations of demolishing the disputed structure. Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Sigh Rathore shared an old photo of kar sevaks with a tweet sharing that he was among those fortunate who had participated in the delegation of volunteers from Jodhpur in 1992. “Lord Ram is always present in our hearts and now he will be at his birthplace too,” said Singh. The ruling Congress was also not behind in holding prayers and celebrating the moment. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas offered prayers at Lord Ram temple at his residence and started a two-day Ramayan Path (recitation of Ramayan) to mark the occasion. He announced to donate his two months of his salary and a silver brick to Ram temple after the assembly session. “Lord Ram cannot be divided into any faith, caste, creed or region. He belongs to everyone,” said Khachariyawas. On the occasion, MP Diya Kumari offered prayers at the historic Shri Sita Ramdwara Temple at City Palace. “The faith of the religious people not only in India but around the world is also associated with it. Everyone was looking forward to this moment for years. There is an atmosphere of celebration all around,” said Kumari. Later in the evening, the city palace was illuminated with lamps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-bjp-leaders-offer-special-prayers-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77382369.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Traders reiterate demand to cancel even-odd system||Nashik: The traders from Nashik city have reiterated their demand to the district administration of doing away with the odd-even system of operating businesses and establishments in the city. The traders, who had already placed on record their demand for regular business days with fixed timings, have requested Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare to cancel the even-odd working schedules as done in Pune and Mumbai.  Santosh Mandlecha, the president of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MACCIA), said the odd-even system of functioning of businesses and establishments under ‘Mission Begin Again’ is only adding to the inconvenience of the people. The odd-even system forces citizens to come out in the marketplace twice for a short period which leads to the rush of people. Mandhare, however, has not shown any change in his stand while meeting the MACCIA delegation on this matter. He said the odd-even system is at present will not be cancelled. “Mumbai and Pune deciding to do away with the odd-even systems shows that restricting the shops and establishment to function on alternate days is not helping to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Prafulla Sancheti, an office-bearer of the Grocers Association of Nashik, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traders-reiterate-demand-to-cancel-even-odd-system/articleshow/77382357.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Railways set up business development units at zone, divisions||JODHPUR: Railways has set a target to double its freight traffic by 2024. For this, it has set up a business development units at the zonal and divisional level. Coinciding with this ambitious target, the NWR is making changes in its working system to increase its revenue by doubling the freight traffic by offering transporters every attractive scheme. Business development units have been established in headquarters of North Western Railway and Jaipur, Ajmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner divisions. Each unit will consist of five officers, including one senior officer each from operations department, commercial department, mechanical department, engineering department and finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rlys-set-up-biz-devpt-units-at-zone-divs/articleshow/77382391.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Pune MSRTC starts buses to Konkan||PUNE: The Pune unit of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) started buses to the Konkan region from Wednesday in view of the demand from people to visit their homes for the upcoming Ganapati festival. “The buses departed from our depots at Swargate and Pimpri in the evening for Dapoli, Ratnagiri, Khed, Chiplun and Guhagar,” an MSRTC officer said. Almost every household in Konkan celebrates Ganesh festival, he added. The officer said, “Maximum of 22 passengers will be allowed in each bus and in case of group bookings, the buses would go to the interiors of these five destinations to drop passengers. For instance, if a group of people from Ratnagiri makes a booking, our buses will go to the respective villages and drop them off.” Officials can be contacted for queries on 7387499482 (Dipak Ghode), 8329614848 (Dnyneshwar Ranware), 7588379858 (Sachin Shinde), 8329059652 (Pradip Kamble).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-msrtc-starts-buses-to-konkan/articleshow/77382392.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi showed how to resolve crisis peacefully: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: The peaceful resolution to the Ram Temple dispute, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said at the conclusion of the bhoomi pujan on Wednesday, was a result of the strength of India’s democratic values, its judiciary and its executive and that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India had shown to the world how one can resolve a crisis peacefully. The CM, who through several election rallies in 2018, had asked people to show patience and have faith in the judicial system to address the Ayodhya title suit, said: “Is shubh ghadi hetu, 500 varshon ki ek lambi sangharsh sadhna rahi hai lekin Bharat ki loktantrik moolyon, Bharat ki nyaypalika aur Bharat ki karyapalika ki taqat se shantipurna dhang se, loktantrik paddati se aur samvidhan sammat tareeqe se samasyaon ka samadhan kaise ho sakta hai, aadarniya pradhan mantra ji ke netritva mein Bharat ne duniya ki sabhi taqaton ko iss baat ka ahsas karaya hai. (There has been a long struggle of 500 years for this moment but India, under the leadership of PM Modi, has shown to all the powers of the world how through the strength of India’s democratic values, its judiciary and executive, we can peacefully resolve issues through democratic and constitutionally).” Yogi hailed all those who sacrificed their lives for the dream of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, saying that generations had passed with people waiting to see this moment for themselves. However, he added, the resolution finally came through peaceful and democratic means. The temple construction, the CM added, would present India before the world in the mould of Ram Rajya which the PM had initiated six years back when he became PM for the first time. “In that world, there is no discrimination on the basis of caste, community or language. There is a sense of ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’. Just like Lord Ram’s fame, the temple will bring fame to India,” he said and added that it would also propel Awadhpuri internationally as a magnificent and prosperous city even as his government was committed to keeping the city’s cultural traditions intact. “In the name of Swadesh Darshan, the ghats were beautified and along with Ram Katha, several other programmes have been started. The bhoomi pujan is an important link in that chain. We are proud of the fact that the dream we had for Awadhpuri, of associating the festival of Diwali with the city, we started with Deepotsav three years back. That dream is now being fulfilled with the bhoomi pujan,” he added. At a time when several people are learnt to be miffed for having been kept out of the programme, the CM acknowledged their contribution to the movement and said it was not possible to call everyone if the government was to ensure adherence to Covid protocols. “There are several seers and other great people who have not been able to participate in this event due to the pandemic. I assure them , we will include them in some way in all events that will be held in coming days so that they feel connected with the temple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-pm-modi-showed-how-to-resolve-crisis-peacefully/articleshow/77382890.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Honour your doctor, appeals CP to citizens||Nashik: Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil has released a video on social media appealing to Nashik residents to honour doctors and medical staff who are working day and night to treat Covid-19 patients. The video comes on the backdrop of the recent Ambad incident in which a doctor employed with a private hospital was assaulted by three people. In his video, Nangare-Patil brought to the notice of the citizens that doctors are working day and night without going home for weeks since the last five months and that the Ambad incident was very unfortunate. He said that the suspects in the Ambad case have been booked under various sections of the Medicare Service Persons And Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention Of Violence And Damage To Property) Act, Epidemic Amendment Act, as well as various sections of the Indian Penal Code which are cognizable and non-bailable. The CP said that the relation between a doctor and a patient is more about trust which should not be broken in any case. “In these trying times of coronavirus, it is all the more important to nurture this bond of trust,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/honour-your-doctor-appeals-cp-to-citizens/articleshow/77382387.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 6, 2020||Kanpur||Youth ends life after failing to buy bicycle for his sister||Kanpur: A 22-year-old youth allegedly died by suicide in the small hours of Wednesday by jumping in front of a moving train near Barrajpur railway station in Shivrajpur area of the district. He resorted to the extreme step because he could not fulfil his promise of gifting her sister a bicycle on this Rakshabandhan. The deceased was identified as Putti Lal of Khodanpurwa village on Kanpur. Putti’s elder brother Suraj said, “Putti had promised our sister a bicycle as Rakshabandhan gift. But he was running short of money, and at last, could not afford a bicycle. Depressed due to this, he took the extreme step.” “As per his family members, Putti went to sleep after dinner on Tuesday night. But he was not found in the house on Wednesday morning. As the family went looking for him, locals told them about a severed body lying on the railway tracks near Barrajpur railway station. They rushed to the spot and identified the body as that of Putti,” said SSI, Kotwali police station, adding, “We have sent the body for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/youth-ends-life-after-failing-to-buy-bicycle-for-his-sister/articleshow/77382389.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Absconder in gang rape case detained||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Tuesday detained an absconder Hardik Shukla, 28, of Khokhra. Shukla is an accused in a gang rape case registered with Ramol police station in March 2019. The case was later transferred to Women’s police station. Crime branch sources said that during primary interrogation of the accused he confessed that he along with other accused were booked in a gang rape case in Ramol. A crime branch official said the victim, who died later, was raped by the accused who promised they will ensure she passes her ATKT exams. “The girl became pregnant and later died in the hospital after she took abortion pills. Other accused in the case, including a contractual employee of Gujarat University were arrested at that time,” said a crime branch official. The case had struck the headlines as local police allegedly delayed registering an FIR though they were informed by the doctor of Civil Hospital about the patient. Crime branch sources said that the accused has a criminal record including two murder cases. “The accused was involved in a murder in Nadiad and another was registered in Navrangpura police station. He has been arrested several times under the prohibition act too,” said a crime branch official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/absconder-in-gang-rape-case-detained/articleshow/77382397.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Madurai||TN should stop fudging Covid figures: MLA||Madurai: Tamil Nadu government should concentrate more on preventing the spread of Covid-19 rather than giving fudged statistics in its daily bulletin, which any data analyst could detect it as wrong, Madurai Central constituency DMK MLA, P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan has said. Speaking to reporters through a zoom meeting on Wednesday, the MLA also said that the trend analysis of the disease in districts including Madurai do not come close to any disease trend at the global level. He said that he had decided to approach the court, after failed attempts to make the officials give the proper statistics. “What is worrying is the claims made by officials and ministers that the disease is coming under control. This could make the people lower their guard and cause dangerous repercussions,” Thiagarajan said. Ministers were bent on publicising the recovery rate in the state when it was known that there was a 95% recovery rate at the global level. The government should be more transparent with the number of tests done and positive cases in all districts, on a daily basis. It was only in Chennai that the results have been close to that of pandemic trend, while in other districts including Madurai, it seems to have been planned and many a times there were contradictory statements made by the district administrations and the state bulletin. “Madurai’s figures that went down to just 40 were nowhere normal as I receive calls for help with tests and getting beds in hospital for treatment,” he said. “The government seems to be making an amateurish attempt at data management. A daily death audit, duly signed by the district collectors should be released on a daily basis,” the MLA said. With figures being displayed so low in a city which has a population of 36 lakh people, the chief minister’s proposed visit could have dangerous consequences, if large crowds are allowed, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-should-stop-fudging-covid-figures-mla/articleshow/77382902.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Officials search new facility for Covid centre in Sinnar||Nashik: The health officials in Sinnar are searching for additional place for setting up Covid care centre as the number of Covid-19 cases in the taluka is on the rise. On Tuesday, the officials visited a closed unit in the Malegaon industrial area for setting up a 200-bed Covid care centre. “There is a huge shade in the industrial unit where 200 beds can be accommodated. Efforts are on to take over the shade for this purpose. We will also need to arrange for necessary manpower,” a health official said “We have taken up the issue with senior officials of the district administration and once we have the necessary number of doctors, nurses and ward boys along with other necessary euipment, the Covid care centre will be set up,” he added. The official also said that as on Tuesday there are over 600 Covid-19 cases across Sinnar. “Anticipating that the cases would rise further in the taluka there was a need to set up additional Covid care centre,” the official said. Meanwhile, the 14-day lockdown in Sinnar town ended on Wednesday bringing huge relief among traders who had to keep their establishments closed for two weeks. Sinnar police kept strict vigil on the road to ensure that people remained indoors and help in breaking the chain of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/officials-search-new-facility-for-covid-centre-in-sinnar/articleshow/77382402.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 6, 2020||Surat||This Surat doctor doubles up as pallbearer for nCov victims||Surat: When he is not in his clinic examining patients, he would be a pall bearer for Covid-19 victim’s body carrying it to the crematorium or burial ground and performing the last rites. This general practitioner is one of the core members of the city-based Ekta Trust, an NGO that has been helping the city administration dispose of the Covid-19 bodies according to protocol. Dr Imran Mulla,46, a general physician who has performed last rites of more than 400 bodies, including Covid-19 victims and suspected patients, in the last four months.In June-end, Dr Mulla had tested positive for the deadly virus after he complained of severe coughing and fever and was advised home isolation for 20 days. Even when his condition did not improved after 20 days of home isolation, Dr Mulla was admitted to a private hospital for five days. Few days back, Dr Mulla, after defeating Covid-19, was again in the frontline, dispose of the bodies of those succumbing to the virus. A tragic incident had inspired Dr Mulla to join as Ekta Trust for disposing of the unclaimed bodies. Two decades ago, when Dr Mulla was coming out of the Masjid after offering the namaz in the evening at Rani Talav, a three-year-old child fell from the apartment. Dr Mulla took the child to the nearest hospital where he succumbed due to severe brain injuries. Since it was midnight, parent of the child wanted the body for the funeral in the morning, but the hospital authorities refused to hand it over without the legal procedure. Dr Mulla contacted Etka Trust for help. The volunteers of the NGO not only brought the policemen for the legal documentation but helped in performing the last rite of the child in the morning. “My mission is to serve the humanity in every possible manner. When I am not sitting on the doctor’s chair, I become a pall bearer. I have disposed of hundreds of bodies during natural calamities including Kashmir floods, devastating earthquake of 2001 in Gujarat, Uttrakhand disaster, 2006 floods in Surat, Tsunami etc,” said Dr Mulla. “I run the clinic during the daytime and join the Ekta trust team for disposal of Covid-19 bodies at night. Due to extended work hours and less sleep, I have collapsed at the crematorium and burial ground on three occasions,” added Dr Mulla, while returning from Ankleshwar after disposing of a Covid-19 victim’s body on Wednesday. He believes that bodies of Covid-19 patients do not transmit the virus. Abdul Rehman Malbari, leader of Ekta Trust said, “We are proud to have a doctor in our team. He (Dr Mulla) has a dual duty to perform. One is disposing of dead bodies and the second is checking the health of the volunteers and prescribing them medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/this-surat-doctor-doubles-up-as-pallbearer-for-ncov-victims/articleshow/77379514.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cleric held in Ahmedabad for holding Eid prayers||AHMEDABAD: Dholka town police of Ahmedabad district booked a cleric for holding namaz (prayer) on Eid-ul-Zuha, for allegedly spreading the novel coronavirus with mala fide intent as 250 persons gathered at a mosque and did not maintain social distancing. According to the FIR, cops were patrolling Dholka town and using drone cameras on August 1 to maintain law and order on the occasion of Eid. Using the drone they saw that many persons had gathered at Balolkhan mosque in the town. “We saw people offering namaz while close to each other and they did not maintain a distance of even one metre,” states the FIR. Cops entered the mosque and asked the cleric how he had held a gathering. The FIR says the cleric allegedly lied to them saying he got permission from he district collector. On being asked to prove it, he confessed that he had lied. The FIR said that the cleric, Mohammed Ibrahim Yusuf Shaikh, a resident of Babudi chowk in Dholka, held Eid prayers illegally. He was booked under IPC Sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life). He was also charged under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cleric-held-for-holding-eid-prayers/articleshow/77382410.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara city to get four new police stations||Vadodara: The Vadodara city is all set to get four new police stations. In the wake of increasing city limits, the police department had sought permission from the state government for starting new police stations in different areas. The government recently gave a go-ahead for the proposed police stations. As per the proposal, the cops will carve out Atladara police department from the existing Makarpura and Manjalpur police stations, while a separate Akota police station will be made out of Gotri and J P Road police stations. “Kumbharwada police station will be made from the areas divided under City, Karelibaug and Warasia police station. And Kapurai police station will be made near the highway,” said a police official. The police said that Makarpura and Manjalpur police station have vast fast growing areas under them. “It would have been difficult for the existing police stations to handle these areas. So a proposal was made to form Atladara police station. Akota police station too was proposed for the same reason,” said Saroj Kumari, the outgoing DCP (crime). The Kumbharwada police station aims to reduce policing burden from the City and Karelibaug police that cover communally sensitive areas. “It becomes difficult for the cops to both control and investigate crime in the sensitive areas,” the police said. The Kapurai police station will help the cops focus on the accidents and crimes that occur on the national highway 8 that passes from the outskirts of the city. “The busy highway witnesses many road accidents and incidents of crime. A separate police station will help us crack these cases swiftly,” the police said. Apart from the proposed police stations, the cops have also planned new buildings for the existing ones. The total number of police stations in the city will now touch 30 and additional staff will be allotted for the new police stations. “We have identified new spots for the Panigate, Wadi, Makarpura, Manjalpur and cybercrime police stations apart from the E division office. New buildings equipped with better infrastructure will be made for these police stations,” a police official said. The police department has also been allotted one additional post of ACP, one police inspector and 1,028 cops in junior ranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-city-to-get-four-new-police-stations/articleshow/77378663.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||636 new cases, 528 recoveries in district||Nashik: As many as 636 new cases of Covid-19, including 474 from Nashik city, were reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 17,707. Two people from Nashik city succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday, but no death was reported in other parts of the district. The district’s death toll stands at 547, while in the city the figure stands at 311. On Wednesday, 528 patients were discharged from across the district of which 350 were from Nashik city. Currently, the district has 4,348 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/636-new-cases-528-recoveries-in-district/articleshow/77382395.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Rains raise full storage hope in 4 dams, 3 TMC added in 33 hrs||Pune: The collective storage in the four dams supplying water to the city rose from 9.96 TMC on Tuesday morning to 12.99 TMC till Wednesday evening following good spells of rain. The 3 TMC increase in 33 hours will meet the city’s water requirement for two months as Pune lifts around 1.25-1.5 TMC water a month. Rain records of this season were surpassed as three of the four dams providing water to the city received triple-digit rainfall in the 24 hours till Wednesday morning — the highest for this monsoon so far. Temghar received 170mm, Varasgaon 165mm, Panshet 177mm and Khadakwasla 68mm of rain. The rain revival on Tuesday itself prompted the administration to delay the decision on water cuts till after the approaching Ganeshotsav. An irrigation department official told TOI that if similar rainfall continued for the next 4-5 days, the four dams could reach the full collective storage capacity of 29 TMC. The total storage in the dams till Wednesday evening was 12.99 TMC (44.5%) as against 28.95 TMC (99.3%) at the same time last year. Shivajinagar and Pashan on Wednesday recorded the highest rainfall for the season at 59mm and 73.8mm respectively. The official said, “We feel that another 1-2 TMC storage should increase by Thursday morning. Though the rainfall decreased slightly in the catchment areas from Wednesday afternoon compared to Tuesday, showers continued on and off in the ghats.” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune told TOI, “The rain spell on Tuesday and Wednesday was the first good one of the monsoon this year. July rainfall was deficient. After the rainfall till Wednesday morning, Pune city (Shivajinagar) ended with an excess rainfall of 73mm. Though rains are likely to reduce from Thursday, we expect another good spell on August 9-10, especially in the ghats, with moderate to isolated heavy rains there. This again could be good for the dam catchment areas.” Pandurang Shelar, former officer, flood control cell, Pune, said even if it does not rain much during the next couple of days, there is still a possibility of water inflow with the run-off happening from the catchment areas into the dams. At least 15 ghat locations in state, including Tamhini, Lonavla, Shirgaon and Bhira, recorded heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rains till Wednesday morning, while Mahabaleshwar recorded 320mm rain from Tuesday 8.30am till Wednesday 8.30am. Ramdas Tambe, joint city engineer, water supply department, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, told TOI that the water stock has increased up to 38% in the Pavana dam. However, it is still far less than last year’s water stock (85%). The alternate-day water supply in the twin towns will continue and there will not be any change in the arrangement at least for now. The catchment area of the Pavana dam received around 72mm rain on Tuesday. The live storage capacity of the dam is 9.69 TMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rains-raise-full-storage-hope-in-4-dams-3-tmc-added-in-33-hrs/articleshow/77382408.cms||Neha Madaan
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||652 more test Covid positive across Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With 652 people testing positive on Wednesday, tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the state reached 35,734. Apart from these new cases, 17 casualties were also reported, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties have been reported include Bhopal, Indore, Rewa, Jabalpur, Sagar, Ratlam, Rajgarh, Shivpuri,Damoh,Katni and Agar-Malwa. With these new deaths, the toll due to covid-19 in state reached 929 on Wednesday. While fresh cases were reported from 44 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from 11 districts on Wednesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Bhopal district where maximum 150 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday. After Bhopal it was Indore where 122 new positive cases were reported, followed by Gwalior where 69 cases were reported on Wednesday. Of the 44 districts that reported fresh cases on Wednesday, new cases were reported in double figures from 14 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 12,318 samples were received on Wednesday when 652 people tested positive. Thus, overall 5.2% of the people whose samples were tested on Wednesday were found positive. This positivity rate is greater than the average positivity rate of around 4% in the state. Overall there are 8,741 active cases in the state as of Wednesday. On the brighter side, 650 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 26,064. Thus the recovery rate is now 72.9%. It has improved by around 3% in past few days when it was below 70% at end of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/652-more-test-covid-positive-across-state/articleshow/77380943.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM wants tourism policy by August 31, plans to revive RTDC||JAIPUR: Chairing the review meeting of tourism department, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed officials to finalise the tourism policy by August 31, prepare a plan for the revival of the loss-making Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC), create new landmarks in Jaipur for attracting tourists and reboot the fairs and festivals. After principal secretary tourism Alok Gupta apprised the government on various activities of the department, Gehlot said the pending tourism policy, which is currently at the draft stage, should be announced before August 31. He also said the department should assess the impact of the current fairs and festivals sponsored by it and revamp them. Gehlot said Pushkar fair, Desert festival in Jaisalmer and the world music festival in Udaipur need to be relooked at and revamped for better tourist interest. He said these festivals are going on the old model for a quite some time and time has come to revitalize them. The chief minister wanted the department to identify possibilities of creating new attractions in Jaipur. Gehlot said tourists need new places to visit besides the City Palace, Amber Fort, and Nahargarh so that they can stay longer in the state and contribute to the economy. The department can also rope in private players if needed. The revival of RTDC also came up for discussion. Many hotels of the corporation has been closed and the ones running are also making huge losses. Gehlot directed the department to prepare a plan for its revival. He also drew attention to the plight of the employees of RTDC who are not being paid salaries in time and have not been give the 7th Pay Commission benefits. After a long time, the chief minister was taking the review meeting of the tourism department in the presence of tourism minister Govind Singh Dotasra. Vishvendra Singh, cabinet minister for tourism was recently suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-wants-tourism-policy-by-aug-31-plans-to-revive-rtdc/articleshow/77382409.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ram temple trust received Rs 41 crore in donation, says treasurer||LUCKNOW: Even before the construction of the Ram temple could begin, donations have started pouring in. In fact, as on date, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra has a kitty of about Rs 41 crore. This does not include the donation made by religious leaders, including Swami Chiddanand Saraswati of the Parmarth Niketan, Swami Avdeshanand Giri of the Juna Akhada and Baba Ram Dev and other dignitaries who arrived on Wednesday. “Total donation to the trust stood at Rs 30 crore when the logbook was last seen on Tuesday. Another Rs 11 crore was donated by Morari Babu, which makes it about Rs 41 crore. However, the amount doesn’t include donations made on Wednesday,” said Swami Govind Dev Giri, treasurer of the trust. The seer also stated that people had contributed for the cause of Ram Temple even during the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources revealed donations of Rs 4.60 crore came in two separate official accounts of the trust since March 25 when Lockdown-1 was imposed. Online donations also came for the temple from the next day the trust rolled out a net banking option on Ram Navami this year. Sources confided that over 5,000 people have availed the option. “The interesting part is that people are contributing from Rs 11 to whatever they can afford. But bigger amounts have come via cheques or e-banking,” said a trust member. The treasurer further said that the trust was loaded with queries for donation from overseas. “We cannot accept money from NRIs till we get the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act certification which is in process. Then, the trust will immediately get donations worth Rs 5-7 crore,” he said. Trust officials made it clear they were not averse to accepting donations from people of other religions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-trust-received-rs-41cr-in-donation-treasurer/articleshow/77382901.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Ramdeora fair cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic||JAISALMER: Ramdeora fair, which was scheduled to begin from August 20, will not be organised due to pandemic. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi has issued an order to cancel the fair. People from different parts of the country throng the 10-day fair every year. People have started pouring in for the fair this year too, however, they have been asked to have darshan of Baba Ramdeo on the LED screen which was displayed outside the temple. According to the order with reference to Unlock 3 guidelines and looking to recommendations of district-level committee meeting in June the decision was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramdeora-fair-cancelled-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/77382401.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Road widening work of Sinnar-Shirdi road to begin next week||Nashik: The much-awaited road widening work of the 51 km long Sinnar-Shirdi highway will commence next week as land acquisition of 80% of the land is complete. The project will be completed in two years. By August 2022, commuters will have a four lane wide road along with a separate land for palkhis heading towards Shirdi all round the year. Senior officials said that the work of awarding compensation to land owners has also begun and those who have any objection with respect to the compensation given in lieu of their land are also being heard simultaneously. The current 10 metre wide road will be expanded to 22 metres. Their will also be a median along with the 5.5 metre wide palkhi route along the highway. Every year, lakhs of devotees from across the country are seen walking towards Shirdi. With this new palkhi route, it will be convenient for devotees to travel to Shirdi. It will also help reduce road accidents, said officials. Shirdi is one of the most visited temples in the country. Devotees from all across the state and the country visit the Saibaba temple throughout the year. They often travel by government or private buses, private vehicles and sometimes they even walk all the way to the temple town. The road widening will also help solve the problem of over-speeding which is often a huge problem on this stretch of road. The absence of divider between vehicles travelling in both directions often leads to several accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-widening-work-of-sinnar-shirdi-road-to-begin-next-week/articleshow/77382411.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||Health dept reserves room, extra beds for Covid jailbirds & cops||Pilibhit: Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Seema Agarwal on Wednesday announced that a three-bedded ward at the state-run LH Ayurvedic College and some beds in the Covid-19 ward of the same college have been reserved for novel coronavirus patients of district jail and police department, after superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav made an urgent request. The arrangement was made since the graph of Covid-19 infections has been fast rising, to eliminate apprehension of prisoners who have been attempting to run away from the L1 facility where infected prisoners were earlier being sent. On July 24, an undertrial prisoner — Naresh Kumar of a village in Pilibhit — escaped from the L1 facility apprehending poor healthcare. The CMO said five cops will guard the beds and ward earmarked for infected prisoners, cops and jail staffers. The department had already provided adequate numbers of PPEs (personal protective equipment) for the guards, in case they needed to capture any person attempting to escape from the L1 facility. District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav said in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in the district, the CMO has been directed to promptly make arrangements for inducting the L2 facility, equipped with all essential equipment. CMO Agarwal said, “We’ve begun preparations to set up the L2 facility on a war footing at Jahanabad community health center, and hope it will start functioning soon.” She added that the state government has provided the district health department two portable chest ventilators, four ICU (intensive care unit) beds and eight infusion pumps, of which two were given to the district government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/health-dept-reserves-room-extra-beds-for-covid-jailbirds-cops/articleshow/77375790.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Another inmate tests positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh's Singrauli jail||BHOPAL: One more inmate, who was on parole and was brought to Singrauli district jail from Rewa, has tested positive, taking the tally of positive inmates in Singrauli jail to 21. Reports of around 135 inmates are still awaited. “So far, we have received reports of 66 inmates and only those who tested positive in the first round of tests were found positive. The rest tested negative, barring an inmate who was out on parole and had come to our jail from Rewa. And he is the only one who has some symptoms similar to Covid-19. All other inmates are asymptomatic,” jailor at Singrauli district jail, Indradev Tiwari, told TOI. “A Covid-19 centre has been made inside the jail itself. Doctors and paramedical staff are available here all the time. And ambulance is also available round the clock. Tests were not done on Wednesday. It will again be done on Thursday. So far, around 200 people have been tested. Reports of 66 samples have come,” he said. It is noteworthy that 20 inmates and a jail staff were found positive in Singrauli district jail after random samples from the barracks were taken. Following it, all the inmates are being tested for Covid-19. The jail is overcrowded as against the sanctioned strength of 150, around 558 inmates are lodged in the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-inmate-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-singrauli-jail/articleshow/77380956.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Setbacks’ can be used for ATMs, guard rooms||NEW DELHI: Urban growth is likely to get denser in the coming days as building norms have been relaxed to allow the use of setback areas for installing ATMs, guard rooms and washrooms. These relaxations will, however, be applicable only in non-residential buildings located in an area of more than 3,000 square metres, a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said. In building and zonal planning, setbacks are meant to provide a space between different land uses and structures. They are designed to protect the structures and improve the quality of life. The purpose is to ensure that one structure does not affect the neighbour’s right to ventilation, sunlight and vehicular access. While officials argue that the new norms will help in maximum utilisation of space and prevent sealing action in the future, some believe that it will defeat the very purpose of leaving setbacks. “The new norms will help in utilisation of space for setting up facilities like washrooms and guard rooms. Other facilities like ATM kiosks can come up but a maximum limit of 9 sq m can be used for setting up such kiosks,” the official explained. Another civic official said that Delhi Development Authority had cleared these changes, which are now part of the unified building bylaws. “Such constructions will not be considered unauthorised and will not invite sealing or penalty,” the official explained, adding that the master plan makes it mandatory for bigger plots to leave the setback area that provides breathing space between buildings and also space, in case of emergency like a fire. “A condition has been incorporated in the amended bylaws that these utilities should in no way hinder the movement of fire emergency vehicles,” he added. With the passage of time, various commercial buildings have added such additional constructions due to lack of space in their building complexes, many of which were sealed in 2018. “We had received inputs from various stakeholders after which the issue was raised in the meeting of the DDA technical committee and the changes were incorporated,” the civic official said. The move is likely to help in desealing portions of many such buildings. The new norms also state the interior open-to-sky roof portion of a building can be covered with removable material. “Interior open-to-sky areas shall be allowed to cover with retractable roofing at the terrace-level or at minimum double height to prevent climatic effects,” the regulations stated. The area below the covered portion can be used as landscaped area, public space, but not for any commercial purpose, the official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/setbacks-can-be-used-for-atms-guard-rooms/articleshow/77401396.cms||Paras Singh
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||28 new cases in Chanda||Chandrapur: Chandrapur registered a spike of 28 new patients taking the total of Covid-19 in the district to 777 on Friday. In all, 12 patients were discharged from the hospital during the day taking the tally of cured patients to 438, while 339 patients are active and under treatment. No death was registered during the day and toll still stands at two. Health authorities have claimed that spike in number of patients is due to large number of tests being conducted across the district. Out of total 28 detected on Friday, 17 were tested positive with the help of antigen tests. Off these, 15 are from Ballarpur. Officials said that out of 777 patients, 15 are in the group of zero to five years, 56 in the age group of six to 18 years, 482 patients between 19 and 40 years, 191 are in the age group of 41 to 60 years and those above 60 years are 33. The patients include 554 males and 223 females. Those detected positive in Chandrapur include 681 from Chandrapur district, 42 from other districts of Maharashtra and reaming 54 are from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/28-new-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/77418163.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Juvenile driver kills one, injures another in Sola||AHMEDABAD: A 17-year-old boy from Shilaj drove his SUV into a scooter rider and then a pedestrian, a daily wager, on Science City Road. While the scooter rider escaped with injuries, the pedestrian was killed on the spot. According to the FIR filed with A division traffic police, the deceased was identified as Rahul Rot, 20, a native of Dungarpur, who had come to the city a month ago to care for the children of his elder sister, Varsha Rot. Rahul also worked as a construction labourer and lived at a labourers’ colony in Bhadaj. Varsha rot told police that she and Rahul were walking on Science City Road when a car first hit a man on a scooter and then slammed into Rahul.The scooter rider was later identified as Ramji Patel, 50. Varsha said she ran to Rahul, who had been flung violently into the air, and found that he was unconscious. She screamed for help and some passersby gathered around. Rahul died on the spot. Patel then called the police control room. Inspector P B Khambhla of A division traffic police said they recorded the statement of the car driver, a Class XII student, had taken the car from his father, a plywood businessman. “We will also book the juvenile’s parents under the Motor Vehicles Act. We registered a case of negligent driving causing death,” said Khambhla. Another fatal accident was registered on Tuesday. A 70-year-old woman died three days after being hit by a motorcycle in the Bhudarpura. She was taken to the Asarwa Civil Hospital where she died on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/juvenile-driver-kills-one-injures-another-in-sola/articleshow/77382416.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to offer tyre retreading services to private players||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to start offering its tyre retreading services to private vehicle owners as its plant has been lying idle for some time. Ever since lockdown, the passenger traffic has gone down owing to which the state transport utility is incurring losses. In order to deal with the financial crunch, the MSRTC has also started transporting parcels and has been receiving good response. “The corporation has decided to offer its retreading services for which it will seek orders from various fleet owners including the police department, Nashik Municipal Corporation, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), private colleges, industries and companies that operate vehicles for services,” Mukund Kuwar, who heads the mechanical engineering wing of the MSRTC (Nashik division), said. The tyre retreading facility will offer its services with a stipulated rate chart starting from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,500 per tyre for vehicles, including trucks and mini buses. “The retreading skills at MSRTC are unmatched and so are its equipment that are required to ensure quality production. The tyre we retread give us at least about 45,000 km of extended life to the already expired tyres and this is because of the best practices and accountability of the tryes,” the official said. “Not only our services are cost efficient, but also the skilled labour and the room for complaint redressal makes the MSRTC system more trustworthy for the people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-offer-tyre-retreading-services-to-private-players/articleshow/77382415.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Ram holds unique place in our culture & civilisation: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot were among those who greeted people on the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. The chief minister tweeted, “Lord Ram holds a unique place in our culture & civilization. His life teaches us the importance of truth, justice, equality of all, compassion & brotherhood. We need to focus on establishing an egalitarian society based on the values espoused by #LordRam. In another tweet he added “May Lord Ram’s temple become a symbol of unity and brotherhood in our country #RamMandir.” Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra in a Hindi tweet said, “Hearty congratulations on ‘bhumi poojan’ and stone laying. On this auspicious occasion, all citizens heart felt greetings. By the grace of Lord Rama, this programme should be a programme for national unity, fraternity and cultural integration.” Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in his greeting on twitter said, “Greetings on the occasion of bhoomi pujan and foundation laying ceremony of the temple at the birth place of Maryada Purshottam Sri Ram to all the people of the state and country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ram-holds-unique-place-in-our-culture-civilisation-gehlot/articleshow/77382413.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Why PM Narendra Modi said ‘Jai Siya Ram’, not ‘Jai Shri Ram’||LUCKNOW: By choosing to hail Lord Ram with ‘Jai Siya Ram’ instead of the popular ‘Jai Shri Ram’ after the bhoomi pujan in the Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi left a number people curious. ‘First let us remember Lord Ram and Mata Janki... Siyavar Ram Chandra Ki Jai… Jai Siya Ram,’ the PM said in his speech on the occasion. Since the launch of the Ram Temple movement in 1984, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ has been the most popular mode of greeting among the saffron forces. It took the form of a war cry in the heat of temple moment. However, votaries of ‘Jai Siya Ram’ believed that ‘Jai Shri Ram’ militarised way of greeting and took away its benevolence and benignness and de-emphaise the role of Sita. They felt that ‘Jai Siya Ram’ represented the benign character of Maryada Purushottam Ram and the softness and humility expected from his believers in the Hindi belt. Read AlsoWanted to signal that Muslims aren’t against Ram temple: Iqbal Ansari"After the Supreme Court verdict, it is our duty to accept the judgment in its spirit. I went to Ram Janmabhoomi to send out a message that Muslims are not against the Ram temple," Iqbal Ansari, one of the main litigants from the Muslim side in the Ayodhya suit said.“’Jai Shri Ram’ speaks for a sense of fearlessness while ‘Jai Siya Ram’ is filled with regard for others. Both indicated commitment to a cause but while ‘Jai Shri Ram’ was filled with belligerence, the driving sentiment in ‘Jai Siya Ram’ is love and submission,” explained Mahant Girishpati Tripathi of the Tewari Mandir, adding that the traditional believers of Ram could not accept the assertive call. Supporters of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ say that there was no actual difference between the two usages. “There is not difference between ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Jai Siya Ram’… Both are ways to remember the deity. Also, Mata Sita is seen as an incarnation of the Lakshmi who is also known as Shri… So what’s the difference?” asked Hriday Narain Dixit, Speaker UP Vidhan Sabha. Read AlsoRam temple in Ayodhya: A long campaign ends. What next?The question as to what next for the temple movement is not particularly troubling, a senior RSS functionary said, adding that the construction at Ram Janmabhoomi and the symbolism of the temple would attract more adherents to Sangh’s view that Ram and the values he represents are central to India’sOn the assumption that ‘Jai Shri Ram’ was popularized to fuel a political movement, he said: “In Vinay Patrika, Tulsidas ji has said that the name of Ram is bigger than him. The important fact is that people are remembering Ram either way. Also, I would say that Jaki Rahi Bhavana Jaisi, Prabhu Murat Daikhi Tin Taisi…meaning one’s feeling decides way one sees the Lord.” RD Shukla, a sevak at Hanumangarhi temple, in fact cited a couplet from the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ to establish that Mata Sita was an embodiment of Lakshmi. “Remember Asht Siddhi Navnidhi Ke Data, As Var Deen Janki Mata… in the hanuman chalisa. It says that Hanuman has been blessed with eight attributes and nine riches of life by Janki or Sita. Now, vedas have it that Lakshmi possessed all these characteristics. There is no contradiction,” he stated. The PM’s choice signaled towards a significant change indicating that the goal has been accomplished. “Meaning of any word or phrase cannot be absolute. They are always at the mercy of usage and context. Before 1984, there wasn’t much difference between Jai Shri Ram and Jai Siya Ram. But thereafter, Jai Shri Ram became synonymous with a movement and the assertion of people associated with it. Now that the objective has been met, the PM subtly indicated mellowing down should be the norm,” said Prof Manoj Dixit, former vice-chancellor Avadh University, Ayodhya. Watch Why PM Narendra Modi said ‘Jai Siya Ram’, not ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Ayodhya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/why-modi-said-jai-siya-ram-not-jai-shri-ram/articleshow/77382910.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||Surat||Five workers killed in wall collapse in D&NH||Surat: Five labourers were killed and two others received serious injuries when the compound wall of an under-construction industrial unit at Khanvel in the union territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli (DNH) collapsed on their tin shed house due to heavy rains on Wednesday morning. The incident occurred at the Surangi village near Khanvel where a portion of the 15 foot high compound wall collapsed on the house. Seven labourers including a supervisor of the construction site were buried. It took almost two hours for the rescue teams to remove their bodies from the debriThe deceased were identified as supervisor Anil Patel and labourers Balu Wagh, Raju Dadhav, Jayram Sande and Ashwin Sande. Two workers who suffered serious injuries were Jayesh Sande and Vishal Sande and they are admitted at the civil hospital in Silvassa.Khanvel police said that the construction work was going on at the polychem company at Surangi village. The workers had constructed a temporary tin shed house near the compound wall.“Over 100 workers were staying inside the construction site of the industrial unit,” said Khanvel police. District collector of D&NH, Sandeep Kumar Singh told TOI, “The administration has announced Rs four lakh compensation to the family of each deceased workers.” D&NH was pounded by 310mm rainfall while Daman got 100 mm in 24 hours ending 10am Wednesday. About 550 people in Silvassa and Khanvel in D&NH were rescued and shifted to the shelter homes as several low-lying areas were flooded. Nearly three dozen trees in D&NH were uprooted. Following heavy rains in the catchment areas, the Madhuban dam in Valsad district received about 9,200 cusecs of water with the level touching at 73.25 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-workers-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-dnh/articleshow/77379550.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Muslims perform ‘aarti’ too||Members of the Muslim community also participated in the celebrations and organised programmes in Kothrud and other places. The community members performed aarti near the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, while maintaining social distance. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muslims-perform-aarti-too/articleshow/77382424.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Biz of this immunity food not in the best of health||Chennai: The spice that brings goodness of health to Indian curries and is better known as the key ingredient of ‘golden latte’ globally never goes out of demand. But its supply dried up, though farmers had the crop ready, in the past few months when the Covid-induced lockdown led to transportation issues. Traders and exporters say there was a massive surge in demand felt in local markets in March and April but logistical issues hampered capitalising on the demand. "February to May is the peak season and two-thirds of our annual production is sold during that period. In March and April there were zero sales and exports were frozen,’’ said R K V Ravishankar, president of Erode turmeric merchants association. "Since there were no exports, turmeric stock stagnated across the country and there was a price drop rather than rise,’’ he said.Despite the hype around the spice over the years, farmers have not gained much. "We get an yield of 20 to 25 quintal per acre after investing about Rs1.5 lakh to raise the crop in an acre. The present prices hover around Rs6,000 to Rs6,500 per quintal which leaves us with a meagre sum of about Rs12,000 per acre after so much hard work,’’ said C M Nanjappan, state secretary of Turmeric Farmers Association of India.Government data also shows that turmeric cultivation dwindled from 15,000 hectare in 2010 to an abysmal 2,900 hectare in 2018, before picking up to 5,650 acre in 2019 after GI tag was granted to it. However, other major markets like Telangana and Maharashtra had grown manifold at this time. While acreage and production is high in those states, their pricing is lower than Erode because of their lesser input costs. Sangli variety in Maharashtra and Kandhamal variety in Odisha have also obtained GI tags, further tipping the scale to their benefit, say farmers.The Erode manjal is still a class above in terms of quality. The slender finger golden yellow variety is known for its high curcumin content. "Erode manjal was traditionally purchased for its quality. Among global buyers, those buying Erode manjal for its GI tag will only be 2%. So we cannot say the label helped us much,’’ says P K Deivasigamani, president of Turmeric Farmers Association of India. Though there has been a newfound demand, it is no match to the sales a decade ago. Earlier women used to apply manjal, turmeric will be applied on chicken meat before cooking, turmeric paste would be made into figurines and worshipped. "Many of these practices are no longer in vogue," Deivasigamani said.The state is providing Rs12,500 subsidy per hectare and has given 100% subsidy for drip irrigation, but farmers say the support has to be enhanced to make it viable. "Another way is to form farmers producers companies so that we can sell our produce directly eliminating middlemen. This would benefit farmers as well as customers," said Nanjappan, who hopes this idea will garner support after the lockdown eases completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biz-of-this-immunity-food-not-in-the-best-of-health/articleshow/77380997.cms||Mayilvaganan
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Bhoomi pujan event coincides with ‘mahurat’ of Lord Ram’s birth||LUCKNOW: The bhoomi pujan for Ram temple was performed in the same ‘mahurat’ (auspicious time) when Lord Ram is said to have been born. Members of the 300-year-old Kashi Vidvat Parishad (KVP) – a body of Vedic, Puranic and Hindu religious scholars that plays a role in the appointment of the Shankaracharya as well – conducted the ceremony. “As per scriptures, Lord Ram was born in Abhijeet ‘muhurat’ and the bhoomi pujan ceremony was performed in the auspicious time,” said Prof Ram Narayan Dwivedi, general secretary of KVP and professor of Sanskrit and religious studies at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). The main priest, Gangadhar Pathak, led the puja performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the course of rituals, Pathak said he considered himself lucky to be a part of the much-awaited moment. He said that it was an honour for him to have a ‘jajman’ (patron) like the Prime Minister. “The PM was sitting there as a representative of scores of Hindus in the country and abroad. While scripting history, he also became a role model for those having faith in Lord Ram and Hinduism,” he said. The group of priests comprised former dean, BHU, Prof Ram Chandra Pandey, head of astrology department (BHU) Prof Vinay Pandey, Jai Prakash Tripathi and Arun Dixit from Varanasi and Chandra Bhanu Sharma from New Delhi. Kamal Nayan Das, the representative of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, said a priest from Kanchi Kamkoti joined the event and brought articles blessed by the Shankaracharya for the ceremony. He also brought a special ‘tamrapatra’ (copper plate inscription) which was placed along with bricks for bhoomi pujan. Priests from Ayodhya also conducted rituals performed over the last three days. The ceremonies began with the worship of Ganesha and Gauri on Monday followed by Ramarchana at Hanumangarhi temple on Tuesday. Rituals began as early as 8am on Wednesday with ‘panchang pujan’, a ceremony to purify the substances to be used in bhoomi pujan. Acharya Pankaj Sharma from Prayagraj, one of the priests who performed the three-day ‘anushthan’ in Ayodhya, said it was an honour for him to be a part of the historic event and he would never forget the day. Sharma is the principal of Maharshi Bhardwaj Ved Vidhya Samiti, Prayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/event-coincides-with-mahurat-of-lord-rams-birth/articleshow/77382946.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man sends lewd messages about niece, stabs her mother for objecting||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Chandkheda on Wednesday filed a complaint with Chandkheda police alleging that her brother slashed her with scissors when she objected to his obscene messages about her daughter. Lakshmi Vijeta, 42, a resident of Umiya duplex, said that her younger brother Trilochansingh Vijeta, 37, a resident of Jantanagar, had attacked her on Tuesday night. She said that her brother had come to celebrate Rakshabandhan on Monday and had a quarrel with his wife. When Lakshmi’s mother tried to pacify her son, he began abusing her and tried to hit her. Lakshmi warned him against misbehaving with their mother. He left in a huff. On Monday night, Trilochansingh sent obscene messages about Lakshmi’s daughter, 21, who is studying in Canada. Lakshmi told him that his niece is like his daughter. On Tuesday night, Trilochansingh turned up drunk at Lakshmi’s house. She told police that he started abusing her in front of her house. When she went out to talk to him, he slashed her head with scissors. He then tried to stab her in the stomach but she held on to the scissors, suffering cuts. She then went to a private hospital where a medico-legal case was filed. Chandkheda police booked Trilochansingh for causing injury and for criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-sends-lewd-messages-about-niece-stabs-her-mother-for-objecting/articleshow/77382435.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||US ‘actress’ dupes Jamnagar man of Rs 14 lakh||RAJKOT: His greed to get a US $ 40,000 gift from a “lady friend” cost a Jamanagar man dear. After losing more than Rs 14 lakh to cyber frauds, 30-year-old Aashish Sakariya, a corporate employee, approached Meghpar police station in Jamnagar on Tuesday to register his complaint under various sections of IPC and Information Technology Act. In his complaint, Sakariya said he was befriended by a ‘London-based’ woman on Instagram in February, who identified herself as Sofia Vergara. However, Sakariya didn’t realize that he was being duped in the name of a Colombian American actress and started chatting. They later shifted conversation to WhatsApp and also exchanged each other’s pictures. According to the complainant, after developing cordial relations the woman sent him a message saying that she has couriered him a gift of US$ 40000 and asked him to pay Rs35,000 to release the parcel. Sakariya thereafter got a call from ‘customs’ office asking him to pay Rs 35,000 in the account of one Dinesh Sharma to clear the parcel. He deposited the amount as instructed. Thereafter he got another call from a person posing as a customs officer who asked him to pay Rs 1.2 lakh as the scanning machine showed the parcel to be contain more than $40,000. Thereafter he got a call that his parcel had been cleared by customs, but he still needs to pay tax of Rs 2.45 lakh as per government of India norms. The caller also promised to provide him a receipt from the Income tax. After he paid, Sakariya also received a receipt on his WhatsApp but soon after he got another message asking him to pay Rs 5.25 lakh more to clear the parcel, which he followed on the insistence of Sofia. But he again got a stop order of parcel delivery on his WhatsApp as it said he still needs to get an authorized certificate of Delhi high court by paying Rs 10.36 lakh to release the American money. Sakariya deposited Rs 5 lakh this time and refused to follow Sofia’s instruction and instead asked her to come to India. So far, he had deposited a total of Rs 14.45 lakh in one and half months in six different accounts in public sector and private sector banks before he realized that he was being cheated. The FIR is registered under IPC section 419, 420, 120, 120B and IT Act and police has started investigation. Police sub inspector of Meghpar police station, D S Vadher said, “He was reluctant to register an FIR because even while being an educated person he got trapped in fraud. It took us a week to convince him to register an FIR. It’s a matter of investigation that what was the influence of the accused that the complainant deposited this huge amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/greed-for-40k-makes-jamanagar-man-lose-rs-14l-to-frauds/articleshow/77379558.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||2 booked for cheating trader of Rs 20 lakh||NASHIK: A trader from the Indiranagar area was cheated of Rs 20 lakh by two persons — including a woman who pretended to be a bank manager — who had promised to help him get a bank loan of Rs 20 crore. The trader lodged a police complaint when the duo failed to deliver on their words even after two years. The Indiranagar police said the complainant has a shop of electronics goods in Nashik. In November 2017, when the trader had gone to his bank branch, he was approached by a person who offered to help him acquire a big loan. The man claimed that he was an agent and had good connections with a bank officer in Mumbai. He added that he worked on a commission basis and would need 2-3% of the loan amount in advance. Subsequently, the agent took the trader to Mumbai and introduced him to a woman saying that she was a bank manager. The woman and the agent took Rs 20 lakh from the trader over a period of time. According to the police, both the accused are residents of Pune. The have been booked for cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-for-cheating-trader-of-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/77382438.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||21-year-old woman killed in road accident||PILIBHIT: A 21-year-old woman identified as Naseema Khan of Gola city under Gola police station in district Kheri was mowed down by an anonymous vehicle near Mala river bridge on Pilibhit-Basti national highway under Gajraula police station in Pilibhit on Tuesday night. She breathed her last at 9pm in the district government hospital shortly after she was shifted there. Police have sent the body for autopsy and have lodged an FIR in the matter. According to police sources, the deceased was on her way to Gajraula village along with her husband Usuf Khan and one-year-old daughter when the bike which they were riding on was hit by an anonymous vehicle from the back side. The trio was shifted to the district government hospital by the police where the woman succumbed to her injuries. The condition of her husband and daughter are said to be stable. Station house officer (SHO) Jai Prakash said, “Following a written complaint filed by survivor’s brother, Mohammad Hassan Khan, an FIR was lodged against anonymous vehicle driver under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 279 (rash driving on a public way) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/21-year-old-woman-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77375852.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||50% farmers fail to renew loan accounts||NASHIK: About 50% farmers from Nashik district are losing the prompt repayment interest (PRI) subvention as they fail to clear the interest amount in their accounts annually. “With the central government announcing 3% interest waiver on crop loan of upto Rs 3 lakh if the farmers renewed the accounts with the banks on annual basis in which they just have to clear the outstanding interest amount. But, the farmers are losing this valuable input from the government,” pointed out a senior banking officer after emerging out from bankers’ meeting called by the district collector Suraj Mandhare. Mandhare conducted a review meeting of the bankers to find out the progress of the disbursement of loans to the farmers during the Kharif season. The officer noted that the bankers, tahsildars and block development officers were taking the message to the farmers about the prompt repayment service, however, there are a large number of farmers who do not ‘renew’ their accounts and thus fail to get the government subsidy on the interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-farmers-fail-to-renew-loan-accounts/articleshow/77382436.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: PM Narendra Modi releases postal stamp and special cover on Ram’s global footprint||LUCKNOW: A postage stamp with the picture of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya was released after the ceremonious bhoomi pujan rituals on Wednesday. A special cover to celebrate the presence of Lord Ram in diverse cultures of the world—it is being documented in the global encyclopedia of the Ramayana by Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan—was also revealed. Both postal items were released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Shri Ram Janmabhoomi is a symbolic place of ‘sanatan sanskriti’. Shri Ram was born in the Ikshavaku dynasty. He is an ideal of social, human and individual values of our life since ancient times. Ayodhya is a city of Ashtchakra Navdwar as depicted in the Atharvaveda. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Temple will be constructed by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust,” says the leaf on the stamp . The cover stated that Ram was present in tangible and intangible forms of cultures and heritage for 5,000 years. He finds mention in Honduras (Patal Lok) in central America, Italy’s Etruscan civilization, Kurdish region of Belula Iqar and Khamer culture in south east Asia, among others. Chief postmaster general, UP, Kaushalendra Kumar Sinha also presented a copy of both the items to the prime minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-releases-postal-stamp-spl-cover-on-rams-global-footprint/articleshow/77382956.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Friend tries to rape woman in Usmanpura||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Vejalpur has filed a complaint with Vadaj police alleging that a man, 60, tried to rape her at his house in Usmanpura on July 7. The complaint was filed on Tuesday. The woman said the attack occurred when the man took her and her two children to his house to help her deal with her mother’s sudden demise. The complainant, 39, has named Mahesh Shah, a resident of Vidyavihar Society in Usmanpura. She had first sent an email to the former police commissioner, Ashish Bhatia, on July 27 after which Vadaj police took her statement and filed a complaint. She stated that Shah, who was her family friend since 2007, had come to her home after her mother’s death. Shah told her and her husband that she would feel better at another place. Shah then took her and her kids to his house where he offered them coffee. Then he told her to have a look at a room on the first floor of the house. When she went to that room, he locked the door, pushed her onto the bed, and tried to rape her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/friend-tries-to-rape-woman/articleshow/77382437.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Expenses on cleaning Buddha Nullah drain on municipal coffers||Ludhiana: Despite spending large amounts on the cleaning of Buddha Nullah every year, the civic officials have failed to bring about much change at the ground level — if garbage is lifted for two months around the rainy season, it keeps piling up there for the remaining 10 months.Information obtained through an RTI query suggests that over the last about 20 years, the civic body spent over Rs 9 crore on the cleaning of Buddha Nullah, without any financial support either from the government or MPLAD funds. This also belies the government’s claims about working towards cleaner cities.In the RTI query, city-based activist Rohit Sabharwal had enquired about the expenditure incurred on cleaning of Buddha Nullah since 2001 and also whether the municipal corporation had received any aid from the Centre or the state government for the work. In reply, the civic officials clarified that they did not get anything by way of financial support from the government side.Another fact emerging from the RTI query is that the corporation, instead of purchasing its own machines for cleaning, has been paying for the work to the drainage department. Had it purchased its own machines, the expenditure would have been less and cleaning would have continued for longer period. When asked, the civic officials blamed the paucity of funds earlier for not buying own machines, and added that they are now going to purchase a Poclain machine for continuous cleaning of the drain. This machine will cost Rs 74 lakh and they are expecting its delivery by September. However, they declined to reveal why the machine was not acquired earlier. Rajinder Singh, superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell, said, “The work order for purchasing the machine is already placed and it is expected to reach here shortly and then there will be all-season cleaning of the drain.”Nullah as dumping groundEvery year thousands of tonnes of garbage gets collected in the drain simply because, the civic body has failed to deal strictly with the residents who dump their household waste into the drain. Not only residents, even some garbage collectors are in the habit of dumping the waste into the nullah. There is a provision of Rs 5,000 penalty on the offenders caught red-handed, but to date, it has not been implemented strictly. A proposal to install CCTVs also lies in limboThird party roped inThis year, instead of asking the drainage department for annual cleaning of the drain, the civic officials hired the machinery from outside. The drainage department had demanded Rs 84 lakh for the purpose, but the corporation claimed they got it done for half the cost by some private partyExpenditure incurredApril 2000 to March 2008 — Rs 1.64 crore2008-09 — Rs 17.99 lakh2009-10 — Rs 28.55 lakh2010-2011 — Rs 02011-12 — Rs 49.38 lakh2012-13 — Rs 48.56 lakh2013-14 — Rs 68.11 lakh2014-15 — Rs 149.45 lakh 2015-16 — Rs 177.18 lakh 2016-17 — Rs 63.17 lakh 2017-18 — Rs 40.00 lakh 2018-19 — Rs 90.25 lakh 2019-20 — Rs 60.15 lakh April 2020-July 2020 — Rs 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/expenses-on-cleaning-buddha-nullah-drain-on-municipal-coffers/articleshow/77379544.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||MP Bittu seeks action in death of man turned away by 4 hosps||TNNLudhiana: Local MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has taken a strong note of the death of a patient, who was allegedly turned away by four hospitals.On Tuesday, a Dholewal resident had died at the civil hospital after he complained of chest pain. The family members and acquaintances alleged that he was turned away by four hospitals and not treated well at the civil hospital.On Wednesday, the Ludhiana MP wrote on his Facebook page, “Late Sh. Joginder Pal complained of chest pain & was turned away by at least 4 hospitals last night due to negligent attitude of hospitals towards suspected Corona patients. He passed away today morning at civil hospital. This nonsense will not be tolerated. @VarinderIAS, DC Ludhiana Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, Investigate and take strict action against this negligence in 24hrs (sic)”.A social activist, Kumar Gaurav, said son of the victim told him that they spent the night running from one hospital to the other and four of them didn’t admit his father. Then a private hospital on Brown Road asked them to take him to the civil hospital, the son said.The social activist said the patient was admitted to the civil hospital at 5am on Tuesday, but his TrueNat test was conducted after he raised the issue. He added that he asked the officials to start his treatment immediately as he was critical. The health staff got into action and later when he was declared Covid positive, he was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, but he died.“His life could have been saved if he was referred early,” said the social activist.Son of the deceased said they asked the doctor to check his father, but his mother was told that they also have to see other patients.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he has marked an inquiry to SMO Dr Amarjit Kaur, who will submit the report in two days.July death caseRegarding the death case of a Covid positive businessman in July, when the health department had issued a notice to the DMCH and asked why he was not treated properly, the civil surgeon said that they have sent the case to director, health, and sought legal opinion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mp-bittu-seeks-action-in-death-of-man-turned-away-by-4-hosps/articleshow/77379556.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Surat||50-year-old swept away with car||Surat: A 50-year-old man drowned after his car was swept away in a river near Nagvas village of Umargam taluka in Valsad district. The car with victim Deepaksinh Parmar’s body inside was fished out from the river on Wednesday. Parmar had tried to cross the bridge even as there was flash flood in the river due to incessant rainfall. Umargam was lashed by nearly 400mm rainfall in 24 hours ending 4pm Wednesday. According to Valsad flood control room officials, around 200 people were rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the taluka and moved to safer places. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/50-year-old-swept-away-with-car/articleshow/77379565.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Call at control room for Covid queries||TNN Ludhiana: Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner (development) and Covid-19 nodal officer Sandeep Kumar said for the welfare of residents, a dedicated control room has been set up in the district.People can call at 78147-64759 for any query related to home isolation, at 78143-63850 for queries related to ambulance problem, at 62849-12553 to ask about private hospitals and at 62845-31852 for queries related to general problems regarding Covid-19.“The control room is fully equipped for all kinds of information related to the disease. Besides, a dedicated mobile app for this purpose will be launched shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/call-at-control-room-for-covid-queries/articleshow/77379567.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosiery factory worker carjacked at gunpoint||Times News Network Ludhiana: Two unidentified men robbed a hosiery factory employee of his car at gunpoint on Bhamiya Road, near Police Colony, on Tuesday night.Rawinder Singh, 25, of Balaji Colony in Mundiya Kalan, said in his police complaint, “I had purchased a second-hand Hyundai i20 car (PB 10 EY 4138) some months ago. Around 8.30pm, I collected the car from a service station near Manju Cinema Road and went to my friend Jaskirat Singh’s house in Beant Colony, Jamalpur. The two of us then went for a drive.” Jaskirat was driving the car. “At 10.30pm when we reached near Police Colony on Bhamiya Road, we pulled over outside a liquor vend and Jaskirant went to buy beer. At that time, a hatchback stopped near my car and two masked men alighted. Soon thereafter, one of them sat next to me on the driving seat and the other on the rear seat. At gunpoint, the man sitting on the driving seat asked me to alight. I took out the car key, stepped out and threw it inside the liquor vend. The armed man took the key back from a worker and drove away with my car. His accomplice followed him in their hatchback,” he added.ASI Shingara Singh said a case was registered under sections 379-B (snatching) of the IPC and the Arms Act on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosiery-factory-worker-carjacked-at-gunpoint/articleshow/77379562.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nashik||Articles worth Rs 1.39 lakh stolen||NASHIK: City police has registered an offence of house break-in against unidentified people for stealing cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.39 lakh from a house in the Upnagar area on Tuesday afternoon. The incident came to light after a 61-year-old man from Koyna Nagar lodged a complaint with the Upnagar police. As per the complaint lodged by Shivaji Kadale, some unidentified people broke into his house sometime between 3 pm and 4.30 pm on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/articles-worth-rs-1-39-lakh-stolen/articleshow/77382441.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU defers August 17 pen & paper exams||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has deferred the offline exam (pen and paper) that were to start from August 17. The varsity has instead decided to hold another round of online exams from the same date. The decision comes in the wake of the latest Unlock 3 guidelines by the Centre according to which schools and colleges are to remain closed till August 31. About 25,000 candidates had registered to take the pen and paper exam that were to begin from August 17. They will now have the option of participating in the online exams to be conducted from August 17, said Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU. The pen and paper exam will now be held in September, he added. Students will be given the option of choosing between the two exam formats. “According to the latest directive from the Centre, all colleges and other educational institutes are to remain shut till August 31. As a result, we had to reschedule the exams,” according to Sheth. At present, the varsity is conducting the first round of online exams for the final year degree and diploma engineering students in which about 12,500 students are participating. Gujarat University (GU), which has also scheduled the exam date from August 17 for candidates willing to opt for pen and paper format. GU is yet to announce any change in schedule or format of these exams, said GU sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-defers-august-17-pen-paper-exams/articleshow/77382442.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Virus claims 5 more lives, toll at 129||Lucknow: Hyper reaction of immune system due to Covid-19 claimed life of a Unani medicine practitioner on Wednesday. Besides, three patients reached the hospital with the disease in its advanced stage and could not survive. Total five Covid-19 deaths took place in 24 hours, taking the toll to 129. Unani doctor Sarfuddin Ansari (42), a Yaseenganj resident, was admitted to Integral Institute of Medical Sciences (IIMS) after testing positive on July 21. He had mild breathing difficulty and was also diabetic. He was recovering, but then `cytokine storm’ occurred that ruptured lungs’ blood vessels leading to respiratory failure, said Director IIMS Dr Zafar Idrishi. Cytokine storm is a condition when the immune system goes awry and starts damaging lung cells which it should be protecting. A 62-year-old woman also died of respiratory failure at IIMS. Admitted at an advanced stage, the Aashiana resident had double pneumonitis - inflamed lungs filled with pus. She also had diabetes and kidney issues. In KGMU, a 42-year-old man admitted on July 28 with severe infection in lungs and kidneys died of respiratory and multi-organ failure. He also had diabetes and hypertension, said Dr Sudhir Singh, university spokesperson A 40-year-old man from Malihabad resident, who was also brought to KGMU with “severely damaged lungs” on July 21died of respiratory failure. He also had hypothyroidism and hypertension. Meanwhile a 36-year-old man died soon after reaching TS Mishra institute of Medical Sciences in Sarojininagar. He had opted for home quarantine after testing positive on July 3, but rushed to hospital after developing breathing problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-claims-5-more-lives-toll-at-129/articleshow/77382963.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Nine lose battle to Covid-19; dist records biggest surge of 306 cases||TNNLudhiana: Nine district residents died of Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state on Wednesday, when Ludhiana witnessed the biggest single-day surge of 306 cases. The number of outsiders who tested positive here was 20.The health department said a 55-year-old Dholewal man died of Covid-19 at the civil hospital. Those who died at city hospitals included a 40-year-old resident of Jamalpur, who had large intra-cerebral bleeding, a 55-year-old Dugri man, who was suffering from heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure, a man of 54 years from Friends Colony and a 61-year-old man of Kohara, who was also suffering from heart disease, diabetes and liver disease. A 57-year-old woman from Jammu Colony died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where an anaemic 45-year-old woman from Surjit Nagar also succumbed to the virus. A 53-year-old patient from Kidwai Nagar and a 41-year-old patient from Field Gunj, who was suffering from heart disease and diabetes, also lost fight to coronavirus. The total number of deaths of Ludhiana district residents has risen to 129 and of outsiders to 41.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said of pending reports received on Wednesday, 233 were positive, out of which 228 were from the district, one each from Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Haryana.The health department said of the positive cases from the district, seven were from Jagraon, three from Samrala, 16 from Khanna, five from Payal, 96 from Ludhiana East and 101 from Ludhiana West. It added that apart from these cases, 93 Covid positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 78 were from Ludhiana district, three from Jalandhar, two from Fatehgarh Sahib, one each from Mohali, Amritsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Patiala, Kapurthala, Bathinda, Jammu and Bihar. The department said that of the cases from the district, 41 were from Ludhiana East and 37 from Ludhiana West. It added that thus on Wednesday, 306 positive cases were reported in the district, of which 75 were from flu corner, 87 were positive patient’s contacts, 35 from OPD, while others included five police personnel, nine from high-risk area, 11 pregnant women, 19 healthcare workers, two pre-operative patients, six domestic travellers, 55 from tracing process and two undertrials. “With this, the total number of corona positive cases in the district has increased to 4,176 and the number of outsiders was 525. On Wednesday, 949 samples were sent for testing,” the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nine-lose-battle-to-covid-19-dist-records-biggest-surge-of-306-cases/articleshow/77379576.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||7 cops +ve, no public dealing at commissionerate complex||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana commissionerate complex has again been closed for public dealing for three days, with seven cops posted there testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Earlier, Division 8, Division 3, Moti Nagar, Daba and Focal Point police stations were closed for a few days for public dealing.Even as Ludhiana Police has 118 active cases, it is yet to streamline the system of lodging complaints and conducting investigation. On Tuesday night, the city police uploaded a message on its official Facebook page, saying seven more cops in the office staff of commissioner of police, Ludhiana, have contracted the virus. To ensure safety of residents, public dealing work has been suspended for three days in CP office. People can mail their complaints at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in. The CP office was closed for three days on July 27, too, when two cops deputed in the office for public dealing had contracted the virus.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said, “At present, there are 118 active cases in Ludhiana commissionerate. The seven cops of English branch of the CP office, who tested positive on Tuesday, are asymptomatic. It cannot be said that they contracted the virus on duty. Not all cops live in Police Lines. They live in different areas of the city and commute daily. The cops have been asked to be extra cautious even when they are off duty. Besides, they have been advised to ensure their families take all the required precautions.” “As far as policing is concerned, the public dealing in office is minimal. We have an online complaint system. We plan to have drop boxes at police stations and police posts to receive complaints. The applications will be sanitized first and then checked. Things are in the pipeline and will be implemented soon to come out with a system that ensures lesser exposure of cops,” the joint CP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-cops-ve-no-public-dealing-at-commissionerate-complex/articleshow/77379583.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Unhappy with girl child, parents kill 40-day-old infant||KARWAR: In a blood-curdling act, a mother-father duo drowned the 40-day-old infant by throwing it into a well in Sirsi town, Uttara Kannada district. The couple decided on the horrific course of action owing to the baby being a girl, cops said. Cops attached to Yellapur police station cracked the case within 24 hours after the incident occurred, and the couple has been arrested for the crime. Abhishek Jagadeesh Singh Choudhari, a resident of Rajeev Nagar in Sirsi, had lodged a complaint at the Yellapur police station, stating that his sister Priyanka’s baby had been kidnapped and subsequently killed. In his complaint, Choudhari stated that his 21-year-old sister and her husband Chandrashekhar Bhat, 42, resided in Ramanakoppa in Sahasrahalli in Yellapur. Priyanka allegedly woke up around 2.30am on August 2 to find that her baby, Tanushri, was not in her cradle. Her husband’s family subsequently started searching for the baby, which they found dead inside a well. Choudhari suspected that Tanushri had been kidnapped, and had been killed by her abductors to erase any evidence of their crime. Uttara Kannada superintendent of police Shivaprakash Devaraju constituted a team to crack the crime, and the cops, who subjected the parents to an interrogation, found that they were the culprits. “As of now, the couple has claimed complete responsibility for the act, and have stated that their family members are not involved. But we are probing the possibility of others’ involvement in the crime,” SP Devaraju told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/unhappy-with-girl-child-parents-kill-40-day-old-infant/articleshow/77382660.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
August 6, 2020||Nashik||2 leopards rescued in Nashik dist||Nashik: Two leopards — a two-year-old female and a five-year-old male — were rescued from two different areas of Nashik district early on Wednesday morning. “We have conducted medical inspection of both the animals and they will be sent to the Sanjay Gandhi National Park at Borivali in Mumbai,” said forest officials. The female leopard was trapped in a cage installed by the forest department at Darade farm in Jakhori village, around 8 km from the Nashik Road area of the city, three days back, following complaints from villagers. Forest officials said the big cat was safely rescued and a medical check-up was conducted by a veterinarian. Its health condition is good and will be released after completion of official procedure. A five-year-old male leopard was trapped into a cage in Rahuri village, around 5 km from Jakhori village. The cage was installed around a week back after villagers complained of leopard sightings. A total of eight leopards have been rescued by the forest department in the district in within the last five weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-leopards-rescued-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77382445.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 6, 2020||Surat||Bizman ends life as sister fails to come for rakhi||Surat: A 45-year-old textile businessman committed suicide on Tuesday reportedly because his cousin sister didn’t come to tie him rakhi on Rakshabandhan. The victim, Kamlesh Samnani, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his house in Palanpur area on Tuesday afternoon. Police said his sister could not come to his house as the residential colony in Adajan where she lives has been declared a cluster quarantined area after some Covid-19 cases surfaced there.Samnani was taken to the hospital in the 108 emergency services ambulance, but paramedics declared him dead and informed the police. The body was then sent for postmortem and preliminary examination confirmed that Samnani died of hanging. “She is the only sister among a few brothers and Samnani was emotionally attached to her. He was worried since Monday and kept discussing with his wife about his sister. He even wondered if his sister had felt offended due to some reason,” said a police officer at Adajan police station. “He was also concerned about her health as well,” said police. Later, Samnani went into his room and hanged himself. Since the bedsheet was short, he tied a towel to it and committed suicide. Samnani is survived by his wife and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-ends-life-as-sister-fails-to-come-for-rakhi/articleshow/77379587.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Record Covid recoveries in day, positive cases near 48,000||JAIPUR: For the first time after Covid hit the state in early-March, 1,017 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, the biggest single-day recovery so far. This has taken the cumulative recovery count in the state to 33,849. On the infection front, 1,166 new cases were reported taking the overall count to 47,845. As on Wednesday, the recovery rate stands at 70% and the average growth rate is 3%, down from 3.5%. Besides, 10 people lost their lives to the virus taking the toll to 745. Six persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 212, two died in Ajmer taking the total count of deaths to 55, Alwar reported it 21st death, Kota its 36th, Rajsamand 8th, Sikar reported its 11th casualty and Jalore reported its 5th death. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day spike of 141 new infections in August taking its cumulative cases to 6,037. Jaipur has become the second district after Jodhpur to register more than 6,000 cases. Besides, Jaipur (1,623) has climbed one position up to book the second spot in the list of districts with highest number of current active cases. It has superseded Jodhpur (1594), which slipped to the third place. With 2,624 active cases, Alwar is at the top spot of the list. More than 50 places in Jaipur reported new cases including Jhotwara (15), directorate of medical services (11), Transport Nagar (8), and six each cases were reported from Sanganer, Mansarovar and Kotputli. Five cases each was reported from Jhalana, Shastri Nagar and Jamwarangarh. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (192), Jaipur (141), Alwar (112), Kota (105), Jhalawar (65), Ajmer (64), Pali (55), Bikaner (54), Dholpur (54), Jalore (49), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (37), Barmer (36), Rajsamand (32), Sawai Madhopur (26), Sikar (21), Dungarpur (19), Bharatpur (16), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (12), Bundi (8), Sirohi (7), Baran (5), Tonk (3), Chittorgarh (1) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-covid-recoveries-in-day-ve-cases-near-48k/articleshow/77385061.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Record Covid recoveries in day, positive cases near 48,000||JAIPUR: For the first time after Covid hit the state in early-March, 1,017 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, the biggest single-day recovery so far. This has taken the cumulative recovery count in the state to 33,849. On the infection front, 1,166 new cases were reported taking the overall count to 47,845. As on Wednesday, the recovery rate stands at 70% and the average growth rate is 3%, down from 3.5%. Besides, 10 people lost their lives to the virus taking the toll to 745. Six persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 212, two died in Ajmer taking the total count of deaths to 55, Alwar reported it 21st death, Kota its 36th, Rajsamand 8th, Sikar reported its 11th casualty and Jalore reported its 5th death. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day spike of 141 new infections in August taking its cumulative cases to 6,037. Jaipur has become the second district after Jodhpur to register more than 6,000 cases. Besides, Jaipur (1,623) has climbed one position up to book the second spot in the list of districts with highest number of current active cases. It has superseded Jodhpur (1594), which slipped to the third place. With 2,624 active cases, Alwar is at the top spot of the list. More than 50 places in Jaipur reported new cases including Jhotwara (15), directorate of medical services (11), Transport Nagar (8), and six each cases were reported from Sanganer, Mansarovar and Kotputli. Five cases each was reported from Jhalana, Shastri Nagar and Jamwarangarh. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (192), Jaipur (141), Alwar (112), Kota (105), Jhalawar (65), Ajmer (64), Pali (55), Bikaner (54), Dholpur (54), Jalore (49), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (37), Barmer (36), Rajsamand (32), Sawai Madhopur (26), Sikar (21), Dungarpur (19), Bharatpur (16), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (12), Bundi (8), Sirohi (7), Baran (5), Tonk (3), Chittorgarh (1) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-covid-recoveries-in-day-ve-cases-near-48k/articleshow/77385060.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 11 more staff of health directorate test Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: Eleven more medical directorate employees tested positive for Covid on Wednesday taking the tally to 31 in the last three days. Majority of those who tested positive are employed at National Health Mission. Samples of 200 employees were collected from the health department building, situated close to the secretariat building, on Tuesday, the result of which was out on Wednesday. The health department has taken decision to prevent the spread of the virus in the building. “We have restricted entry of visitors at the health directorate and we are also taking measures to reduce the number of employees coming to office,” said Dr KK Sharma, director (health). Sharma said they were sanitising the entire building too. However, the employees said despite the spike in cases, they are not being provided with soaps in toilets and also no such strict preventive measures were being taken. They said they carry their own soaps for toilets to wash their hands. They also pointed out that in one room, three to four employees are working which enhances the chance of spread of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-more-staff-of-health-directorate-test-positive/articleshow/77382451.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||450 temporary teachers of MSU awaiting joining letters||Vadodara: More than a month has passed after their interviews for the post of temporary assistant professors but M S University is yet to issue them joining letters.The university had conducted the interviews for 450 posts of temporary assistant professors. But the temporary teachers who are already serving in various departments of the university, are waiting for their work orders.Sources in the university head office said that these teachers have not been issued the letters as the current workload of teachers is less.“With admissions for first year programmes in major faculties of the university yet to conclude, the number of students is much less. At the same time, much of the teaching work is being done online. Hence, workload of teachers has reduced,” said an official associated with the workload committee.MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama said that the process of issuing work orders is on.“Currently, first year classes have not started. Our existing employees are handling online classes for second and third year students,” he said, adding that in each online class, a batch of 220 students is enrolled.“In other words, most of the current workload is being handled by our permanent teachers. Once the admission process concludes and we have first year students, work orders will also be issued,” he said, adding that the selection committee has already submitted its recommendations.Temporary teachers have also faced delays when it comes to salary. With contract of many teachers getting over in mid-June, such teachers were not paid their salaries till mid-July.The university has also not conducted the interview process of temporary teaching assistants, who otherwise bear much of the workload when it comes to taking regular classes at the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/450-temporary-teachers-of-msu-awaiting-joining-letters/articleshow/77378690.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Group attacks cop after he objects to construction work||Times News Network Ludhiana: Following an argument, a group of miscreants attacked a police inspector outside his house in Chawni Mohalla early on Wednesday.Inspector Bittan Kumar, who is posted at Police Lines, is admitted to the ICU ward of CMC Hospital and his condition is stated to be stable. Assistant commissioner of police (Central) Waryam Singh said, “Construction work is going on at a plot near the house of the inspector. Around 1am, a JCB machine was working there despite the night curfew. As it was disturbing everyone’s sleep, the inspector asked the machine driver to work in the morning. This led to an argument between the driver and the inspector. The driver then called his accomplices to the spot. On reaching there, they attacked the inspector with sharp and blunt weapons and escaped. The cop has sustained severe head injuries.”On hearing his screams, his family and neighbours took him to a hospital.“He has received 12 stitches on head,” the ACP added. On residents’ allegations that the plot is disputed, the ACP said, “The case is being investigated from all angles, including the dispute one. We are trying to trace the accused.”Division 4 police have registered a case against Onkar of Chandar Nagar, Deepa, Babbu and five unidentified accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/group-attacks-cop-after-he-objects-to-construction-work/articleshow/77379591.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Record Covid recoveries in day, positive cases near 48,000||JAIPUR: For the first time after Covid hit the state in early-March, 1,017 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, the biggest single-day recovery so far. This has taken the cumulative recovery count in the state to 33,849. On the infection front, 1,166 new cases were reported taking the overall count to 47,845. As on Wednesday, the recovery rate stands at 70% and the average growth rate is 3%, down from 3.5%. Besides, 10 people lost their lives to the virus taking the toll to 745. Six persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 212, two died in Ajmer taking the total count of deaths to 55, Alwar reported it 21st death, Kota its 36th, Rajsamand 8th, Sikar reported its 11th casualty and Jalore reported its 5th death. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day spike of 141 new infections in August taking its cumulative cases to 6,037. Jaipur has become the second district after Jodhpur to register more than 6,000 cases. Besides, Jaipur (1,623) has climbed one position up to book the second spot in the list of districts with highest number of current active cases. It has superseded Jodhpur (1594), which slipped to the third place. With 2,624 active cases, Alwar is at the top spot of the list. More than 50 places in Jaipur reported new cases including Jhotwara (15), directorate of medical services (11), Transport Nagar (8), and six each cases were reported from Sanganer, Mansarovar and Kotputli. Five cases each was reported from Jhalana, Shastri Nagar and Jamwarangarh. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (192), Jaipur (141), Alwar (112), Kota (105), Jhalawar (65), Ajmer (64), Pali (55), Bikaner (54), Dholpur (54), Jalore (49), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (37), Barmer (36), Rajsamand (32), Sawai Madhopur (26), Sikar (21), Dungarpur (19), Bharatpur (16), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (12), Bundi (8), Sirohi (7), Baran (5), Tonk (3), Chittorgarh (1) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-covid-recoveries-in-day-ve-cases-near-48k/articleshow/77385059.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Record Covid recoveries in day, positive cases near 48,000||JAIPUR: For the first time after Covid hit the state in early-March, 1,017 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, the biggest single-day recovery so far. This has taken the cumulative recovery count in the state to 33,849. On the infection front, 1,166 new cases were reported taking the overall count to 47,845. As on Wednesday, the recovery rate stands at 70% and the average growth rate is 3%, down from 3.5%. Besides, 10 people lost their lives to the virus taking the toll to 745. Six persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 212, two died in Ajmer taking the total count of deaths to 55, Alwar reported it 21st death, Kota its 36th, Rajsamand 8th, Sikar reported its 11th casualty and Jalore reported its 5th death. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day spike of 141 new infections in August taking its cumulative cases to 6,037. Jaipur has become the second district after Jodhpur to register more than 6,000 cases. Besides, Jaipur (1,623) has climbed one position up to book the second spot in the list of districts with highest number of current active cases. It has superseded Jodhpur (1594), which slipped to the third place. With 2,624 active cases, Alwar is at the top spot of the list. More than 50 places in Jaipur reported new cases including Jhotwara (15), directorate of medical services (11), Transport Nagar (8), and six each cases were reported from Sanganer, Mansarovar and Kotputli. Five cases each was reported from Jhalana, Shastri Nagar and Jamwarangarh. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (192), Jaipur (141), Alwar (112), Kota (105), Jhalawar (65), Ajmer (64), Pali (55), Bikaner (54), Dholpur (54), Jalore (49), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (37), Barmer (36), Rajsamand (32), Sawai Madhopur (26), Sikar (21), Dungarpur (19), Bharatpur (16), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (12), Bundi (8), Sirohi (7), Baran (5), Tonk (3), Chittorgarh (1) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-covid-recoveries-in-day-ve-cases-near-48k/articleshow/77382446.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Salem Tabri man shares OTP, loses money||Times News Network Ludhiana: A city resident has lost Rs 1.66 lakh to a fraudster, who called him up posing as a bank employee.The victim has been identified as Harbans Singh, 41, a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, Salem Tabri. He is a tabla player with a kirtan committee that performs at gurdwaras. In his police complaint, Harbans said, “In October 2019, I went to an ATM kiosk in Aman Nagar, Salem Tabri, and withdrew Rs 10,000. A few days later, I again went there. Even as I did not get cash, I received an SMS alert on cellphone that I had withdrawn Rs 10,000.”On reaching home, Harbans dialed the bank’s customer care number to lodge a complaint. “The same day, around 1pm, I received a call. The caller claimed that he was calling from the bank and that he was transferring Rs 10,000 to my account. He asked for the OTP sent on my cellphone. As soon as I gave it to him, Rs 1.66 lakh were withdrawn from my account. The caller then disconnected the call and switched off his cellphone. The fraudster has taken away my entire savings,” he added. Salem Tabri police station sub-inspector Jinder Lal said following an investigation, a case has been registered against unidentified accused under sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/salem-tabri-man-shares-otp-loses-money/articleshow/77379601.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Malls hopeful of increased footfall despite Covid-19 scare in Pune||PUNE: Malls and markets across the city opened to a lukewarm response on Wednesday, with storeowners hoping for a greater footfall over the weekend and beyond based on the measures introduced by them to ensure safety of customers. Many of the malls have gone beyond the standard operating procedures (SOPs) specified by the Union and the state governments to provide patrons a “safe” shopping experience. For example, Phoenix Marketcity has made it mandatory for employees as well as customers to download Aarogya Setu app on their smartphones before entering the premises. Rahil Ajani, centre director, The Pavillion, said, “For people walking into our mall in the new normal, ‘happiness’ would mean ‘safety first’. With stringent SOPs in place, we have seen customers being more responsible and cooperative in following norms. We are expecting a gradual increase in footfall in the coming days.” A mall off Karve Road was decked with balloons and rangoli to welcome customers. “People were allowed inside only after thermal screening and sanitisation. I was passing by when I saw the mall open and decided to pick up some items,” said Sanjay Langhe, a customer. Yerwada resident Rahul Shinde, who was at Phoenix Marketcity on Wednesday, said, “I came to buy a new phone at the electronics store here, but spent quite a bit of time downloading the Aarogya Setu app before I could enter the mall.” The manager of the electronic store said, “A few people turned up, but sales have been negligible.” “The footfall in our store was almost the same as before. The only major change we had to make was to increase the sale area so that we had enough space to stock fresh arrivals alongside the sale stock of June and July,” said the manager of H&M, a popular apparel outlet. The flow of customers was minimal at the Royal Heritage Mall at NIBM Annexe till afternoon.  “There were only a few visitors. I think the number of mall-goers will increase during the weekend,” said a person at a stall selling phone accessories. Meanwhile, shops on both sides of the road opened across the city after the civic body discontinued the P1/P2 system. “The response was low, but it was due to incessant rain. If the market remains open, customers’ footfall will increase and we will have a good Diwali,” said Rahul Bora, a trader on Laxmi Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/malls-hopeful-of-increased-footfall-despite-ncov-scare/articleshow/77382455.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||8 test positive in Wardha||Wardha: There were 8 more patients who tested positive for coronavirus in the district, while 9 were discharged from hospital after being cured on Thursday. Five men and three women are among the positive from Wardha (4), Deoli tahsil (3) and one form Selu. A 30-year-old man from Sewagram, a 47-year-old man, a 40-year-old woman from Hanuman ward and a 22-year-old youth residing in Dr Zakir Hussain colony of Wardha, a 62-year-old man, a 50-year-old woman and an 18-year-old boy of Zadgaon village of Deoli tahsil and a 50-year-old woman of Selu tested positive of Thursday. After the discharge of 9, 34 are active positive patients in the district who are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-test-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77418289.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Meerut||35 ‘kar sevaks’ feted in Muzaffarnagar by Union minister Balyan||Muzaffarnagar: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan and UP minister Kapil Dev Agarwal on Wednesday feted 35 people in Muzaffarnagar who took part in ‘kar seva’ during the height of Ayodhya temple movement. They were honored during an event organized to watch live the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony which was taking place in Ayodhya.Balyan said, “It was not appropriate to witness such a grand ceremony without those who had fought for Ram Temple and went to jail.”Agarwal said, “After waiting for over 500 years, the day has finally come when bhoomi puja for Ram Mandir is being conducted. The whole world is watching it. People who had participated in the revolution of Ram Mandir are honoured now.”Heavy security arrangement was made for the event.According to SP Muzaffarnagar, Satpal Antil, “Enough police force was deployed and the district was divided into four super zones, 8 zones, 20 sectors and 68 sub-sectors. Drone cameras were also provided to every police station. Companies of PAC and RRF were also deployed into the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-kar-sevaks-feted-in-muzaffarnagar-by-union-minister-balyan/articleshow/77381071.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 6, 2020||Meerut||Over 100 sacks with thousands of used gloves seized before resale||MEERUT: A gang which sold discarded gloves after repackaging them was unearthed by UP Police in Bulandshahr, just 90-km away from Delhi. Two persons were arrested in the raid conducted soon after an alert sent by Delhi Police, which was also trailing the same racket, a senior police officer said. A huge consignment of potentially harmful bio-waste, kept in about 100 sacks, was found from the storeroom in Bulandshahr’s Kahira village on Tuesday evening. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, there is a huge surge in the demand for gloves, and the racket was taking advantage of this. Medical experts said that these gloves should not be reused as they can spread infection, not only Covid-19 but others too. According to sources, it was most likely that these used gloves would have made their way into the Delhi and NCR markets after the repackaging. A senior police officer said that the gang used to collect discarded gloves from hospitals and later sold them in bulk after cleaning them. Station house officer (SHO) of Bulandshahr Kotwali (rural), Sudhir Tyagi, said, “Delhi Police alerted us about the hidden consignment on Tuesday evening. We raided the premises, seized the sacks and arrested two men named Raj Kumar Sharma and his nephew Sanjay Sharma who owned the building. “Their questioning revealed that the two accused were holding the stock on the directions of one Subodh Malhotra, a resident of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. Delhi Police also told us that Malhotra was part of a gang which collected used gloves from hospitals in Malegaon district of Maharashtra and from some other cities. They used to clean and repackage them. As the demand for these gloves is quite high because of the prevailing pandemic, these gloves were selling like hot cakes. One of the consignments reached Malhora's home who had sent it to the Bulandshahr village.” An FIR was filed against the three accused under sections 268 (public nuisance), 269 (act likely to spread infection), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act. While Sanjay and Raj Kumar have been arrested and sent to jail, Malhotra is on the run. Meanwhile, the Sharmas have claimed innocence. “We were only asked by Malhotra to keep the consignment here. We were of the impression he manufactured those gloves,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-100-sacks-containing-thousands-of-used-gloves-seized-before-hitting-the-market-again/articleshow/77381082.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Shivdaspura farmers will get back land reserved for airport||JAIPUR: Farmers living near Shivdaspura can heave a sigh of relief as their land reserved for the greenfield airport has been freed after 16 years. The move will provide a major relief to farmers of 20 villages who were unable to utilise their valuable land. On Tuesday night, the state government decided to free the reserve land as airport cannot be constructed in the area. Urban Development and Housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal said, “The ministry of civil aviation turned down the proposal to construct the airport. This is the reason we cancelled the scheme for the benefit of people.” In 2004, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) proposed to acquire land for the airport. A year later, the draft proposal was forwarded to the UDH. Following the announcement, JDA had imposed a ban on land conversion and issuing of lease deeds in Shivdaspura. In 2017, the state government gave a nod to the JDA to acquire 2,094 hectares in 20 villages for the airport. However, as acquiring land requires capital of Rs 4,000 crore, the JDA expressed it helplessness and eyed at Centre’s assistance. A senior official source said, “The chief secretary wrote to civil aviation minister for assistance. The Centre directed to carried out a feasibility report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shivdaspura-farmers-will-get-back-land-reserved-for-airport/articleshow/77382453.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||City tally crosses 10,000, law minister, 3 PGI docs test +ve||Lucknow: The city’s Covid-19 tally crossed 10,000 on Wednesday with the addition of 336 more cases, including state law minister Brijesh Pathak and three SGPGIMS resident doctors. With new cases galloping at around 400 daily in last 10 days, the tally rose to 10,141, of which 4,513 are in hospitals or home isolation, while 5,504 have recovered. The spike is worrisome as first 5,000 cases were reported over 135 days, while next 5,000 have come up in just 13 days. Law minister Pathak, who had isolated himself after his wife tested positive on July 27, also developed symptoms on Tuesday and got himself tested. He has opted for home quarantine. “Those who came in contact with me, please get yourself tested,” he tweeted. So far, eight ministers have tested positive. of which one died during treatment. Meanwhile, the radio-diagnosis department of SGPGIMS was sanitised after three residents tested positive. Other staff members are being tested, said director R K Dhiman. The 1090 women power helpline was also closed for 48 hours after two employees tested positive. A lab technician at Bal Mahila Chikitsalaya, Indiranagar, deployed for Covid-19 sample collection was also found infected. Gomtinagar recorded highest 23 cases followed by Indiranagar 22, Alambagh 19, Hazratganj and Chowk 11 each and Thakurganj 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-tally-crosses-10000-law-minister-3-pgi-docs-test-ve/articleshow/77382968.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM discharged, urges people not to be careless||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was discharged from hospital on Wednesday 12 days after he tested positive for Covid-19. He will be in home quarantine under medical supervision for a week. “Hum laparwahi karte hain, toh dikkat mein aate hain, humne bhi laparwahi ki (If we are careless, we get into trouble. I was careless, you shouldn’t be),” he urged people. “People came to meet me with problems. Some wanted to get photographed, and requested me to remove my mask. I didn’t say no. But I urge you, always wear a mask, maintain 6 feet distance and wash your hands with soap and sanitizer frequently,” he advised. Rather than fighting it, better not to get infected at all: CMHe asked people not to fear Corona. “Rather than fighting the infection, it’s better not to get infected at all. Obey Covid precautions,” he said, thanking the doctors and nurses who took care of him in hospital. “They are next to God. I can never thank them enough,” he said. Chouhan, 61, was hospitalised on July 25. On day nine, an RT-PCR test came back positive, and he spent three more nights in hospital. In a health bulletin issued on Wednesday, Chirayu Hospital said Chouhan had been asymptomatic for 10 days, and that his doctors found all his clinical parameters within normal limits. “They (doctors) advised discharge as per ICMR policy dated May 8, 2020, wherein patients can be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms and if there is no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” the bulletin said. The CM has been advised home quarantine and should be able to conduct regular work and meet others in the next five days, said Chirayu Medical College director Dr Ajay Goenka. Chouhan had kept himself busy all through his hospitalization, attending review meetings for Covid and law and order, and a virtual cabinet meet. State BJP media incharge Lokendra Parashar said the CM is in sound health. Welcoming the news, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh advised Chouhan to follow all isolation norms. Chouhan appealed to people to keep themselves safe by following Covid-19 protocol. “Avoid crowded places. Don’t lower your guards,” he said, and urged citizens to get themselves tested as soon as they get any symptom of Coronavirus infection. “If treated in time, it can be cured. But if you hide it, you are not only endangering yourself but also your family,” he said. “I have overcome Coronavirus. From my own experience, I can assure you, don’t be scared of it. All the arrangements are in place to treat you, but that situation should not be allowed to arise,” he said, pointing out that without people’s cooperation, it is impossible to rid the state and country of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-discharged-urges-people-not-to-be-careless/articleshow/77381091.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Digital education is the future, but classroom teachings a necessity||JAIPUR: The outbreak of the pandemic has changed the mode of teaching and learning drastically. Due to the closure of educational institutes, almost all the varsities and colleges in the state have switched to online platforms, which seem to be where the future of learning lies. According to educational experts in Rajasthan, this change was supposed to happen one day or other, but due to Covid, people have been forced to implement it. Pro-president Manipal University, Jaipur, NN Sharma explained that the outbreak and the lockdown was challenging to deal with but they are making progress slowly and with time their efficiency has increased. Sharma said, “It is a good experiment and experience for our faculty and students because augmented reality and virtual reality is where the future lies. We have built special studios for live classes to give a classroom set up.” Training of teachers to adapt the new way of teaching and students has to be asked to get WI-FI connection. Length of lectures has been shortened from one hour to 40 minutes. One major challenge was to decide the platform where classes can be conducted. Jaipuria Institute of Management, Jaipur, got in touch with administration of various software companies providing facilities for such virtual classes. Prabhat Pankaj, director of the institute, said after many hits and trials, they finalised an app which is working perfect. “After finalizing the app, we made our teachers take up courses online. One of the major concerns for us was the summer internship for management students and their project. We got in touch with some companies who accepted out offer to let our students work from home and submit a project report. With time, our output has become better,” said Pankaj. One important change that Jaipuria Institute of Management brought was to add chapters of change in market and work environment post-pandemic. There has been a big debate across globe about the effects of Covid on the world and many higher education institutes have started to incorporate these topics in their syllabus. Slow internet connection, however, always remains an issue even after switching to Wi-Fi in rural and mountain regions of the country. Hence, Swami Keshvanand Institute of Technology (SKIT), Jaipur, started recording their lectures and sending it to their students. Director SKIT Jai Pal Meel said uploading the lectures in the newly established studios in the college has helped them a lot to do away with the problem of internet connection. “We do take live sessions but we record lectures simultaneously. This has helped our students who can later on asked their teachers doubts. Problem arises in the practical portion of civil and mechanical engineering wing. We have 3D studios and so our teachers make students understand virtually but the moment educational institutes will be opened, we will first conduct practical classes for students or else they won’t learn,” said Meel. When asked whether classroom teaching will be completely replaced by virtual teaching, all the institutes disagreed and said both will work together but classroom teaching will remain a necessity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/digital-edu-is-the-future-but-classroom-teachings-a-necessity/articleshow/77382463.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Entry of outsiders in Beed restricted till Aug 31||Aurangabad: Beed has joined the list of districts in the state that are restricting entry of vehicles from other parts of the state or country, except in emergency situation. The travel restriction for the outsiders would continue till August 31. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar has communicated to all the district collectors, municipal commissioners as well as police authorities to not issue any travel passes to people intending to travel to Beed district, except in emergency situation. The letter has specifically requested the pass issuing authorities to verify the addresses of the applicants before issuing them the passes. Considering the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has already extended the lockdown period in the district, and the latest restriction on the entry of outside vehicles or people in the district is also being done for the same reason. The letter sent by Rekhawar acknowledges that during the on-going phase-wise unlocking in the state, stranded tourists, students as well as private employees and labourers are returning back to their homes. “The travellers travelling to Beed for day-to-day work or for any other work, should not be granted e-travel pass till August 31,” read the letter, while clarifying that goods carriers, and vehicles as well as people associated with essential services have been exempted from this restriction. Beed administration has made it mandatory for the people travelling to rural or urban areas to undergo institutional quarantine for two weeks. Already 16 check posts have been set up at all the entry and exit points where all the travellers, including those associated with emergency services, will have to undergo antigen testing. The local administrations have been tasked to ensure appropriate infrastructure and facilities at the institutional quarantine centres. People moving in and out of the district on a daily basis will have to undergo antigen test every time they come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/entry-of-outsiders-in-beed-restricted-till-aug-31/articleshow/77378343.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 6, 2020||Pune||Multispecialty facilities planned on open grounds to weather rain in Pune||PUNE: Heavy monsoon and the slush will not affect the jumbo makeshift multi-specialty hospital facilities set to come up at three open grounds. An agency that had collaborated with the Defence Research and Development Organisation for setting up a 1,000 bed Covid facility in Delhi and at Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai will set up the facilities in Pune. The German tent technology structure at the College of Engineeering Pune grounds will be waterproof like the ones in Mumbai and Delhi, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. Doubts were raised about the structures’ efficacy to withstand rain. Schools and community halls could work as Covid care centres but not as multispecialty units like a hospital, he said. Rao said these jumbo facilities have been used in Delhi and Mumbai. “They have to operate for six months or even more with end-to-end management through the agencies that will take care of everything. The contract is for six months and can be extended if needed,” he added. The main concern is to increase the bed capacity and ease the pressure on overloaded hospitals. This will work as a hospital so depending on the situation even monsoon related ailments can be looked at, he added. “I have reviewed the work at CoEP and Annasaheb Magar stadium today and the additional bed facilities being readied at the autocluster and Balanagari area in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area. The work should be completed by August 19-20,” he told TOI. The third site at SSPMS will be taken up soon. On Wednesday, private hospitals increased the bed capacity. Committees have been appointed for monitoring water, drainage, peripheral roads and express feeder works and the actual structural work is taking shape, district administration officials said. According to the proposal, there will be a team looking into the infrastructure and one looking at the medical aspects. The infrastructure team will look at the structure and related works while the medical team will oversee the appointing of 300 medical personnel, including doctors and super specialists and paramedical staff. Medical expert and epidemiologist R Jotkar told TOI that having specialised units will help ease the pressure on hospitals. “Dedicated units will help as hospitals will be able to cater to monsoon-related ailments,’’he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/multispecialty-facilities-planned-on-open-grounds-to-weather-rain/articleshow/77382462.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||GPS in collars of two dead tigers at Mukundra hills were defunct||JAIPUR: Expensive radio collars with global positioning system (GPS) and very high frequency (VHF) systems fitted around the big cats’ necks (MT-2 and MT-3) in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), were not functional. This was revealed during the preliminary investigation initiated after the death of two tigers within span of 10 days. According to the source, the forest department did not deposit the requisite satellite charges to the company for providing GPS locations. A source said, “The collar with both GPS and VHF facility cost approximately between Rs 3.50 to 4 lakh. Collars fitted around the neck of tigers at MHTR were imported from Germany and supplied by a Delhi-based firm. As GPS provides satellite-based movement of tigers, which could locate many square km, the department has to pay a company in euros or dollars for receiving signals. However, subscription was not renewed.” Though these radio collars could not have prevented the natural death of the tigers, but certainly it has exposed the negligence in monitoring. “The team could have found the whereabouts of MT-4 cubs, which are missing after birth, if the collars were functional. Also, if the department do not have to use collars, why expensive collars were purchased,” said green activist Tapeshwar Singh, who is also a member of local advisory committee. Experts claimed along with GPS these collars also had VHF, which monitors through ground links up to a distance of approximately 1-4 km. A senior official said, “For Mukundra tigers, the procurement of collars was done by Ranthambore administration. The collars are faulty and mislead the monitoring. Probably this was the reason subscription was not renewed. Also, collar battery life is not more than two years. Since, tigers were in safe enclosure, focus must have been on foot patrolling.” The officials involved in the investigation of death of tigers remained tightlipped on the issue. Forest and environment minister Sukhram Bishnoi, “We have launched an inquiry to learn all the aspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gps-in-collars-of-two-dead-tigers-at-mukundra-hills-were-defunct/articleshow/77382457.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rescued cub recovering, other missing||KOTA: The three-and-a-half-month-old male cub, which was recovered in debilitated condition two days ago on Monday with the carcass of the tigress MT-2 in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), is recovering. However, the other female cub is still missing and there’s no clue about its wherabouts. The two cubs, one male and a female, were born to MT-2 in pairing with MT-1 in the 82 sqkm enclosure of MHTR and were first sighted in June. MT-2 was found dead on Monday allegedly as a result of a conflict while mating with MT-1 while another tiger identified as MT-3 was found dead outside MHTR on July 23. Dr Tejendra Reyad, who is treating the cub, said it did not sustain any injury in the conflict between MT-1 and MT-2. He said it was in a debilitated condition because it did not have food for a couple of days and its haemoglobin levels were low. “Now the cub is showing sign of positivity and they are going to give it oral food from Wednesday,” he added. The postmortem report of MT-2 revealed that it sustained multiple injuries and that led to its death, reyad said, adding samples of the animal have been sent to labs to find out if it was poisoned. Meanwhile, Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh on Wednesday criticised Union minister of environment and forests and senior officials of the forest department saying transferring ‘outstanding’ forest officials is not the solution to the problem. “The two officials are outstanding and committed. When the two cubs were born, one of them even shaved off his head at a temple as mark of respect to goddess for the fulfillment of his wish,” Singh told TOI, adding sending such officials on APO is not solution of the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rescued-cub-recovering-other-missing/articleshow/77382459.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC gives less than 24 hours to Speaker Joshi to respond||JAIPUR: Rajasthan HC on Wednesday issued notice to the assembly Speaker C P Joshi seeking his reply by 10.30am on Thursday on a set of appeals filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP on the issue of merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. They had challenged the high court’s single bench order that declined to stay the speaker’s ex-parte order allowing the merger on September 18 last year. The single bench order on July 30, while rejecting the plea for a stay on Speaker’s order, simply issued a notice to the Speaker and the six MLAs asking them to file replies by August 11. The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Prakash Gupta issued the notice after the petitioners pleaded for a stay on the merger order which the court refused to grant ex parte. The petitioners said all the six MLAs who joined Congress from BSP are now with the Gehlot camp under strong security in a hotel in Jaisalmer and serving court notice to them is impossible. In such a case, there could not be any hearing in the case. Senior Supreme Court lawyer and BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, who was arguing on behalf of the party, said the assembly session is to begin from August 14 while the hearing of the case has been fixed on August 11. In such a situation, instructions be given to the single bench for early hearing in the case. On this, Mahanty while issuing notice to the Speaker said the court would continue hearing of the case on Thursday. The ruling Congress which had just 101 MLAs in the 200-member assembly after the assembly polls in 2018 got a comfortable majority after the merger of the six BSP MLAs. If the merger is set aside or the MLAs are disqualified, it would put the Gehlot government in trouble with 19 MLAs including former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot raising a rebellion against the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-gives-less-than-24-hours-to-speaker-joshi-to-respond/articleshow/77382461.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 6, 2020||Meerut||FIR against 13 for birthday party inside shop breaking lockdown rules||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A late-night birthday celebration inside a shop in Shamli resulted in an FIR against 13 people, including eight women. The incident occurred late night on Tuesday in Kotwali Shamli area. Alerted by complaints about loud music coming from a shop on the second floor of Kanika Place, police raided the shop to find a birthday party going on at a time when the night lockdown was in place. According to a police source, the organizers hadn’t sought or received permission to hold the birthday party, nor were the assembled guests wearing masks or following social distancing guidelines when they arrived. The source also said locals alerted cops after noticing the rude behaviour of the guests, who even ignored their plea to lower the volume of the music when one of them made a request. According to police, all those present were booked for violating social distancing rules and under the Pandemic Act. Sources said a 42-year-old woman and her two sons were also among the offenders. According to deputy superintendent of Shamli, Jitendra Kumar, “After receiving information of the party, a team from Kotwali police station, including women constables, were pressed into action, and 13 people booked under various sections. Further investigation is on and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fir-against-13-for-birthday-party-inside-shop-breaking-lockdown-rules/articleshow/77381118.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 6, 2020||Pune||District admin tells registration offices to function with caution||Pune: The district administration on Wednesday told the property registration offices in the city to operate with caution, a day after two facilities — close to each other — were closed as one of their employees tested Covid-19 positive.Of the 27 registration offices in Pune, only three are not functioning at present. Besides the two offices adjacent to each other near Sassoon Chowk, the facility at Bibvewadi is closed because it is in a containment zone.The 24 registration offices operating in the city now had been told to strictly follow the “e-step-in” process for giving appointment to people. Under the service, time slots are allotted to people for registration to avoid rush and implement the social distancing norms.“All the registration offices in the city and rural areas of Pune have been asked to keep infrared thermometer to check the temperature of visitors, besides ensuring the use of sanitisers and masks. Also, strict social distancing measures should be followed,” said an official of the state registration department.A senior officer of the registration department said, “The employee testing Covid-19 positive at the registration office near the Sassoon hospital has been admitted to a hospital. We shall have to conduct Covid-19 test for all the employees of the two closed facilities. We can resume operations at the two facilities only after verifying their employees’ test reports. We are taking precautions, but people coming to the registration offices should also exercise caution while dealing with our staffers.”He said, “If a single Covid-19 positive case is detected at an office, we shall have to close it down. This will remain an issue and measures need to be taken to restrict the footfall at offices. People should go through e-step-in service for registration. We had earlier set a target of registering 20-25 documents a day. But we have to accommodate 35-40 documents each day because of high demand, which increases the rush at the registration offices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-admin-tells-registration-offices-to-function-with-caution/articleshow/77382476.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 6, 2020||Meerut||CCSU cancels today's medical exams||MEERUT: Chaudhary Charan Singh University (CCSU) on Wednesday cancelled the exams of medical students schedule for Thursday. The exams have been deferred until further instructions. The authorities also announced that the institution will remain closed till August 31. “In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the institution will remain closed till August 31. The exams for medical students which were supposed to take place on August 6 have also been cancelled,” said Ashwini Kumar, exam controller. Earlier, the university had taken the decision to begin online classes, starting on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ccsu-cancels-todays-medical-exams/articleshow/77381159.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||‘If a student wants to understand world around him, this is the subject’||JAIPUR: Sociology as a subject is gaining a lot of currency in recent years. With enormous job opportunities opening up in government and corporate sectors, universities, research and several other fields, the subject has turned out to be a goldmine for students. Rashmi Jain, associate professor of sociology in Rajasthan University said there is a need to introduce sociology at school level to make students understand its importance. “In Jaipur, there are few public and private schools where sociology is taught. School students do not have a basic idea about the subject, but in undergraduate level, it is a sought-after subject. Sociology, Hindi and Geography are combination which students usually opt for,” said Jain. This trend, however, changes in postgraduation as it becomes difficult to score in at the college level. “When it comes to specialization, it is not preferred because of the vast syllabus and difficulty in scoring. Sociology relates to our general day-to-day life – family, society, communities. But when you have been asked to define such mundane things, it is difficult. So, students do not prefer it but in recent years many opportunities have come up in this subject,” said Jain. In civil services, sociology is mostly opted by candidates like other humanities subjects – political science or geography. Apart from it, with the growing number of educational institutions, there is an option of getting into academics. Engineering, law and architecture institutes have made sociology a part of their curriculum. Nidhi Bansal, assistant professor at MNIT, Jaipur, has been teaching at the institute for past one year and so far the response of her students has been positive. “You cannot ignore sociology in any field. If a student wants to understand the world around him/her, sociology is important. Everything is part of sociology. Engineering students are keen to understand it. I think there is a need to change the perspective of people towards humanities subjects as well,” said Nidhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/if-a-student-wants-to-understand-world-around-him-this-is-the-subject/articleshow/77382473.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi’s Ashitabh wins in Hackathon 2020, develops AI-based app to detect Alzheimer’s||Jhansi: A team of five students led by a boy from Jhansi won one of the competitions in the Smart India Hackathon on Tuesday. The team was awarded with a cash prize of Rs one lakh. Ashitabh Mishra of Jhansi is a final year student of computer science at IIT Bhilai. He and his team developed a mobile application which can help an Alzheimer’s patient detect the severity of the disease through artificial intelligence. The reports produced by the application can be analysed by doctors. Alzheimer's disease is a type of dementia that affects one’s memory, thinking and behaviour. Symptoms usually develop slowly and get worse over time, growing severe enough to interfere with daily tasks. The disease is mostly found in senior citizens. Smart India Hackathon-2020 is a nationwide online competition initiated by the ministry of human resource development. It is held by All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE). The aim is to provide undergraduate students with a platform to resolve pressing problems in the country and inculcate a culture of product innovation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated and addressed the grand finale of the Smart India Hackathon-2020 on Saturday. The team developed the application in just three days. Each team member was in touch with the other members through online mode and worked round the clock to secure their position in the nationwide competition. Over one thousand teams had participated in the final round. Talking to TOI, Ashitabh explained that the mobile app tests a person’s memory, hand-eye coordination, abstract thinking and spatial navigation skills. “We have created a 3D path-tracing game which uses artificial intelligence to analyse a player’s game playing strategy and identify anomalies. This the analysis, the app can asses early onset of memory degeneration. Supported by the latest research in academia, we aim to create the biggest research platform for Alzheimer's in India,” said Ashitabh. “Our solution was supported by a live testing mode powered by cloud computing which allows certified researchers to conduct real-time tests. Their platform allows a researcher to sign up and avail these services easily. If a user is identified to be an at-risk patient, the website connects them to the closest certified neuro physicians and doctors. We have made our service completely transparent by allowing users to log in and view all the data collected,” he explained. The D-Team from IIT Bhilai, as they are known, include Ashitabh Misra (team leader), Rohit Kar, Hemant Meena, Pawan Kumar, Shubham Agrawal and Smarana Pankanti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansis-ashitabh-wins-in-hackathon-2020-develops-ai-based-app-to-detect-alzheimers/articleshow/77382471.cms||Arindam Ghosh
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Release MLAs from hotels, demands BJP||Jaisalmer: BJP workers led by district president Chandra Prakash Sharda submitted a memorandum to governor Kalraj Mishra via the district collector demanding ‘release of the state government kept in hotels of Jaisalmer’. BJP nagar mandal too submitted a memorandum to the governor protesting the opening of Tanot Mateshwari temple for MLAs and ministers. Though there was a programme of taking the MLAs and ministers to Tanot Mateshwari temple, it was cancelled at the last moment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/release-mlas-from-hotels-demands-bjp/articleshow/77382465.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 tally breaches 97,000, more than 4.6 lakh tested||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count crossed 60,000-mark in Pune municipal limits on Wednesday, with the addition of 1,101 new cases, which pushed its total tally to 60,597. Likewise, PCMC areas’ patient count also topped 25,000-mark in the last 24 hours. Overall, a total of 2,331 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking its tally to 97,309. Besides, 46 patients succumbed to the infection-induced complications in the region in the last 24 hours, pushing its death toll to 2,231. On the bright side, as many as 2,135 were discharged in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of discharged people to 68,775 so far. Among the fresh cases, the PCMC areas added added 795 cases while Pune rural recorded 104, Cantonments 47 and other areas 284, stated the press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. “Out of the 46 deaths, 17 were from PMC areas, 18 from PCMC limits, two from Pune rural and nine from other areas,” the statement added. As per the latest PMC data, as many as 1,159 patients were discharged in the municipal limits in the last 24 hours after being declared cured. Since the outbreak, as many as 43,410 Covid-19 positive people have been cured and discharged in the PMC limits. “The active patient count in the municipal limits now stands at 16,758,” a civic official said. According to the daily report published by the PMC, the critical patients admitted in various hospitals across its areas were 675, of whom 425 were on ventilator support. The cause of the death for a majority of the deceased showed co-morbidity issues like heart problems, blood pressure and diabetes. Some even had respiratory troubles. More than 4 lakh tests have been conducted in PMR so far. Of these, as many as 2,97,737 have been conducted in the PMC limits, while 1,12,976 have been conducted in the PCMC areas. Health officials have urged citizens to adhere to social distancing norms to keep the infection at bay. Citizens have also been urged to wear a facemask when venturing out and try to stay indoors as far as possible. “People should also ensure proper hygiene,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-tally-breaches-97k-more-than-4-6-lakh-tested/articleshow/77382466.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 6.5 lakh fake notes recovered||JAIPUR: Fake notes worth Rs 6.50 lakh, in denomination of Rs 500, were recovered from a youth at Paradia village under Chauhatan police station area in Barmer. ISI is once again making efforts to send consignments of fake currency notes into the border areas of Rajasthan. The youth had succeeded in making transactions in the market to the tune of Rs 1.50 lakh using the fake currency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-6-5-lakh-fake-notes-recovered/articleshow/77382467.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Contagion brings more ambulances on roads, but shortage & delays persist||PUNE: Rapid rise in Covid-19 cases has shot up demand for ambulances, making their wailing sirens a frequent feature on city roads. The demand can be gauged from the fact that the government had to even press private ambulances and drivers into Covid-19 service. Gopal Jhambe, secretary of Pune Ambulance Owners’ Association, said 78 private ambulances had been handed over to the civic authorities in Pune for Covid-19 work. Jhambe said, “For minor illnesses or hospital admission, families would carry patients in private vehicles, cabs or even autorickshaws till recently. However, now ambulances are the only mode of transport to the hospital for Covid-19 patients and others.” He said the waiting time at hospitals and crematoriums coupled with sanitising the vehicles after transporting Covid-19 patients are other reasons why people see more ambulances on the roads. “These are also the reasons for delays in reaching other needy patients. For the first time in my life, I have seen patients having to wait in the ambulance at the hospital for admission. A few ambulances get stuck at hospitals for hours. Likewise, there is waiting at crematoriums. After dropping these patients, we have to spray sodium hypochlorite and wait for a few hours before making another trip,” Jhambe said. According to Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer of Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), their ambulances have been divided for Covid and non-Covid duty. “Out of 82 ambulances in Pune district, 30 have been assigned for Covid-19 while the remaining 52 are pressed into service for non-Covid duty,” he said. Prashant Kanojia, founder of Help Riders, a group that has been playing an active role in ambulance coordination, said, “Finding ambulances continues to remain a major problem. The administration needs to bring in more vehicles. Even smaller private hospitals must have an ambulance of their own.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/contagion-brings-more-ambulances-on-roads-but-shortage-delays-persist/articleshow/77382479.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||MLA slams ‘locking’ of legislators||KOTA: Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh on Wednesday slammed the ‘locking’ of elected public representatives in hotels to ward off threats of instability, but regretted that ‘Bade Bandi’ has become the tradition of the present democracy in the country. Singh, however, claimed that the Ashok Gehlot government was fully safe and was not going to fall at any cost. “Bade Bandi has become tradition of present democracy in the country and that is very unfortunate,” he said, adding it was not only here in the state assembly, but even in the small elections at panchayat and municipal levels, elected representatives have to be locked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-slams-locking-of-legislators/articleshow/77382477.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||City’s 50% patients male, in age group of 21-40 yrs||Lucknow: Are you young and moving out of your house during the pandemic? Are you following all protocols to keep novel coronavirus infection away? If not, be aware. Data from the health department shows that half of those who have had Covid-19 till now are in the age group of 21 to 40 years. Keeping with the trend the world over, twice as many males were affected as compared to females. As of Wednesday, Lucknow had recorded 10,141 positive cases since the outbreak on March 11. Of this, 50% or 5,031 people were aged between 21 and 40 years. This was followed by 30% or 3,010 patients in the age range of 41 to 60 years. Patients aged 60 years and above were 945 in number while 772 in the age group of 11-20 years were affected. The lowest number was of children aged 0 to 10 years with 383 cases. Of the total, 6,835 were male and 3,306 female. TOI analysed the data and spoke to experts on what this signifies. Head of the microbiology department at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences Prof Jyotsna Agarwal said, “Everyone is susceptible to being infected by the virus. But there is a difference between susceptibility and comorbidity, the latter makes a positive case complicated which is more likely for people above 60 years of age.” “The age range of 21 to 60 years is mostly of working people. They go out for work, markets, meet people and are thus more exposed,” she added. The key, she said, lay in following social distancing norms and that too diligently. About male cases being double that of females, she added this was because men in our society are given more attention. “They are taken to the hospital and tested more; their numbers are more too,” she said. Faculty in the medicine department of KGMU and in charge of its Covid ward, Dr D Himanshu said that there were multiple factors in play. “This part of our population is continuously moving which increases their risk. Initially, cases were of travellers in the age group of 21 to 40 and above years. Our population is young,” he said. “Many are asymptomatic and it is possible that untested women make up that number,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-50-patients-male-in-age-group-of-21-40-yrs/articleshow/77382973.cms||Yusra Husain
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cop fires in air as auto driver attacked by two||MUMBAI: A history-sheeter and his aide attacked an auto driver with a chopper, robbed him of Rs5,200, and while fleeing charged at an on-duty inspector and tried to kill him on Wednesday. Inspector Prahlad Ghodke fired a round in the air to scare away the accused after they wielded a chopper at 1.30am. Sakinaka police arrested Mohammed Ejaz Shaikh (27), who was released recently from judicial custody due to Covid-19. Shaikh’s accomplice Ejaz alias Dakhu escaped when workers at a Metro site near Asalfa rushed to help the cop. Shaikh and Ejaz took the auto from Govandi to Sakinaka around 11.30pm on Tuesday. The driver, Mohammed Khan (45), suffered injuries on his palm, right thigh and back while trying to retaliate and chased them to get his money as blood dripped due to injuries. Khan said, “On reaching near Noor Masjid, the passengers suddenly attacked me with choppers and a knife. They took my cash and were about to flee when the inspector reached.” An eye-witness, Rahul Jaiswal (26), a local, suffered minor knife injuries when he tried to help. Ghodke was on night duty patrol towards Ghatkopar-end on Andheri-Kurla Road when he noticed the commotion. “The accused charged at him, wielded a chopper and bamboo stick but the officer ducked. They were furious and were about to attack again. Ghodke warned them and fired a round in the air. Locals and workers at the Metro site, with beat marshals, caught Shaikh,” said Sakinaka senior inspector Kishore Sawant. Shaikh, who committed crimes since 16, said he stayed on the roadside as his mother did not allow him home. He confessed to crimes in Trombay, Wadala, CSMT and Kurla. Police said they were finding it difficult to keep track of history-sheeters released due to Covid-19. The accused has been booked for attempt to murder and under other IPC sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-fires-in-air-as-auto-driver-attacked-by-2/articleshow/77381162.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes order disqualifying Central Armed Force constable||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has quashed and set aside the order disqualifying a constable with the Central Armed Force — a regiment of Assam Rifles. Responding to an advertisement in 2018, Rajesh Sominath Nilankha, hailing from Jalna, had applied for the post of constable (GD) through the Staff Selection Commission (SSC). After qualifying through the written, physical and medical tests, he was called for document verification, where the authorities found that while submitting his online application, he had wrongly mentioned his domicile district as Aurangabad. Nilnkha was disqualified by the SSC on this ground following which he decided to contest the issue and filed a civil writ petition. Representing Nilankha, lawyer Ravindra Gore pointed out that while filling up the same online form, the applicant had mentioned his permanent as well as postal address of Jalna. “The applicant was not to benefit by intentionally mentioning Aurangabad as his domicile area, as Aurangabad is not a militant-affected area and there is no such added advantage in terms of reservation or candidates applying from Aurangabad or Jalna or any other neighbouring districts,” said Gore. The decision, however, was strongly defended by the government pleader on the grounds of mentioning incorrect information. “As per clause 17 (17) of the SSC notification any mistake in mentioning the domicile district entails disqualification,” the lawyer said. The division bench of HC, comprising justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni, while quashing and setting aside the order, ruled: “In case, otherwise eligible, the respondents may not reject the candidature of the petitioner for the post of constable (GD) on the ground that petitioner has wrongly mentioned his district domicile as Aurangabad in column number 17 of the application.” Following the order, Gore said that the order by the HC would go a long way in helping the candidates who at times mistakenly end up making slightest of mistake while filling up the examination forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-order-disqualifying-central-armed-force-constable/articleshow/77378388.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Technical University launches 3 new courses, 13 engineering colleges show interest||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) has introduced three new most sought-after courses — BTech plastic engineering, computer science and engineering specialization in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science — for the session 2020-21. These courses have been approved by AICTE at the eleventh hour giving it very less time for the colleges to include it in the list of available courses. An RTU official said 13 engineering colleges have shown interest in these courses having a total of 540 seats. Designed by the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET) in Chennai, RTU is going to be the first to introduce this course in the state. It deals with the production and manufacturing of plastics. This branch of engineering has gained prominence in the last few years. CIPET has recorded the highest placement of Rs 55 lakh in 2019 while the average salary package was Rs 35 lakh. As per CIPET, the career streams in this science are in plastics processing units, testing, quality control, inspection, design, tool room, CAD/CAM/CAE, calibration and application development. It also offers wide opportunities in research areas such as e-waste, recycling, reverse engineering, packing analysis and polymers. Rajasthan has several manufacturing units in its industrial belts which have created a demand for the plastic engineering grads. “The advent of industrial units like in mobile phones, ACs, refrigerators and automobile companies require a force of such professionals for quality checks and research to make the product durable and cost-effective,” said Puneet Sharma, technical education expert. The data science & artificial intelligence and computer science & engineering with specialization in AI are new branches of engineering in the state. Both the new branches are an amalgamation of the two most advanced and job-oriented courses. “Data science uses scientific methods and computer programme-based algorithms while AI is decisions taken by the machines while understanding the situation around it as what a human can do. The need for this science is inter-disciplinary and almost all companies related to software and manufacturing units in the state,” said Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert who deals in data science tools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtu-launches-3-new-courses-13-engr-colleges-show-interest/articleshow/77382480.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||51K seek admission in bachelor courses||Vadodara: M S University has received a record number of registrations from aspirants seeking admission in first year (FY) bachelor programmes. Sources said that the university has received 51,398 online registrations from students seeking admission in first year programmes including bachelor of arts (BA), bachelor of commerce (BCom) and bachelor of science (BSc). Of the 51,398 registrations, 39,180 forms have been submitted, while a total of 29,086 students have already submitted their fees through online payment system. The university has received maximum online applications – 9,009 for BCom programme, against which 8,900 students have submitted their forms. The second maximum rush is for BSc programme, for which 4,121 students have registered. Of these, 3,990 students have submitted their forms. For admission to FY BA, a total of 1,019 students have registered. Of these, 956 have submitted their forms. As the online admission process will continue till August 20, the total number of registrations and submission of forms is expected to go still higher this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/51k-seek-admission-in-bachelor-courses/articleshow/77378700.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP has third highest proportion of active cases among 15 big states||LUCKNOW: In an assessment of Covid-19 data for 15 different states, it was found that UP ranked number three in terms of proportion of active cases in the total cases. In UP, 40.2% of the total caseload accounted for active infections. Karnataka, where over 48% of the patients belonged to the active infection category, stood at the first position. It was followed byAndhra Pradesh where 43.1% of the total cases were active. The assessment, which did not include north eastern states and Union territories, noted that in India, 30.3% of the Covid-19 cases were active. Now active infections are the true measure of the extent of the pandemic in the state. Experts have pointed out that the doubling time of active cases in UP was lower (12 days) than the overall doubling time for states (14 days). As on date, the total number of active infections in UP was 41,973. Considering that the active cases in the state were doubling in about 12 days, UP can look forward to about 82,000 cases till August 17. Meanwhile, 4,154 new cases in the past 24 hours took UP’s Covid-19 tally to 104531 on Wednesday. A look at the official bulletin revealed that about 41% of the fresh cases were reported from 10 districts, including Kanpur (459), Lucknow (336), Prayagraj (204),Ghaziabad (139), Varanasi (131), Bareilly (126), Gorakhpur (100), Gautam Budh Nagar (100), Meerut (57) and Jhansi (47). Spikes were also recorded in Ballia (128), Jalaun (123), Jaunpur (112), Azamgarh (94) and Kheri (74). The official data revealed that as many as 3,287 persons were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of persons recovered to 60,558. It also showed that 40 persons succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 1857. Of the new deaths, six were reported in Kanpur, three each were reported in Jhansi, Chandauli and Varanasi. Two deaths each were recorded in Prayagraj, Bareilly, Bulandshahr, Chandauli and Basti, while Kanpur Dehat, Rae Bareli, Etawah,Sultanpur, Gonda, Mathura, Sambhal, Sant Kabir Nagar, Saharanpur, Azamgarh, Barabanki, Ballia, Moradabad, Meerut andGorakhpur saw one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-has-third-highest-proportion-of-active-cases-among-15-big-states/articleshow/77382992.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Private universities gain from delay in tech admissions||JAIPUR: The delay in admission in technical education institutes affiliated with Rajasthan Technical and Bikaner Technical University due to pandemic is filling the seats of the private universities in the state. Both the universities have a total of 37,500 seats including 10, 000 in the BTU is likely to not fill all the seats. The admission process is crossing the mid-way while the responses by the students are not welcoming. The last date for students to register for admission is August 21. Thereafter, they will be allotted seats and branches in their desired colleges on the basis of merit. “It appears that students have taken admission in private universities which are widespread in the state. The uncertainty over the admissions and classes have created such a situation that they went with private universities,” said H D Charan, V-C, BTU. Last year, the BTU affiliated colleges were able to fill 4,000 seats against 10,000. The colleges in the state are hoping that pandemic would not allow the home students to move to other states due to pandemic. “There is a section of students who moves to Karnataka, Maharastra, Telengana and Andhra Pradesh for engineering. It is time that these students with sound educational background can be attracted towards colleges here. This is the only way several colleges will survive else they will have to declare the zero session in the absence of students,” said Puneet Sharma, technical education expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-universities-gain-from-delay-in-tech-admissions/articleshow/77382489.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Spurious liquor seized in raid||ALWAR: Following toxic liquor related deaths in Punjab, excise department on Wednesday raided illegal liquor manufacturing unit in Alwar. The police have arrested one person for manufacturing spurious liquor. Assistant excise officer Gyan Prakash Meena said the accused was running his illegal liquor unit from a house in a remote village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spurious-liquor-seized-in-raid/articleshow/77382492.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Two-wheeler registrations rise in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Lack of public transport and Covid-19 fears have prompted an increase in two-wheeler registrations in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad in the last two months. “The regional transport offices (RTOs) were closed from late March till May 17. Once registrations resumed from May 18, most of the vehicles registered were bought before the lockdown. However, there has been an impressive rise in the registrations of two-wheelers in June and July, which is encouraging,” a Pune RTO official told TOI. The official said between June and July (see graphic), the registrations doubled at the Pune RTO. “Nearly 4,000 two-wheelers were registered from May 18 till June 30 and over 8,000 vehicles were registered till July 30. The increase is a clear indication that more people were opting to buy two-wheelers,” the official said. Another RTO official said the case was similar at the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office. “Two-wheeler registration increased, but it was because there was a huge backlog. However, in July the number of registrations witnessed a decent increase. We are banking heavily on festivals such as Diwali, Dhanteras and Dasara,” the official said. Representatives of showrooms said the number of queries and customers had increased in the last one-and-a-half months. “Most of the people visiting the showroom have said that rather than travelling via public transport, it was safer to use one’s own two-wheeler. The RTO has started the licence issuing process so people are willing to purchase. From one or two customers daily, we are now getting over 15 to 16 coming to inquire or buy,” a representative of a two-wheeler showroom on MG Road said. An official from the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association said the absence of viable public transport had driven people to showrooms to buy personal vehicles. “Two-wheelers are in demand in cities such as Pune as more people depend on these to get around. As the government had earlier stated that only one person was allowed on a two-wheeler, there was a good demand for scooters from people who had to get back to work,” another dealer said. The RTO officials said the real test lay in the months ahead. “If the dealers record good sales, RTO would also register good figures. People in Pune love to buy new things during festivals, so we will have to wait and watch,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-wheeler-registrations-rise-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/77382497.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Authors’ lounge set up at Khushi Ram Library||Dehradun: An ‘authors’ lounge’ was inaugurated at the Mahatma Khushi Ram Public Library on Gandhi Road in the city by veteran author Raj Kanwar on Wednesday. The library, set up in 1921, is the biggest public library in the city with over 50,000 books on a range of subjects like philosophy, literature, spirituality, arts as well as a number of rare periodicals, some over a century old. Vijay Bansal, president of the library, said that the authors’ lounge is intended to become a rendezvous for authors, mediapersons and their ilk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/authors-lounge-set-up-at-khushi-ram-library/articleshow/77378431.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||ST buses don’t leave for Konkan due to rain||MUMBAI: Around 20 persons who arrived at ST depots to go to Konkan on the first day were turned away as buses could not operate due to heavy rain and parts of Mumbai-Goa highway were affected. There was a plan to operate 23 buses with social distancing norms but no bus left from Mumbai Central, Parel or Nehru Nagar (Kurla) depots. An MSRTC spokesperson said, “If is unfortunate we could not ply buses on the first day but we will accommodate all passengers on Thursday or whichever day they are comfortable with.” Each bus will ferry not more than 22 passengers and will mostly travel point-to-point. Buses are being operated to Rajapur (Rs580 a ticket), Malvan (Rs730), Devgad (Rs710), Guhagar (Rs470), Khed (Rs350), Dapoli (Rs395), Ratnagiri (Rs535), Chiplun (Rs400) and other places. The spokesperson said, “There has been heavy rain across western coast and parts of ghat section have been declared unsafe. The stretch between Lonere-Mangaon has witnessed continuous rain and the road is blocked. We do not want passengers to face hardships en route.” MSRTC has kept 3,000 buses for group booking. But sources said many Mumbai residents have left for their villages by private vehicles. “Commuters will have to carry sanitisers, wear face masks and maintain social distancing,” an official said. Online bookings for buses started on Tuesday evening. Passengers travelling by ST buses do not need an e-pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/st-buses-dont-leave-for-konkan-due-to-rain/articleshow/77381163.cms||Somit Sen
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s malaise: Low tests, less hours of testing||HYDERABAD: A day after World Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Sowmya Swaminathan raised the red flag on low testing in the country, a look at Telangana’s testing capacity and pattern reveals exactly this with several loopholes right from not according permission to private hospitals to less number of hours for testing a day. The state government claims it has achieved the WHO benchmark (140 tests per million population per day) by conducting 5,600 tests per day, but getting a test done on time is still a constraint for many in the state. Testing centres in the suburbs of the city and districts were being shut by afternoon, citing reasons like details needing to be updated on state portal. The number of testing hours was also less with a bandwidth of four to five hours. On weekends, no tests were being conducted, making people anxious. Though states like Rajasthan have abandoned antigen testing as its efficacy was only 80% and ICMR recommended a follow up with RT-PCR test if antigen test was negative, Telanagana is not considering any of these recommendations. The number of tests has increased in the past month, however, as RT-PCR tests were only 4,000 a day, while the rest were antigen. There is no follow-up for antigen-negatives in the state. “A majority of Covid-19 patients have been found to be asymptomatic. If such people throw up a negative result with an antigen kit and they are not followed up with RT-PCR test, it will be a huge problem,” sources said The virus has now spread to all districts, but testing in the hinterland is yet to be improved. One of the main problems is lack of RT-PCR testing facilities, both in government and private hospitals. Hospitals have no option but to send samples to labs in Greater Hyderabad. “With labs in Hyderabad already overburdened, they are not in a position to take up more samples for RT-PCR, leading to delays in identifying patients,” Telanagana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association president Dr Ashok Reddy said. The state government has allowed private labs to carry out antigen-antibody and rapid antigen tests for private hospitals recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-malaise-low-tests-less-hours-of-testing/articleshow/77381157.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 6, 2020||Pune||Doctors’ groups now offer to run unused civic health hubs||PUNE: Two doctors’ associations in the city have now offered to run eight unused hospitals belonging to the PMC for Covid-19 care. The unused units will be operated with manpower provided by these associations, which include the Association of Physicians of India (API) and Pediatrics Association. It’s estimated that as many as 300 more beds will be available when these units open up. Sources from the associations said patients will be treated as per government rates. “We are in talks with PMC. It should give us their requirements,” said Aniket Joshi, president of the API’s Pune wing. Joshi said that the associations are in touch with nursing unions and other agencies that can provide para-medical staff to help run the eight civic units on a temporary basis. TimesViewThis is a good solution to utilise civic hospitals that are lying unused when there is dire requirement of Covid-19 beds. It is important to reduce burden on Sassoon hospital and Naidu hospital. Having more units that offer care at government rates is the need of the hour because many cases are emerging from slums and financially weaker sections of society. In fact, the PMC should work to have a permanent arrangement with doctors’ associations that will not only augment civic health infrastructure but also ensure that facilities built using public money do not lie idle.Ulhas (Aba) Bagul, Congress’ leader of the house in PMC, said the civic body should team up with such organisations to boost infrastructure. “If funds are used to improve civic hospitals that will have long-lasting benefits,” he said. A PMC official said the doctors’ proposals are being considered and added that a tie-up could be announced within the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-groups-now-offer-to-run-unused-civic-health-hubs/articleshow/77382486.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bhopal||Experts sound alarm over high rapid antigen tests in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The gold standard of Covid-19 testing, RT-PCR, was not used in 57% of the 5,328 COVID-19 tests conducted in Bhopal in the last four days. The health department and district administration used the less sensitive rapid antigen test (RAT) to conduct more than half of the tests. Health experts have raised an alarm over the situation. “RAT has sensitivity of around 50%, so 50% Covid-19 positive patients will miss out by this method. In such circumstances, there will be two options, either re-test these patients or don’t. In either case, it is inappropriate and unjustifiable, as when you re-test the patient who has undergone a RAT, the total cost of the test will be higher,” said Indian Medical Association (Greater Bhopal chapter) secretary and RKDF associate professor, Dr Sudeep Pathak, here on Wednesday. “Alongwith this, the paramedical staff will be twice at risk of contamination during the process of collection of samples two times. Not to forget, the entire process of sample collection is quite uncomfortable for the patient too. If you don’t re-test the patient, presuming negative being negative, you will miss these patients,” he added. Rapid antigen test should only be recommended in emergency care settings, surgery, orthopaedic trauma, neurological trauma, acute cardiac intervention procedure, emergency endoscopy or emergent ICU procedures only, said Dr Pathak. “It should not be used for regular community testing for Covid-19 RT PCR should be enhanced in place of rapid antigen test,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/experts-sound-alarm-over-high-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/77382504.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Man kills wife in Sikar, surrenders at police station||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old farmer of Losal of Sikar district mercilessly hacked his 38-year-old wife with an axe after a heated argument on Wednesday morning. Later, the accused surrendered at the police station. The accused and his wife have been identified as Dharam Raj and Sharda Devi, respectively. They got married 20 years ago and have two sons. Rajesh Arya, circle officer, Sikar rural, said Raj had returned from Muscat a couple of years ago where he had worked as a labourer. He started farming, but he was a habitual drinker. He killed his wife under the influence of liquor and came to the police station in the same state. While other family members were sleeping, he attacked his wife with an axe, he said. The police have arrested the accused on charge of murdering his wife. The body has been sent for post-mortem. When other members of the family heard the screaming of Devi, they rushed outside. Devi was lying in a pool of blood having injury marks on her neck and face. However, in the initial investigation, the police have found that Raj mostly spent her time outside the house and even he was having food somewhere else. He had a strained relationship with his wife. The police are investigating the matter to find out where Raj used to spend most of his time before killing his wife. The police are collecting evidences and questioning neighbours. The police have been told by the neighbours that the slayed wife remained busy with his routine household works but the husband was a habitual drinker. The police have also recovered the weapon used in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-wife-in-sikar-surrenders-at-police-stn/articleshow/77382505.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: PPE charge by private hospitals a rip-off, fume patients kin||HYDERABAD: Patients complain that overcharging for Covid treatment has continued despite warnings by the government. What has angered many is the high cost being collected for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), even for testing. City resident Manohar Chaudhary went to get tested for Covid-19 at a private hospital two days ago in Gachibowli. He was handed a bill of Rs 3,100, out of which Rs 900 was for PPE. “There were about 40 people there to get tested and only one person collecting samples,” said the employee of a private firm, accusing the hospital of taking from each person what they should get collectively from everyone. Another patient, who went to a private testing centre in Nallagandla said out of a bill of Rs 2,700, Rs 500 was taken under PPE category. “The person who was testing was not changing his PPE with every sample collected. When they are collecting so much from each patient, should they not do this to ensure a negative patient is not infected,” he questioned. For patients getting treatment in hospitals, the burden is greater. Bills shared by family show the charge for PPE ranges from as less as Rs 5,000 a day for a normal ward to Rs 50,000 in the ICU. Anshul Kothari, whose mother-in-law got treated at a private hospital in Banjara Hills, was charged as much as Rs 50,400 per day for PPE. “While ICU costs are higher, a three-day stay left a hole in my family’s pocket,” said Kothari. Another patient, who was tested at a Secunderabad hospital, was charged Rs 60,000 for four days. Experts suggest hospital managements are not always to be blamed. They say a PPE used in an ICU can cost Rs 1,200 on an average, which would amount to Rs 10,000 a day per patient. PPEs used outside are half the cost. “The PPE charges include those for doctors, assistants, nurses, admin and other staff,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ppe-charge-by-private-hosps-a-rip-off-fume-patients-kin/articleshow/77381176.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Meerut||Riot-prone dists in UP witness unprecedented security on occasion bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya||MEERUT: Flag marches, drone surveillance and presence of thousands of policemen and paramilitary forces in the riot-prone districts of Uttar Pradesh marked the foundation stone laying ceremony for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. On the one hand, devotees in several temples chanted slokas, senior administrative and police officers, on the other hand, patrolled sensitive districts prone to communal riots. Districts with the history of communal violence were, meanwhile, put on high alert and special arrangements of adequate security personnel were made. According to additional director general of police, Meerut zone, Rajeev Sabharwal, “Exhaustive meetings with peace committees and members of both communities were conducted to keep the communication channels open and appeals were made to ensure peace. Meanwhile, all sensitive districts under the Meerut zone such as Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Shamli, etc, were under special focus. All senior officers in these districts were on the roads since early morning.” Meerut senior superintendent of police Ajay Sahani said, “We are on high alert since Tuesday and conducted flag march in the evening. At least, a dozen drones were deployed considering the sensitivity of the situation. The city was divided into five zones, 12 sectors and 15 sub-sectors for intensive surveillance. Besides, one company of Rapid Action Force (RAF), three companies of Pradeshik Armed Constabulary (PAC) and police force of the entire district were on vigil.” In addition, the cyber cell was keeping a strict vigil on social media messaging platforms. An appeal has already been made to people not to share any controversial message on social media, or else strict action would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/riot-prone-dists-in-up-witness-unprecedented-security-on-occasion-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77381201.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why not waive fees of medical colleges? Gujarat HC asks||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday tore into the state government for its arbitrary decision prohibiting private schools from collecting fees and asked it why it had not waived fees at government institutions, particularly its medical and engineering colleges. Quashing the no-fee diktat for private schools, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala highlighted the double standards of the state government so far as fees on students is concerned. It questioned why the same yardstick is not applied government institutes, if sacrifice is asked for in the name of teaching being a noble profession. The HC asked the government, “If teaching is a noble and charitable cause as stated in the impugned resolution, why does the State not take steps to waive collection of tuition fees of colleges. Why should the waiver not be for all educational institutions, schools and colleges, both. For instance there are many medical colleges operated by societies and trusts established by the state. Why should the state not exempt fees at such medical colleges and other private medical and engineering colleges?” The high court ordered the government to discuss this issue with the private school managements when they sit to negotiate fee structures. The high court also put many other important issues before the government for its decision to prohibit fee collection. “What about families where parents of students themselves belong to the teaching fraternity. The impugned resolution creates uncertainty for all,” the HC observed. The high court also said non-payment of fees would badly affect standards of education, and it could prove fatal for smaller schools, “Expecting smaller institutions to bear their own expenses without receipt of tuition fees will force many institutions to shut down permanently. If such institutions shut down, the fate of students studying at such schools will be at stake and the parents of such students will have no option but to enrol them in bigger schools that charge higher fees when schools are reopened for students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-not-waive-fees-of-medical-colleges-hc-asks/articleshow/77381403.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price sees single-day jump of Rs 1,400 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Global cues caused gold prices to jump by Rs 1,400 in Ahmedabad on Wednesday, settling at yet another record high of Rs 57,100 per 10g, against Tuesday’s Rs 55,700. Increasing safe-haven investments fuelled by the Covid-19 situation and consequent economic uncertainty is said to be behind the rally. Analysts said spurts in Covid-19 cases in various countries have dented the hopes for a rebound in the global economy and the growing uncertainty has fuelled investments in gold, causing prices to rise. In the international market, gold breached the $2,000 per ounce-mark for the first time. “Spot gold price in the international market settled at $2,014.4 per ounce on Wednesday. Economic uncertainty and the geopolitical tensions between the US and China have fuelled the rally and since there is uncertainty about the pandemic situation settling soon, prices are trending upwards,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). In Ahmedabad, gold has remained on an upward trend since July 20, when the price stood at Rs 50,875 per 10g. This means gold has surged by 12% in a fortnight. Despite the increase in prices, investors are bullish and are investing in bullion or through exchange traded funds (ETFs) industry players say. “Gold is expected to trend upwards and investors are anticipating good returns ahead. On the other hand, retail demand for gold has dried up as there is barely any jewellery being sold,” said Jigar Soni, vice president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Jewellers say the Union government must rationalize basic customs duty on gold so retail demand revives as high prices are deterring jewellery purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-surges-by-rs-1400-in-a-day-to-new-high-of-rs-57100/articleshow/77381225.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 6, 2020||Pune||Truck hits scooter, runs over girl in Pimple Gurav||Pune: A 13-year-old girl from Chikhali, riding pillion on the scooter of her father, was killed after a truck hit their two-wheeler at Pimple Gurav on Tuesday evening. The girl, Vibhuti Safariya, fell on the road in its impact and the speeding truck ran over her, police said. Her father, Sanjay, a construction worker, survived with minor injuries. Sangvi police later arrested the truck driver, Ganesh Vagare (27) of Thergaon, for negligent driving. Sub-inspector Govind Chavan of the Sangvi police said, “Vibhuti, had gone to her maternal aunt’s house at Morya Park in Pimple Gurav on Monday for celebrating ‘Raksha Bandhan’ with her younger sister and parents. Vibhuti had stayed back at her aunt’s house, while her parents returned home. On Tuesday, Vibhuti’s younger sister insisted her parents should bring Vibhuti back home. So, Sanjay had gone to pick her up in the evening. Around 6pm, they left Morya Park.” The officer said, “The road near Morya Park is narrow. While crossing it, Sanjay fumbled after noticing a speeding truck heading towards them. Before he could drive away, the truck hit their scooter. Vibhuti fell off the scooter and was run over by the truck.” Chavan said, “The truck driver ought to have slowed down after noticing the two-wheeler but did not, and went on to hit the scooter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-hits-scooter-runs-over-girl-in-pimple-gurav/articleshow/77382501.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Centuries-long wait has ended, say Haridwar seers on bhoomi pujan||Haridwar: Har-ki-Pauri, the main ghat in holy city of Haridwar, lit up with thousands of diyas on Wednesday to mark the foundation-laying ceremony of Ram temple with the seer community hailing it as “a momentous occasion that ended a centuries-long wait”. Several seers had earlier left to attend the ceremony in Ayodhya. On Tuesday, before leaving for Ayodhya, yoga guru Ramdev had remarked that “after Ram temple, decision on temples in other disputed sites in Kashi and Mathura should also be expedited.” Other seers who were in Ayodhya to witness the ceremony included Paramarth Niketan head Swami Chidanand Saraswati, Yugapurush Swami Paramanand, a member of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust and Mansa Devi temple chief Swami Ravindra Puri. Meanwhile, special prayers were held at prominent places in Haridwar to celebrate the occasion. Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti national spokesperson Baba Hathyogi said, “Today is the fulfilment of a centuries-long dream.” Similar sentiments were expressed by Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmaya Vashishth. Special pjas were also held on the day at several temples across the state, including at the Badrinath temple where the chief priest (rawal) of the shrine led an elaborate puja in the courtyard of the temple to mark the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centuries-long-wait-has-ended-say-haridwar-seers-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77378456.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Thane||Thane crosses 20,000 mark, but district’s recovery rate is 85%||MUMBAI: Thane on Wednesday crossed the 20,000 mark in Covid-19 cases but the district performed well on recovery, with over 85% patients under at least five civic bodies going home. Thane case tally went up to 20,258, with 270 new patients, a day the recovery rate was 84%. Thane took 14 days to add 5,000 patients and breach the 15,000 mark on July 17, but it took 20 days to reach 20,000 cases. State housing minister Jitendra Awhad choose Wednesday, his birthday, to donate plasma at a Thane blood bank along with former MP Anand Paranjpe. Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Ambernath and Badlapur too recorded recovery rates of over 85%. Ambernath had the best recovery rate of 87% in Mumbai metropolitan region. Last month it was 81%. In Ulhasnagar, where 781 patients are under treatment, the recovery rate was 86%, while Bhiwandi and Badlapur recorded 85%. All these civic bodies had seen a spike in cases in June-July but recorded fewer cases this week. Kalyan-Dombivli, where the recovery rate was 75%, stays the second hotspot in MMR after Mumbai. It added 337 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 21,398. Its active cases were 4,987 while Thane’s were 2,885. The civic body has begun community testing. “Our first target was shopkeepers. In Dombivli, 32% shopkeepers tested positive,” said Shiv Sena corporator Dipesh Mahatre. In Thane too the focus shifted to the business community. “Traders and builders have been told to test staff,” said civic chief Dr Vipin Sharma. Of 2,513 construction workers tested over the last four days, 171 were positive. In Vasai-Virar, cases saw a drastic drop to 74, taking the tally to 12,647. Bahujan Vikas Aghadi, along with the civic body, will test maximum persons under ‘Mission Super 30’, launched in the region on Wednesday. Navi Mumbai, with 278 new cases, reached 16,957. In Mira-Bhayander, new patients remained more (76) than contacts of positive patients (56). Maximum cases were from Mira Road, taking the total to 8,956, including 291 deaths.Manoj Badgeri and Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-crosses-20k-mark-but-dists-recovery-rate-is-85/articleshow/77381173.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 6, 2020||Thane||Arthur Road jail inmates, free from Covid, to donate plasma||MUMBAI: Arthur Road jail is perhaps the first prison in the country where many prisoners who recovered from Covid-19 have agreed to donate plasma to help others. At least 182 inmates and 46 jail officials had tested positive for Covid. Only one inmate is still positive now. The jail staff recovered and resumed duty. A plasma donation centre may be set up at the prison. Inspector general of police (prisons) Deepak Pandey, who stayed at the prison to motivate the patients, said they volunteered to donate plasma. The authorities are chalking out plans and coordinating with agencies. “We were working hard since the first case was reported in May to control the disease. The inmates saw the jail staff’s dedication and endeavour for inmates’ treatment. The inmates appreciated the jail staff and now want to help others,” said a jail officer. The inmates, who were isolated during treatment, have been sent to barracks. “We motivated and counselled them. Staff supported inmates and encouraged them to fight Covid. JJ hospital staff visited our jail and examined patients,” added the officer. Following a Bombay high court order, Pandey on July 30 instructed Thane jail officials to carry out random testing of 15 personnel and 20 prisoners. BMC will also carry out antibody tests in city jails. The process will begin with staff and then inmates will be included, added Pandey. “The tests will help eliminate fear from one’s mind at prison,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/arthur-rd-inmates-free-from-covid-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77385280.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Arthur Road jail inmates, free from Covid, to donate plasma||MUMBAI: Arthur Road jail is perhaps the first prison in the country where many prisoners who recovered from Covid-19 have agreed to donate plasma to help others. At least 182 inmates and 46 jail officials had tested positive for Covid. Only one inmate is still positive now. The jail staff recovered and resumed duty. A plasma donation centre may be set up at the prison. Inspector general of police (prisons) Deepak Pandey, who stayed at the prison to motivate the patients, said they volunteered to donate plasma. The authorities are chalking out plans and coordinating with agencies. “We were working hard since the first case was reported in May to control the disease. The inmates saw the jail staff’s dedication and endeavour for inmates’ treatment. The inmates appreciated the jail staff and now want to help others,” said a jail officer. The inmates, who were isolated during treatment, have been sent to barracks. “We motivated and counselled them. Staff supported inmates and encouraged them to fight Covid. JJ hospital staff visited our jail and examined patients,” added the officer. Following a Bombay high court order, Pandey on July 30 instructed Thane jail officials to carry out random testing of 15 personnel and 20 prisoners. BMC will also carry out antibody tests in city jails. The process will begin with staff and then inmates will be included, added Pandey. “The tests will help eliminate fear from one’s mind at prison,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arthur-rd-inmates-free-from-covid-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77381168.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Arthur Road jail inmates, free from Covid, to donate plasma||MUMBAI: Arthur Road jail is perhaps the first prison in the country where many prisoners who recovered from Covid-19 have agreed to donate plasma to help others. At least 182 inmates and 46 jail officials had tested positive for Covid. Only one inmate is still positive now. The jail staff recovered and resumed duty. A plasma donation centre may be set up at the prison. Inspector general of police (prisons) Deepak Pandey, who stayed at the prison to motivate the patients, said they volunteered to donate plasma. The authorities are chalking out plans and coordinating with agencies. “We were working hard since the first case was reported in May to control the disease. The inmates saw the jail staff’s dedication and endeavour for inmates’ treatment. The inmates appreciated the jail staff and now want to help others,” said a jail officer. The inmates, who were isolated during treatment, have been sent to barracks. “We motivated and counselled them. Staff supported inmates and encouraged them to fight Covid. JJ hospital staff visited our jail and examined patients,” added the officer. Following a Bombay high court order, Pandey on July 30 instructed Thane jail officials to carry out random testing of 15 personnel and 20 prisoners. BMC will also carry out antibody tests in city jails. The process will begin with staff and then inmates will be included, added Pandey. “The tests will help eliminate fear from one’s mind at prison,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/arthur-rd-inmates-free-from-covid-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77385281.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Woman kills mother-in-law, arrested||JAIPUR: Vidyadhar Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a woman for murdering her mother-in-law the day before. Nisha Bano (20) had cooked up a story to divert police investigation and had narrated to the police how two persons had barged into their house and killed her mother-in-law Abida Bano (45). The police investigated the matter and found that the accused woman was lying to divert investigation to a different direction. “When we investigated the matter, we found that no one barged into the house to kill the woman. When we further questioned the daughter-in-law, she confessed that she killed her mother-in-law,” said Radha Raman Gupta, SHO, Vidyadhar Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-kills-mother-in-law-arrested/articleshow/77382500.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Techie falls for SIM upgrade trick, loses over Rs 1 lakh||PUNE: A 31-year-old IT professional from Wanowrie was duped to the tune of Rs1.19 lakh by cyber criminals on the pretext of upgrading her SIM card from 3G to 4G between May 8 to 11. On May 8, the woman from Azadnagar received a call from a person, who introduced himself as the customer care executive of a mobile network company and requested her to get the SIM card upgraded, the police said. According to the police, after the woman expressed an interest, the caller asked her to visit a nearby mobile phone gallery and follow the process. However, the complainant expressed her inability to travel because of the lockdown. The caller then assured her that he would upgrade her card and asked her to share relevant details. He told her that she would receive a text message and asked her to forward the message on a particular mobile number. He informed her that your number will get switched off for 24 hours for upgradation, police said. A police officer said, “The cyber criminals generated a new SIM card in the woman’s name and gained access to her two bank accounts linked to her number. They then transferred Rs1 lakh in two instalments of Rs50,000 each from her accounts to two banks in Surat and Bihar on May 9. They then transferred Rs10,000 and Rs9,000 to an e-wallet on May 11.” The officer said, “The woman later called the caller for an update but she did not get a satisfactory reply. She then suspected the caller’s credentials and checked her balance on the bank’s application and found that Rs1 lakh was debited from her account. Before she could freeze her accounts, the criminals transferred another Rs19,000 via two transactions.” “The woman later blocked the SIM card and got a new card. She then filed a complaint with the cyber police station at Shivajinagar. The cyber police officers registered an FIR and transferred the case to Wanowrie police station for investigations,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-falls-for-sim-upgrade-trick-loses-over-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77382508.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 6, 2020||Pune||PCMC meeting adjourned||Pimpri Chinchwad: The standing committee meeting of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) was adjourned on Wednesday after paying homage to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Javed Shaikh (59), who succumbed to Covid-19 infection on July 31 at a private hospital in Pune. Shaikh had tested positive on July 15. He was admitted to a private hospital in Akurdi and then shifted to Pune. Santosh Londhe, chairman, standing committee, expressed his condolences at the untimely demise of the NCP corporator, who was serving his third term from Akurdi. The meeting was conducted online. He said the topics on the agenda would be discussed in the next week’s standing committee meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-meeting-adjourned/articleshow/77382526.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Law aptitude test put off for third time||MUMBAI: The consortium of national law schools, which met on Wednesday, decided to indefinitely postpone the entrance exam, Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT), which was to be on August 22. CLAT was to be the first pan-India test but it has now been postponed like several other entrance tests like NEET and JEE. This is the third time it is being postponed from its first date of May 10. The entrance test used to be held on the first Sunday of May and the academic year used to started by August. Around 68,000 candidates registered for the test for undergraduate admissions and 9,000 for admission to post-graduate programme. “Three states are under complete lockdown. We can wait for few more weeks before holding the test,” said a national law school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/law-aptitude-test-put-off-for-third-time/articleshow/77381172.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Despite relaxations, Gujarat government’s July revenues dip||GANDHINAGAR: Despite more economic activities being allowed in July compared to June, actual revenues of the state government slid by Rs 225 crore in July from the previous month. While income from value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel increased substantially as a result of the state raising VAT on these products and increased consumption, GST revenues have surprisingly fallen in July compared to the previous month. Similarly, revenue from motor vehicle tax (MVT) and stamp duty on properties rose in July, but collections from electricity duty (ED) has been lower in July. The revenue of the state government between March 2019 and July 2019 stood at Rs 30,799 crore, while revenue for the same period in 2020 was Rs 20,969 crore, a shortfall of Rs 9,830 crore. Officials in the state government said the fall in SGST revenue in July 2020 could be because of settlement of earlier dues in June, while July saw normal revenues. Similarly, the electricity duty reduction in July could be because of the fall in demand. A source further said, “Due to a significant fall in government revenues due to the lockdown and the long-term impacts of Covid, we are assuming that there will be a fall in revenue of close to Rs 25,000 crore by the end of the financial year. “We expect that SGST monthly income may also fall because of multiple reasons. If the central government further cuts its allocation of the CGST share, the state’s financial position will be more strained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-relaxations-govts-july-revenues-dip/articleshow/77381265.cms||Kapil Dave
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||341 cases reported across Aurangabad dist||AURANGABAD: The total number of Covid-19 cases across Aurangabad district on Wednesday increased to 15,491 with addition of 341 cases. Seven deaths related to the contagion were also reported across the district, taking the death toll to 500. According to a health official, as many as 153 patients got discharged from various hospitals after recovering from the contagion. “The total number of recovered patients now stands at 11,521. The district now has 3,470 active cases,” he said. “In the second half of the day, 280 patients tested positive of which 48 had underwent antigen testing at the entry points of the city while 74 tested positive after being tested by mobile swab collection vans in rural areas,” he added. District collector Uday Choudhary said that the remaining Covid-19 positive cases are recovering well. “We are hopeful as well as confident of bringing down the death rate. But in order to achieve this target, we need the cooperation of the masses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/341-cases-reported-across-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/77378487.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Writer-activist Sadia Dehlvi passes away after a lengthy battle with cancer in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Noted author, activist and an expert on Sufism, Sadia Dehlvi, passed away on Wednesday evening after a long battle with cancer. She was 63. Dehlvi was known for her two books on Sufism — Sufism, the Heart of Islam and The Sufi Courtyard: The Dargahs of Delhi. A devotee of Sufi saints Moinuddin Chishti and Nizamuddin Auliya, she was a familiar face in the social and literary circuit of Delhi. She was also part of the Times Litfest Delhi. Historian and author Rana Safvi said, “For me she was synonymous with Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya dargah as that is where I would meet her.” Identified by many as the quintessential Dilliwala, Dehlvi was quite proud of her heritage. In fact, she radiated a deep love for Delhi and a strong sense of belonging. She would say often that Delhi wasn’t a city, but a feeling. At the Times Litfest Delhi in 2017, she had said that her family never moved out of Delhi even during Partition as her ancestors were buried here. “How could we leave when our baap-dada were buried here?” she had asked. She also loved talking about food. In fact, this other love made her explore the culinary history of Delhi in a book called Jasmine & Jinns, which contained some lost recipes. However, her creative side wasn’t just limited to writing books. In 1995, she scripted, co-produced and acted in a TV show called Amma And Family that also starred the late Zohra Sehgal. People who knew her remembered her as a principled, strong-willed person. She was also among those whom the late Khushwant Singh counted on as a friend. He had dedicated his 1993 book, Not A Nice Man To Know, to her. “Delhi has lost a beloved citizen,” Safvi lamented. Renowned Pakistani journalist and author Raza Ahmed Rumi knew Dehlvi closely. “Sadia was not just a friend, but a soulmate. We met each other when our lives were taking different paths and they converged. Her death signifies a profound personal loss. It also denotes the end of an age where Indians and Pakistanis could be friends beyond the nation-state rhetoric and connect at a civilisational level,” Rumi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/writer-activist-dehlvi-passes-away-after-a-lengthy-battle-with-cancer/articleshow/77382534.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Youth working in Malaysian firm drowns, family cries foul||Lucknow: A 22-year-old city youth, who had joined a shipping company as oiler in January, was found dead on Sibu port in Malaysia on July 22. The deceased Saurabh Pandey, a resident of Anandnagar, had joined CW shipping company on January 11 and was posted at Sibu port. Saurabh’s mother said on Wednesday, “I had a WhatsApp video call with him on July 19. His eyes were swollen and he had bruises. When I asked, he said his glasses had broken. On July 20, we received a call from Malaysian police informing that he had drowned.” “I contacted his friends on the ship but they refused to speak and were shifted to another port. I want a enquiry,” she said. The youth’s father Harishanker Pandey, a high court lawyer, has stopped eating. “We contacted the Indian high commission in Malaysia. They said the body will be dispatched after post-mortem. We contacted ministry of external affairs, district administration and police but got no response,” he said. District administration denied receiving any complaint. Sources in the high commission in Malaysia told TOI the body would be flown to India on August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-working-in-malaysian-firm-drowns-family-cries-foul/articleshow/77383019.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Law aptitude test put off for third time||MUMBAI: The consortium of national law schools, which met on Wednesday, decided to indefinitely postpone the entrance exam, Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT), which was to be on August 22. CLAT was to be the first pan-India test but it has now been postponed like several other entrance tests like NEET and JEE. This is the third time it is being postponed from its first date of May 10. The entrance test used to be held on the first Sunday of May and the academic year used to started by August. Around 68,000 candidates registered for the test for undergraduate admissions and 9,000 for admission to post-graduate programme. “Three states are under complete lockdown. We can wait for few more weeks before holding the test,” said a national law school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/law-aptitude-test-put-off-for-third-time/articleshow/77385367.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 6, 2020||Thane||Law aptitude test put off for third time||MUMBAI: The consortium of national law schools, which met on Wednesday, decided to indefinitely postpone the entrance exam, Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT), which was to be on August 22. CLAT was to be the first pan-India test but it has now been postponed like several other entrance tests like NEET and JEE. This is the third time it is being postponed from its first date of May 10. The entrance test used to be held on the first Sunday of May and the academic year used to started by August. Around 68,000 candidates registered for the test for undergraduate admissions and 9,000 for admission to post-graduate programme. “Three states are under complete lockdown. We can wait for few more weeks before holding the test,” said a national law school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/law-aptitude-test-put-off-for-third-time/articleshow/77385365.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 6, 2020||Pune||Woman registers rape complaint||PUNE: A 28-year-old woman lodged an FIR with the Talegaon Dabhade police on Tuesday evening stating that an unidentified man accosted and raped her while she was walking back home from her workplace near Gahunje around 2.30pm. Assistant inspector Kunda Gawde D’Souza of the Talegaon Dabhade police told TOI, “The complainant works as a domestic help at a real estate project near Gahunje. She was walking along the road near Gahunje when the suspect, who appeared to be in his 30s, stopped her and threatened her with a sharp weapon.” The officer said, “The woman stated in her complaint that the suspect abused and beat her when she resisted him. He then forced himself on her before fleeing the spot.” The police have registered an offence and have launched a search for the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-registers-rape-complaint/articleshow/77382528.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Pune||Drive against ‘errant’ hawkers on NIBM Road||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday carried out a drive against encroachment and unauthorised hawkers in the NIBM road area. Kunjan Jadhav, PMC’s public relations officer, said, “We have received complaints from senior citizens against vendors and customers for not following social distancing norms. This is the reason why the encroachment department carried out a drive to remove vegetable vendors. We will be doing so across PMC limits.” Shyam Awghade, zonal encroachment inspector, said that goods were seized from nine fruits and vegetables stalls and a fish seller in Kausar Baug, four hawkers from near Sunshree society, seven vendors from near Talab factory, six from Salunke Vihar Road and seven vegetable vendors on Jyoti restaurant to Lulla Nagar chowk stretch. “All these areas have residential societies and we had received complaints against hawkers” said Awghade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drive-against-errant-hawkers-on-nibm-rd/articleshow/77382512.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC relief for MBBS students on mandatory Covid duty||Ahmedabad: Third-year MBBS students got temporary relief on Wednesday after the Gujarat high court asked the state government not prosecute them for defying orders and not joining Covid-19 duty as ‘Corona Sahayaks’ (Corona helpers). The government assured the HC it would not do so until the court hears the case.As many as 146 students moved the HC after the authorities said that if the students do not extend their services, they would face action under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Their petition came up for hearing before Justice S H Vora. The state government insisted that this petition be heard with the suo motu PIL on Covid-19.The students’ advocate Anand Yagnik opposed the government’s stand and submitted that if this case is heard by a division bench, the students would lose their right to intra-court appeal. As the division bench is to hear issues related to the pandemic on September 4, the lawyer insisted that there was urgency in the students’ issue.The high court heard the case and said that the state may not take action against the students. The state government also assured the court that it would not institute any prosecution against students for not obeying the order to extend voluntary service as ‘Corona Sahayaks’. A further hearing has been posted on August 7. Third year students of NHL Municipal Medical College and LG Hospital and Medical College have challenged the circular issued by the colleges on July 17, July 22 and July 24, asking them to assist the fight against Covid-19. They have said that such “voluntarism” cannot be thrust upon them. They contended that they would have gladly joined the service earlier, but now they will have to focus on their studies and examinations. They argued in the petition that four months of their academic sessions have been wasted. “Had the petitioners been a few months earlier, they would have been wedded to the call of the nation,” it reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-relief-for-mbbs-students-on-mandatory-covid-duty/articleshow/77381300.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops take tougher steps to ensure total lockdown||KOLKTA: Cops “punishing” cyclists in the middle of the road and chasing down people assembling outside slums, vehicle checks at every important crossing, special nakas at the city’s entry points and a rainy day that led to lesser vehicles on roads — this summed up the first total lockdown day of August in the city. Till 12 noon on Wednesday, cops prosecuted 274 people for violating the lockdown. This was significantly higher than July 29 when cops had challaned 227 people around the same time. “On the first day of lockdown on July 23, we had arrested 886 people till midnight. We had prosecuted 289 till noon on that day. Yet, compared to that day, the traffic and movement of people were far lesser on the road. We checked everyone out on the road. There was no question of any let up,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The tone of the day was set from the morning when two ACPs took to the street, manning Chiria More and Sinthi More together with the police. Every vehicle, including the cars with a sticker — even if it belonged to cops or doctors on duty — was checked. Likewise, all pedestrians on the road, be it at the Gariahat Crossing or the Shyambazar crossing, were stopped and asked to explain why they had stepped out of homes. Cops said those found roaming without any proper reason had been sent back home after taking legal action. “We have been asked not to allow people to gather at one spot without a valid reason. We are ensuring that,” said an officer at Sealdah. By 6pm, cops had arrested and prosecuted 561 people. Another 271 were held for not wearing masks while 20 drivers too were prosecuted. “We have always seen that if we can prosecute the offenders from the morning, we can always instil fear in the mind of the lockdown breakers. But the fact that there were lesser prosecution in the evening (as compared to July 29) shows we could implement the lockdown across the city,” said an officer at Behala Chowrasta. At Taratala, police stopped cyclists, flattened the tyres and asked them to return home, carrying their cycles.  At the Sinthee crossing, the cop at the checkpoint was unhappy when it took time for a car owner to show his ID card. “Keep it in your hand. You will need it every 1km,” he said.  Cops also strengthened their presence in certain pockets of central Kolkata as it became clear that the city was finally getting used to the total lockdown. “We believe that with cases getting reported from across the city, the awareness level among has increased,” said an officer. On Wednesday, a large number of people had been asked to go back home too. “We divided the cases into two broad types. Those who violated the lockdown inadvertently were asked to return. But for those who broke the lockdown intentionally or gave flimsy excuses, we wrote down their contact details. Instead of crowding police stations, we told them that we would get a notice issued against them from court,” said a senior officer. The scene was no different in the Salt Lake-Airport area. At Salt Lake, a large team of officers from different police stations and traffic guards raided several alleys and lanes in the zones notorious for lockdown violations like Baguiati, Keshtopur and New Town and booked five persons till evening and seized 14 vehicles. Cops also stopped almost every vehicle on the road and questioned them why they were out on the road.  Those who failed to come up with valid reasons were immediately arrested. Total 31 people were arrested and five two-wheelers and one-four wheelers were seized till noon. Unlike last time, there was no complaint of police stopping people from going to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-take-tougher-steps-to-ensure-total-lockdown/articleshow/77381272.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||In 24 hours, Gujarat adds 1,078 cases, 23 deaths||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Wednesday added 1,078 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 66,777. It was the state’s 15th consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases and the highest in the past three days. The cases included 237 from Surat, 161 from Ahmedabad, 115 from Vadodara and 80 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 23 patients, taking the state’s death toll to 2,557. Wednesday’s deaths included six from Surat, five each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two each from Junagadh and Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar, Jamnagar and Patan. In the first five days of August, Surat district has recorded deaths of 52 Covid-19 patients, followed by 20 in Ahmedabad, nine in Vadodara and eight in Rajkot. It was the lowest daily death toll for Surat district in 19 days. A total of 1,046 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 49,405. The discharges include 218 from Surat, 154 from Rajkot, 127 from Ahmedabad, and 80 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat rose to 14,815, which is 22.2% of the total cases registered in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-24-hrs-state-adds-1078-cases-23-deaths/articleshow/77381299.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Green panel to keep watch on how neighbours plan to curb farm fires in Punjab, Haryana||NEW DELHI: With just a couple of months left before farmers in Punjab and Haryana start burning crop stubble, both the states have submitted an action plan and a status report to Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) detailing how they plan to provide incentives and raise awareness to curb the problem. EPCA would be collecting data each fortnight from both the states, which would be analysed to check whether they are on track to meet their 2020 target. The data for 2019 would be used as a benchmark to monitor their performance this year. “While certain parameters have a fixed target, including the number of custom hiring centres (CHC) that need to set up by October and machines that would be a part of the CHC app, other parameters will simply be assessed to ascertain whether there has been an improvement or not,” said EPCA member Sunita Narain, adding that a meeting would be held every two weeks where an updated report would be submitted to assess the targets. The reports stated that 17.7% of the stubble of the total paddy cultivated in Haryana got burnt last year, while it was nearly double (37.4%) in Punjab. While 12.4 lakh tonnes of paddy crop residue was burnt in Haryana last year, the same was 98 lakh tonnes in Punjab. To ensure that farmers get easy access to hire machinery to manage stubble, CHCs are to be created at the village level. While Punjab has already set up 7,378 CHCs so far, another 5,000 are required by October. Similarly, Haryana has so far set up 2,879 CHCs, but another 2,000 are needed. Other measures being undertaken by both states include tying up with balers to lift the straw from fields and ensure it is managed properly as well as creating awareness. Narain said in situ and ex situ management would be tracked in both states. The issue would be prioritised for the next two months to ensure maximum villages and panchayats are covered. “Every target has to be achieved before the stubble burning season starts,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-panel-to-keep-watch-on-how-neighbours-plan-to-curb-farm-fires/articleshow/77382538.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 6, 2020||Pune||Police zero in on suspect||Pune: A 55-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman (45) on an open plot on Mundhwa- Koregaon Park Road before stealing her gold ornaments worth Rs 1 lakh on Sunday evening. “We traced the suspect at his residence on the basis of his description provided by the rape survivor,” a Mundhwa police officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-zero-in-on-suspect/articleshow/77382531.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Only 3 containment zones in city||AURANGABAD: Though the number of Covid-19 cases is going up across the state, Aurangabad city is witnessing reduction of containment areas. As per official data, 33.22 sqkm area across the city was earlier declared as containement zone, but this figure has now come down to only 4.14 sqkm. This has also brought down the number of population living on hotspot areas from 94,094 to 17,329. Aurangabad city, spread over 172 sqkm, had total a total of 30 containment zones of which 27 have been de-notified. Currently, there are only three containment zones and 15 micro-containment zones. Additional deputy collector Annasaheb Shinde, who is heading the committee for overseeing containment zones in Aurangabad, said the spread of Covid-19 was gradually reducing in the city and on the outskirts. “Despite increased testing in recent past, the graph of confirmed cases has not increased considerably. The areas notified as containment zones did not report new cases and therefore curbs have been lifted there. Areas having sporadic cases are being notified as micro-containment zones,” he said. Othe three containment zones, two have been newly notified in keeping with the reported cases of Covid-19. These two Covid hotspots include Ayodhya Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Gautam Nagar and Phule Nagar and cover ward numbers 30, 31,32, 33, 38, 39 and 40. The area of Sambhaji Colony from N-6 is the third containment zone. Competent authorities have said that 100% Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) will be carried out in the containment zones over the period of next few days. “Conducting RAT of cent per cent population living in containment zone will be the ‘blue print’ for further battle against Covid-19. Large-scale testing in vulnerable areas leads to effective detection of cases in early stages,” an official said. He also appealed to the public to voluntarily come out for testing if they develop any symptoms of Covid-19. “For testing facility in nearby areas or any other information related to Covid 19, citizens have been advised to contact on helpline number 8956306007,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-only-3-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/77378501.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Several roads including Gangotri highway blocked due to landslides||Uttarkashi: More than half-a-dozen roads, including the Gangotri national highway, remained blocked due to landslides triggered by incessant rainfall in Uttarkashi district. The highway was shut since Tuesday, impacting movement to the shrine town. According to sources, traffic movement at the Gangotri highway got interrupted after heavy landslides at Swarigad region of Bhatwari block, cutting off nearly one dozen villages from the district headquarters. Similarly, landslides in several other places blocked as many as eight link roads of the district, including Kamad Ayarkhal, Bhela Tipri, Dharasu Jogat, Dhauntari Siri, and Bhukki Kujjan areas, adding to the troubles of local villagers. Meanwhile, concerned departments began the road opening work on Wednesday and restored traffic movement at Gangotri highway and a few other roads. However, some of the stretches were still blocked at the time of filing this report as workers were facing difficulties due to incessant rainfall. Speaking to TOI, Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “We have restored traffic movements at Gangotri highway and few other roads. Efforts are ongoing to open the remaining blocked roads as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/several-roads-including-gangotri-highway-blocked-due-to-landslides/articleshow/77378519.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC reserves order on GPSC appointments||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday reserved its order on the appeal filed by candidates challenging their exclusion in recruitment by the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) particularly due to interpretation of the controversial August 1, 2018 Government Resolution about women’s reservation, said a government lawyer. The GPSC had last month sought an early hearing complaining that the unresolved issue about women’s reservation has resulted in its inability to fill up 93% of total posts in which the recruitment was governed by the controversial GR. The issue is pending in the high court since December 2018 with women candidates for government jobs raising objections to the new provisions. The issue was pending before the division bench after a single-judge bench quashed the selection list prepared by GPSC on basis of the August 2018 government resolution and ordered preparation of a fresh list considering the Supreme Court’s orders on the issue. The issue of 33% women’s reservation created a huge controversy during the recruitment of Lok Rakshak Dal. Candidates from reserved category as well as general category approached the high court opposing the August 1, 2018 GR and supporting its implementation, respectively. As the pressure mounted on the government, it decided to drop application of this GR in the recruitment for LRD and offered to lower cut-off marks and also to increase seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-reserves-order-on-gpsc-appointments/articleshow/77381298.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tobacco board defers decision on crop size||GUNTUR: The Tobacco Board has deferred its decision on finalising crop size for next season to August 18. The board meeting, held on Wednesday, decided to meet after two weeks following a request made by the state government. Agriculture special chief secretary Ponam Malakondaiah, principal secretary Madhusudan Reddy, marketing commissioner PS Pradyumna who represented the state government contended that they need more time to assess ground- level situation as purchases on auction platforms were still going on. The board chairman Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu and executive director R Muthuraj said the delay in fixing the crop size might cause trouble to growers as they have to raise nurseries during the monsoon. However, state government representatives said a realistic assessment on finalization of the crop size could be arrived at only after the sale of stocks produced during the last crop season. They said they could get a better analysis of sale position by next fortnight since the auction process was yet to conclude. Taking the views of the government into consideration, Babu postponed the meeting to August 18. “The board discussed in detail the requests of the growers and their representatives, indents given by the manufacturers and exporters through Indian Tobacco Association (ITA), past export and domestic trends, global supply and demand scenario and effect of Covid-19 pandemic. It took into consideration various factors involved in fixing crop size that are dynamic in nature and decided to postpone fixing of FCV crop size for 2020-21 for AP to August, 18” said Babu. For the first time, the state government is procuring tobacco through AP Markfed to infuse stability in the market after traders were reluctant to pick up the stocks citing poor demand from international buyers. The failure of the Tobacco Board had also prompted the state government to enter the market as the board could not crack the whip against the licensed traders who failed to participate in the auctions. Tobacco growers are of the view that board chairman Babu, who belongs to the BJP, had not made any attempt to meet the Union commerce minister or finance minister to get relief to growers while the prices were dipping. The growers said the board should spend reserve fund to procure the stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-board-defers-decision-on-crop-size/articleshow/77379730.cms||Samdani MN
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government ropes in ISB as knowledge partner||VIJAYAWADA: The AP government has roped in premier Hyderabad-based B-school, Indian School of Business (ISB), as knowledge partner to help chart out a roadmap for the state’s economic recovery and development. ISB inked an MoU with GoAP through the AP Economic Development Board at a virtual meeting on Wednesday for the initiative that is slated to enable greater synergistic functioning of departments and will work towards economic monitoring, recovery and development. A public policy lab — GoAP-ISB policy lab, which will be modelled on the lines of the policy lab in the UK cabinet — will also be set up to drive evidence-based policy decisions and create a knowledge bank for strategic planning, policy analysis, data analytics and action-research. This is essential to sustain high rates of growth and successful completion of projects within the committed timelines with focus on investment flows, their efficacy in terms of value addition, employment generation and wealth creation. The B-school will work with various economic departments under GoAP to focus on economic recovery and growth monitoring, especially post Covid-19. Industries minister Goutham Reddy said the state government has been working with ISB over the past few months to identify areas of collaboration and has now onboarded it as a knowledge partner to work on various initiatives in skill development, e-governance, turning Vishakhapatnam into a growth engine and improving value addition in food processing and unshackling informal sector growth. “We intend to generate data using randomised control trials and gather evidence to measure the impact of our policies and drive our policy decisions based on stronger research evidence,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-ropes-in-isb-as-knowledge-partner/articleshow/77379744.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||With 85 deaths in past week, Covid fatalities in Telangana rise||HYDERABAD: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the state are on the rise with 85 deaths being recorded over the last seven days (between 10-14 each day). While earlier the numbers were less than 10, the upswing in deaths is ascribed to various reasons, including an increase in overall cases in the state. The fact that majority of the districts are seeing late reporting of cases (most presenting as severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) cases) and many patients are wasting time in travelling to Hyderabad to avail treatment are other reasons for the increase. Going by the official statistics, 70% of the beds currently occupied in the government hospitals in the state are oxygen beds, which is indicative of patients reaching later stages. “The presence of Covid-19 is widespread in districts and to top that, most of the people are approaching in late stages as SARI cases. The chances of survival at that stage is very low. Majority of the patients require oxygen support. Going by the fact that 1,700 oxygen beds in government facilities are currently occupied as compared to 700 general beds shows that the people are approaching very late,” said Kiran Madala, assistant professor, Nizamabad Government Hospital. An upswing in cases, primarily in districts, has been observed over the last one-and-a-half month, on account of ‘extensive local spread of the virus’, admit health authorities. The percentage of cases in districts have jumped from 15% to 64% (between June 17 and August 5). “The increase of cases in districts where the healthcare infrastructure is limited means that many patients are unable to access facilities in time. Many of the districts do not have medical colleges and existing primary and community health centres are already overburdened. As a result, people continue to travel to Hyderabad, Warangal and other towns to access better healthcare. This, however, could mean losing out on crucial time in travel in case of moderate to severe cases of Covid-19,” said an official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-85-deaths-in-past-week-covid-fatalities-in-t-rise/articleshow/77381231.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Neeti Bagh park is now open for all, mask must||NEW DELHI: A few days after TOI reported how a residential society in south Delhi’s Neeti Bagh was not allowing people who were not from the colony to enter the local central park, a fresh board has now been installed withdrawing all restrictions, except conducting temperature checks and wearing masks. Earlier, people had to produce an identity card with a valid Neeti Bagh address to gain entry to the park. Locals from neighbouring colonies had written to local MLA Somnath Bharti and even lodged a complaint with South Delhi Municipal Corporation questioning the move. Arjun Bhagat, a resident of Gulmohar Park who had filed the complaint, said the rules were discriminatory and against the law. “A public park was being controlled in a manner that people other than those residing in Neeti Bagh could not enter. I had written to SDMC asking under which law was this being executed,” he added. Happy with the new board, Bhagat said he was glad that the society was able to understand the problem and rectify it. “My appeal was to bring to their attention the need for inclusivity, understanding and kindness towards all citizens in this difficult and trying time. Little acts like this make us a better and healthier society. The MLA and SDMC both played their parts,” he added. The earlier notice board put up by Supreme Court Bar Cooperative House Building Society outside the park had listed the terms of usage stating that non-Neeti Bagh residents or guests were not permitted. “Entry to be only allowed on display of ID cards providing residence in Neeti Bagh, and upon entering particulars in a register to be maintained at the gate,” the board read. The new board now only asks people to wear a mask and get a temperature check done. Visitors should also not have a cough or cold and should be able to show their status on Aarogya Setu app. The park allows only 15 people at a time to reduce chances of spreading of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/neeti-bagh-park-is-now-open-for-all-mask-must/articleshow/77382541.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Business||IOB drags Sakthi Sugars to insolvency court||Chennai: State owned Indian Overseas Bank has kick started the insolvency process against Shakti Sugars over a Rs 46 crore loan default. The Chennai Bench of the NCLT, on July 28, 2020, had issued a notice in the bank’s application to initiate the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. Sakthi Sugars has to file its reply by September 3, 2020. IOB has filed a plea under Section 7 of IBC to initiate insolvency proceedings against Sakthi Sugars. The loan account of Sakthi Sugars at the bank had slipped into non-performing assets (bad loans) in 2016, and the default amount stands at Rs 46 crore, (excluding interest), according to sources. On July 31, 2020, the board of Sakthi Sugars had approved sale of its sugar and beverage units in Sivaganga district, which is subject to approval of its creditors and members. “This fundraising will be used to reduce its existing loans availed from banks and financial Institutions,” the company said in a filing to stock exchanges. The company has defaulted a total amount of Rs 1,106 crore in repayment of dues to banks and ARCs since February 2012. It has incurred a loss of Rs 208 crore during the year ended March 31, 2020, with accumulated losses of Rs 581 crore resulting in complete erosion of its net worth, the bank’s results statement said. Its current liabilities have exceeded its current assets by Rs 1,104 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iob-drags-sakthi-sugars-to-insolvency-court/articleshow/77379742.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stones pelted over rebuke in Danilimda||Ahmedabad: A reprimand for damaging an ATM led to an incident of stone pelting in Danilimda on Tuesday. Inspector VR Vasava of Danilimda police station said, “A 30-year-old man, Mayank Parmar, damaged the ATM at Shekhawati Complex with a brick after it would not dispense cash. He then went out and began swearing loudly. This irked 60-year-old Bilal Bhati, who was sitting outside. He told Mayank to restrain himself. Mayank got angry and left, but returned with nine other people and started pelting Bhati and others around with stones.” According to the complaint lodged by sub-inspector T N Moradiya, they were on patrol near Shekhawati Complex when saw a people gathering on the road. “When we asked them what had happened, Bhati told us that a man, later identified as Parmar, had damaged the ATM as it was out of order. He said that after being reprimanded Parmar went away and returned with other people and pelted stones at him and his sons and others gathered at the spot,” said Vasava. Vasava added that a patrol party detained six persons, Parmar himself, Imran Bhati, Sohel Bhati, Rahul Makwana and Rameshchandra Jhala from the spot. “During from their interrogation we learned that Jeetandra Chauhan, Ismail Barodawala, Rajeshkumar Jadav and Dinesh Khaniya, all from Danilimda, were also invovled in the stone pelting,” added Vasava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stones-pelted-over-rebuke-in-danilimda/articleshow/77381287.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Covid: Colleagues vow to fight on after West Bengal’s youngest doctor’s death||KOLKATA: The death of a 36-year-old doctor on Tuesday has shaken his colleagues and other young doctors, but the medical fraternity vowed to carry on their fight against Covid-19 undeterred, despite the loss. Nitish Kumar, a senior resident doctor at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) died on Tuesday, battling Covid infection. He is the youngest doctor in Bengal to have fallen to Covid. Kumar would have become a qualified cardiac surgeon in a few months. “The risk is there. Despite precautions, the number of young doctors succumbing to Covid is on the rise. But that should not deter any of us from being on our toes in this fight,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri of Institute of Child Health. ENT surgeon at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Abhik Ghosh said, “We are trying to take all precautions, but quantifying that adequate precaution is difficult. Healthcare workers will continue to get infected as long as the virus is around and we may lose some more colleagues. But there is no stopping. We must go on come what may.” An assistant superintendent at Medical College and Hospital and a nurse have reportedly again tested positive for Covid after their reports came negative following a round of treatment earlier. But health department officials said those could be called re-infection only after proper verification. They claimed such cases could be due to reasons, like faulty swab sample collection, false positive or false negative reports. Doctors working in specialities, such as ENT, are at a higher risk of contracting the novel coronavirus due to greater physical contact with patients. Kumar was not directly involved in Covid treatment at the hospital, but he attended to patients in his department when he got infected about a month ago. “In fact, most doctors getting infected did not have a direct role in Covid wards. So, these were cases of unknown exposure. Doctors working in Covid wards know they are working in high-risk zones and are on guard. Now, doctors working in other wards should also be equally cautious ,” said Giri. At RTIICS, a team, comprising pulmonologists, critical care specialists, cardiothoracic specialists and anaesthetists, had been formed for Kumar. He had been put on ECMO support and plasma therapy was also administered. Kumar reportedly had no known comorbidity. Doctors pointed out that mortality as well as severity of the infection was higher among the elderly, but Covid did claim patients who were not that old. Experts felt varying immune response could be a reason for younger patients getting affected severely. “We are still learning about the disease. Though mortality among the elderly with comorbidities is higher, people in their 40s are also succumbing. How fast the disease progresses depends on the inflammatory response of the affected. That is why we keep asking patients, young or old, to seek medical advice before oxygen saturation goes haywire,” said critical care specialist Arindam Kar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleagues-vow-to-fight-on-after-states-youngest-docs-death/articleshow/77381294.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Phase-II trials of Zydus’s Covid vaccine from today||AHMEDABAD: Pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila on Wednesday announced that it has completed the phase-I clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate named ZyCov-D and the company will now begin phase-II clinical trials from August 6. “The plasmid DNA vaccine to prevent Covid-19 was found to be safe and well tolerated in the phase-I clinical trial. The company will now commence phase-II clinical trials from August 6, 2020,” the Ahmedabad-headquartered company said. “The phase-I dosing to establish the safety of ZyCoV-D is an important milestone,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila. “All the subjects in phase-I clinical trial were closely monitored in a clinical pharmacological unit for 24 hours post-dosing for safety and for 7 days thereafter, and the vaccine was found to be very safe. We now begin the phase-II clinical trials and look forward to evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine in a larger population,” Patel added. According to Zydus, the safety of the vaccine in all the volunteers enrolled in the early-stage trials has been endorsed by the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) which has been constituted to oversee the safety aspects of the clinical trial. “The phase-II study of ZyCoV-D will be conducted in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers,” Zydus added. Last month, Zydus had received the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) - Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) approval to start human clinical trials of the vaccine candidate. It became the second Indian pharma company after Bharat Biotech to get such a nod . The company’s vaccine candidate has been indigenously developed at its Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad. Zydus Cadila net profit up 50%Cadila Healthcare Limited, popularly known as Zydus Cadila, registered a 50% increase in its consolidated net profit at Rs 454 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2020. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 303 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal. The company’s sales rose to Rs 3,549 crore in Q1 of fiscal 2020 from Rs 3,406 crore in the same quarter last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phase-ii-trials-of-zyduss-covid-vaccine-from-today/articleshow/77381297.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Surat||Surat breathes free with less than 200 cases for third day||SURAT: Surat city reported less than 200 Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Wednesday at 187. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, cases are reducing in previous Covid-19 hotspots like Limbayat and Katargam zones, while other parts of the city are seeing a rise. Covid-19 cases, however, continue to rise in city’s posh areas in Athwa, Rander and Udhna. for the last few days. Of 187 cases on Wednesday, highest was reported from Athwa zone with 47, followed by 36 in Rander, 26 in Central zone, 23 in Varachha (B), 19 in Katargam zone, while 36 cases were reported from across other parts of the city. Meanwhile, six more succumbed to the virus taking the death toll in the city to 524 so far. Again, 263 patients have been discharged in the city taking the total number of recovered patients to 8,481. The number of Covid cases have also dropped in Surat rural areas in the past few days. Surat rural reported 50 fresh cases on Wednesday. Earlier, Surat rural used to report over 80 cases daily which has come down to below 60 in the last three days. Surat rural now has 2,924 Covid-19 positive cases and 125 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-breathes-free-with-less-than-200-cases-for-third-day/articleshow/77379756.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SIT gets more time to complete probe||LUCKNOW: The three-member special investigation team (SIT), constituted to probe into criminal cases pending against slain ganglord Vikas Dubey and his nexus with police and administration, has been given additional four weeks to carry out investigation. The SIT, formed on July 11, comprises additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, ADG Hariram Sharma and DIG J Ravindra Goud. The panel was asked to complete probe and submit its report to the government by July 31. The team could not complete its probe and sought extra time from the government after which it was given four weeks to complete its probe, said senior officials in the home department. Officials privy to the investigation said the SIT had recorded statements of around 50 people and evidence had been collected for examination. However, statements of witnesses are to be taken while complete details of Dubey were yet to be taken from the administration and police. The SIT is still investigating how Dubey got bail in 60 cases and possessed a number of gun licences. The three-member team had visited Bikru twice and interacted with the district administration and locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-gets-more-time-to-complete-probe/articleshow/77383020.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Ex-CM Nilangekar passes away after Covid recovery||Aurangabad: Former Maharashtra chief minister Shivaji Patil Nilangekar died at a private hospital in Pune early on Wednesday morning. He was 89. The Congress veteran had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 16 and was shifted to Pune from his hometown in Latur for further treatment. According to hospital management, Nilangekar had recovered and had tested negative on July 30. He died due to other health complications. “He was completely well after recovery from Covid 19. Later, his condition suddenly worsened due to age-related and comorbid conditions. He succumbed to renal failure and cardiac complications around 3 am on August 5,” Sanjay Pathare, the medical director of the Pune-based Ruby Hall Clinic said. The veteran Congress functionary had served as the chief minister of Maharashtra for a brief period from June 1985 to March 1986, before he stepped down following a controversy surrounding the medical admission of his daughter. The PMO, in a tweet, called Nilangekar as a “stalwart” of Maharashtra politics. “He served the state diligently, especially working for the welfare of farmers and the poor. Anguished by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters. Om Shanti: PM @narendramodi,” the tweet read. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray said: “He contributed in the country’s struggle for Independence and later in Maharashtra’s growth. He was always keen on the development of Marathwada and discharged his duty as CM with the same spirit.” Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said that the Congress veteran remained popular among the masses, having spent his life in the service of the people, especially the rural poor and farmers. Pradesh Congress Committee chief and revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said Nilangekar was a visionary and added the state has lost one of the architects of Maharashtra. Nilangekar is survived by his wife, three sons, a daughter and grandchildren, including former cabinet minister and BJP leader Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar. His last rites were to be performed at his hometown Nilanga in Latur district on late on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ex-cm-nilangekar-passes-away-after-covid-recovery/articleshow/77378525.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Delay in admission, testing of symptomatic people a worry||KOCHI: With the number of Covid-19 cases and clusters increasing in the district, there is a delay in shifting symptomatic people to hospitals or subjecting them to tests. Shortage of healthcare staff and testing facilities has been posing a threat of increasing the pace of disease spread in many parts. In many parts of Kochi, people under quarantine are being subjected to diagnostic tests three to seven days after informing health department and other agencies involved in Covid control activities. “Last week, we sent a few people to private hospitals for tests. We had brought these cases to the notice of the health department. As authorities failed to conduct tests or facilitate it even after a week, we sent symptomatic people to private hospitals,” said Vijyakumar, councillor, Devankulangara division, Kochi corporation. “Three of them tested positive and were sent to Covid hospitals later,” he said. According to officials with district health department, formation of large clusters in the district has forced them to shift their focus to such areas. “There are four large clusters in Ernakulam district. We have to conduct more tests in those areas. Moreover, all those who have symptoms are subjected to RT-PCR test. As of now, RT-PCR testing facility is available only at Government Medical College, Ernakulam,” said Dr N K Kuttappan, DMO. “We are collecting around 600 samples a day. So, there may be a bit of a delay in carrying out the tests. One more RT-PCR testing facility will soon be opened at Regional Public Laboratory,” he said. “At the same time, antigen-based tests are being held at taluk hospitals,” he added. The number of ambulances and drivers deployed for transporting patients or suspected cases to hospitals has also come down. During April-May, there were around 55 ambulances for the purpose in the district. Now, it has decreased to less than 30. In the case of a 65-year-old man from Fort Kochi who died a couple of days ago of Covid-19, it took hours to shift the body to the hospital. As of now, district administration along with agencies like IMA is coordinating activities like shifting of patients. There is a demand that a decentralised mechanism to shift patients to hospitals should be in place. If more regionalised centres are started, coordination will be more effective. This can avoid delay in conducting tests and transporting patients. “We are planning to decentralise all activities as much as possible. We are also planning to extend antigen test facilities to community health centres and public health centres too,” he said. Training for staff in PHCs and CHCs in this regard has already been started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delay-in-admission-testing-of-symptomatic-people-a-worry/articleshow/77379777.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Crowdfunding scam: Another case filed against duo||HYDERABAD: Two persons were booked by Bahadurpura police on Tuesday for collecting money through crowdfunding on the pretext of providing urgent treatment to ailing persons . The accused, Salman Khan (29), chief of an unregistered NGO called Hyderabad Youth Courage, and Syed Ayub (31), organiser of the NGO, had been arrested by Chandrayangutta police in a similar case only a fortnight ago. The complainant, Syed Imran Ali from MO Colony in Bahadurpura, saw a video on the social media account of Hyderabad Youth Courage (HYC) in May showing a woman with her son in a hospital, crying for help. “With an intention to help the family, I reached out to Salman Khan and called him to my office at Bahadurpura. He made me speak to the patient from his phone,” said the complainant. Imran Ali transferred Rs 3 lakh to Salman, after raising the money through his friends. Later, Imran Ali found the group had allegedly collected Rs 40 lakh from various persons. He learnt that only Rs 5 lakh were given to the family, while Salman and Syed Ayub kept the rest. The police registered a case against the duo for criminal breach of trust and cheating, based on Imran’s complaint. In the earlier case, Salman had posted a video seeking help for a woman suffering from a chronic ailment. In the video, he mentioned the bank account number of her relative, Asra Begum, for collecting donations. The police had said that within three days, donations of lakhs of rupees were made to the account. Asra transferred Rs 15 lakh to Salman’s bank account and Rs 15 lakh into the account of Rasheed, a relative of Ayub. She kept the balance Rs 16 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crowdfunding-scam-another-case-filed-against-duo/articleshow/77381248.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ayodhya event: Celebrations across Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Many people across the city hailed the laying of the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, on Wednesday. Ramdhuns, or devotional songs praising Lord Ram, were played from a number of temples. VHP and Bajrang Dal volunteers set off firecrackers and at the VHP office in Paldi, as the Ayodhya programme was played on a big screen. The BJP also organized the screening of the Ayodhya ceremony at its state headquarters Kamalam and at its city headquarters in Khanpur. Meanwhile, police booked 14 persons for holding a procession to welcome the construction of the Ram temple without permission. For the family members of kar sevaks who were killed in the Sabarmati Express carnage in Godhra in 2002, the ceremony in Ayodhya brought a sense of closure. Their kin were returning from Ayodhya when the incident took place in February 2002. In all, 59 persons, including kar sevaks, were killed. Although the kin were unhappy that none of them had been invited to Ayodhya, most watched the ‘shilanyas’ ceremony live on television at their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/celebrations-across-city/articleshow/77381346.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rain and relief fall on city||Ahmedabad: The city was lashed by rain and relief on Wednesday evening. The rainfall average was 2.5mm. Bodakdev and Gota received 6.5mm and 5.5mm rainfall respectively. Civic officials said that since the rain was not heavy, there were no reports of waterlogging or of trees being uprooted. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday said that there could be heavy rainfall across the state over the next three days. According to the forecast, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Navsari and Valsad on Thursday.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rain-and-relief-fall-on-city/articleshow/77381340.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||Youth platform, blood banks launch on drive to replenish reserves||Vadodara: As blood banks are running dry in the fight against Covid-19, city-based voluntary organizations have embarked on a drive to replenish the reserves. City’s youth platform - Chhatra Sansad – on Sunday kicked off a campaign to organize blood camps across the city. “In the first camp, 50 people donated blood. We organizing the camp by following all guidelines of social distancing. Doctors also carried out free medical check-ups of citizens,” said its senior vice-president Aditya Vegda. “We have partnered with Indu Blood Bank, Jalaram Blood Bank and Narhari Blood Bank and are in touch with hospitals. We will organize 11 more camps every Sunday. Our effort is to cover each and every part of the city to ensure that blood banks don’t run out of blood,” he said. The youth platform had sent out appeals to citizens to donate blood and help save lives of their fellow brothers and sisters in the spirit of ‘Raksha Bandhan’, ‘Eid’ and ‘Ganesh Chaturthi’. The future camps will be held in Karelibaug, Diwalipura, near Kamati Baug, Akota and Waghodia-Dabhoi Ring Road among other areas. “To eliminate the risk of infection, we are scheduling the donors with fixed appointments so that not more than 20 people gather at the camp at one point of time,” he said. The youngsters will be conducting a plasma drive which will also include anti-body tests. In association with hospitals, plasma from Covid-19 recovered patients willing to donate will be collected to help those in critical state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-platform-blood-banks-launch-on-drive-to-replenish-reserves/articleshow/77378883.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Business||30% hike in green leaf tea prices brings cheer to Nilgiris farmers||Udhagamandalam: Nearly a 30% hike in the price of green leaf tea has brought cheer to small tea farmers in the Nilgiris. The Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Ltd (Indcoserve) has raised the price of green leaf tea to Rs 22 per kg for August. Earlier, this rate was fixed between Rs 14-Rs 17 per kg. The Tea Board of India (south) has fixed 20.99 for each kg of green leaf tea. The surge in price is attributed to floods in northeastern states, among other factors.Supriya Sahu, CEO, Indcoserve, said, “An upswing in the market has helped to achieve a record high for tea auctions last month”. Teaserve, an exclusive tea auction platform, saw Indco tea fetching a high of 158 per kg. The average sale price for leaf-grade tea stood between Rs 122- Rs 132. “It is a record in the history of Teaserve,” said Supriya Sahu, CEO, Indcoserve. The high price is due to the appointment of 4 quality officers, apart from training and orientation programmes for officials and tea makers of cooperative tea factories. “We also explored new markets and exported 1,250 metric tonnes of tea to Kerala as part of special Covid supply,” said Sahu.Around 26,000 small tea farmers are attached to 16 Indco tea factories located in various places across the hill district. M Balaji, executive director, Tea Board (south) said, “Supply of tea has dipped in the market. There are multi-various factors for the short supply. One among them is floods in northeast states”.He added, “Due to Covid, demand for tea has gone up. Also, tightening up the quality of made-tea has fetched the high price in auction centres that has been distributed to small tea growers”.There are about 46,653 small tea growers in the Nilgiris cultivating tea in about 34, 282 acres, as per record available with Tea Board.B J Balasubramaniam, a small tea grower said, “It is a welcome sign for small tea growers. The concerned officials should take measures to sustain the green leaf tea price in the interest of the small tea growers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/30-hike-in-green-leaf-tea-prices-brings-cheer-to-nilgiris-farmers/articleshow/77379760.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB gives 37 tmc to Telangana, 17 tmc to Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: To meet irrigation and drinking water requirements of the two Telugu states, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has allocated 37.67 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) and 17 tmcft to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh respectively. The board also rejected Telangana’s request to allocate an additional 7.7 tmc ft from Srisailam. The present allocations have been made by the board based on indents submitted by the states and also availability of water in the Krishna river. The board turned down the Telangana government’s request to consider and release additional 7.7 tmc ft to meet the requirement up to August from Srisailam as it could not utilise the water allocated in 2019-2020 water year. However, AP irrigation officials objected to the plea, saying the previous allocation period had expired on May 31, 2020, whether the state used it or not. KRMB member secretary Harikesh Meena said the issue would be discussed by the three-member committee later separately. Telangana can utilise 22 tmc ft for Nagarjuna Sagar left canal and Alimineti Madhava Reddy project, while 7.7 tmc ft can be used for drinking water requirements of Hyderabad and Mission Bhagiratha to provide drinking water to villages around the city. Seven more tmc ft could be used for irrigation under Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy lift irrigation project. For AP of the 17 tmcft, nine tmc ft have been allocated for ayacut under Pothireddypadu project, including Chennai water supply (Telugu Ganga project), eight tmc ft for Handri-Neeva project. “The requirements of both states include water utilised by them since June 1. The indents now approved by KRMB should be measured and accounted for at outlets. The project chief engineers have to take responsibility for meeting the requirements of states and actual water delivered to each should be reported to the board. They should not exceed the indent approved now,” the KRMB member secretary said in his order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-gives-37-tmc-to-t-17-tmc-to-andhra/articleshow/77381328.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Shun corporate hospitals, says T Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Wednesday advised people in Siddipet not to go to corporate hospitals when Covid-19 treatment and facilities are available for free in government hospitals. The minister said government doctors, nurses and staff are working tirelessly for affected people during the pandemic. Harish said he had requested health minister Eatala Rajender to provide Remdesivir to Siddipet, to which he had agreed. “In emergency situations, a patient may need five or six doses and this will cost about Rs 25,000. The injections are being supplied free of cost by the government for treatment,” he said. The government would set up RT-PCR centres in all districts, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-shun-corporate-hospitals/articleshow/77381275.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Help pours in for cop’s kin after Rs 16 lakh medical bill shocker||KOLKATA: After the death of a Covid warrior cop, who battled the virus for over three weeks at three different hospitals, his colleagues in Kolkata Police have decided to extend their support to his family and arrange for the payment of his medical bill of Rs 16 lakh. The 46-year-old constable, Dipankar Sarkar, who had been hospitalized for 25 days — 18 among those days were spent on ventilation —passed away last Sunday. His colleagues at the Jorabagan traffic guard will hold a special condolence meeting on Thursday at Haryana Bhawan, where they plan to hand over a cheque of Rs 1.5 lakhto Sarkar’s wife Priyanka, a physics teacher, as a token for respect for their deceased collegaue. The money was collected entirely from the officers of this traffic guard. The top brass of police may attend the condolence meeting. “He was our colleague and a Covid warrior who had fought from the front. We were looking at various ways to stand beside the family now,” said an officer from the Jorabagan traffic guard. The Lalbazar welfare cell has already gone on an overdrive to ensure the Covid warrior’s insurance is released at the earliest. The cheque of Rs 1.5 lakh as interim assistance will be handed to his wife. An additional Rs 10 lakh will be given to her shortly, under Bengal government’s special insurance scheme, said a source. All the families of seven other cops, who lost their lives due to Covid-19, are receiving a similar compensation. A drug manufacturer, too, has expressed his wish to help the cop’s family financially. Even a multi-speciality hospital off E M Bypass, where Sarkar was treated, has waived a significant amount of the bill and said the outstanding amount could be paid at a convenient time. “The total bill was close to Rs 16 lakh. The hospital has reduced it to Rs 13 lakh. The family has already paid half of the amount and Lalbazar is ensuring that Sarkar’s own insurance covers the entire hospitalization cost,” said an officer from the traffic guard. Priyanka said she had been assured of all assistance by Kolkata Police. “I have been assured of all help by his colleagues. I might have to sign some documents once I am at his office. I want to continue with my present job as a physics teacher. I have a 10-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son and I want to secure their future,” she said. The victim, who was the personal guard to the Jorabagan traffic guard additional OC, became the eighth Covid victim from Kolkata Police and the fourth from the traffic wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/help-pours-in-for-cops-kin-after-rs-16l-med-bill-shocker/articleshow/77381358.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||Three arrested in Pilibhit for attack on SSB team||PILIBHIT: Police in Pilibhit’s Hajara area have arrested three villagers for allegedly attacking a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) patrol team on July 31. An SSB jawan was injured in the attack. Police had booked five named and 12 unnamed people in connection with the attack. The team which came under attack was from Tatarganj border outpost at Nepal border. According to the accused, the SSB men passed “some lewd remarks” which led to the attack. When contacted, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said that police will include any disclosure of nabbed accused as part of investigation if given to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-arrested-in-pilibhit-for-attack-on-ssb-team/articleshow/77378545.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||High alert as Srisailam, Jurala to see heavy inflows||HYDERABAD: Two major projects on Krishna river basin — Jurala and Srisailam — are likely to get heavy inflows from upstream Alamatti and Narayanpur dams in the next few days. The irrigation department on Wednesday sounded a high alert and asked engineers of respective projects to take measures. Irrigation officials said the Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a warning to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka saying Mahabaleshwar, Koyana dam and other catchments areas have been receiving heavy rainfall and some dams have reached full reservoir levels and water is released from the projects. As a result of heavy inflows in Krishna river, apart from various dams in Karnataka, Alamatti is expected to get huge inflows in the coming days. The CWC said: “The increase in inflows are expectedly rise rapidly from August 6. Since Narayanpur dam, downstream of Almatti, is nearly full reservoir level, necessary pre-depletion plan can be done from Narayanpur.” Telangana government said if water is released as part of depletion from Narayanpur, both Jurala and Srisailam will get heavy inflows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-alert-as-srisailam-jurala-to-see-heavy-inflows/articleshow/77381350.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||ED likely to attach more property soon||Lucknow: The enforcement directorate (ED) team probing the ‘Bike Bot’ scam is soon likely to attach properties worth Rs 100 crore of movable and immovable assets Earlier, the Lucknow Zonal Office of ED had on July 20 attached 26 immovable properties worth over Rs 101 crore and bank balances totalling over Rs 2 crore in 22 accounts of owners and partners of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL). ED sources on Wednesday said that more assets have been traced which would be attached soon. The value of those assets was being analysed, officials said. ED has also identified immovable properties situated in Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Kanpur and Indore, in the name of Garvit Innovative Promoters Ltd. ED is also coordinating with the EOW, UP Police in the matter, said an ED officer. Sanjay Bhati, owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), had conned several persons after floating a “multi-level marketing scheme” called ‘Bike Bot’, which promised to double people’s investment. The plans were floated by Garvit in August 2017 and the collection of money from investors, customers and repayments to them continued till early 2019. Promoters had opened multiple offices. The first FIR against GIPL was in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-likely-to-attach-more-property-soon/articleshow/77383022.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wild ass population surges by 37% to 6,082 in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Indian wild ass population has risen by 37%, reveals data released by the Gujarat forest department. The population has reached 6,082, according to the census conducted in March this year. The data was released on Tuesday. Gujarat, the world’s only abode of Asiatic lions, is also the sole home of Indian wild asses. The last Indian wild ass census was carried out in 2014; the population then stood at 4,451. The Wild Ass Sanctuary in the Little Rann of Kutch was added to the tentative list of Unesco’s Natural World Heritage Sites in 2006. Indian wild asses have been pulled back from the brink of extinction with years of effort. Therefore, the data published on Tuesday is heartening. It indicates that the current population spike is the second highest since 1999 when there was an increase of 36.9% over 1990’s figures. In 1999, Gujarat had 2,839 wild asses compared to 2,075 in 1990. The data shows that in terms of absolute numbers, the increase of 1,631 — from 2014 to 2020 — is the biggest jump since 1969 when the forest department began population estimation. In his paper published in the year 2000, wildlife expert H S Singh had stated that about six decades previously, the Little Rann of Kutch was home to 2,000 wild asses. In 1958 and 1960, a disease called surra took a heavy toll on the wild ass population. In November-December 1961, some wild asses died due to an outbreak of the South African horse sickness. The population dwindled to 870 animals in 1962. Officials of the forest department said that the wild ass population is spread across an area of 15,000 sq km in the Little Rann of Kutch. The animals have also been spotted in Ahmedabad district in Nalsarovar and Viramgam. The officials said that 70% of the 6,082 wild asses were sighted in small groups (3-20) and medium-sized groups (21-40). The remaining 30% were found in big groups of 40 or more animals. The estimation paper recommended that a habitat map be prepared with the help of Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatics. Habitat improvement has also been advised. The paper suggested that the entry of people and vehicles be restricted with the establishment of check posts. The development of pilgrimage centres should be regulated in areas containing wild ass groups, the paper said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wild-ass-numbers-up-37-in-six-years/articleshow/77381354.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid warrior Bidhannagar councillor dies||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Ward 6 councillor Subhash Bose (63) died on Wednesday morning. According to civic officials, Bose had tested positive for Covid and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The Bidhannagar corporation area recorded 102 new Covid cases on Wednesday. A kidney-ailment patient, Bose reportedly had fever for some time and was hospitalized 12 days ago; his Covid result came positive. Sources said his wife and son were also hospitalised with Covid symptoms. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “Saddened at the demise of our colleague and councillor of Ward 6, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Subhash Bose. One of the many brave souls who risked his life while working in the frontline. My condolences to his family, well wishers and friends.” State urban development minister Firhad Hakim also tweeted, expressing his condolences for the bereaved family and saying Bose always stood by his people and worked for them. Ever since the lockdown strated in March, Bose had helping out the poor and the affected. “He was actively involved in conducting Covid awareness campaigns, distributing food among the poor and reaching out to Covid-affected families in his wards,” said an official.  Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty pointed out the civic body had been taking all measures to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. “We are shocked. I pray this will make us stronger to carry on our fight against the coronavirus,” Chakraborty said, adding a memorial would be held at Bidhannagar Poura Bhavan from 2pm to 5pm on Thursday. The Bidhannagar civic area has so far recoded 2,297 Covid cases, 1,097 active cases and 41 deaths. Bidhannagar MMiC (health) Pranay Roy said they were conducting a Covid test camp at the Central Park sports complex and another testing centre is being planned to open on the Rajarhat side. “We are urging people to follow safety measures, like using masks and washing hands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-warrior-bidhannagar-councillor-dies/articleshow/77381342.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Surat||Three held for stealing car under pretext of test ride||SURAT: Police held three persons on Wednesday for allegedly stealing a car worth Rs 10 lakh under the pretext of taking a test ride. Khatodara police have nabbed Nikunj Bathwar (30), Darshan Chawda (21), and Bhautik Bodhani (23) for allegedly stealing the car of Sourav More, a resident of Vesu. The accused were nabbed from Varachha when they were searching for a buyer for the stolen car. Police have recovered the stolen car as well. The accused will be arrested after their Covid-19 tests results arrive. More wanted to sell his used car, a Tata Nixon for which he put up an advertisement on a website. Chawda contacted More and requested for a test ride. Bathwar and Bodhani met More near E-Space mall on August 1 for the test ride. Bathwar sat on the driver’s seat while More sat next to him and Bodhani got into the back seat. When they reached near Bhagwan Mahavir College, Bathwar asked More to come on the driver’s seat. As soon as More got down, Bathwar drove off with the car. Since the car’s keys were with its owner the vehicle turned off automatically when they reached Puna area, police said. When the car stopped in the middle of the road, the accused called a crane service to pull the car on side of the road. Later the accused removed both registration plates and went to search for buyers in Varachha, when police nabbed them. “The accused are jobless and wanted to make quick money. It seemed this was their first attempt at car theft,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-held-for-stealing-car-under-pretext-of-test-ride/articleshow/77379810.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Two arrested for sexually assaulting minor girl||Coimbatore: Two youths were arrested on Wednesday for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl near Kavundampalayam a few days ago. Police identified the accused as K Sathish, 20, and M Santhosh, 23, of Kavundampalayam. The duo had befriended the victim, a school dropout, a few months ago. An investigation officer said, “On Monday late evening, Santhosh called up the minor girl and asked her to meet him at Kavundampalayam. When she reached the spot, the two took her to an isolated place and sexually assaulted her.” The girl lodged a complaint with the Thudiyalur police, who booked a case under Sections 5(g) , 5(l) read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) Act and arrested the duo. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/77381391.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 13 deaths, 2,000 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 2,012 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths over the last 24 hours, even as authorities scaled up testing across the state. While the entire coronavirus caseload stood at 70,956, the death toll rose to 576. The state recorded 21,118 samples tested on Wednesday, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 5.22 lakh. Among the districts, Medchal Malkajgiri, Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Warangal Urban recorded between 100 to 200 cases, while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded the maximum cases in the state with 532 cases. Other districts which recorded substantial numbers include Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Jogulamba Gadwal, Kamareddy, Karimnagar, Khammam and Bhadadri Kothagudem. Except Jangaon, all other districts in the state recorded new cases on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the state is nearing the 20,000 mark with 19,568 active cases, of which 12,938 patients are in home quarantine or institutional cases. Altogether 1,139 patients were declared recovered on Wednesday. With this over 50,000 patients have now recovered from the virus in the state. With the increasing number of cases across several districts, the bed availability at government facilities at a few locations hit rock bottom. At the district hospital in Kothagudem, Government General Hospital, Suryapet and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGM) Warangal, the bed availability came down to zero on Wednesday, while at the Kamareddy district hospital, the number of beds available came down to nine with most beds occupied by Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-13-deaths-2000-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77381306.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Amaravati||Three youths make Andhra Pradesh proud by cracking civils||AMARAVATI: The daughter of an employee in the agriculture market yard has cracked the civil services exams, whose results were declared on Tuesday. Kandela Pratima of Mangalagiri town secured 757 rank and expects to get into Indian Police Service (IPS) or Indian Revenue Service (IRS). While Pratima’s father Israil works in the agriculture market yard, her father-in-law Raheem runs a cold drink shop in Mangalagiri town. Pratima married her childhood friend Naheed after completing her graduation. Both Pratima and Nahed work in software firms in Hyderabad. Responding to the success of his daughter-in-law, Raheem told media on Wednesday, “It is not an easy task. She worked hard to achieve the rank.” It is Pratima’s second attempt, which landed her in the coveted service. “I am expecting either IPS or IRS,” said Pratima. Both Pratima and Naheed are from BPL families. Mangalagiri legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy met Raheem and congratulated him on the success of his daughter-in-law. He spoke to Pratima and encouraged her to appear for civil services once again to get into Indian Administrative Service (IAS). Meanwhile, locals of Pedaparimi village in Thullur mandal celebrated the success of their village boy Mallavarapu Suryateja, who secured 76th rank and is most likely to get IAS. He is the topper from AP. Suryateja’s father Srinivasa Rao passed away while working as assistant director in the Labour Bureau. Mother Sandhya Rani motivated him to crack the civil service. He worked in a top IT firm for four years and quit the job in 2018 to prepare for the exam. Another youth, Gorijala Mohan Krishna, from Guntur city has also cracked the civils and has bagged 283th rank. Mohan Krishna’s father Karuna Ramana Babu works as a manager in a private courier firm while his mother Bhavani is a retired lecturer. Although, Mohan Krishna got offers from several MNCs after completing graduation from Mumbai IIT, he set his focus on civils and finally achieved his dream. He cleared the premier exam in his fourth attempt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/three-youths-make-ap-proud-by-cracking-civils/articleshow/77379809.cms||Samdani MN
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Be brief to be successful: Gujarat HC to lawyers||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has given young lawyers a success mantra, and appealed them to not make unnecessarily prolonged arguments and waste the court’s time, saying they should know where to stop. The high court was anguished at lengthy arguments by lawyers wasting the court’s precious time. It said that even if a lawyer eats up 15 extra minute in a session, “the effective judge strength of the courts is reduced by at least one judge” at the end of the month. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala made the appeal after a lawyer took long to finish his arguments after the court’s indication that his case was weak. The judges advised, “Any lawyer to be successful should keep in mind the three elementary principles of advocacy : (i) what to argue, (ii) what not to argue, and (iii) where to draw a line and stop. It is essential for any up and coming lawyer to keep these three elementary principles of advocacy in mind.” The court said if lawyers make “unnecessary prolonged submissions” for 15 minutes each in one session, it will result in thed loss of at least two full working days a month. “If this happens in ten courts, the loss would be twenty working days of one court which means the effective judge strength of the courts is reduced by at least one judge, if all these were single judge benches. All this at whose cost?” the court questioned. The court stressed the need for a work culture where “the judges feel obliged to take up causes and ensure that public time is not unnecessarily wasted and lawyers cooperate in the proceedings by their active and effective participation, avoiding unnecessary prolonged arguments without any justifiable reasons”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-lawyers-be-brief-to-be-successful/articleshow/77381390.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Boats capsize in Pukkaad amid heavy rain, 3 missing||Kochi: Three people went missing after two country boats capsized at Pukkaad in Elamkunnapuzha in the early hours of Wednesday. According to police, four people in two boats had gone fishing in the Vembanand lake and their boats capsized in the strong winds amid heavy rain around 2am. While one person managed to swim back to shore, three were washed away. The missing persons have been identified as K S Sajeevan (57) of Pachalam, Sidharthan (54) of Elamkunnapuzha and Santhosh (45) of Nayarambalam. Saaju T S, from Karuthedath managed to escape. Scuba teams of Vypeen fire force unit were pressed into action to rescue the missing persons. “The fishermen used to drop ‘neetuvala’ in the lake so that fish would get stuck in the net through the night. Around 2am, they had gone to collect the fish that had entered the net. However, due to strong winds followed by heavy rain both the boats capsized. They were a few kilometres away from the shore and there was strong undercurrents,” said a fire force official. He added that no one was around to rescue them. “Though the incident happened in the early hours, we came to know about it only after the man who managed to swim ashore. Though he too got washed away, he managed to hold on to a wooden trunk and stayed afloat till the winds receded. He then swam ashore and alerted residents,” said the official. Though fire force personnel searched through the day, the missing persons couldn’t be traced. “Residents say due to strong undercurrents, they could’ve been washed away to farther locations,” said a fire force official. Fire force officials, meanwhile, had a busy day on Wednesday as several trees were uprooted in strong winds. At KPCC junction, a traffic post fell on to Hospital Road and fire officials were called in to clear it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/boats-capsize-in-pukkaad-amid-heavy-rain-3-missing/articleshow/77379816.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||State cabinet lauds PM Modi’s efforts||Ahmedabad: The state cabinet met in the afternoon on Wednesday and passed a resolution congratulating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for laying the foundation stone for the Ayodhya Ram temple. Chief minister Vijay Rupani said in his statement: “PM Modi’s stone laying for the Ram Mandir is a historic moment and will give a new direction for nation building.” Rupani went on to say: “This grand temple will become the symbol of India’s unity and pride.” Amit Chavda, a Gujarat Congress leader, said in a statement: “The stone laying for the Ram Mandir at Lord Ram’s birthplace in Ayodhya is a welcome step.” Chavda went on to say: “In 1985, the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi initiated [the move] to open the doors of the Lord Ram temple. In 1989, stone laying of Ram Janmabhoomi was done by Rajiv Gandhi. People of the country remember his contribution to the Ram temple today.” Police stop celebrations A public programme to celebrate the Ayodhya ceremony was stopped by Amraiwadi police on Wednesday evening. Inspector N L Desai of the Amraiwadi police station said that cops came to know that some persons were going to organize a programme near Ankur School. “We called the organizers and told them that they cannot hold it because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As they agreed, we did not detain anyone,” Desai said. However, some locals said they had gathered to celebrate the event, but police arrived and dispersed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-cabinet-lauds-pm-modis-efforts/articleshow/77381401.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||MoD extends SCB elected body’s term||SECUNDERABAD: The ministry of defence (MoD) has for the second time in a row extended the tenure of the body of elected representatives of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) by another six months. SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy received a communication to this effect on Wednesday. The term of the eight elected members ended on February 10, before MoD extended it to August 10. With the second extension, the term will now end on February 10, 2021. Citing administrative compulsions as the reason for not conducting the elections, MoD deputy director (Q&C) Rajesh Kumar Sah, notified that the central government has extended term of all the 56 cantonment boards by another six months from August 10. The elections to SCB were held in 2015. A political analyst told TOI that Centre has extended the term as it may be planning to conduct the elections on party symbols. Apart from the ruling TRS, opposition parties, including Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress, are demanding that political parties should be allowed to compete in the cantonment board elections. Hours before the MoD orders were released, SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna met the top brass in the MoD in Delhi and urged them to extend the tenure of the elected representatives. “We welcome MoD’s decision to extend the term by another six months. Now we can complete all pending works,” Rama Krishan told TOI. The term of the eight elected members ended on February 10, before MoD extended it to August 10. With the second extension, the term will now end on February 10, 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mod-extends-scb-elected-bodys-term/articleshow/77381399.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||CSML seeks ideas to make Kochi cycle-friendly||KOCHI: To make the city cycle-friendly, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has come up with an initiative to invite suggestions from the public. CSML, which is taking part in Cycles 4 Change (C4C) challenge, will represent Kochi and develop infrastructure facilities and safe and cycling-friendly roads. Kochi is one of the 95 cities to have registered for C4C, an initiative of Smart Cities Mission by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is the knowledge partner of the Smart Cities Mission in conducting this challenge and guiding cities through it. Requesting people to share their ideas and suggestions to make the city a place of hassle free and comfort travel, CSML managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma said, “Smart Cities Mission Kochi is beckoning both tourists and residents of Kochi to the unexplored possibilities of cycling. Kochi is gearing up to participate in the C4C challenge. The lifestyle changes from machine to pedal will greatly enhance the health of the citizens and reduce the carbon footprint for a greener tomorrow. To address the hurdles in embracing cycling as an alternative mode of transport, this initiative intends to usher urban planning in the right direction.” The challenge will run in two stages. Stage one will run until October, where cities will pilot initiatives such as pop-up cycle lanes, host public consultations, conduct surveys, and hold campaigns to promote cycling, which will help develop a scale-up strategy. Based on the pilots and city-wide proposals submitted, 11 cities will be shortlisted in October for stage two. In this stage, they will be awarded Rs one crore and will be guided by national and international experts to scale-up the initiatives. This stage will extend till May 2021. The challenge has launched an online portal which features a page exclusively for this purpose titled ‘Support your city’. By filling the form on this page, interested citizens, civil society organisations (CSOs), students, consultants, and corporates can express their interest in working with the city for the challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-seeks-ideas-to-make-city-cycle-friendly/articleshow/77379843.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC seals eight commercial places, fines 1,300 persons||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in its drive to enforce Covid protocol sealed eight commercial establishments and fined 1,303 persons on Wednesday. Total fines collected during the drive on Wednesday amounted to Rs 6.5 lakh. The eight units sealed by AMC’s solid waste management department on Wednesday for not maintaining social distancing or wearing of masks include Brand Factory showroom in Danilimda, Enrich Hair and Skin Solutions Private limited in Maninagar, Equities Small Finance Bank, Reliance Digital, Hathi Masala all three situated on the 100ft Road in Prahladnagar. The team also sealed two bill collection centres of Torrent Power situated in Bapunagar and Naroda and a paan shop, Bansari Pan Parlour, situated in Vastrapur. AMC officials said there was overcrowding in almost all of the places that have been sealed, and there was no waiting space for customers. Any customer who walked in was given entry. At the bill collection centres there were long queues and the staff did not ensure social distancing. Moreover, at many of these places, customers were not wearing masks. AMC officials said currently establishments are required to maintain registers of all customers entering their premises, but currently they were not being maintained by the establishments. Harshad Solanki, the director of solid waste management department said, “The number of people moving without masks is increasing. Even increasing the fine to Rs 500 has had little effect. People from North Zone and West Zone account for nearly 40% of the total cases of not wearing masks. AMC officials said after a long time the number of people fined for not wearing masks has crossed 1,000 in a day. The officials said that they will intensify the drive against business establishments and those found not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-eight-commercial-places-fines-1-3k-persons/articleshow/77381404.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Registrar, others fined Rs 1 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the Mehsana district cooperatives registrar and other officials for taking hasty decisions to seize documents of the Visnangar Cooperative Society during lockdown. The case involved the Visnagar Taluka Cooperative Purchase and Sale Union Ltd. On complaints of irregularities, an order to re-audit accounts was passed earlier this month. However, due to a pending appeal, the registrar could not issue an order for seizure of documents till May. When it happened, the cooperative rushed to the HC through senior advocate Prakash Jani. As the HC took till June 16 to hear the petition filed on May 21 due to the lockdown, the state authorities swung into action and seized the documents from shelf of the cooperative’s office on May 26. Jani complained to the HC that the authorities took hasty decisions calculating that the cooperative was not in a position to get a quick remedy because of the lockdown. The cooperative challenged the order for re-audit and seizure of documents. After hearing the case, Justice Biren Vaishnav quashed the order for seizure of documents, but refused to junk the order for the re-audit of the accounts of the cooperative for the last four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/registrar-others-fined-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77381405.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Srikakulam cop suspended for assaulting Dalit man||VISAKHAPATNAM: A day after the video of a police inspector kicking and slapping a Dalit man in Srikakulam district went viral, the police top brass suspended him. The video of the inspector of Palasa-Kasibugga police station in Srikakulam district, C Venugopal kicking Marri Jagan from Tekkali on his stomach and slapping him in front of his mother at the police station, garnered widespread criticism from TDP leaders and Dalit organisations. Deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das instructed Srikakulam SP Amit Bardar and DIG (Visakha Range) LKV Ranga Rao to order a probe into the incident and take action against the erring police inspector. Meanwhile, the official handle of the Andhra Pradesh police tweeted that such highhanded behavior will not be accepted in the police department. As per reports, Jagan and his family-members had a dispute over land patta with some others in the village. On the evening of July 4, Jagan along with his mother went to the Kasibugga-Palasa police station to lodge a complaint. However, Venugopal got angry and attacked him. TDP leaders have accused the police of acting on the instructions of YSRC leaders and violating human rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/skakulam-cop-suspended-for-assaulting-dalit-man/articleshow/77379839.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Agra||106 more Covid-19 +ve cases in Bareilly district||Bareilly/Agra: At least 106 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Wednesday. The district tally has now surpassed the 3,000-mark. Besides, three people succumbed to the virus on Wednesday. Notably, Bareilly district has a total of 3,035 cases and 76 deaths. In Agra district, at least 35 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 1,963. These include three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 43 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 1,963 cases reported in the district, 80.18% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 289 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,574 people have recovered. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened and door-to-door checks are being conducted in the hotspot areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/106-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-bareilly-district/articleshow/77378565.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bareilly||Patrolling along Indo-Nepal border in UP intensified ahead of PM’s Ayodhya visit for Ram Temple bhoomi pujan||Bareilly/Pilibhit: Sashastra Seema Bal and Uttar Pradesh Police have intensified patrolling along the 551km-long Indo-Nepal border in the state ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to Ayodhya for Ram Temple bhoomi pujan on Wednesday. Senior police officers are keeping a tight vigil on movements along the border and have asked people living in villages adjoining the border to alert security officials if they come across any suspicious activity or element. The security arrangements across the state, especially in Ayodhya and on the Indo-Nepal border, beefed up after intelligence agencies warned of a possible terror attack during the ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5.Intensifying security arrangements, Pilibhit police has installed five barriers at different checking points along the 56km-long Indo-Nepal border in the district to prevent infiltration bid by anti-social elements in the Indian territory, while an additional barricade was erected on the Pilibhit-Lucknow highway for intensive checking of suspected vehicles. Deputy inspector general of police, Bareilly range, Rajesh Pandey, who has been camping in Pilibhit for the past three days, said, “I have been monitoring policing during Eid and Raksha Bandhan, but I have held the string of security and vigilance myself since Tuesday considering the high-profile ceremony in Ayodhya.”“I have patrolled the Indo-Nepal border stretch in the district along with police force and the SSB to take stock of the security arrangements and vigilance, which is capable to thwart any unlawful bid of infiltration,” said the DIG. “Besides, orders have been issued to take into custody a person who appears suspicious. The villagers have also been alerted to keep a close tab on the activities of unidentified persons and to alert police or SSB immediately if they come across any suspicious activity or element,” added the DIG.Pilibhit superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav said, “We will not allow any foreigner to go Ayodhya via Pilibhit without an authorised invitation. Policemen in civil dresses have been deployed in border villages to keep a tab on activities there, while barricades have been erected on roads leading to Nepal and Uttarakhand for checking vehicles and identification of people.”Both police and SSB personnel deployed on the Indo-Nepal border in Kheri are on their toes, keeping a tight vigil on suspicious activities, while forest officials have been alerted to remain vigilant and share information with security agencies if they find any suspicious movement in the forest area.Kheri ASP Arun Kumar Singh said, “Local police are in regular touch with SSB and even carrying out joint patrolling in the border areas. Following a security alert ahead of the ceremony in Ayodhya, the district borders have been sealed and the duty hours of policemen extended until the function gets over.” (With inputs from Kanwardeep Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/patrolling-along-indo-nepal-border-in-up-intensified-ahead-of-pms-ayodhya-visit-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77372735.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Jaipur||Order to probe Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in scam stayed||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Wednesday stayed the lower court order asking the SOG to investigate the role of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and his associates in the Rs 900-crore Sanjivani Cooperative Society scam. The single bench of Justice Satish Kumar Sharma issued the order on an appeal filed by Keval Chand Daklia seeking to quash the order by the ADJ court on July 21. While allowing the petition, the court on Wednesday said that the petitioners as well as victims of the fraud had to be given an opportunity for hearing. The court said there was no dispute over the agency continuing with the investigation under Section 173(8) of the IPC. Since the complainant in the lower court had pleaded to seize the properties of petitioner Keval Chand and others and demanded their arrest, the lower court order has been stayed till the final disposal of the petition. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/order-to-probe-shekhawat-in-scam-stayed/articleshow/77382576.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Agra||Agra smart city launches app for time-bound redressal of water supply complaints||Agra: A mobile app ‘Agra Sarvam Setu’ has been developed by the Agra smart city private limited (ASCPL) in association with the Agra municipal corporation (AMC) for registration and time-bound redressal of complaints related to drinking water. Local residents can lodge complaints about contaminated water or leakage in the pipeline. Complainants can check the status of their complaint in real-time. Agra smart city vice president Anand Menon said, “The Agra Sarvam Setu mobile application can be downloaded from the Google play store. The users have to first register on the App with their name, address, mobile number. At the time of login, an OTP will be sent to the registered mobile number which will further enable the user to have full access to the App.”“After mentioning the municipal ward number, the user will be able to register all water supply-related complaints on the mobile app. A complaint number will be generated and sent on the registered e-mail ID or mobile number of the user. The complaint will be directly forwarded to the engineer of the zone concerned. After time-bound redressal of the complaint, the user will be updated by an SMS.”Earlier, citizens had to call the Jal Sansthan for complaints. Due to poor monitoring by senior officials, complaints were never addressed on time. According to the civic body officials, the mobile app will fix the accountability of the engineers for redressal of public complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-smart-city-launches-app-for-time-bound-redressal-of-water-supply-complaints/articleshow/77378573.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets 10 years in prison for raping woman in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Nampally special sessions court on Wednesday sentenced a civil contractor to 10 years rigorous imprisonment. The convicted person raped a 32-year-old house wife under the Bowenpally police station limits in 2012. The contractor locked the woman at his residence for two days and raped her multiple times. Prosecution alleged that the convict’s accomplice used to lock the residence from outside. Two days after the victim went missing, her husband lodged a complaint with the police. The police raided the residence of the contractor and rescued the victim. “In the chargesheet, police declared the contractor and his accomplice as the accused. The trial was started by the court last year. The court convicted the contractor and acquitted his accomplice,’’ additional public prosecutor G Narayana told TOI. Special sessions judge for fast tracking the cases relating to atrocities against women, B Srinivas Rao, directed the convict to undergo 10 years rigorous imprisonment besides paying a fine of Rs 1 lakh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-10-yrs-in-prison-for-raping-woman/articleshow/77381410.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Digging norms eased for gas pipelines along roads||Nagpur: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has now further eased digging for underground compressed natural gas (CNG), piped natural gas (PNG) and slurry pipelines along the roads. Earlier, under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, laying of optical fibre cables (OFCs), telephone lines, drinking water supply pipelines, and electricity cables was allowed but not PNG/CNG and slurry pipelines. This meant they had to get separate clearances and also follow compensatory afforestation norms. Now, they have been included in the list. This also means that MoEFCC has exempted these projects from compensatory afforestation (CA). Instead, in case laying such pipelines involves felling of any trees, the user agency will have to plant 10 trees for each tree marked for removal in consultation with the local forest department. On July 27, 2020, MoEFCC issued an advisory in this regard. The Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) recommended that CA may not be levied in case of all such pipelines within the right of way of existing roads with trench size not more than two metres in depth and one metre in width. This would be applicable to roads not falling in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. “After a representation from Punjab government, where CNG/PNG projects are being implemented on large scale, MoEFCC made amends. Till now Baroda, Pune, Mumbai and a few other cities had implemented such projects. Punjab and Haryana are also biggest wheat and rice producing states and are going in for biofuel from husk which would be transported in slurry form,” said Chandigarh regional MoEFCC officials. Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani said, “Trend of according general approvals for projects carrying out non-forest activity on forest land is dilution of FCA and rules. The exemption of compensatory afforestation (CA) seems to have been taken to benefit user agencies. Who will monitor whether the agency is digging trench of same size as specified by the MoEFCC and number of trees felled and compensated?” “Not only CA condition, another relaxation is that in case the proposed area falls in the Right of Way of the road passing through national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, general approval is subject to prior permission from the state board for wildlife (SBWL) and the agencies now need not go to NBWL or NTCA,” said Jeswani. “Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, clearly prohibits destruction inside national parks and sanctuaries and therefore permitting such projects without wildlife clearance poses threat to wildlife and habitat,” he added. Times ViewThe extension of concession may appear a reasonable step because it comes with a rider of user agency having to plant 10 trees for each one they fell. The loophole is that nobody has been enjoined to monitor whether those trees are actually planted. Given the history of default in this area by all agencies, it is almost a given that no trees would be planted. The concession will mean another step towards environmental degradation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/digging-norms-eased-for-gas-pipelines-along-roads/articleshow/77381429.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Deformities due to bone, joint diseases can be prevented: Docs||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Orthopaedic Association (TNOA) is creating awareness on how deformities due to degenerative bone and joint diseases could be prevented. With the average life expectancy expected to increase to 71 in 2025 and 77 in 2050, orthopaedic surgeons say there is going to a gradual but massive increase in the number of people above 60 years in the country. In the 2011 population census, there were 104 million people above 60 in the country. Dr S Rajasekhar, director, orthopaedic and spine surgery department, Ganga Hospital, says, “With the increase in longevity, degenerative bone and joint disease has become one of the most disabling illness and therapeutic challenges.” Doctors say degenerative bone and joint diseases include osteoarthritis, obesity and overweight related musculoskeletal disorders and malalignment due to deformities of the limb and injuries sustained during childhood. Dr C Rex, executive committee member, TNOA, says, “Many young children develop bow legs or knocked knees due to vitamin D and other nutritional deficiencies. This can be corrected by changing their nutrition, adding calcium supplements, physiotherapy and surgery, if required.” Osteoarthritis, which affects 163 out of every 1 lakh women, could be delayed, if detected at an early stage, with medicines. “Osteoporosis, which manifests in severe back pains, can be corrected in the early stage with posture correction, wearing braces and changing lifestyles, by preventing development of hunch banks,” the orthopaedic surgeon said. Malalignment of limbs occurs when limbs abnormally heal after a fracture, which require surgical correction. “Point is all the above issues, which affect old people, can be corrected with medications, braces, medicines, physiotherapy and most importantly lifestyle changes in terms of food habits and exercise. People don’t have to live with deformities,” the orthopaedic association members said. The Bone and Joint Day was on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/deformities-due-to-bone-joint-diseases-can-be-prevented-docs/articleshow/77381407.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Gyms, studios reopen, response tepid||AHMEDABAD: With over four months of remaining closed, gyms, fitness centres and yoga studios finally resumed operations across Gujarat, after a fresh set of guidelines were issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, and subsequently, the state government. While some gyms were unable to reopen due to steep losses in business suffered over the past few months, most others opened under a new normal on Wednesday. According to the guidelines, gyms can have only 25% of the actual capacity of persons at any given point in time. While gyms resumed, the overall response was lukewarm. “We have resumed but the client footfall was limited. Only a handful of those who have signed up with us on an annual contract visited us. We don’t know how the business will pan out in the coming few months,” said a city-based gym owner. Mrunal Ved, founder of another personal fitness training centre, said, “Some 14 clients walked in today and a few were apprehensive initially, but looking at the arrangements, they went home with confidence about their safety and are willing to resume on a regular basis..” Gyms have procured spraying guns, sanitizers so that the equipment is sanitized after each use. However, despite the relaxation by the government, some have still chosen not to resume. Deepti Jindal, founder of a city-based yoga studio, said, “I have decided to wait it out for at least two more months before resuming. Given the rise in number of cases, I don’t think it is a good idea to resume and give people an excuse to gather in one place. It is in their best interest to be at home. We will continue giving online sessions to our client, like we did through the lockdown.” “We don’t want to violate social distancing or any other norms and therefore, we have not resumed fully as yet. We invited a limited number of our regular clients for rehearsal under a new normal and after a few days of putting the processes in place, we will resume,” said Akshay Das, a city-based gym owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gyms-studios-reopen-response-tepid/articleshow/77381417.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||With 105 new cases, another Covid-19 high in Vadodara||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases recorded in the city made yet another peak with 105 persons testing positive for the viral infection since Tuesday evening. Of these, 50 persons were from the southern parts of the city itself. The 105 cases included 78 from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits and the remaining 27 from areas of the Vadodara district outside VMC limits. Of the 78 cases in VMC limits, 50 were from the south zone of VMC raising concern. The remaining cases in the city included 16 from the west zone, eight from the east zone and four from the north zone of the VMC. The areas from where cases were reported in VMC limits included Manjalpur, Kapurai, Soma Talav, Makarpura, Tarsali, Akota, Fatehpura, Vadsar, Kalali, Navayard, Gorwa, Subhanpura, Ellora Park, Gotri, Tandalja, Wadi, Alkapuri, Warasiya, Ajwa Road and Waghodiya Road. The 27 cases in rural areas of the district including the outskirts of the city were from Dabhoi, Padra, Karjan, Rustampura, Kotna, Dashrath, Sokhda, Sevasi, Ranoli and Sankarda. VMC also confirmed three more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. With these, the total number of such deaths reached 99. These do not include deaths of Covid-19 positive persons who also had co-morbidities that were established as the primary reason for death. Eighty persons were discharged from various hospitals or home isolation in the city taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 3,990. This leaves 1,063 persons under treatment including 58 on BiPAP machines or ventilators and 153 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/with-105-new-cases-another-covid-19-high-in-vadodara/articleshow/77378950.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC respite to over 1,600 ZP contractual employees across state||Nagpur: In a respite to about 1,600 contractual employees working with various Zilla Parishads (ZPs) across Maharashtra, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court granted an interim stay to termination of such staffers working under the ‘District Water and Sanitation Mission’ in the city. While staying the July 27 communication issued by desk officer of the state department of water supply and sanitation directing all ZPs to terminate services of all contractual employees, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor issued notices to respondents, including centre and state governments, asking them to reply by Friday. The petition was filed by ‘Zilla Parishad Pani Swachata Va Itar Shasakiya Kantrati Karmachari Sangha’ (Association of Contractual Employees Working in ZPs under the District Water and Sanitation Mission) and others challenging the July 27 termination orders of all such employees. Pleading on behalf of aggrieved petitioners, senior counsel Anand Jaiswal and Deoul Pathak contended that these workers were working for over a decade on contractual assignments under various government schemes. They pointed out that the state cabinet had taken a decision to continue ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ and complete water supply work by 2024, in its meeting on July 8, and therefore, the work was available for such employees. “The Water Supply and Sanitation department’s communication has no mention of authority, who issued directives to terminate services of contractual employees. It also doesn’t fulfil the pre-condition of Clause-4 of the agreement for termination,” the lawyers argued. “We’ve gone through the record. Prima facie, we’re of the opinion that the desk officer while issuing communication didn’t disclose the source of direction to terminate employees’ services. Moreover, it doesn’t fulfil the pre-condition of agreement and there’s no mention that work is unavailable,” the judges said before granting a stay. The judges pointed out that Chandrapur and Gadchiroli ZPs chief executive officers (CEOs) had already made a request to the government to continue employees’ services looking to work availability. “HC’s Aurangabad bench already granted a stay to termination of such employees filed by a non-member. In the said backdrop, we’re inclined to grant ad-interim stay to termination till returnable date,” they noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-respite-to-over-1600-zp-contractual-employees-across-state/articleshow/77382286.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Azharuddin, Khode make the UPSC grade||Nagpur: Securing AIR 315 in UPSC 2019 exams, Azharuddin Quazi from Yavatmal brought laurels to Vidarbha region. Son of Zahiruddin, a taxi driver, Quazi graduated in commerce in 2009 and got selected as a probationary officer in Corporation Bank, Yavatmal. Starting out as an assistant manager in 2012 at the same bank, he served as the branch manager from 2014 to 2018. Quazi resigned from service in 2018 to prepare for UPSC. Speaking about his preparation, he said, “I had enrolled in Jamia Hamdard University, Delhi in 2018. They have residential coaching programmes for minority students so I underwent training there. This was my second attempt as I could not qualify in the interview during my first attempt in 2018. With my current rank, I’m hopeful of IAS and certain about IPS,” he added. Sameer Khode, AIR 551, credits his younger brother for this achievement. He said, “My younger brother is a UPSC aspirant so he guided me throughout. That was my first source of study material as well as motivation. Secondly, I relied heavily on newspapers, YouTube and other such sources of information as most of the subjects have a link with current affairs. This was my first attempt with preparation. I had given one attempt in 2013 but that was just to gauge what the exam is. I am currently working as a management consultant at Accenture Strategy. I used to travel to places in India, South Africa and elsewhere because of my job. So I was preparing from wherever I was,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/azharuddin-khode-make-the-upsc-grade/articleshow/77382240.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid deceased’s kin mob Mayo surgical complex, spread rumours||Nagpur: A mob of over 100 people allegedly instigated by relatives of a deceased from Tajabad created ruckus outside Mayo Hospital’s surgical complex, housing the Covid ward, soon after the critically-ill patient’s death. The incident took place on July 31 midnight even as volunteers from the community took custody of the body for burial as per norms. The relatives accused the hospital administration of running a kidney racket beside stealing ornaments of the 45-year-old Covid woman following her death. Some rumourmonger recorded the incident and made the videos viral accusing the IGGMCH of running a kidney racket in the Covid ward. Before tension simmered, doctors took the woman’s son near the ICU ward and showed him the body in the presence of a community leader from Mominpura. “Making an exception, the deceased’s son was taken inside the ward. He sought possession of a gold ring in the woman’s finger which was handed over and acknowledgement was taken. Shockingly, on coming out of the surgical complex, the son told his relatives and others that kidneys and ornament were missing. This led to widespread commotion till late night,” sources said. Senior doctors had a narrow escape as the crowd swelled and relatives started abusing them. The hospital staff alleged the deceased’s son made communally coloured remarks beside the kidney racket accusation. Some doctors belonging to the community too were summoned to quell the anger, but to no avail. Finally, the doctors informed police and the situation was brought under control. With increasing deaths from the community, doctors haven’t ruled out more such incidents and rumourmongering. The hospital is yet to take a call on filing an FIR with Tehsil police though videos of the incident have gone viral. Medical microbiologist Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who is coordinating Covid burials, released a counter-video allaying fears about any wrongdoing in hospitals. “Rumourmongers would be responsible for Covid deaths in case people hide their symptoms and don’t come to hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-deceaseds-kin-mob-mayo-surgical-complex-spread-rumours/articleshow/77382294.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Three children drown while playing near village tank in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Three children, all below the age of 10 years, drowned in a local tank at Narava village in Vizianagaram district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as G Manoj (9), R Sekhar (10) and R Vasu (8). Sekhar and Vasu were brothers while Manoj was their cousin. The police said the three children had gone to the tank to play and believe that they accidentally fell into the tank and drowned. Sources said that Manoj was a resident of Visakhapatnam city and had come to his relatives’ house in Narava with his family. The parents of the trio had gone to the fields in the morning. When they returned to the house in the evening they noticed that their children were nowhere to be found.  They then launched a search; unable to find them, they informed the Gantyada police, who finally recovered their bodies from the tank. Sub-inspector of Gantyada police station, Ganesh said they shifted the bodies to the government hospitals for post mortem and have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-children-drown-while-playing-near-village-tank/articleshow/77379861.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab okays 1.7 lakh smartphones for Class XII govt school students||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday paved the way for distribution of 1,73,823 smartphones by November to boys and girls of government schools, preparing to take their Class XII board exams this year through online education amid the Covid pandemic. Distribution of the first batch of 50,000 phones, which has already been received by the state government, will begin shortly. The phones will be equipped with various smart features such as touch screen, camera and pre-loaded government applications like ‘e-Sewa App’ with e-content related to Class XI and Class XII, as approved by department of school education. The second batch will be procured soon, and the entire distribution process will be completed by November, said an official spokesperson after a meeting of the state cabinet, which has approved the modalities for distribution. The cabinet noted that four months of the academic year 2020-21 had already elapsed without regular on-campus classes, and while private schools were undertaking online classes, the students of government schools faced a competitive disadvantage, especially those studying in Class XII. Though he had initially announced that the first batch of the smartphones, received just a few days ago, would be given to girls, chief minister Amarinder Singh said both boys and girls of Class XII government schools, who do not have smartphones to access the online classes, will be provided the same. This, he said, was necessary to ensure that these students do not suffer in the times of the pandemic due to lack of access to education. With this, the state government will fulfil yet another of its election promises and implement the scheme ‘The Punjab smart Connect scheme’ which it had announced in its budget for the 2018-19 financial year. The scheme was aimed at providing digital access to youth, as well as information regarding education, career opportunities, access to skill development opportunities, in addition to basic citizen-centric services through government applications etc. In a September 2019 meeting, the cabinet had decided to distribute mobile phones to about 1.6 lakh girl students not owning a smartphone and studying in classes XI and XII in government schools during the fiscal 2019-20. The contract was signed with M/s Lava International Ltd. after an open competitive bidding process. However, during the process of procurement and delivery of smart phones, the country was hit by Covid-19 pandemic and resultantly, the delivery and distribution of the smart phones could not take place in the academic year 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-okays-1-7l-smartphones-for-class-xii-govt-school-students/articleshow/77381425.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private hospitals in districts fight shy of Covid treatment, fear losing regular patients||HYDERABAD: Fear of losing non-Covid patients if they start Covid-19 treatment is what is stopping many private hospitals in districts from taking the requisite permission from the authorities, sources said. Private hospitals in Greater Hyderabad on the other hand are vying with one another to seek government permission to offer Covid treatment with an eye on raking in the moolah from hospital bills. Only five to six districts other than GHMC and Rangareddy district have a few private hospitals offering Covid-19 treatment in the state. “We have got permission to offer Covid-19 treatment. But, once the matter was known to public, we have seen a drop in visits of non-Covid patients to our hospital,” Dr Gopi Krishna, cardiologist with Hope private hospital in Nizamabad, said. He said they are now trying to locate Covid-19 wards away from the hospital and in some other premises. It’s the same story in other districts. Private hospital managements said awareness levels on Covid-19 are poor and hence, many are reluctant to begin the services. “In fact, doctors who have tested positive do not register themselves as doctors for giving Covid-19 samples as they do not want to lose out on patients once they recover,” said a top doctor from Nalgonda, who had tested positive for Covid-19. While district headquarters hospitals and community health centres have begun Covid-19 treatment, private hospitals continue to shy away, experts said. Since the cost of Covid treatment is high and salary payments to Covid-19 staff are high, the private hospital managements are not keen to take permission from the authorities, doctors said. “Only a few patients in districts can afford the high medical costs,” said a doctor. Some of the hospitals have expressed willingness to offer Covid services provided the government is willing to appoint outsourcing staff. “We have observed that those hospitals who have permission are also not willing to admit patients. Very few patients are taken only if they have money to spend for the treatment,” Dr B Sambasiva Rao, DMHO of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-hosps-in-dists-fight-shy-of-covidtreatment-fear-losing-regular-patients/articleshow/77381406.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Nalini will mourn a death on video call, not discuss US polls: Madras high court||CHENNAI: What security threat did the government apprehend in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convicts Nalini and her husband V Sriharan (also known as Murugan) making a condolence video call to Murugan’s mother in Sri Lanka, wondered the Madras high court on Wednesday. “They are just going to inquire about Murugan’s father’s death and not about American election,” a division bench of Justice M Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani said. The court made the observation while responding to the submission made by assistant solicitor-general of India G Karthikeyan that the life convicts could not be permitted to make video calls to Sri Lanka, as it would hamper the probe conducted by the multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) into the larger conspiracy of the assassination. Refusing to accept the contention, the judges directed Karthikeyan to ascertain the status of the MDMA and report to the court by August 19. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Nalini’s mother S Padma seeking to permit her daughter and her husband Murugan to make video calls to her mother-in-law in Sri Lanka and sister-in-law in London for at least 10 minutes daily. As the state opposed the plea, the bench on July 27 directed the Centre to ascertain as to whether the life convicts can be permitted at least once to make video calls to the latter’s mother in Sri Lanka, who is mourning the death of her husband on humanitarian ground. Earlier, the state opposed the plea and contended that there is no provision either in the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules or in government orders to allow a prisoner to make video calls or even voice calls to any person in any foreign country. It added that the issues involving a foreign country fall within the domain of the ministry of external affairs on which Tamil Nadu prison authorities or the Tamil Nadu government cannot take unilateral decisions. Therefore, the court impleaded the Union external affairs ministry as party respondent and asked it to consider the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-nalini-will-mourn-a-death-on-video-call-not-discuss-us-polls/articleshow/77513229.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Fifth design of Ponni & Oscar on new secretariat gets cabinet nod||HYDERABAD: Telangana state cabinet on Wednesday approved the Ponni & Oscar Architects’ design for construction of a new secretariat. The cabinet meeting led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao finally approved the fifth design prepared by Chennai-based architects. In the G+7 floor building, the chief minister’s chambers will now be on the seventh floor. The R&B department will prepare estimates for the new secretariat before proceeding for the tenders. The CM had held a series of meetings with R&B officials on the designs for the past few weeks. The cabinet also decided to encourage and promote the use of electrical vehicles (EVs) to reduce air pollution. Production of EVs will be encouraged by granting incentives under the Telangana state EV and energy storage solution policy. It has been decided to bring out a separate policy for welfare of migrant workers. The CM directed the officials to prepare a policy draft. The cabinet approved TSBPASS for a hassle-free and time-bound clearance for building permissions on the lines of industrial permissions under TSiPASS. A decision has been taken to utilise Doordarshan for telecasting online classes for school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fifth-design-of-ponni-oscar-on-new-sectt-gets-cabinet-nod/articleshow/77381442.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Gyms reopen, but fitness enthusiasts wary||MYSURU/MANGALURU: Nearly five months after fitness centres shut, some opened on Wednedsay following a green signal by the central government for resumption of activities under Unlock 3.0 guidelines. However, only a few turned up at several gymnasiums. Equipment have been rearranged to ensure distance of 6 feet and only 10 to15 can exercise for an hour. They have to book slots and carry their own water bottle, masks and sanitizers. Entry is allowed only if the body temperature is normal and interacting with other gym goers inside the studio is a strict no-no. Santosh, a regular at a gym here, is very happy with fitness centres opening. "I’m a fitness freak and physical exercise is most essential in these ties. However, the responsibility is on us to ensure we follow the safety protocol," he added. "It’s a challenging time for gym and fitness owners. We can’t expect fresh admission but have to provide service to existing members," says MS Harsha, president of Mysuru Gym and Fitness Owners Association. Harsha who owns a fitness centre says time slots have been fixed to ensure social distancing. "Our gyms in Siddarthalayout and Vijayanagar received about 50 members each in the morning session and we are hoping that it will be business like before, " he added. Mysuru city has close to 250 gyms and fitness centres and all its owners have taken it as a challenge to revive the fitness culture, explained the president appealing to property owners to exempt gym operators from paying rent till the year-end. In Mangaluru city, many are adopting a wait and watch policy and are likely to open next week depending on the response from fitness enthusiasts. One of the gyms to resume with a new normal in Mangaluru is Zuese Fitness Club which saw only 25 per cent of members returning to the exercise floor till afternoon. Rajesh P, managing director of the club told TOI there was demand from patrons to open the club. "Earlier every batch had about 60 to 70 members but the first day-first batch had less than 20 members. We have placed the equipment six feet apart. Each batch the time is reduced from 60 minutes to 45 minutes; the truncated time is used to sanitising the place and equipment," he explained. Apart from it, the club is planning to open its regular yoga and Zumba classes depending on the response. Rajesh said that the women turn out was a trickle. "The reason could be online classes for children. As a result, we have temporarily closed our ladies-only gym inAttavar," he explained. Another gym Atomm Fitness Club has decided to restart after August 10. Mahabala Punchathody of Yogarogya said that yoga lovers are asking yogis/yoginis to teach those asanas which strengthen respiratory systems such as pranayama, bhujangasana and others. "There is more demand for home instructors as people are wary to travel to to yoga studios. So far only 50 per cent of them have returned," he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/gyms-reopen-but-fitness-enthusiasts-wary/articleshow/77382705.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC summons transco engr with threat of jail for disrespecting law||Nagpur: Flaying Maharashtra State Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) executive engineer for committing “serious breach of mandate of law” and “dereliction of duty”, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has summoned him to court, or face arrest.While issuing show cause notice, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor further asked Anil Patil why action shouldn’t be taken against him for showing disrespect to lawful authority of district magistrate as well as to the law. Union power ministry chief secretary and state industries and energy department principal secretary are other respondents in the case.The bench’s censure came while hearing a plea by Harihar Buildspace Limited through counsels PP Kothari and Rohan Malviya, contending that MSETCL failed to grant compensation in lieu of using its land for erecting transmission towers carrying high tension (HT) lines for nearly a decade. The commissioning of 132 KV Khapri-Buttibori Trasmission line was completed between September 13 and 27, 2010. However, when petitioners moved Patil for compensation, he sent them a letter on May 31 , 2019, rejecting their demand, forcing them to approach the HC.“The engineer has turned completely silent in this case, as if he has nothing to do with HC or law. Now, it appears that prima facie he’s acting as somebody superior to every legal authority,” the judges tersely said while passing several strictures against him.After MSETCL approached the magistrate seeking permission to carry out HT transmission line work on petitioner’s land, it was granted on May 20, 2010, with a rider to provide compensation to the owner within a month of work completion.“The engineer, however, didn’t comply with the magistrate’s direction to pay compensation till date. As an open affront to law, he displayed rare courage of even acting as an appellate authority over the magistrate by sending a communication to the company rejecting the demand for compensation,” the judges pointed out.While adjourning the hearing till August 17, the court granted liberty to Patil to comply immediately with the magistrate’s directives of May 20, 2010, regarding compensation. “The amount shall include 12 % interest per annum or as is permissible under law, from date it’s due and till actual payment is made. If not paid, this court may issue directives to recover whatever loss is caused to the company, from the concerned officer’s salary,” judges warned. HC SPEAK* MSETCL engineer committed serious breach of mandate of law & dereliction of duty* He turned completely silent, as if he has nothing to do with HC or law* He displayed disrespect to lawful authority of district magistrate and the law* Prima facie he’s acting as somebody superior to every legal authority* He even acted as appellate authority over magistrate * Directed to immediately comply with magistrate’s directives of May 20, 2010, on compensation * Amount to include 12 % interest per annum from date it’s due & till actual payment is made* If not paid, court may issue directive to recover losses from salary of concerned officer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-summons-transco-engr-with-threat-of-jail-for-disrespecting-law/articleshow/77382271.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Single day highest tally of cases in Nagpur, deaths in Vid||Nagpur: In highest ever single day figures, Nagpur recorded 658 cases alone while entire Vidarbha saw 1,090 cases and 32 deaths on Wednesday. In Vidarbha’s highest ever single-day Covid death toll, most took place in Nagpur (15) and Amravati (10) taking the region’s fatality tally to 512 on Wednesday. Buldhana (4), Yavatmal (2), and Wardha (1) were the other districts which registered Covid deaths. The region’s 11 districts also crossed the 18,000-mark with 1,090 new cases. The day also saw 306 persons discharged. Nagpur continued to add most number of cases crossing the 600 mark in a day first time. Vidarbha’s tally is now at 18,729, comprising 5,782 under treatment and total 12,046 recovered. Of the total, 4,186 cases have been reported in just five days of August. Among the 15 deaths in Nagpur is one SARI patient while most of the others had comorbidities and acute respiratory distress syndrome. All of them were admitted in critical stage of infection and died within a couple of days of admission. AMRAVATI: The 10 Covid deaths on Wednesday is the district’s highest single-day toll. A spike of 74 cases took the number of patients to 2,674, while total deaths are 80. According to civil surgeon’s office, 58-year-old man and 75-year-old woman, both from Namuna Galli, 55-year-old man from Budhiyanagar in Frazerpura, 49-year-old woman from Yashodanagar, 58-year-old man from Kirannagar, 79-year-old female from Camp, 72-year-old man from Gopalnagar and 61-year-old man from Ishwar Apartment near Vidyabharti Mahavidyalaya died at Covid Hospital along with a 70-year-old woman from Daryapur and a 50-year-old man from Morshi. The rural belt reported 15 new cases to take its count to 621. Single cases came from 19 other localities. The report also said 10 patients got discharge taking the number of recovered patients to 1,840. This left 752 under treatment, including 15 in Nagpur. BULDHANA: Death of four under-treatment Covid-19 patients rocked Buldhana on August 5. This took Covid-19 toll of this district to 34. The deceased include 78-year-old man from Telugu Nagar, Buldhana; 40-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar, Khamgaon; 70-year-old woman from Chikhli and 55-year-old man from Lonar. Buldhana received reports of 507 tests on Wednesday. Out of them, 78 were positive. This took total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,617. With 39 patients recovering in a day, total number of recovered patients reached 979. Buldhana now has 604 patients under treatment. Total 10,691 people have been tested for Covid-19 as on date. Reports of 101 tests are still awaited. YAVATMAL: With two fatalities on Wednesday, Covid-19 death count in Yavatmal has reached 38. A 65-year-old woman from Laxmi Nagar in Yavatmal and a 75-year-old woman from Dhanki in Umarkhed tehsil were the deceased. A record 102 patients recovered in a day and were discharged from Yavatmal on Wednesday. This took number of recovered patients in Yavatmal to 912. Recovery rate of the district is 70%. Now, Yavatmal has 1,311 total cases. With 38 Covid-19 deaths, total 361 are under treatment here as of now. CHANDRAPUR: District registered a massive spike of 57 patients, the largest so far, catapulting the Covid-19 total to 682 on Wednesday. With the discharge of 10 from hospital, the tally of cured patients has climbed up to 406, leaving 274 under treatment. There was no death reported due to Covid-19 during the day and total death figure remains at two. The new patients include 23 from Chandrapur city and peripheral habitations, eight from Ballarpur city and adjoining Visapur village, Bhadrawati 7, Warora 5, Rajura 2, Korpana 2, Bramhapuri 4, Nagbhid 5 and a lone patient from Nagpur tested positive here. Health authorities claimed the high number of patients is now coming from contacts of positive patients, who had earlier returned from other states or hotspots like Pune and Mumbai. Health department has increased the antigen testing of people across the district. The testing centre at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel School in city has carried out more than 9,000 tests during last few days. Officials suspect further spurt in the number of patients in coming days following large scale testing. WASHIM: It was a day of some respite for Washim. Only 5 new patients were detected despite 300-plus tests on Wednesday. On the other hand, six patients recovered and discharged. This took total number of cases to 790, and recovered patients to 465. With 18 deaths (including a suicide), Washim has 465 patients under treatment. AKOLA: A large number of tests being done in rural parts of Akola district are bringing to fore more positive cases. On August 8, total 92 new cases were detected in the district from total 670 tests done. Out of these, 47 were tested through rapid antigen form while remaining 46 through RT-PCR tests. Most of the patients are from rural areas. Total cases reached 2,800 while 2,286 of them have been discharged till date with 46 getting recovered on August 5. Total 393 patients are under treatment. BHANDARA: The district saw rise of 13 new Covid-19 cases while 12 patients recovered on August 5. Positive patients are from Bhandara (2), Tumsar (6), Sakoli (2), Mohadi (2), and Lakhandur (1). Total Covid-19 cases in the district reached 318 including 227 recovered and 2 deaths reported in July. Now, 89 patients are under treatment. Out of them, 7 are referred to Nagpur. GONDIA: Another big spike of 52 novel coronavirus cases was registered in the district on August 5. These include 38 residents of Tirora tehsil and residents of Railtoli, Sindhi Colony, Shastri Ward and Kudwa localities in Gondia among others. With this, total number of cases in Gondia reached 458. With 248 of them getting discharged and 3 deaths reported earlier, total 207 patients are under treatment here. GADCHIROLI: With 23 new cases detected in a day on Wednesday, Gadchiroli’s total Covid-19 case count has reached 667 on August 5. Covid patients include 18 SRPF jawans from Korchi and Etapalli. Others include 3 from institutional quarantine in Aheri, and one each from Dhanora CCC and district hospital of Gadchiroli. Eight patients got discharge on Wednesday taking the total number of recovered patients to 508. Now, Gadchiroli has 158 patients under treatment. WARDHA: A 60-year-old Covid patient woman from Hinganghat died at Sewagram hospital, while 13 new novel coronavirus cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. Moreover, 16 Covid patients defeated the virus and were discharged from hospitals. As on Wednesday, 11 males and 2 females tested Covid positive and they are from Wardha tehsil (5), Arvi tehsil (3), Selu tehsil (2), Deoli tehsil (2), and Talegaon (1). Total 215 test reports were received on Wednesday of which 13 came positive. In all, 237 new swab samples were sent for testing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/single-day-highest-tally-of-cases-in-nagpur-deaths-in-vid/articleshow/77382313.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman files complaint for cruelty||Ahmedabad: A 33-year-old woman from Bapunagar, Kiran Aardhvi, lodged a police complaint against her husband and in-laws, stating that they forced her to falsely acknowledge that she was having an extramarital affair, in writing, and tortured her. She also accused her husband of hitting her with a stick in March 2019, after which she returned to her parents’ house in Bapunagar with her 10-year-old daughter, while her 14-year-old son lives in in Udaipur with her husband. She alleged that her husband had also tried to strangle her daughter. She stated that her father had been trying to strike a compromise and have her return to her matrimonial house, but her in-laws told them that they were getting their son remarried. This is why she filed a complaint one year later. According to the FIR, Kiran married Bhupesh Aardhvi 14 years ago. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-complaint-for-cruelty/articleshow/77381435.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rains pound coast; power outages continue||MANGALURU: The Red Alert issued for three coastal districts of Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada - continued on Wednesday with the region receiving heavy to moderate rainfall, with gusty winds like on Tuesday affecting normal life. Widespread power outages continued due to tree fall on Tuesday night in many areas of the coast. In the coast, Uttara Kannada received the highest rainfall at 100mm, followed by Dakshina Kannada at 76mm and Udupi at 63mm. The highest rainfall in the state was recorded at two places in Supa taluk of Uttara Kannada - at Castlerock (314 mm) and 276 mm at Ramanagar. The rainfall Uttara Kannada district received in the last 24 hours was 279% more than the average rainfall that the district recorded for the day. Similarly, Udupi received 51% excess rainfall and for DK, it was 123% more than the average recorded for the day. In the last 24 hours till 830am on Wednesday, Dakshina Kannada received an average rainfall of 88mm, with Belthangady taluk receiving the highest at 123mm. The next was Puttur with 97mm. Sullia, Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received 89mm, 51mm and 78mm of rainfall respectively. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre bulletin said high waves in the range of 3.5 - 6.1 metres were forecast till 11.30pm of Thursday along the coast from Mangaluru to Karwar. Strong wind with speeds reaching 50-60 kmph was also likely to prevail along and off Karnataka coast; the bulletin stated warning fishermen not to venture into the sea. Widespread moderate to heavy rains associated with strong surface winds and scattered very heavy to extremely heavy rains has been forecast over Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. Mescom, that bore the brunt of the rains in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday, was striving to restore power in many areas and fix new electric poles that were damaged in tree fall. But Wednesday also saw as many as 128 poles being damaged in Dakshina Kannada alone. Power outages on Tuesday evening in many areas of Mangaluru was restored at 2am on Wednesday. Kumaradhara Bathing Ghat at Kukke Subrahmanya, which was under water from Tuesday continued so on Wednesday. But traffic was not affected as among the old submersible bridges, three of them have been replaced with new bridges well above the waterline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rains-pound-coast-power-outages-continue/articleshow/77380434.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Cauvery River flows above danger mark||MYSURU: Heavy rainfall continued to disrupt normal life for third day in a row in the district. In Mysuru, over 40,000 cusecs of water was released from Kabini dam located in HD Kote. Flood like situation was reported in the downstream areas, including the famous temple town of Nanjangud. Neighboring Chamarajanagar district was put on high alert following increased water level in Cauvery river. SP Divya Sara Thomas visited Kollegal, Dasanur and Mullur villages and reviewed the situation. In Hunsur, Lakshamana Tirtha river is flowing above the danger mark following heavy rainfall in Kodagu. In Koppa on Mysuru-Kodagu border area, Cauvery river is flowing above danger mark. Man dies as tree branch falls on him A person died and two others sustained injuries when a tree branch fell on them in Annur village under the HD Kote police limits on Wednesday morning. The deceased has been identified as 52-year-old Madegowda. He and two others, Nanjunda Shetty and Hanumantha Shetty were taking shelter under a tree during rain. Due to the heavy rain, a tree branch fell on them, said police. Madegowda died on the spot while Nanjunda was rushed to Mysuru for treatment. Hanumantha is being treated at a local hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cauvery-river-flows-above-danger-mark/articleshow/77382546.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Second edition of startup Programme launched||VISAKHAPATNAM: IIM-Visakhapatnam, in partnership with IIMB Innovations (IIMBI), a constituent of the Nadathur S Raghavan Center for Entrepreneurial Learning (NSRCEL) of IIM-Bangalore, has began accepting applicationsfor the Women Startup Programme, 2020. This is the first-of-its-kind, tailor-made online and classroom training programme, designed to hone the entrepreneurial and managerial skills of women to transform their ideas into business ventures. The programme is expected to help women of the region as it will do away with the need for them to travel all the way from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Bengaluru for the training. This time, IIM-V has decided to incubate at least 10 startup ideas in line with the Union government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and being ‘Vocal about Local’.  Speaking to TOI, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said “The programme will commence with a five-week training through massive open online courses (MOOCs), offered on the Swayam platform. In the second and third phases, the selected entrepreneurs will undergo a two-month virtual launchpad programme followed by a six-month incubation programme designed by NSRCEL and its partner institute, IIMV-Field. They will then present their product/prototype and pitch to a screening committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2nd-edition-of-startup-prog-launched/articleshow/77379874.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||WHO said Ahmedabad model for Covid worth emulating: CM||GANDHINAGAR: Reiterating his ‘Jitshe Gujarat, Harshe Corona’ (Gujarat will win, Corona will lose) mantra, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday exhorted personnel working in health services to combat and control the global pandemic Covid-19 on a war footing with people’s cooperation. Ever since the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state on March 19 last, the health administration was alerted to constantly monitor, test and provide timely treatment to patients, the CM said. Rupani said, “After watching a detailed presentation by Gujarat government through video conferencing, WHO chief scientist Dr Saumya Swaminathan said the Ahmedabad model of Covid-19 management – deploying a fleet of Dhanvantari Raths, Sanjivani Vans, 104 fever helpline number and active participation of private hospitals in the government effort – is worth emulating for other cities and countries.” A government statement said that after increased incidence of the virus in the last fortnight, the CM directed stricter surveillance of suspected cases and testing. This led to discovery of more cases in the state. The health department carried out 7.64 lakh tests till July 31, including 3.9 lakh in the month of July alone, as against 1.61 lakh tests in June, 1.47 lakh in May and 64,007 in April.  As on July 31, the number of tests carried out daily in Gujarat stood at 410 tests per million, which is nearly three times that of the ICMR guideline of 140 per million. Gujarat’s patient recovery rate at 73.09% is higher than in many states, while its mortality rate of 3.97% is quite low as a result of constant monitoring and coordination, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/who-said-ahmedabad-model-for-covid-worth-emulating-cm/articleshow/77381422.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Officials make plan to evacuate over 15,000 people||KOCHI: Thousands of people living in low-lying areas along Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers will have to be evacuated if water level increases. As per the report submitted by officers in 18 villages under Aluva taluk, around 5,500 people will have to be evacuated to safer places if water level increases in Periyar and enters the villages. In Muvattupuzha, around 2,120 people from 530 families will have to be evacuated if the water level increases. As many as 38 families at Jawahar Colony in Kothamangalam will have to be evacuated if similar situation arises in the area. Taluk officials served notices to 55 families, who face landslide threat in Kadavoor village, to shift to safe place. North Paravur taluk officials said less than 10,000 people would have to be evacuated if water level rises in Periyar and Chalakkudy rivers. “All local bodies are equipped to face a possible flooding and camps have been identified to lodge people following Covid protocols. Inventory comprising contact numbers of volunteers, JCB and Taurus truck owners, nearby hospitals, doctors, KSEB, people’s representatives, revenue officials to run relief camps, police personnel, fire force, ration and medical shops owners, has been ready in each village,” said Aluva tahsildar P N Ani. In 2018, Aluva witnessed mass evacuation. While Kothamangalam is under the threat of landslides. “Since there is a respite in rain, the 55 families at Kadavoor, who have been served notices, have not shifted. We had evacuated 38 families at Jawahar Colony in Thrikkariyoor village during last year floods. Their evacuation is warranted only when the water level in Muvattupuzha river rises,” said an official with the Kothamangalam taluk office. Residents of Puthenvelikkara, the local body where Periyar meets Chalakkudy river, have arranged a makeshift cowshed at a relief camp and cultivated tapioca, which can be used to meet their food requirement in the event of a flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-make-plan-to-evacuate-over-15k-people/articleshow/77379893.cms||T C Sreemol
August 6, 2020||Salem||Karnataka releases 44,700cusecs Cauvery water||Salem/Dharmapuri: The Dharmapuri district administration on Wednesday issued flood warning to all villages on the banks of the Cauvery river after Karnataka released 44,700 cusecs of water. The district administration is expecting more than 40,000 cusecs of water in the Cauvery. Revenue and police officials asked villagers to move to safer areas. Bathing and coracle riding were banned in Hogenakkal. Following heavy rain in the catchment areas of Karnataka’s Harangi, Kabini and Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS) reservoirs, the state began to release water from Kabini and KRS dams on Tuesday night. “Nearly 40,000 cusecs of water was released from Kabini and KRS dams into the Cauvery,” said a public works department (PWD) official at Mettur dam in Salem district. He added that the water is expected to reach Mettur on Thursday. “On Tuesday night, water released from Kabini dam was 17,500 cusecs. However, on Wednesday, it was increased to 40,000 cusecs. From KSR dam, 4,700 cusecs of water was released," the officials said. The water is expected to reach Biligundlu in Krishnagiri district on Wednesday night or in the early hours of Thursday. A team of officials from revenue, PWD, police and forest department was on high alert to monitor the situation. On Wednesday evening, water level in Mettur dam was 65.10 feet against its full capacity of 120 feet. While the inflow of water into the dam is 4,000 cusecs, its outflow is 3,000 cusecs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/karnataka-releases-44700cusecs-cauvery-water/articleshow/77381450.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt bars RMPs from treating Covid patients||HYDERABAD: The state government has asked registered medical practitioners (RMPs) not to give treatment to patients coming with Covid-19 symptoms. Health minister Eatala Rajender asked them to send patients having high fever, cold, throat pain and cough to the nearest primary health centre, area, mandal and district headquarters hospitals. The minister said this when a delegation of joint action committee of RMPs, private medical practitioners, community paramedics and grameena vaidyula sanghala samakhya called on him. There are over 50,000 RMPs with a majority of them practising in the rural areas and tribal hamlets. The medical and health department authorities made it clear that RMPs should not treat Covid-19 patients after reports of a couple of RMPs being booked by police for treating patients with coronavirus symptoms came. They said there is a risk of the virus spreading through the RMPs if treatment is offered at their clinics without government monitoring. Appreciating the RMPs’ services in extending medical treatment to the poor and needy in interior parts of rural hinterland, the minister said the government acknowledges their contribution in spreading awareness among rural masses on polio immunisation, prevention of AIDS and other public health programmes. RMP Doctors’ Association president S Venkat Reddy told TOI that their services could be utilised in spreading awareness about the symptoms of coronavirus and preventions to be taken against seasonal and other diseases. “The minister has assured us that the government will come out with a training module for us after seeking approval of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-govt-bars-rmps-from-treating-covid-patients/articleshow/77381408.cms||Roushan Ali
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 200 deaths; 1st 100 in 141 days, 2nd in 8||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district crossed the 200 mark on Wednesday. It took 141 days to register the first 100 fatalities whereas latest 100 deaths were recorded in eight days. Another major worry for the district is steep rise in mortality rate. With 15 deaths on Wednesday, total coronavirus fatalities increased to 204, as per data till 5pm on Wednesday. With total number of positive cases at 6,752, the mortality rate is 3.02%. This is the first time the district’s mortality rate has gone above 3%. It was 1.66% at the end of June and even lower before that in April and May. The mortality rate was 2.27% when the district crossed 100 deaths on July 29. The district’s mortality rate is higher than that of the country (2.09%). When compared with state (3.52%), the district’s situation is slightly better. Among 35 districts in the state, Nagpur district was at 12th position when it crossed 100 deaths and second among 11 districts in Vidarbha after Akola. Now, it is 10th district to cross 200 deaths and the first in Vidarbha. The district has surpassed Satara and Akola districts with the latest surge in deaths. There were only 25 deaths between March and June, but 101 deaths were registered in July, and 78 in the first five days of August. In the city, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Gandhibagh zone has highest deaths among 10 zones. This zone with population of around 2.5 lakh has seen 30 deaths as on Wednesday. In this zone, 15 deaths are from Mominpura-Timki-Golibar Chowk which is the highest among all localities in the city. Second highest seven deaths are from Tajbagh-Sakkardara-Vinoba Nagar. In Nagpur Rural, Kamptee town with a population of around 90,000 has registered 20 deaths, highest in localities in the district. This town also accounts for largest number of positive cases at 642. Remaining 12 tehsils in Nagpur Rural have total of 13 deaths. Majority of deceased were patients with comorbidities. Of these, 13 deceased were brought dead to GMCH and IGGMCH Dedicated Covid Hospitals and samples later tested positive. As far as gender ratio is concerned, 65% of total deceased were male and remaining 35% were female. To control the deaths, NMC has started walk in tests at 21 centres across the city. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Early detection and treatment in initial stage will prevent deaths. Therefore, testing centres have been developed. Also, special camps for testing high-risk persons are continuing.” Mundhe had also directed private hospitals to test all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients visiting their establishments. In a meeting on Wednesday, Mundhe directed officials of medical department to continue contact tracing and ensure testing of at least 20 high-risk contacts of each positive patient. “It will help in giving treatment from early stage and also containing spread of the disease,” he said. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had also announced four-T programme — tracking, tracing, testing and treating for controlling the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-200-deaths-1st-100-in-141-days-2nd-in-8/articleshow/77381454.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Ayodhya echoes in Delhi with an early Diwali||NEW DELHI: It was as if the city was celebrating Lord Ram’s return well before Diwali, with temples, markets, colonies, even the Yamuna riverbank illuminated with earthen diyas on Wednesday. The flower-bedecked houses and shops and the bursting of eco-friendly firecrackers were actually in jubilation at the ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. There were numerous LED screens installed on Delhi’s roads to telecast the bhoomi pujan programme live from Ayodhya. Braving the morning rain, over 150 devotees reached Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place to participate in the special prayers at 1 am. “We were busy in the morning with the preparations, including the decoration of Ram Darbar,” said Suresh Sharma, mahant of the Hanuman shrine. “We weren’t expecting so many people to reach the temple on time. We recited the Shri Ram aarti together, followed by a devotional dance performance and distribution of boondi laddoo to all people at the temple or around it.” In the evening, the temple was illuminated with 501 oil diyas and candles. At the Jhandewalan Mandir in Karol Bagh, besides the colourful illumination, the evening darkness was dispelled by 751 diyas, all lit by the temple management committee members. “We want the coming generation to remember this historic day,” said Ravindra Goel, temple trustee, who also recalled that the devotees worshipped amid saffron flags and cut-out images of Lord Ram placed across the temple compound. “We distributed 3,000 packets of prasad packets,” said Goel. At the Shri Ram Mandir in Vivek Vihar, similar arrangements had been made, while the Balmiki Mandir Parisar on Mandir Marg echoed with the chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as soon as the live telecast of the Ayodhya event showed PM Narendra Modi beginning the puja there. Among the large number of devotees at the temple was Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. The last-minute change in venue for prayer and celebration due to the sudden rain didn’t dampen the spirit of Green Park Market shopkeepers. “We did the puja aarti at 12.44pm and arranged the live telecast of the Ayodhya ceremony on an LED screen,” revealed Vijay Israni, vice-president, Green Park Market Association. “At 5.30pm, the shopkeepers placed diyas outside their stores, in the corridors and even on roadsides.” A little later everyone gathered to burst anars and burn phuljharis. Shailendra Singh Monty, former area councillor and member of the organising committee, explained, “Diwali is celebrated as the homecoming of Lord Ram. For us, the ceremony to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is no less than Diwali.” Residents of Greater Kailash I and II, Vasant Kunj, Green Park, Safdarjung Enclave, Laxmi Nagar, Vivek Vihar and other colonies adorned their balconies with earthen lamps. In old Delhi too, the residents were excited. On the road leading to the bank of the Yamuna, a huge LED screen, erected by the Yamuna Sudhar Samiti, telecast the foundation stone programme from Ayodhya. The Yamuna bank was illuminated in the evening after the Yamuna Bazar RWA performed a special aarti that was followed by the lighting of diyas at Pusta no. 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ayodhya-echoes-in-delhi-with-an-early-diwali/articleshow/77381592.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives approval to Rs 501 crore expenditure incurred on Covid fight||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval for Rs 501.07 crore expenditure incurred so far by the state government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. An official said Rs 76.07 crore was spent by the health sector response and procurement committee for purchase of various equipment and relief, while Rs 425 crore was spent by various departments out of the state disaster response fund (SDRF) and budgetary resources set aside for the management and control of the pandemic. The state government had allocated Rs 470 crore out of SDRF and budgetary sources for Covid fight, of which 90.42% has already been spent. The allocation was for management and control of the pandemic, augmentation of the health infrastructure including procurement of state of the art medical equipment for enhanced testing, provision of protective gear for frontline workers and for better case management setting up and designating healthcare facilities. The procurement panel made these purchases on an emergency basis since the Covid-19 situation called for the immediate measures to be undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-cabinet-gives-approval-to-rs-501cr-expenditure-incurred-on-covid-fight/articleshow/77381443.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Hindu outfits in state celebrate bhoomi puja for Ram temple||Coimbatore: The state on Wednesday saw Hindu outfits celebrating the bhoomi puja for Ram temple and Muslim organizations protesting the move. Security was tightened at all the places of worship to avoid any untoward incidents. Several Hindu outfit leaders termed it a historical day.Isha Yoga Centre founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said in a statement that Ayodhya Ram temple was not just another temple. “It is a resurrection of India’s spirit, because it is not just one particular denomination or religion that looks up to Rama. There’s a whole lot of people from other religions who want to emulate him.”Referring to Rama as an icon and not god, he said, “God means he’s beyond emulation. So, it’s extremely important that he is a man.”Hindu outfits members also distributed sweets to the public. In Trichy, Ram temples at Ponmalaipatti, Edamalaipattiputhur and a few other places were given police protection. In Madurai and Coimbatore too, police were deployed at temples and other public places.In Kanyakumari district, the BJP performed a special yagna in a Ganesh temple at Velladichivilai in Nagecroil. Party cadres burst crackers soon after the pooja in Ayodhya and gave away sweets to public.Meanwhile, members of Muslim outfits staged protests in various places. In Tirupur, cadres of Social Democratic Party of India staged a protest, demanding that the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya should be stopped.Kovai Islamia Kootaimappu, a federation of Islamic outfits in Coimbatore, said though they were disappointed by the Supreme Court verdict allowing construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, the haste of Centre in enforcing the verdict has come as a greater cause for concern. “While we believe that peace and unity should prevail in the country, we also call for firm legal action against those who demolished the Babri Masjid,” it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-outfits-in-state-celebrate-bhoomi-puja-for-ram-temple/articleshow/77381471.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Amritsar||29 die, Covid-19 claims 200 lives in 12 days in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll on Wedensday as 29 people succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s casualty count to 491. In the past 12 days, the state has reported more than 40% of its total deaths, rising by 200, from 291 on July 25 New caes continued to mount too as 894 people tested positive, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 19,856. Of them, 6,422 cases are active. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, 9. It was followed by five deaths in Patiala, four in Jalandhar, three in Gurdaspur, two in Sangrur, and one each in Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Ropar districts. As many as 452 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals across Punjab. Of the total positive cases reported in Bathinda district, 53 were transferred to other states on Wednesday. The highest number of new cases came from Ludhiana, 303. The district was followed by 185 caes in Patiala, 101 in Jalandhar, 53 in Amritsar, 33 in Barnala, 29 in Bathinda, 27 in Mohali, 23 in Tarn Taran, 19 in Ferozepur, 18 in Pathankot, 17 in Sangrur, 14 each in Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 in Faridkot, 11 in Muktsar, and 10 in Ropar. Among the new cases, the source of infection of 21 was oustide Punjab, 22 were healthcare workers, 24 were state police personnel, nine BSF personnel and seven frontline workers. Ludhiana district had the highest number of active cases, 1,645. It is followed by 885 in Jalandhar, 702 in Patiala, 500 in Amritsar and 383 in Mohali. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, 131. There have been 86 deaths in Amritsar, 64 in Jalandhar, 43 in Patiala and 32 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/29-die-virus-claims-200-lives-in-12-days-in-state/articleshow/77383661.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Why land not taken back from 2 hospitals: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday asked the government to reply within a week as to what action it intends to take on two corporate hospitals for failing to render free treatment to poor patients. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also wondered as to why the government has not taken back the land when the hospitals were violating the promises they made and medical guidelines as well. The judges were hearing a petition of social activist OM Debara, who contended that the two hospitals in Hyderabad had availed huge extents of government land to set up their units on the condition that they would render free service to poor patients and keep 15% beds for them. Debara complained that Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills and Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital & Research Institute on Road No. 10, Banjara Hills, had never honoured these conditions and seldom implemented them in the past 30 years. The judges gave the government and the two hospitals time till August 13 to explain their stand. The judges also said they were going through various media reports on the ‘inhuman attitude’ of the private hospitals and refusing to hand over the bodies of Covid-19 patients to their kin without clearing the exorbitant bills. “They (hospitals) are exploiting people even during the pandemic and forcing the patients to deposit lakhs of rupees at the time of admission,” Debara argued. His counsel Gandra Mohan Rao told the court that the state had granted 30 acres to Deccan Medical Centre, the holding company of Apollo Hospitals, and 7.5 acres to Basavatarakam cancer hospital and also exempted crores of rupees towards ULC charges since they were holding extents of land beyond the limit prescribed by the urban land ceiling norms. Mohan Rao argued, “Since the hospitals are not honoring the conditions, the land allotted to them should be taken back. While Apollo is holding Rs 1,500 crore worth of land, Basavatarakam hospital is holding Rs 400 crore worth of land,” he said. He recalled that they were given plots at a nominal price of Rs 8,500 per acre in 1985 on the condition that they would serve the poor and set apart 15% of beds for them. The counsel further argued that since they were set up on a public land, they have a responsibility towards the poor of the society. “But, these hospitals are charging Rs 1 lakh per day from patients,” Mohan Rao said. He contended that the government should probe the affairs of these hospitals,which should be made to offer 50% of their bed strength to the poor till the arrears of the last 30 years had been cleared. “After that, these two hospitals can return to the 15% free service norm,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-land-not-taken-back-from-2-hosps-hc-to-t/articleshow/77381419.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Ramayana reading too goes online to keep tradition alive||KOCHI: The Malayalam month of Karkidakkam, also known as ‘Ramayana masam’, is dedicated to Ramayana reading in Kerala. People reading the holy epic in groups is a common sight across the state. But this year, Karkidakam month’s sheen has been taken away by Covid-19. However, to keep traditions alive, nearly 30 families in Thrikkakara have been conducting the ritual online following the protocols. These families residing in Karimakkad in Thrikkakara have been conducting the ritual for past 15 years and all of them used to gather at one of their members’ houses every evening to read Ramayana. Due to Covid-19, now all of them, including children and elders, gather through Google Meet from their respective houses at a particular time for reading Ramayana. The virtual ritual started on July 30 and will continue till the end of Karkidakkam. “Besides being a holy activity, the group reading has been a symbol of unity and cooperation among residents in the Karimakkad neighbourhood since 2004. People belonging to other religions too take part in the opening and closing ceremonies of the ritual every year. Each day each family hosts the reading and others used to go their house. It is a one-and-half hour session of reading, discussions and lectures. But this time, all of us were disappointed as the gathering could not be conducted. That’s when one of the members suggested conducting it through Google Meet. Initially, we thought it will not be practical as most of the members are elders. But they picked it up with the help of others and now it’s been taking place smoothly,” said Sajeevan Karimakkad, the organizer. The closing ceremony is usually held in the presence of around 200 people and it includes special pujas and feast. As it cannot be conducted this time, organizers are planning to conduct the rituals at one of the members’ house and deliver the ‘prasadam’ to others at their doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramayana-reading-too-goesonline-to-keep-tradition-alive/articleshow/77379912.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||Surat bizman among 3 killed in road accident||Rajkot: A businessman from Surat was among three persons killed when an SUV rammed a truck from behind near Chirai village about 15km from Morbi town on Wednesday afternoon. Three  others injured in the accident were rushed to Morbi Civil Hospital for treatment. They were all going to Mundra in Kutch from Surat.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surat-bizman-among-3-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77379939.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||29 die, Covid-19 claims 200 lives in 12 days in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll on Wedensday as 29 people succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s casualty count to 491. In the past 12 days, the state has reported more than 40% of its total deaths, rising by 200, from 291 on July 25 New caes continued to mount too as 894 people tested positive, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 19,856. Of them, 6,422 cases are active. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, 9. It was followed by five deaths in Patiala, four in Jalandhar, three in Gurdaspur, two in Sangrur, and one each in Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Ropar districts. As many as 452 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals across Punjab. Of the total positive cases reported in Bathinda district, 53 were transferred to other states on Wednesday. The highest number of new cases came from Ludhiana, 303. The district was followed by 185 caes in Patiala, 101 in Jalandhar, 53 in Amritsar, 33 in Barnala, 29 in Bathinda, 27 in Mohali, 23 in Tarn Taran, 19 in Ferozepur, 18 in Pathankot, 17 in Sangrur, 14 each in Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 in Faridkot, 11 in Muktsar, and 10 in Ropar. Among the new cases, the source of infection of 21 was oustide Punjab, 22 were healthcare workers, 24 were state police personnel, nine BSF personnel and seven frontline workers. Ludhiana district had the highest number of active cases, 1,645. It is followed by 885 in Jalandhar, 702 in Patiala, 500 in Amritsar and 383 in Mohali. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, 131. There have been 86 deaths in Amritsar, 64 in Jalandhar, 43 in Patiala and 32 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/29-die-virus-claims-200-lives-in-12-days-in-state/articleshow/77381480.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||29 die, Covid-19 claims 200 lives in 12 days in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll on Wedensday as 29 people succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s casualty count to 491. In the past 12 days, the state has reported more than 40% of its total deaths, rising by 200, from 291 on July 25 New caes continued to mount too as 894 people tested positive, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 19,856. Of them, 6,422 cases are active. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, 9. It was followed by five deaths in Patiala, four in Jalandhar, three in Gurdaspur, two in Sangrur, and one each in Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Ropar districts. As many as 452 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals across Punjab. Of the total positive cases reported in Bathinda district, 53 were transferred to other states on Wednesday. The highest number of new cases came from Ludhiana, 303. The district was followed by 185 caes in Patiala, 101 in Jalandhar, 53 in Amritsar, 33 in Barnala, 29 in Bathinda, 27 in Mohali, 23 in Tarn Taran, 19 in Ferozepur, 18 in Pathankot, 17 in Sangrur, 14 each in Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 in Faridkot, 11 in Muktsar, and 10 in Ropar. Among the new cases, the source of infection of 21 was oustide Punjab, 22 were healthcare workers, 24 were state police personnel, nine BSF personnel and seven frontline workers. Ludhiana district had the highest number of active cases, 1,645. It is followed by 885 in Jalandhar, 702 in Patiala, 500 in Amritsar and 383 in Mohali. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, 131. There have been 86 deaths in Amritsar, 64 in Jalandhar, 43 in Patiala and 32 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/29-die-virus-claims-200-lives-in-12-days-in-state/articleshow/77383660.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PM Modi laid foundation for Hindu Rashtra, says Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said that by taking part in the Bhoomi Poojan at Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has laid the foundation stone of ‘Hindu Rashtra’. “The prime minister attending the Bhoomi Poojan today is a victory of Hindutva over secularism, it is the victory of majoritarianism over liberty and equality,” said Owaisi. “By attenting the Bhoomi Poojan, he (Modi), apart from laying the foundation stone for a temple, he has also laid the foundation of Hindu Rashtra, which goes against the basic structure of the constitution,” he added. Speaking about the disputed sites in Kashi and Mathura, the AIMIM chief said: “When question of faith arises, everything else takes a back seat. They (BJP) will do that (reclaim temples in Kashi and Mathura). As they have failed in reviving the economy and controlling the spread of Covid-19, they will turn this into their political agenda and the poor in the country will continue to suffer.” Owaisi also said that PM Modi has violated the oath of office by laying the foundation stone. “The PM in his speech said he is emotional. Owaisi is also equally emotional because I believe in co-existence and equality of citizenship,” he said. He also questioned the presence of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the ceremony and held Congress equally responsible for Babri Masjid demolition. “The RSS chief spoke about new India , you (BJP) want to make country Hindu Rashtra and today you have started the process. Congress is equally responsible for demolition of Babri Masjid,” said Owaisi. Owaisi said that the foundation laying ceremony has exposed the people who were until now wearing the mask of secularism. When questioned by TOI over political parties racing to prove themselves as flag bearers of Hinduism, he trained guns at the Congress and also questioned other parties for being silent spectators. “The list of people who have been exposed is long. Secular teflon being eroded is small word for them. Like the saying goes, ‘the emperor has no clothes’ best suits the situation,” said the AIMIM chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-modi-laid-foundation-for-hindu-rashtra-says-owaisi/articleshow/77381495.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Flier count slumps as infections spread in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The rapid rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has hit domestic flights in the state with passenger movement at Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada airports falling over the last fortnight. Officials of different airlines operating out of the two major airports in the state said that when domestic flights resumed on May 26, the airlines operated at near full capacity for the first two months. Thereafter, passenger load started to decline and in the last two weeks, some airlines carried less than 40% of the load factor. “Flight operations at Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada airports resumed with direct flights to four cities – Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai. Gradually, a few more sectors like Kolkata (from Visakhapatnam) were added and airlines also increased flights to Bangalore and Hyderabad because of the high demand. However, at present, load factors even on Bangalore and Hyderabad sectors of all airlines have reduced considerably,” said a senior airline official. Airline officials TOI spoke to were unsure of the reasons behind the sudden fall in load factor. Though the government has relaxed quarantine norms and is conducting tests for only 10% of passengers travelling on a flight travel agents claimed the decline is inevitable given the outbreak. However, demand on a few sectors rose soon after the resumption of domestic services, mainly on account of persons who were stranded with the lockdown returning to their hometowns. Further, demand for flights from Hyderabad and Bangalore to Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada has continued, with these cities being the transit points for passengers from Mumbai, New Delhi and Kerala. K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Associations of Andhra Pradesh stated that several passengers from Delhi and Mumbai deliberately opted to fly via Hyderabad or Bangalore to avoid institutional quarantine that was mandatory for 14 days for fliers from high risk states. “But now, the relocation trend is over and people won’t fly until and unless there is any real urgency, especially after the recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Andhra. Airlines might opt for severe route rationalisation options,” added Vijay Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/load-factor-falls-below-40-for-some-airlines/articleshow/77379913.cms||Arpit Basu
August 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 261 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district recorded 261 fresh Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, including 121 from Karad tehsil, taking the total number of cases to 6,200. This is the highest number of cases reported on a single day in the past four months Five deaths due to the infection have been reported on Wednesday, including four from Karad tehsil. The death toll stands at 192. A total of 2,806 people have recovered from the contagion so far. There are 3,202 active cases.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-261-cases/articleshow/77510759.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad takes part in Ayodhya celebrations||HYDERABAD: The city celebrated the Bhoomi Poojan in Ayodhya by laying the foundation stone for a Ram temple in Vinayak Nagar (Film Nagar) and Hanuman temple in Attapur Village of Rajendra Nagar Mandal on Wednesday. The foundation stoned were laid coinciding with the time of the ceremony in Ayodhya. Chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ also reverberated around the city temples at the crack of the dawn. Decked up pooja rooms and houses, special prayers in city temples and online greetings were the order of the day in some parts of the city. “We decorated our pooja room on this historic day. But because of Covid-19, we could not invite relatives and colony members for the prayers,” said Praveena Sarvepalli, a resident of Banjara Hills Rd No 12. “I decorated my house with diyas (lamps) as we do on the occasion of Diwali . I also sent sweets to my friends,” said A Narasimhan, president of Golf View Apartment, Nanakramguda (Financial District). Associations greeted each other online and chalked out plans to celebrate the day. “A video conference was held to celebrate as we cannot meet due to Covid-19. Temple construction was an unfulfilled wish since decades,” said Bharat Bhushan Dhar, a business analyst with an IT firm and member of Kashmiri Hindu Sabha, Telanagana. Special prayers were organised in Hanuman temple in Madhura Nagar Colony at Gachibowli and Khairtabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-takes-part-in-ayodhya-celebrations/articleshow/77381548.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Septuagenarian 1st +ve in mental hosp as she awaits sons||Nagpur: Septuagenarian Chanda Devi (name changed) landed up at the Regional Mental Hospital in January after she was found wandering in the city. From Uttar Pradesh’s Maharajganj along Nepal border, she had reached Nagpur after straying out of home last year. Cured and her family also traced, Chanda Devi is now infected with Covid as she waited for sons for over two months to take her back home.“Her sons seem to be only buying time saying it may not be possible due to the lockdown,” say hospital authorities citing many others from equally far off places got passes issued and took their kin back.One of her sons contacted by TOI said he had purchased a tatkal ticket and planned to reach Nagpur in a day.Chanda Devi is the first Covid positive patient in the mental hospital, which has over 400 inmates. “She was negative during the first round of tests at hospital. In June last week, she developed severe jaundice and a swollen lever was noticed. She was sent to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for tests to rule out cancer. When her condition worsened two days ago, she was sent to GMCH again where she tested Covid positive,” said RMH superintendent Dr Madhuri Thorat. The cancer test reports are yet to come.Hospital sources said there are chances that she may have go the infection during the first visit to the GMCH.Officials of the social service wing of RMH say Chanda Devi could have gone out of the mental hospital long back had her sons responded promptly. “We repeatedly called them and they said it may not be possible to come due to lockdown. They would not even call her up. Rather we would connect her with them through video call once in a while,” said a hospital source. “Once, one of the sons said he will be flying down to Nagpur, but did not turn up. A message was sent to police station at Maharajganj too as it is mandatory for the kin to take back the patient once cured,” said the source.“There were patients from Bihar and Jharkhand too whose relatives came in private vehicles and took them back. Many of them were poor, though Chanda Devi’s sons appeared to be financially better off,” said the source, adding passes are easily available for such reasons and they could have easily come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/septuagenarian-1st-ve-in-mental-hosp-as-she-awaits-sons/articleshow/77381498.cms||Shishir Arya
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||50% deaths within 24 hours of admission to hospitals in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: At least 50% of Covid-19 deaths that the district reported over the past 10 days had occurred in 24 hours of hospitalization. Of the 53 deceased during the period, three were brought dead to hospital, 24 died within 24 hours of admission and another three succumbed to the virus within 36 hours of hospitalization. Doctors say all the 30 patients were brought to hospitals in advanced stages of pneumonia and lung infection. While the generic reason for their sudden death is the delay in seeking medical aid, why they still arrive late despite awareness creation has left the district administration puzzled. As per the state government’s media bulletin, the Covid-19 toll in the district was 85 as on Tuesday. Out of them, 53 were recorded in the past 10 days. All the 24 patients, who died within 24 hours of hospitalization during the period, were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas said, “All of their lungs were severely affected. At the time of arrival, they had bilateral pneumonia and 25% to 30% of their lungs was affected. They also had major complications and comorbidities such as heart problems, paralytic strokes, diabetes and renal failures.” He said no amount of emergency measures could save patients who came with severely affected lungs and oxygen saturation levels of less than 85%. “They came with oxygen saturation levels of 82% to 85% and severe breathlessness. We put them immediately on high-flow oxygen beds and administered steroids and antiviral drugs such as remdesivir or ivermectin. But they didn’t recover and often collapsed in three to six hours.” While some patients are not brought to hospitals until it is too late, doctors say some go to private hospitals and get admitted for a few days, but conceal that information. “We know a patient who was tested positive for the virus and admitted to a private hospital for four days. When the patient’s condition rapidly deteriorated, they sent that person to our hospital, where he died in two hours,” the CMCH dean said. Others, he said, went to nearby private hospitals, which gave them medicines and either sent them back home or admitted a few days, without realizing they were infected with Covid-19. He, however, admitted that a majority of patients were brought for medical attention too late, despite awareness creation initiatives. He said the community medicine department at the hospital has begun a death audit to ensure no body was given to families for funeral, as that might lead to another outbreak. The public health department says it is high time every family with a member with comorbidities owned a pulse oximeter and kept checking their saturation rate twice a day. G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We are conducting fever camps and identifying people with symptoms and comorbidities to help them get medical aid without delay. Some people, especially the elderly, generally shy away from hospitals due to fear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-delayed-medical-aid-turns-deadly/articleshow/77381537.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Ahead of peak, ward deaths worry short-staffed GMCs||Nagpur: Within nine days of evacuating asymptomatic patients from Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs), ward deaths have come to hound both government medical colleges in the city. Doctors at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday told TOI that they were disappointed with the deaths of mild, moderate and severe cases. While critical Covid patients are coming in on ventilator — an indication of poor survival chances — some moderate and severe patients have died without reaching the ICU in the last one week. At least three such cases were seen in IGGMCH Covid isolation beds, where the patient and doctor ratio has touched an abysmal 7:1 against 3:1 as per norms. Nearly similar patient-doctor-nurse ratio is reportedly prevailing in GMCH, at 10:1:1 in Covid ICU, with all of its remaining patients on oxygen. GMCH officials refused to share the exact staff strength and patient death in wards in the last one week, but admit there needs to be 1:1:1 ratio in Covid ICU. Though over 100 deaths have been reported in last one week, expected Covid peak is still two weeks away for Nagpur. Among the 204 Covid deaths which have taken place in Nagpur as of Wednesday evening, 101 were reported from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). As per official data, 83 have died in GMCH till Tuesday. “The fear psychosis is a double-edged sword. It is keeping many indoors to the extent that they become severe cases. Yet, all efforts are on to save all lives. However, our human resource has limitations. They are fatigued, and need rest but there is no backup,” a senior professor said. One of the reasons blamed for the ward deaths is clear lack of sufficient doctors, and paramedics. Doctors agree that life and death may not be in their hands but hospitals have to ensure they worked till the end to save patients. The staff shortage has also been hindering the process of opening more Covid wards with 300 beds each at IGGMCH and GMCH. Each hospital has 380 isolation and 220 ICU beds but manpower is enough to handle only 330 each. This means the vacant 540 beds may not be of much use. At IGGMCH, 67 doctors are working in three shifts round the clock since last four months in the Covid ward and non-Covid wards, OPDs and casualty duties. Hence, at a time it has around 42 doctors available, which makes it 7:1 for 292 patients, said officials. Sources said the hospitals are not getting any support from different bodies of medical fraternity. “The government spends around Rs78 lakh in training a doctor. If outside doctors come forward in this hour of crisis and take care of non-Covid wards, all our staff can focus on reducing mortality in Covid wards,” a government doctor pleaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ahead-of-peak-ward-deaths-worry-short-staffed-gmcs/articleshow/77381580.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Minister tests +ve, hospitalised in Hyderabad||ONGOLE: A cabinet minister from Prakasam district has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday. The minister, who had been confined to home isolation at his Hyderabad bungalow for the past few days, had initially tested negative. With symptoms of fever continuing for more four days, the minister underwent the screening for Covid-19 on Tuesday and tested positive. He then got admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad. In a message to party workers and followers in the constituency, the minister said that he was well and recovering fast. He appealed to party leaders and cadre who interacted with him in the last fortnight to remain in home quarantine and take medical aid if needed. Meanwhile, two more legislators from Prakasam district and their family members tested positive for Covid-19. Among the two, a TDP legislator and his son tested positive. Sources said that they have left for Hyderabad to get admitted to a private hospital. A YSRC legislator from Markapuram division and his wife, too, tested positive. The couple are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Ongole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minister-tests-ve-hospitalised-in-hyd/articleshow/77379935.cms||Samdani MN
August 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana count at 38,548 with 752 Covid-19 cases, 7 lose battle||CHANDIGARH: With 752 new Covid-19 cases surfacing on Wednesday, the overall count of the positive cases in Haryana has reached 38,548. The state also recorded seven deaths from the disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll to 455. With the latest figures, the number of active cases has reached 6,133, while the doubling rate of cases stands at 26 days. As many as 115 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 25 on ventilator. In all, 31,960 patients have so far been discharged on recovery. On Wednesday, Faridabad received the highest number of 169 cases and Panipat remained at number two with 74 cases. Other districts with significantly high number of cases included Ambala (68), Gurugram (64), Rohtak (51), Rewari (45), Mahendragarh (35), Sirsa (33), Sonepat (32), Yamunanagar (23), Palwal (23) Charkhi Dadri (22) and Fatehabad (20). Fresh cases have also been reported from Panchkula (19), Karnal (16), Hisar (15), Kaithal (10), Kurukshetra (9), Jhajjar (8), Nuh (7), Jind (5) and Bhiwani (4). Till now, a total of 683,500 persons in the state have been tested for the virus infection and around 60,098 persons are currently under surveillance. Of all the cases till now, 25,598 have been male, 12,947 female and three transgender. In terms of overall highest cases in the districts, Faridabad has now become number one, replacing Gurugram. While Faridabad has recorded 9,510 cases, Gurugram has seen 9,412.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-count-at-38548-with-752-cases-7-lose-battle/articleshow/77387491.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana count at 38,548 with 752 Covid-19 cases, 7 lose battle||CHANDIGARH: With 752 new Covid-19 cases surfacing on Wednesday, the overall count of the positive cases in Haryana has reached 38,548. The state also recorded seven deaths from the disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll to 455. With the latest figures, the number of active cases has reached 6,133, while the doubling rate of cases stands at 26 days. As many as 115 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 25 on ventilator. In all, 31,960 patients have so far been discharged on recovery. On Wednesday, Faridabad received the highest number of 169 cases and Panipat remained at number two with 74 cases. Other districts with significantly high number of cases included Ambala (68), Gurugram (64), Rohtak (51), Rewari (45), Mahendragarh (35), Sirsa (33), Sonepat (32), Yamunanagar (23), Palwal (23) Charkhi Dadri (22) and Fatehabad (20). Fresh cases have also been reported from Panchkula (19), Karnal (16), Hisar (15), Kaithal (10), Kurukshetra (9), Jhajjar (8), Nuh (7), Jind (5) and Bhiwani (4). Till now, a total of 683,500 persons in the state have been tested for the virus infection and around 60,098 persons are currently under surveillance. Of all the cases till now, 25,598 have been male, 12,947 female and three transgender. In terms of overall highest cases in the districts, Faridabad has now become number one, replacing Gurugram. While Faridabad has recorded 9,510 cases, Gurugram has seen 9,412.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-count-at-38548-with-752-cases-7-lose-battle/articleshow/77387492.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana count at 38,548 with 752 Covid-19 cases, 7 lose battle||CHANDIGARH: With 752 new Covid-19 cases surfacing on Wednesday, the overall count of the positive cases in Haryana has reached 38,548. The state also recorded seven deaths from the disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll to 455. With the latest figures, the number of active cases has reached 6,133, while the doubling rate of cases stands at 26 days. As many as 115 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 25 on ventilator. In all, 31,960 patients have so far been discharged on recovery. On Wednesday, Faridabad received the highest number of 169 cases and Panipat remained at number two with 74 cases. Other districts with significantly high number of cases included Ambala (68), Gurugram (64), Rohtak (51), Rewari (45), Mahendragarh (35), Sirsa (33), Sonepat (32), Yamunanagar (23), Palwal (23) Charkhi Dadri (22) and Fatehabad (20). Fresh cases have also been reported from Panchkula (19), Karnal (16), Hisar (15), Kaithal (10), Kurukshetra (9), Jhajjar (8), Nuh (7), Jind (5) and Bhiwani (4). Till now, a total of 683,500 persons in the state have been tested for the virus infection and around 60,098 persons are currently under surveillance. Of all the cases till now, 25,598 have been male, 12,947 female and three transgender. In terms of overall highest cases in the districts, Faridabad has now become number one, replacing Gurugram. While Faridabad has recorded 9,510 cases, Gurugram has seen 9,412.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-count-at-38548-with-752-cases-7-lose-battle/articleshow/77381586.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Flood mitigation: Cial opens 2 bridges||Kochi: The two bridges constructed by the Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) as part of its flood mitigation measures in the airport area were opened for public on Wednesday. The bridges and the approach roads were constructed at Kuzhipallam towards the south of Chengalthodu and on AP Varkey Road, towards the north of Chengalthodu. The total cost of the project was Rs 20.48 crore. Cial started the comprehensive project of flood mitigation measures in Angamaly municipality and four panchayats surrounding the airport last year. As part of the project Cial has been constructing several roads and bridges in the area. The bridge in AP Varkey Road was built at a cost of Rs 4.84 crore and the approach roads were constructed at a cost of Rs 8.48 crore. The cost for the bridge at Kuzhipallam is Rs 8.26 crore. Both bridges have 40m length and 9m width and it took four months to construct them. As the bridge in AP Varkey Road is completed, the residents of Thuravumkara can easily go to Chengal, Kalady and Angamaly. The Kuzhipallam bridge will enable easy access for the residents, staying in the southern parts of Cial, to Nedumbassery. The Chengalthodu stream, which is considered the main reason for flooding in the area, has around 40m width in the areas where the bridges are constructed. The free flow of the stream was hindered due to the culverts in the area, which led to the overflowing of Chengalthodu during monsoons. These culverts were cleared to construct the bridges. The construction of bridges at Chethicode and Thuravunkara as part of the flood mitigation project is proceeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flood-mitigation-cial-opens-2-bridges/articleshow/77379937.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Migrants return in strength as J&K gets back to business||SRINAGAR: Jammu & Kashmir, which had seen outbound movement of 40,000 non-Kashmiri migrant workers starting May 19 on account of the Covid-19 crisis, has reported reverse migration of around 25,000 labourers in recent weeks. Senior officials in the home ministry and J&K administration said the return of migrant labour, facilitated via 25 Shramik special trains run from Katra and three chartered flights, is thanks to the efforts of J&K government to restart development works in all areas other than Covid-19 hotspots. “While the rural economy is in full bloom with a hopefully bumper fruit season beckoning, other activities, including wage labour works, public works and large projects are revving back to action. Similarly, private industries and contractors are remobilising labour and there is now a push for reverse migration,” said an officer. The labourers are flying back into J&K from various states such as Bihar, since air route is preferred due to limited operation of trains. “While some employers take care of the airfare, many migrant workers are spending own money to reach J&K as they have work options here,” an officer told TOI. Of course, with J&K being the only jurisdiction in the country that mandatorily conducts RT-PCR tests on all arriving persons or returnees, each of these returning migrant workers is tested for Covid at the entry point itself, be it airports, railway stations or the highways. Sampling and testing set-ups have been created at the entry points and all returnees must shift to administrative quarantine centres till the test results are received in the next 24-48 hours. Till now, 3.2 lakh persons, including 60,000 returning migrants (both Kashmiris working in other states and non-Kashmiris working in J&K) who have come into J&K have been tested. Thanks to its 100% testing protocol for arriving/returning passengers, over 4,200 positive cases could be detected at J&K entry points and isolated. This, a senior J&K official told TOI, has prevented an estimated 20,000 potential cases, assuming that a positive person could have, on an average, infected four others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-return-in-strength-as-jk-gets-back-to-business/articleshow/77383513.cms||Bharti Jain
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Daily trial runs keep trains on ‘hot standby’ for post-Covid operations||CHENNAI: Metro train operations came to a standstill when the nationwide lockdown was announced in March to control Covid spread. While all the 32 stations appeared to have been locked from outside, metro rail staff were hard at work to keep the fleet in good shape and ready for operations post-Covid. According to metro rail officials, trial runs are conducted every day to keep the fleet on ‘hot standby’ so they are in a state of readiness to start train operations as soon as the situation becomes normal. In addition, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL) recently floated a tender to assign a company for conducting special repairs on the existing ballast-less track along a 20km line from Washermenpet metro to Saidapet metro. Since the lockdown, trains are run along the 45km corridors twice a day - two trains in the morning and in the evening - to ensure the major components do not turn faulty leading to problems in restarting trains when operations resume. A metro rail official said they must keep the fleet running to prevent solidification of grease in axle roller bearings and the batteries from getting completely drained which could result in issues in restarting trains. “The trains must move in periodic intervals according to the train manufacturer’s recommendation. If the batteries get discharged, the auto start function in the train won’t work. If the grease solidifies, trains can’t run,” the official said. Other critical systems like the ventilation and air conditioning systems in underground stations must also be turned on every day to avoid degradation of the compressor’s internal parts. “All motors and running components must be operated at specific intervals,” an official said. All stations are functioning with one-fifth of the staff strength – eight to 10 members - working in three shifts instead of the regular strength of 40 to 50 in a station. They check the tunnel ventilation system, telecommunication system and fire alarm systems every day. Signal systems and the traction systems are also checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/daily-trial-runs-keep-trains-on-hot-standby-for-post-covid-operations/articleshow/77381589.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||V Hanumanth Rao slams Asaduddin Owaisi for Priyanka Gandhi tweet||HYDERABAD: Congress has lambasted Hyderabad MP and AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi for his tweet against Priyanka Gandhi over her support to the bhoomi puja of Ram temple in Ayodhya. AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao on Wednesday said, “Owaisi is craving for political mileage and is not able to tolerate Hindu-Muslim unity as communal harmony would weaken his leadership.” Owaisi, in a tweet, had slammed AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi for supporting the bhoomi puja for Ram Temple in Ayodhya and saying that the event would celebrate national unity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-slams-asad-for-priyanka-tweet/articleshow/77381596.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Analysis makes case for shutting state’s old thermal power plants||Nagpur: Replacing the existing units 6 and 7 of Koradi Thermal Power Station (KTPS) with renewable energy or power from other sources, such as exchange power at 3 kilowatt per hour, can save Rs200 crore per annum. Also, if the units are retired instead of retrofitting them with pollution control technologies like flue gas desulfurization (FGD), it could save another Rs200 crore, believes an analysis. The latest analysis was presented by Ashish Fernandes, lead analyst at Climate Risk Horizons, during the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) Maharashtra Discom virtual round-table held on Wednesday. The analysis further shows that all the over 20-year-old plants in the state are less than 150km away from a non-attainment city or a critically polluted industrial cluster. Koradi power plant is among the six plants in the state located in high water-stressed region. “Avoided retrofits by phasing out more than 20-year-old plants in the state can save Rs2,063 crore,” the analysis added. IEEFA’s new report on ‘The Curious Case of India’s Discoms’ highlighted how at 69%, coal-based capacity dominates the power generation mix of the state. “Maharashtra is burdened with procuring power from old inefficient coal-fired plants,” added the report, written by Vibhuti Garg and Kashish Shah from IEEFA. The report recommends that discoms work with state governments to retire old, inefficient and expensive thermal power plants as a key pathway to reducing their average cost of power procurement. “We suggest state-based discoms sit down with state generation utilities and review what old thermal power plants they can retire, given the state of surplus capacity. Many thermal power stations are old and operating at well under half their capacity, yet the states are bound by contracts to continue to pay hefty capacity charges,” said Garg. Stressing on the efforts that the policymakers can take to reduce the discom’s financial burden, the report stated that resolving legacy contracts issues and closing inefficient plants will result in significant savings from fixed charge payments while reducing pollution and carbon footprints. “Increasing private competition will encourage generators, distributors, and electricity supply companies to develop technologies to increase efficiency, lower costs, and make supply more reliable,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/analysis-makes-case-for-shutting-states-old-thermal-power-plants/articleshow/77381785.cms||Manka Behl
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||BCA to get refund Rs 45L refund with interest from income tax||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) will soon get a refund of Rs 45 lakh with interest from the income tax department. The association had appealed to the commissioner of income tax (appeals) after it was asked to deposit Rs 45 lakh five years ago and it won the case. BCA had organized a cricketing tour to Sri Lanka in 2014 and sent its Ranji team there. The association engaged a local tour operator and deducted 2% tax deductible at source (TDS). “But the income tax department asked BCA to deposit around Rs eight lakh saying that we deducted less TDS. We had appealed in the case and recently it it was upheld,” said Amul Jikar, former BCA treasurer during whose tenure the dispute happened. The BCA management had to shell out another Rs 35 lakh to the income tax after it bought a new office on the OP Road in 2014. “Two out of the eight building owners were NRIs but they had Indian PAN cards and had been regularly filing IT returns here. So we considered all the owners as Indians and calculated one per cent TDS for the two NRIs. Someone had complained to the income tax department about it,” Jikar added. “The department considered the two owners as NRIs and calculated 22%TDS. We deposited Rs 35 lakh and contested the claims. BCA won this case too along with calculation of income of some ex-selectors. We will soon get the refund of Rs 45 lakh with 6& interest,” Jikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-to-get-refund-rs-45l-refund-with-interest-from-income-tax/articleshow/77378979.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Healthcare sector fumes as Palike shuts private hospital’s OPD||BENGALURU: The BBMP has shut the outpatient department (OPD) of a major private hospital in Vasanthnagar, citing alleged violations of Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. The move has left the private healthcare sector fuming. This is the first time that a hospital is being prevented from delivering healthcare services citing Covid-19 protocol enforcement. Till now, all such actions by BBMP against healthcare establishments were restricted to only police complaints and cancellation of licences. Huge metal barricades blocked the entrance to the OPD wing of Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Hospital in Vasanthnagar from Tuesday evening, depriving scores of patients, who flock the facility every day, of essential services. The sealing followed a reply from the hospital to a notice from BBMP south zone. Asked why the OPD was shut, Dr (Wg Cmdr) MD Marker, chairperson of Jain hospital, told TOI: “The reason given to us by BBMP was that a patient was made to wait for over five hours. The emergency ward is filled with patients. But the BBMP is not ready to hear us out.” The civic body has issued notices to over 50 hospitals for reasons ranging from not parting with 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients referred by the government to excess billing. Last week, BBMP cancelled licences of 19 hospitals in east and west zones and lodged criminal complaints with jurisdictional police against their management representatives. However, commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad had made it clear that the hospitals that lost their licence could continue with their operations. The Palike’s move against Jain hospital has left private healthcare community in the city in a state of shock. The community is wondering what purpose will the punishment, which only restricts people’s access to healthcare during a pandemic, serve. Dr Prasanna HM of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) lamented that the government was treating private hospitals like a bunch of criminals. “The government is threatening private hospitals and forcing them to give beds. But the same government is yet to clear the pending bills towards treatment of Covid-19 patients. Crores of rupees have not been paid yet. This despite private hospitals working relentlessly since June 23 to support the government in pandemic management. We are losing out on the funds and sustaining hospital operations is very challenging.” Dr Prasanna said BBMP and government actions are demotivating doctors and other staffers. “Some doctors have even received threat calls,” he added. Dr Marker said the government needs to understand that private hospitals were never prepared for a pandemic and are doing everything in their capacity to handle the situation with ease. “If there is any grouse, BBMP should come and talk to us and arrive at an amicable solution. This is not the way,” he said. According to Jain hospital, it has lent 200 beds for Covid-19 treatment, including 100 in Vasanthnagar and 100 in Girinagar branches, but only 35 of them have been filled till date. “The government needs to coordinate among its departments… the left hand has no idea what the right hand is doing,” said Dr Marker. Dr Marker said that according to the government, private hospitals are not supposed to charge patients it refers to them, but the funds it provides are just not enough. “How do we survive,” he asked. “Our staffers are overworked and tired, both physically and emotionally. Many are afraid to work in Covid hospitals. Has the government thought about it? We may soon close down the hospital, if we have to work like this. The government needs to understand us,” he said. Meanwhile, BBMP chief Manjunatha Prasad said the zonal joint commissioner has acted in accordance with powers vested in him under the Karnataka Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020 and Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act, 2017 read with rules (3) Section 24(f)&24(1) of Disaster Management Act. Asked why different zones are acting in different ways against private hospitals, Prasad said, “I cannot be monitoring each zone and the joint commissioner knows his or her duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-shuts-pvt-hospitals-opd-wing-rattles-healthcare-sector/articleshow/77379955.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports highest number of single-day deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 77 deaths, the highest single-day toll since the pandemic broke in March, and 10,128 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative tally to 1,86,461. The number of new cases on Wednesday is second only to Maharashtra (10,309). Karnataka was a distant third, reporting 5,619 new cases on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 1,684, even as about 8,700 people were declared cured, taking the cumulative recoveries (1,04,354) past the one lakh mark. There are currently 80,426 active cases in the state with an overall recovery rate of about 56%. West Godavari has the highest recovery rate of 73%, while it is around 40% in Visakhapatnam district. There seems to be no let-up in the surge of infections in East Godavari which reported 1,544 new cases to cross the 26,000-mark. Kurnool recorded 1,368 cases, followed by Anantapur (1,260), Visakhapatnam (842), Guntur (730) and Kadapa (729). Kurnool and Anantapur districts also crossed the 20,000 cases mark. Eight districts have over 10,000 Covid-19 infections, which include Guntur (18,551), Visakhapatnam (15,901), West Godavari (14,988), Chittoor (13,551) and Kadapa (10,889). Of 77 deaths, 16 are from Guntur, 12 from Visakhapatnam, 10 from Srikakulam, eight from Chittoor, seven from East Godavari, five from Krishna, four from Nellore, three each from Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari, and two each from Anantapur, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. The death toll has crossed the century mark in nine districts, including the grim double century milestone in Kurnool. AP has so far tested 22.35 lakh samples, including 60,576 tests in the last 24 hours. Overall positivity now stands at 8.34% against the national average of 8.87%. The mortality rate is at 0.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-highest-number-of-single-day-deaths/articleshow/77379949.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Caseload drops to 112, 5 deaths take toll to 90||Coimbatore: The district recorded 112 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking its tally to 5,805, while the toll touched 90 with five more deaths. The number of active cases, however, came down to 1,571 as 226 patients recovered and were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. While the number of new cases was half the usual 225 to 250 cases the district has been recording for the past week, officials say it is only a delay in declaring cases officially. They say another 200 people are likely to have tested positive for the virus and they will be listed in the bulletin in the coming days. Of the 226 patients, who were discharged, 50 were taking Ayush treatment. At least 35 of them were only on ayurveda, siddha and homeopathy medication. The treatment included kabasura kudineer drink, arsenic album 30, siddha tablets, herbal tea, salt water for gargling, pranayama and yoga for half an hour a day. The remaining 15 were taking integrated treatment – besides the Ayush routine, they also consumed allopathic supplements, including vitamin and zinc tablets. Dhanam, district siddha medical officer, said, “Another 56 people are undergoing treatment with us. Majority of them are taking only Ayush treatment.” The new cases were spread across the city. Seeranaickenpalayam at Thondamuthur saw three cases and RS Puram five. A 53-year-old woman and her 23-year-old daughter were tested positive at Ramanathapuram and a mother-son duo at Dhanalakshmi Nagar in Kalapatti. At three, Selvapuram cluster saw a drop in cases, while Town Hall area recorded just two new cases. Among the five deceased, two were brought dead and the remaining, including a 60-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man, died within 24 hours of hospitalization. Both the elderly patients were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on August 3 and they died the same day. Another 70-year-old patient died on August 2, two hours after hospitalization. The brought dead cases comprise a 55-year-old who was taken to Kilpauk Medical College on August 2, and a 46-year-old who was rushed to CMCH on August 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caseload-drops-to-112-5-deaths-take-toll-to-90/articleshow/77381587.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||World Lion Day 2020 to be celebrated virtually on Aug 10||Rajkot: The forest department will be organising the World Lion Day virtually on August 10. The department has already started a special campaign on social media from August 1 as a part of celebrations. The forest department has launched campaign on Instagram, Facebook, Youtube and Twitter. The officials of the department have started posting content on wildlife conservation and awareness on these social media sites. Mohan Ram sanctuary superintendent at Sasan said “We are encouraging people to participate in the campaign by developing creative material like pictures, paintings, speech, videos, graphic designs, poems, recitation, craft work, essays and slogans for World Lion Day and share with us by tagging and mentioning #WorldLionsDay2020.” The forest department will share some of the content on its officials social media handles and also issue certificates to some of the participants. This will be like a competition in which participants will get certificates in category of bronze, silver and gold based on their creativity and likes and shares by others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/world-lion-day-2020-to-be-celebrated-virtually-on-aug-10/articleshow/77379987.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||JAC seeks 10-day lockdown in Vizag Agency||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fearing a rise in number of Covid-19 cases, activists, traders and students in Vizag Agency are demanding officials impose a lockdown in the region for a week to 10 days. The Agency, comprising eleven mandals with a population of above 6.5 lakh, has reported over 250 Covid-19 cases and two deaths so far. Containing the disease in the Agency is critical as cases of malaria spike in the region every monsoon. Exposure to Covid-19 will worsen the situation here, said Rama Rao Dora, district convener of the Adivasi Joint Action Committee (JAC). “We are demanding closure of all commercial establishments, liquor outlets and government offices for a week or 10 days, besides asking authorities to impose stricter restrictions on people entering Vizag Agency. Local vendors, traders and shopkeepers in Vizag Agency have agreed to restrict their business from 6 am to 8 am,” Dora added. Additional district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Leela Prasad said two persons from Hukumpeta and Paderu mandals had tested positive for Covid-19 after their death. As of now, 83 people have recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/adivasi-jac-calls-for-week-long-lockdown-in-vizag-agency/articleshow/77379984.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 6, 2020||Agra||Mathura SSP tests Covid-19 positive||AGRA: Mathura district police chief Dr Guarav Grover tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Wednesday. According to the health department, circle officer, refinery and SP city, had also tested positive for the infection earlier this week. Confirming this, Mathura's chief medical officer, Sanjeev Yadav, said that all police personnel who came in contact with the SSP in the last few days will also be tested. He said that over 50 samples will be collected. “As the infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation and will be monitored by a medical team,” said a health official. Till now, 1,018 people in Mathura have been infected from Novel Coronavirus and of these 664 have recovered. Around 318 cases are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-ssp-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77378730.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||DJS activists booked in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Members of Darsgah-Jihad-O-Shahadat were booked by Dabeerpura police early on Wednesday for staging a protest against the Bhoomi Poojan at Ayodhya and raising slogans in favour of Turkey’s Hagia Sophia mosque. The general secretary of the group, Salahuddin Affan, has also been taken into judicial custody. Police registered a case against the protesters for creating enmity between two religious groups. Cops alleged that actions of DJS activists were prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and could cause disturbance to the public tranquility. DJS President M.A. Majid,and others have been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/djs-activists-booked-in-city/articleshow/77381619.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||More frontline Covid-19 workers now testing positive||Nagpur: Covid-19 is spreading fast with steep rise in cases from various parts of the district. Some of the leading front-line workers also tested positive on Wednesday. Deputy district health officer, who was leading the Covid-19 team of zilla parishad for last five months, tested positive. He was working tirelessly in Nagpur Rural since beginning in contact tracing, setting up special testing camps, training staff for collection of swab samples, developing quarantine centres and Covid Care Centres in 13 tehsils. Earlier, two doctors and some paramedical staffers of ZP working at quarantine centres have also tested positive. In Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), assistant commissioner of Gandhibagh zone, who is in charge of entire zone, zonal medical officer, head of medical department, and zonal officer, head of sanitation department tested positive. Since March, all three were working without any leave in the zone with the highest number of cases as well as deaths in the city. The zone is facing serious problems due to shortage of staff. Over last two months, some front-line workers of civic body had contracted the disease while working in containment zones. On Wednesday, 55-year-old additional municipal commissioner, who has been taking care of quarantine centres, CCCs and food supply during full lockdown, tested positive in antibody test. He too had reportedly not taken a single weekly off or leave since March. Two more officials of collector office also tested positive in antibody test, who were working in containing the spread of disease. “Due to work, I never realized that I had contracted the disease. Nice thing is that I came positive in antibody test which means I can continue my work and not take leave. We have no option but to carry on the work as there is no staff in spare for taking over our place. Therefore, we would like to work till the end of this pandemic in the district,” the NMC official said. A 31-year-old female resident doctor of IGGMCH, who was working in Covid-19 isolation ward, also tested positive on Tuesday. Before her, over 10 doctors and paramedical staff of IGGMCH had tested positive. IGGMCH is testing and also treating novel coronavirus patients since the district registered first case on March 11. Similarly, over 10 doctors and paramedical staff from GMCH have also tested positive. This government Dedicated Covid Hospital is also testing and treating positive patients since beginning of the pandemic. As of Wednesday, 1,621 positives patients have recovered and been discharged from GMCH and IGGMCH. Also, 640 patients with moderate and serious symptoms are undergoing treatment currently. Even among security forces, 15 State Reserve Police Officers deployed in containment zones had also tested positive. Over 35 policemen have also contracted the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-frontline-covid-19-workers-now-testing-positive/articleshow/77381600.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Pay salaries or we will stop online classes’||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation teachers’ associations have warned that they will stop taking online classes from August 16 if immediate action is not taken for release of pending three months’ salaries. Despite taking the matter to the high court and pursuing it with all officials and political leaders, the issue of non-payment of salaries is not getting resolved, claim the teachers. In the beginning of July, the north corporation had paid the April salary to 5,406 teachers who were on Covid-19 duty, but the remaining 3,594 did not get anything. On the high court’s direction, their salaries were paid by the month-end. Times ViewEducation is fundamental to a society’s health. But how does one expect teachers to work and their families to survive without salaries? In these Covid-19 times, funds are scarce everywhere. But the state government and the concerned corporation should rise above their differences and immediately come forward with a solution. After all, salary is not a gift; it is a right.“There is no clarity on payment of remaining salaries of teachers. Instead of helping us, an attempt has been made to break our unity on this issue. All the teachers have now collectively decided to discontinue online teaching from August 16,” said Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyay Manch, Nagar Nigam. He added that the association had earlier announced to discontinue online classes from August 6, but soon after that, the north corporation mayor posted on twitter that the salary for April would be released in a day and for May in another 10 days. “Within a day, Municipal Corporation Teachers Association (MCTA) made an announcement to initiate a strike from August 16. This led to confusion and division of opinion,” said Khatri. To this, Ram Niwas Solanki of MCTA said that as per procedure, authorities need to be informed in advance about teachers going on a strike. “We are an elected association and work in a responsible manner. We gave 15 days’ time to the civic agency to pay salaries or face action. We have not received our May’s salary and the April salary was credited on Wednesday,” he said. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, however, said that they have already released salaries for teachers, doctors, nurses and other staff for the month of May. “I spoke to the commissioner and he clarified that the salary would be credited in bank accounts of the remaining staff in a day or two. Sanitation workers were paid their salaries till June after some funds were released by Delhi government recently,” said the mayor. When asked about the teachers’ decision to discontinue online teaching, north corporation education director, Ira Singhal, said that the department had not yet received any formal information. A north corporation official, meanwhile, said, “The teachers are required to just send the worksheets to children and then evaluate those. The entire process takes only one and half hours. If they fail to devote even this much time a day in these times of crisis, then we will deduct their salaries.” Watch Pending salaries for 3 months North Delhi Municipal Corporation teachers’ associations warn authorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pay-salaries-or-we-will-stop-online-classes/articleshow/77381613.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Record rain pounds Nilgiris||Udhagamangalam: Nilgiris witnessed its highest rainfall this year in the 24 hour period ending Wednesday morning, and recorded two deaths besides a slew of destruction bringing back memories of a devastating rain during the same period last year. Road traffic was hit in most parts of the district due to uprooting of trees, while the entire Ooty town suffered power disruptions for the whole day. Power supply was not restored in the evening too, leaving the town in total darkness. Two teams of State Disaster Response Force comprising 40 personnel landed in Nilgiris and plunged into relief work. The District administration appealed to people not to venture out of their houses, even as about 300 people were evacuated from low lying areas and damaged houses and sent to relief camps. Showers continued in several parts of Nilgiris on Wednesday too, raising water levels in streams and rivers, sparking fears of breaching of bunds. The state met department sounded a weather alert that the heavy showers would continue till August 8. According to officials, Avalanche recorded the highest 390 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 7am on Wednesday, followed by Upper Bhavani which recorded 306 mm. The average rainfall recorded by Nilgiris was 77.29 mm as against 62.64 mm on Tuesday. Officials said that though the intensity of rainfall was more or less same as that of previous days, strong winds that accompanied the showers on Tuesday night played the spoilsport. “Two people died after branches of trees fell on them, while five houses were totally damaged and seven partially damaged on Wednesday,’’ said revenue divisional officer D Suresh. The deceased were identified as K Ravi, 52 from Kakkanji Nagar in Sholur and Sadik Ali, 41, from RC Colony in Ooty. Officials said that more than 150 trees were uprooted in Kundha taluk and 30 trees in Ooty taluk. These were trees along the roadside, completely throwing traffic out of gear. Most of which were removed to pave way for traffic during the day. In addition, there could be lot more trees uprooted in private lands and in the jungle. While the four taluks, Ooty, Kundha, Gudalur and Pandalur, are heavily hit by the rain, Kotagiri and Coonoor taluks remain relatively unaffected. Most of the uprooted trees damaged electrical posts and caused power cuts in the whole of Ooty town and suburbs for more than 20 hours. Across district 80 electric poles damaged in last 24 hours. Power supply could not be restored to Ooty since power lines to Sandynalla sub station which caters to the hill town was cut. Collector J Innocent Divya said people have been advised to stay indoors and not venture near trees. “We have closed Ooty – Gudalur road from 5 pm to 6 am as precautionary measure,’’ she said. All the schools in the district have been converted into relief camps and kept ready to accommodate people as and when they are evacuated depending on the situation. So far 850 have been shifted to the camps, 500 on Tuesday and 350 on Wednesday, most of whom were from Kundah taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/record-rain-pounds-nilgiris/articleshow/77381599.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Shimla||52 recover in Himachal Pradesh, 37 found infected||Shimla: Thirty-seven positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, while 52 patients recovered from the virus. There are now 2,916 positive cases in the state, of which 1,114 are active, 1,762 of recovery, 12 deaths while 26 have migrated from the state. Among new cases, 17 were from Chamba district, eight from Solan, six from Una, four from Kangra, and two from Shimla. When it came to recovered patients, 25 were from Sirmaur district, seven from Mandi, six each from Kangra and Una, four from Solan, three from Chamba, and one from Shimla. A total of 1,56,104 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till date. Of these, 1,51,154 people have tested negative while results of 2,034 samples are awaited. Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said a man tested positive through random sampling and he had no contact or travel history. He said the man’s 50 primary and secondary contacts were tested and 16 were found positive. They are from Dharog Mohalla. Another positive case been detected in Chamba’s Dharadda area. Among those who tested positive in Kangra are a 22-year-old man from Rodigudi village. He had arrived from Mumbai on July 28 and was in institutional quarantine at Jwalamukhi. Others incluse a 22-year-old man from Boh village of Shahpur tehsil who had arrived from West Bengal and was in institutional quarantine at Parour, a 25-year-old man from Gagloi who is the primary contact of positive case and a 33-year-old Army personnel who had arrived from Leh on July 28 and is in Army institutional quarantine at Palampur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/52-recover-in-himachal-pradesh-37-found-infected/articleshow/77381605.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad farmers in distress as Horticorp delays payment||Kozhikode: The agricultural department is yet to make nearly Rs. 1 crore in payments for the vegetables collected from farmers during the lockdown in Wayanad, leaving many in distress. The Horticorp had collected vegetables worth Rs 1.1 crore from March to support farmers during the lockdown but the department has made payments of just Rs 15.4 lakh so far. Farmers said that the intervention made by the department and Horticorp to help farmers has become a farce. "The delay in receiving payments for the farm produce procured months ago has hit us badly," said Sukumaran Unni, an organic farmer from Thirunelly. "Many farmers have discontinued farming activities as they are not able to pay labour charges." Sukumaran had supplied green chilly, brinjal, peas, snake gourd, etc to Horticorp since March and is yet to be paid. He said that even if prompt payments were made, the profits from vegetable farming would have been scarce as he had transported the produce to the procurement centre 35 km away from his farm. “But the delay in receiving money has only added to the woes during the trying times of the pandemic,” he added. Meanwhile, agriculture department officials said they have used up Rs. 15 lakh that was available with them in the district as payments on behalf of the Horticorp to avoid delay. “There was a delay in getting payments from Horticorp but now we have received Rs 15 lakh from Horticorp and that will be disbursed to the farmers tomorrow," said an official with the district principal agriculture office at Kalpetta. "The agriculture department has also stepped in and has allotted Rs 86 lakh to Wayanad district using unused funds from other districts and we hope to complete the pending payments to farmers this week itself." The vegetables and fruits were procured under the price stabilization scheme for farmers during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-farmers-in-distress-as-horticorp-delays-payment/articleshow/77379964.cms||K R Rajeev
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: MLA first in Guntur district to donate plasma||GUNTUR: Ponnur legislator Kilari Rosaiah, who recently recovered from Covid-19, has become the first person in the district to consent to donate his plasma. This is significant given the administration has decided to launch plasma therapy at Covid-19 hospital near Mangalagiri. Rosaiah visited the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) centre in the city on Wednesday and handed over the consent letter to district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar and IRCS vice-chairman PR Raju. Sources said the district-level ethics committee will go through the consent letters and health reports of all the prospective donors and take a call on allowing the donation on a case-to-case basis. As per the rules, prescribed by the ICMR, people aged between 18-50 years and who have recovered from Covid-19 are primarily eligible to donate blood plasma. However, the ethics committee, constituted by the district collector, will check the other parameters including health status and reasons for the donor coming forward before allowing the donation to take place. The ethics committee would also look into whether there are monetary considerations or pressures on prospective donors coming forward. Speaking on the occasion, Rosaiah said he had decided to donate the plasma as many Covid-19 patients are apprehensive about their recovery. He said the state government is taking all possible measures to protect the lives of the coronavirus patients. District collector Samuel Anand Kumar said they are set to launch a plasma donor cell in the Red Cross office to enable more youths to come forward and donate plasma. He said they have government clearance to launch plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients at NRI hospital. Red Cross vice-chairman Raju said they would start the physical collection process only after getting the green signal from the ethics panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-comes-forward-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77379999.cms||Samdani MN
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Main accused M R Bijulal files for bail, lands in CB net||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The main suspect in the treasury fraud case, M R Bijulal, was arrested by police from the office of his advocate, here, on Wednesday. Bijulal had arrived to file for anticipatory bail after he was named first accused in the police case. He managed that and court posted his bail application for August 13 before he was arrested by a team of officials from the district crime branch. Prior to being apprehended, Bijulal told mediapersons, who had arrived there after getting wind of his court appearance, he was totally innocent and that he will prove his innocence. Later, during police interrogation, Bijulal is learnt to have admitted that he had siphoned off Rs 74 lakh in April and May this year in addition to the Rs 2 crore which came to light last week. He is also believed to have told cops that the money, which was transferred to the accounts of his wife and sister, was used to purchase land and gold. The retired official’s system login credentials, which Bijulal used to effect the transfers, were shared to him by another officer in confidence for official purposes. Bijulal used part of the money to play online rummy, the investigating team is believed to have gleaned. Bijulal had been absconding since Saturday, when the scam was unearthed. A senior accountant with the Vanchiyoor sub-treasury office, he was found to have been involved in moving the money into multiple treasury savings accounts since December 23 last year. The case has been charged under sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and section 66C of the Information Technology Act. Bijulal’s wife Simi D Ambi has been named second accused in the case. The police are also probing the involvement of more persons or whether anyone in the treasury had aided him in committing the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/main-accused-bijulal-files-for-bail-lands-in-cb-net/articleshow/77380007.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Agra||Mother-daughter duo stabbed to death over dowry||AGRA: A 30-year-old woman and her three-year-old daughter were stabbed to death with a kitchen knife on Tuesday night, allegedly by her husband for dowry. Besides, the younger 18-month-old daughter of the couple is in critical condition. The main accused, 34-year-old Virendra Kumar Tomar – husband of the deceased woman, identified as Gunjan – has been arrested. Virendra, son of Ramveer Singh Tomar of Dhanoli village under Malpura police station, was married to Gunjan, who was a resident of Tundla, Firozabad, in June 2015. Ramveer informed police that Gunjan had been staying at her parents' home in Firozabad for the last two months and returned to stay with her husband only on Monday. On getting information about the double murder, Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar rushed to the spot around 3am. A forensic team was also called to collect samples from the crime scene. “The main accused, Virendra, has been arrested on the charge of murdering his wife and daughter. One of his daughters, who was also stabbed with a kitchen knife, was admitted in hospital. Her condition is critical. During interrogation, the accused admitted that he had differences with his wife, and that he stabbed his wife and both their daughters after a fight on Tuesday,” the SSP added. On Wednesday morning, Gunjan’s brother Nitin Kumar Sishodiya arrived from Tundla. He filed a complaint at Malpura police station, alleging that his sister was frequently harassed for dowry. He blamed Virendra Singh and his family members for the murder of his sister and her daughter. Station house officer (SHO) of Malpura, Anurag Sharma, said, “On a complaint by Gunjan’s brother, an FIR has been registered against her husband, Virendra, and six members of his family -- including his father, mother, three sisters and a brother. The case has been registered under the Dowry Prohibition Act and sections 498 A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 302 (punishment for murder), 304 B (where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs other than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mother-daughter-duo-stabbed-to-death-over-dowry/articleshow/77378738.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Lankan don was running his gang from city through WhatsApp calls||Coimbatore: Though Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka escaped from Colombo using a fake passport and landed in Chennai in 2017, he was operating his gang in the island nation through WhatsApp calls till his death on June 3 in Coimbatore. According to the Sri Lankan police, Angoda Lokka was arrested by the Sri Lankan police in 2014 in connection with a murder case. Later, he obtained bail and came out of prison. Thereafter, he was involved in a series of murders in Colombo and other areas in Sri Lanka till he escaped to a foreign country using a fake passport. “A worldwide ‘red notice’ was issued by the Interpol to arrest Angoda Lokka. But the Sri Lankan police could not trace his whereabouts,” a Sri Lankan police officer told TOI. On September 25, 2019, Tharaka alias Konda Tharaka was shot dead by Angoda Lokka’s gang members at Hanwella police area. The Sri Lankan police claimed that Angoda Lokka was the prime suspect in connection with the murder. He had executed the murder with the help of his gang members by giving instructions to them over WhatsApp calls.“Our state intelligence officials approached the Indian high commission in connection with the suspected death of Angoda Lokka reported in India. We are also closely monitoring the case,” senior DIG Deshabandu Tennakoon, Western Province, Sri Lanka, told TOI.TOI accessed the case details and family details of Angoda Lokka from the Sri Lankan police on Wednesday. Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera (nick name – Angoda Lokka) was born in November 13, 1985 and he was residing at Hospital Road at Angoda in Mulleriyawa. He was involved in a first murder case on April 7, 2014 at Kelaniya police area in Sri Lanka. Angoda Lokka shot dead a rivalry gang member and was arrested by the police. Later, he came out from prison on bail. He was involved in another murder case at Wellampitiya police limit on January 18, 2011. He was also involved in a murder case reported on September 23, 2015 at Nawagamuwa police limit. Angoda Lokka and his gang members shot dead Aruna Udayantha Patirana alias Samayan. On November 30, 2017, another murder case reported at Kottawa police limit. Angoda Lokka and his gang murdered Manjula Sanduni Abeyratne. He was involved in two murder cases in 2018. On March 19, 2018, Thalagalage Nimalsri was shot dead by Angoda Lokka’s gang and Tharaka alias Konda Tharaka was shot dead on October 5, 2018.In 2019, Thushara Vishantha alias Potta was shot dead by the gang at Gothatuwa police limit. “Angoda Lokka was directly and indirectly involved in series of murder cases. He was running a land grabbing racket which murdered the rivalry gang. He is survived by father Maddumage Layanal Perera, mother Chandrika Parera, sister Maddumage Lasantha Chandrani Perera, brother Lakmal Chandana Perera, wife Nisansala Abeysinghe and son Nimesh Sahan,” the officer said. Angoda Lokka faked his name to Ilawalage Sandun and obtained a passport in Sri Lanka. He escaped to Chennai where he was arrested by the Chennai city police on June 9, 2017 under few sections of Indian Penal Code, Indian Passport Act and Foreigners Act of India. He was lodged at the Chennai Puzhal prison and later obtained bail. The Coimbatore city police claimed that Angoda Lokka allegedly died of sudden cardiac arrest at his rental house at Balaji Nagar at Cheran Maa Nagar in Coimbatore on July 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lankan-don-was-running-his-gang-from-city-through-whatsapp-calls/articleshow/77381634.cms||A Subburaj
August 6, 2020||Agra||Agra: Ram temple bhoomi pujan brings Diwali in August||AGRA: With the lighting of thousands of diyas at temples, residences and businesses premises, Agra — the Covid-19 epicentre of Uttar Pradesh — celebrated Diwali in August on the occasion of Ram Temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya on Wednesday. People also decorated their homes and businesses premises with decorative lightings and busted crackers in different parts of the city in the evening. Several organisations also distributed sweets to celebrate the occasion. Special prayers, recitation of Ramcharitmanas and havanas were held at major temples across the district, though only priests and people associated with the management of the temples were allowed on the premises. Devotees were, however, allowed to watch the rituals from outside for short durations. Policemen were deployed to prevent gatherings outside major temples. Early on Wednesday morning, religious organisations distributed diyas among residents to celebrate the occasion in the evening. Activists of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal distributed thousands of diyas in different parts of the city and urged people to light at least five diyas outside their homes. After taking a round of the city in the evening, VHP vice-president, Agra region, Sunil Parasar said, “At least 10 lakh diyas were lit in the city to mark the occasion. Our workers ensured that every house got diyas for lighting in the evening. People are celebrating the occasion like Diwali.” Talking to TOI, mayor Naveen Jain said, “For devotees of Ram, the ceremony is a festive occasion like Diwali. The atmosphere remained religious across the city throughout the day. While maintaining social distancing, people gathered in small groups to sing bhajans and play musical instruments. I attended a few events organised by citizens, and now I am celebrating the occasion with my staff, councillors and party workers.” After lighting diyas at their homes, people posted pictures and videos on various social media platforms. Companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and Rapid Action Force (RAF) were deployed in sensitive areas across the district to maintain law and order situation. Policemen conducted patrolling at marketplaces and in residential colonies throughout the day to ensure peace. Senior officers, including district magistrate Prabhu N Singh and senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar, also conducted inspections in several localities. However, no untoward incident was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-brings-diwali-in-august/articleshow/77378744.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||City malls have a dull opening||Nagpur: It was a dull atmosphere at the city malls on day one after they opened after a gap of over four months. Many shops inside the malls were still being cleaned while some had not opened. The ones that had opened did not get much footfalls. Guards were posted at the entrance of the malls. They checked temperatures of visitors and sprayed sanitizers on their hands. They asked customers to put on masks and urged them to download the Aarogya Setu mobile app if they had not done it. Circles had been drawn inside the atrium and in front of the shops. As there were not many people, these were practically not required. A branded garment store owner said that there were no customers in the first half of the day. “People were probably watching the Ram Mandir bhoomipujan and hence, did not turn up. Others must have been in their offices. In the second half, some people turned up. However, I did not get much business. I expect people to turn up in more numbers on Saturday and Sunday,” he said. A restaurant owner said that he had started home deliveries through food delivery apps. “I got some orders. I have not employed my whole staff. I will do it if business picks up,” he said. Shopkeepers said that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has implemented the odd-even rule inside malls, which is creating a lot of problems for them. “This rule is not applicable for malls in any other city. NMC must do a rethink otherwise we will not be able to meet our expenses,” said a shopkeeper. A mall manager said that multiplexes, restaurants and playing zones were closed. “If I am not allowed to open all shops, my occupancy will reduce to 10%. It will simply not remain viable to keep the mall open,” he added. Commenting on the response on the first day, Ashish Barai of Eternity Mall said that some shops had opened on Wednesday. “The bigger ones need permission from their head offices. Some shops had outside staffers, who are yet to return to Nagpur. Things will improve in the coming days,” he added. A group of youngsters had come to freak out in a mall. They were disappointed that most outlets were closed. “There is no point if multiplexes and food courts are not open. We used to spend hours before the lockdown. Now it looks like a ghost town,” said Ankita Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-malls-have-a-dull-opening/articleshow/77381668.cms||Ashish Roy
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Stores, eateries at Delhi metro stations seek rent waiver||NEW DELHI: With Delhi Metro closed for public since March 22 as a measure to curb the spread of Covid-19, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has earned no passenger revenue for more than four months. Income through other sources has also dried up with the pandemic affecting every sector. The complete closure has also hit hard those who operate retail stores, eateries, parking lots, etc on metro premises. According to sources, they have urged the metro authorities to waive off the rent for the period during which operations remain closed. So far, DMRC has not been pressurising anyone for payments. It has constituted a committee comprising senior officials of the property development department, which will analyse the situation and give its report on how much discount can be provided as a relief measure, sources added. In the financial year 2018-19, DMRC had earned Rs 3,121 crore through passenger fare and Rs 594 crore through non-passenger revenue, which came from shop rentals, auctioning advertisement rights, property development, consultancy, etc. DMRC has faced losses to the tune of Rs 1,300 crore since March 22 and for the first time in nearly two decades, it will not be able to repay this year’s instalment for the Rs 35,198 crore soft loan it has taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency for construction. DMRC has requested for Centre’s help in bailing it out by rescheduling the loan repayment and getting this year’s payment deferred to next year. “While Delhi Metro has earned zero passenger revenue in the past four months, there is significant cost involved in maintaining and keeping its 389-km network with 285 stations in working mode, apart from paying staff salaries,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stores-eateries-at-metro-stations-seek-rent-waiver/articleshow/77381701.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Two youth jump into canal to save woman in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Two bravehearts jumped into a canal near Karimnagar town on Wednesday and saved a 40-year-old woman from drowning. Police said the woman jumped into Kakatiya canal to end her life. “She was drifting away when the two youngsters who were passing by saw her at around 8 am and brought her out of the canal,” police said. The youngsters also informed police about the incident. Cops appreciated the timely help of Sundaragiri Sathish and Dundram Yellaiah and their courage for rescuing the woman. The canal is on the outskirts of Alugunur village in Thimmapur mandal, 13 km from Karimnagar town. Police, who arrived on the scene, shifted the woman to a private hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. The woman resorted to the extreme step owing to domestic issues, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-youth-jump-into-canal-to-save-woman/articleshow/77381656.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||Surat bizman among 3 killed in road accident||Rajkot: Surat businessman was among three persons killed when an SUV rammed into a truck from behind near Chirai village about 15km from Morbi town on Wednesday afternoon. Three others injured in the accident were rushed to Morbi civil hospital for treatment. The deceased were identified as Rajendra Bachav (42) who has an export-import business in Surat, and his two employees Mahendra Singh Pal (41) and Jainendra Singh Rajput (45). They all were going to Mundra in Kutch for business purpose. According to Maliya Miyana police sub inspector, R B Tapariya, Bachav and three others had set off from Surat on Wednesday morning and had picked up two men from Chotila in Surendranagar district.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surat-bizman-among-3-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77380009.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||After PIL, Haryana informs HC it will consider guidelines for online classes||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Wednesday assured the Punjab and Haryana high court that it will decide on the guidelines for online classes of schools due to Covid-19 pandemic. A plea was filed before the HC that guidelines should be framed by the government as online classes are causing harm to children, especially to those in pre-primary classes. “After arguing at length, the counsel for the petitioner submitted that to redress his grievances the petitioner would file a representation before the respondent-authorities (school education department, Haryana). Additional advocate general appearing for the state of Haryana submitted that the representation so filed by the petitioner shall be considered and decided expeditiously. In view of the statement given by additional advocate general, Haryana, the petition stands disposed of,” observed the HC. The matter had reached before the HC in the wake of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Saurabh Rajput, a resident of Gurgaon. According to the petitioner, the children from pre-nursery till Class V are being exposed to a lot of screen time, which is affecting their health. “The children are supposed to sit in their uniforms for hours together, without moving away from the screen, whereby for many parents, who are working from home, it has also meant adjusting their schedule to provide their children laptop and uninterrupted internet connectivity, which is not in their control all the time. Besides, most of the children have started complaining of headache and irritation in the eyes,” the petitioner had submitted while seeking HC directions to school education department. The petitioner has also claimed that most of the state governments have already stopped online classes for nursery till Class V after receiving complaints from parents. Seeking immediate ban on online classes for pre-primary school during Covid-19 pandemic, the petitioner had argued that the online classes appear to have been potentially destructive effect rather than being constructive for the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-pil-haryana-informs-hc-it-will-consider-guidelines-for-online-classes/articleshow/77381670.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Covid puts challenge to scrapping of Art 370 on SC backburner||NEW DELHI: Immediately after scrapping of special status to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into UTs, the Supreme Court had regularly heard arguments challenging the Centre's decision from August last year till March, but with Covid-19 pandemic disrupting normalcy, an early hearing on the pending petitions appears unlikely. On March 2, a five-judge bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay K Kaul, R S Reddy, B R Gavai and Surya Kant had rendered a judgment on preliminary issue raised by some of the petitioners, rejecting prayer for referring the issue to a seven-judge bench. The SC closed for Holi festival break immediately thereafter for a week and when it opened the pandemic had forced social distancing warranting the court to resort to hearing of a limited number of cases through video-conferencing. Since, there are two dozen petitions and every likelihood of more than 50 lawyers attending the hearing, in addition to journalists and court staff, the hearing on these petitions does not appear to take place any time soon. The SC had entertained petitions just 23 days after the Centre took the decision to scrap special status for J&K. On August 28 last year, it had issued notice to the Centre and J&K government while deciding to admit the petitions and refer it to a five-judge bench. The bench-led by Justice Ramana had first taken up the case on October 1 last year and then devoted six days of hearing spread over December-January to hear arguments from nine senior advocates as well as the attorney general and solicitor general on the preliminary issue of reference to a larger bench. A similar challenge by number of petitions to the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh into AP and Telangana states has been pending in the SC for last six years and there is no sign of any early hearing in the matter, which included the resolution of dispute over selection of capital city for the two states. When the final hearing before the five-judge bench takes place, the SC agreeing to test the constitutional validity of the August 5 presidential order — the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 2019 which superseded the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 1954, as well as the addition of Clause 4 to Article 367 making the Constitution of India applicable to J&K — the matter has now become sub judice. Before it's defanging, Article 370, which was supposed to be temporary, was the provision from which J&K derived its special status for 70 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-puts-pleas-against-article-370-on-sc-backburner/articleshow/77383515.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh cops intervene, stop child marriage||VIJAYAWADA: Acting swiftly on a tip-off, police managed to foil a child marriage at Potumeedi village of Kodur mandal in Krishna district on Wednesday. The incident happened at around 10 am when Kodur police and the rest of the team visited the village and learnt that a marriage was taking place. As police tried to inquire further to check if Covid-19 guidelines were being followed at the event, they were shocked to learn that it was a case of child marriage. Soon, police informed other stakeholders and officials integrated child protection scheme (ICPS) and revenue department rushed to the spot and stopped the marriage arrangements from taking place. Officials counselled the girl’s parents on the consequences and ill-effects of early marriage. The girl had completed her Class 10 recently and her parents N Adi Seshu and Naga Lakshmi had decided to fix her marriage with her brother-in-law at 11.20 pm. Child development project officer (CDPO) TG Padmavathi and other persons present explained the legalities under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 to the family members. Eventually, after being counselled, both the groom and the girl’s families agreed to stop the marriage and said they would focus on the girl’s education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-intervene-stop-child-marriage/articleshow/77380015.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man helps Adivasi women transport Covid victim’s body||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old man is being hailed as a hero in Bhadradri Kothagudem district for helping an Adivasi family get a vehicle to transport a Covid-19 victim’s body. Gonela Nani of Burgampahad helped a woman and her mother-in-law who were stranded in the middle of a forest as the ambulance in which they were travelling had broken down. The woman’s husband had died of Covid-19 in the Bhadrachalam area hospital and the body was being transported to Anantaram village of Karakagudem mandal on the intervening night of August 3-4. The ambulance broke down at Manuguru crossroads. The women tried to get another ambulance to go to their village. But, no one was willing to come forward as they mentioned about the Covid-19 victim’s body. The hapless women were stuck in the forest area for about four hours even as they tried calling various ambulances. As it was raining heavily, the two women stayed put in the ambulance with the body. It was at that time Nani came to their help. “I was informed by a local about the plight of the Adivasi women. I immediately provided another vehicle to transport the body and the women to their village,” Nani said. “It was my privilege to help the distressed women,” he added. The last rites of the deceased were performed on the outskirts of the village. The Adivasi man was taken to the Bhadrachalam area hospital a week ago after he tested positive for Covid-19. He died on August 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-helps-adivasi-women-transport-covid-victims-body/articleshow/77381702.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Revenue officials protest delay in aid to kin of deceased||Coimbatore: Revenue officials in the district on Wednesday urged the state government to take necessary steps to disburse the promised Rs 50 lakh to the family members of government employees, who died on Covid-19 duty, at the earliest.While 369 officials boycotted work on Wednesday, close to 200 others reported for duty wearing a badge that listed out their demands. The boycott would continue on Thursday, when they are likely to petition district collector K Rajamani. Syed Iliyas, state secretary, Tamil Nadu Directly Recruited Revenue Officials’ Association (group II), said, “A few months ago, the state government had announced that it would distribute Rs 50 lakh to the family members of government employees, who died on Covid-19 duty. But the government has not taken any steps to distribute the fund.”He said many revenue officials had succumbed to the virus attack while they were on Covid-19 duty in the state. “Similarly, the state government had announced Rs 2 lakh for the employees on Covid duty towards medical expenses. This too hasn’t been fulfilled yet.” Pointing out that revenue officials have been deployed at check posts and containment areas, where they meet scores of people daily, since the Covid-19 outbreak, D Shanmugaraj, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Revenue Officials’ Association, said hence they were more prone to the infection. “So, the government should provide them with personal protection equipment kits.”He said some government employees were not eligible for pension and gratuity as per the new guidelines. “Kin of such deceased employees are struggling to meet their expenses without any source of income.”Referring to the rules on offering job to one of the family members of employees who die on duty, he said the government should speed up the procedures in this time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revenue-officials-protest-delay-in-aid-to-kin-of-deceased/articleshow/77381686.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Factories Act to be amended to allow night shifts for women||Thiruvananthapuram: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance to amend the Factories Act of 1948 for allowing women to do the night shifts in factories in the state. With this, women will be able to work in the shifts between 7pm and 6am. The cabinet also decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each to the pravasis who are unbale to return to the Gulf countries to re-join work. For this Rs 50 crore has been sanctioned from the chief minister’s relief fund. Hike for NHM staff It was also decided to revise the remuneration of those working under the national health mission. Daily wage and contract employees will now get special incentives and risk allowances for which Rs 28 crore has been sanctioned. The minimum salary of medical officers and specialists have been increased to Rs 50,000 from Rs 40,000. In addition to this 20% risk allowance will also be provided. Senior consultants, dental surgeons and Ayush doctors working under the NHM will get an additional 20% risk allowance. The minimum salary of staff nurses, junior health inspectors, pharmacists and technicians will be increased to Rs 20,000 from Rs 13,500. In addition to this, 25% risk allowance will also be given. The last grade employees will get an additional risk allowance of 30%. The state cabinet also approved Rs 36.36 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund for the revenue loss incurred by the hospital development committees due to the pandemic situation. It has also been decided to increase the seats in the Plus One courses (20% increase in Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Wayanad, Malappuram, Palakkad and Kannur districts and 10% in the remaining districts). It has been decided to regularise the 75 posts which has been temporarily created in the cooperative department from 1986.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/factories-act-to-be-amended-to-allow-night-shifts-for-women/articleshow/77380033.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||Three booked for murdering man over suspected phone theft||Rajkot: Three persons in Halvad town of Morbi district were booked for murder over a week after the 21-year-old man who they had brutally beaten up died. The accused trio - Pako Bavaji, Ravi Rabari and Anil Koli - had thrashed Lalo Dave on July 29 suspecting that he had stolen the mobile phone of Bavaji. They called him to Koli’s house on July 29 night and thrashed him badly. Dave reached home in severely injured condition and told his mother Labhu about the incident. He was taken to Dhrangadhra for treatment where he died two days later. Labhu insisted that her son’s body be taken to Rajkot for postmortem and demanded forensic investigation. On August 1, the postmortem report revealed that Dave had died due to the injuries caused by the assault. Labhu then approached Halvad police and lodged a complaint against the three. “The accused and victim live in the same locality. We will be be arresting the three soon,” said inspector P A Dekavadiya of Halvad police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-booked-for-murdering-man-over-suspected-phone-theft/articleshow/77380044.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: ‘Doctor tore poster for quarantine’||HISAR: Hisar home quarantine in-charge and health department bioltogist Ramesh Poonia has complained to department officials that Dr Satish Jain, owner of a hospital in Rishi Nagar, tore home quarantine and isolation posters which had been pasted after his son was found Covid-19 positive. Dr Satish also objected to the posters being pasted again, he said in his complaint. Those coming for treatment here can get the coronavirus infection. Although the health department has registered a case against the doctor, no action has been taken against his father yet for tearing the posters and opening of the hospital. Dr Ankit, son of the owner of Akash Hospital, was found infected on July 25. Although there is a strict ban on home isolation in the district, he was home isolated at his insistence. Meanwhile, he went to Himalaya Institute of Medical Science College, Dehradun, on July 31 to enrol in MS surgery. Not only this, he also gave the undertaking that he had not come in contact with any Covid-positive person while he himself had tested positive for the same. Over this, on August 2, the city police station registered a case against Dr Ankit on a complaint by civil surgeon there Dr Ratna Bharti. After Dr Ankit was found positive, his family was quarantined as per the rules and a home quarantine poster was pasted outside the main gate of his hospital so that patients would not come there for treatment. Despite this, Dr Satish did not close the hospital and continued treating the patients. Poonia said that when he went to Akash Hospital, patients were coming there and the poster of home quarantine and isolation had been torn. After this, when he started putting up posters again, the doctor asked the team to put this poster on the door of the house above the hospital but the team put the poster on the main door of the hospital so that the patients coming there should be alerted. Dr Satish said his hospital was closed and anyone could have torn the poster. On the question of opposing the pasting of poster, he said it was his right. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said that there was a provision to close the workplace for 48 hours by sanitising the workplace, but the family is required to complete the home quarantine. The hospital cannot be opened if there is no other doctor in the hospital. Whatever action should be taken in this regard will be taken, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/doc-tore-poster-for-quarantine/articleshow/77381754.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Here’s how you can travel on the metro and stay safe||CHENNAI: Mass transit systems like metro rail which shut operations since March-end due to Covid-19, may be awaiting instructions to resume services, but many fear travelling in closed or congested space. But such transit systems, say experts, could be safe when operations resume if people strictly follow precautions like wearing masks, maintaining distance and personal hygiene. Studies from cities like Paris, Tokyo and New York, which showed no links between overcrowded subways and infection clusters identified during the pandemic, could be reassuring. "Many researchers have dismissed claims that public transport resulted in a rising number of Covid cases. Japanese and French passengers have followed safety guidelines, along with wearing masks and keeping silent while travelling," said Aswathy Dilip, senior programme manager, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy. Soon after the outbreak in the city, CMRL put in place measures like thermal scanning and hand-sanitizing passengers and staff members and disinfecting stations and trains while also creating awareness on safety measures among passengers Now, public health experts warn, Chennai still records significant travel-related cases and studies in other cities should be taken with caution. For a city like Chennai, safety in any system including air-conditioned metro trains, depends among others on rate of infection, probability of an infected person travelling by a metro train and quality of ventilation system. "When infection rate drops to 100 cases a day, we can resume operations because problem with underground stations and trains is with air circulation," said Dr K Kolandasamy, former director of public health. "Of course, there needs to be thermal scanning, entry only for people wearing masks, handwashing facilities and disinfecting trains and stations frequently." Experts are particularly concerned with underground metro stations where AC ducts blow cold air from the top. "I am generally in favour of central AC units where air comes from the top and moves towards the floor forcing down any suspended particles. But between a split and window AC, the former is safer. Worst are air coolers, pedestal fans or even ceiling fan because they increase turbulence and therefore the throw of these particles," said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. The ISHRAE, a think tank in HVAC operations, stresses on compulsory ventilation through an inlet duct or a fan in all HVAC systems to ensure they are safe besides carrying out preventive maintenance on all HVAC units. Professor Prakash M Maiya, department of mechanical engineering, IIT Madras, said ACs with better filters and high intensity ultraviolet lights are safe. "Dilution of contaminants (virus) by ventilation can be another solution, but will be expensive in terms of energy costs to run ACs."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heres-how-you-can-travel-on-the-metro-and-stay-safe/articleshow/77381708.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Now, buy Aavin products from ration shops||COIMBATORE: In a first in the state, the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, which is popularly known as Aavin, has started selling its dairy products with long shelf life through 140 ration shops in the district. Until recently, Aavin dairy products were sold either at its outlets or through its wholesale agents in the city. Due to lack of outlets in rural areas, people there had no other option but to buy private company products so far. R Ravikumar, general manager, Aavin Coimbatore, said, “We have decided to sell our dairy products through ration shops, some of which are located in interior parts of villages, with an aim to reach out to more people in rural areas and increase the sales volume and revenue.” Referring to lack of refrigeration facilities in ration shops, he said products with a shelf life of at least a month in room temperature would only be sold there. Some of such products include ghee, palkova and milk powder. He said there were practical difficulties in selling other items such as milk, butter and milkshakes through ration shops. Pointing out that they have been planning to make their products available in another 200 ration shops in a week, he said all the ration shops in the district would be covered gradually. “We are expecting to generate at least Rs 20 lakh to Rs 25 lakh revenue from the ration shops in the first month. We will ensure steady flow of our products to these shops.” K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the move would be beneficial both to the public and Aavin, which has a good reputation among the people. “It will be a huge hit in rural areas, if implemented properly. Aavin should sell its products at competitive price and maintain quality. A low-quality product might force people to shun the brand. They should also sensitize salesmen in ration shops.” Recently, Aavin had started selling its products, expect milk, through online food delivery platform Swiggy. The decision was taken after it received a lot of inquiries on door-to-door delivery of products. Ravikumar said they were generating Rs 10,000 a day from the online platform, which is just 2% to 3% of its total daily revenue. Aavin makes about Rs 5.5 lakh a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-buy-aavin-products-from-ration-shops/articleshow/77381752.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 6, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Gyms to reopen on August 10, above-50s not allowed||CHENNAI: There’s finally good news for fitness enthusiasts, trainers and gym owners. The state government has decided to reopen such facilities from August 10, after a gap of almost five months. While the TN government is expected to issue the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the coming days, it has made it clear that gyms will be able to allow only people below the age of 50. “Standalone gyms are being permitted to operate within the state,” said a state government release on Wednesday. News of gyms reopening has got their owners to chalk out protocols to be followed in the new normal. “We will have a temperature check before allowing anyone inside the gym. The locker rooms and sauna baths will not be available for use. We will be maintaining a distance 3-4 feet between each member,” Ajit Shetty, owner of Score, told TOI. Despite gyms opening after a long gap, Shetty doesn’t foresee a huge rush in the first few months. “We are only expecting a footfall of about 25% initially. It is understandable that people will be a little wary to be back in the gyms but the number of people arriving is bound to increase over time,” Shetty said. N Venket, CEO of Chennai wing of Gold’s Gym, feels the stamina of the members would have taken a hit during the lockdown period. He plans to offer a post-Covid course for members once they rejoin. “A post-Covid rejuvenation programme is the need of the hour. It will help regain the stamina our members had before the lockdown phase. Despite people working out from the confines of their homes in the last few months, the facilities and environment that a gym offers are different. More importantly, we want to make sure the members feel safe when they come back and earn their trust,” Venket said. Will gyms tinker with the membership rates at this point of time? “To be honest, we are not looking at increasing or decreasing the membership prices at all. The key factor is to see how things go once we reopen and then take a call,” Shetty said. Even as the gyms work overtime to get everything in place, top trainers are hopeful that necessary rules will be followed at all times. “Gyms must follow the social distancing measures as prescribed by the government. There has to be a sanitization station at every corner of the gym and equipment must be sanitized each time they are used. A gym must be as sanitized as an operation theatre in any hospital,” said Ramji Srinivasan, former Indian team trainer, who works with top athletes such as Sharath Kamal, G Sathiyan and Bhavani Devi among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/gyms-to-reopen-on-aug-10-above-50s-not-allowed/articleshow/77390156.cms||Prasad RS
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Gyms to reopen on August 10, above-50s not allowed||CHENNAI: There’s finally good news for fitness enthusiasts, trainers and gym owners. The state government has decided to reopen such facilities from August 10, after a gap of almost five months. While the TN government is expected to issue the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the coming days, it has made it clear that gyms will be able to allow only people below the age of 50. “Standalone gyms are being permitted to operate within the state,” said a state government release on Wednesday. News of gyms reopening has got their owners to chalk out protocols to be followed in the new normal. “We will have a temperature check before allowing anyone inside the gym. The locker rooms and sauna baths will not be available for use. We will be maintaining a distance 3-4 feet between each member,” Ajit Shetty, owner of Score, told TOI. Despite gyms opening after a long gap, Shetty doesn’t foresee a huge rush in the first few months. “We are only expecting a footfall of about 25% initially. It is understandable that people will be a little wary to be back in the gyms but the number of people arriving is bound to increase over time,” Shetty said. N Venket, CEO of Chennai wing of Gold’s Gym, feels the stamina of the members would have taken a hit during the lockdown period. He plans to offer a post-Covid course for members once they rejoin. “A post-Covid rejuvenation programme is the need of the hour. It will help regain the stamina our members had before the lockdown phase. Despite people working out from the confines of their homes in the last few months, the facilities and environment that a gym offers are different. More importantly, we want to make sure the members feel safe when they come back and earn their trust,” Venket said. Will gyms tinker with the membership rates at this point of time? “To be honest, we are not looking at increasing or decreasing the membership prices at all. The key factor is to see how things go once we reopen and then take a call,” Shetty said. Even as the gyms work overtime to get everything in place, top trainers are hopeful that necessary rules will be followed at all times. “Gyms must follow the social distancing measures as prescribed by the government. There has to be a sanitization station at every corner of the gym and equipment must be sanitized each time they are used. A gym must be as sanitized as an operation theatre in any hospital,” said Ramji Srinivasan, former Indian team trainer, who works with top athletes such as Sharath Kamal, G Sathiyan and Bhavani Devi among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gyms-to-reopen-on-aug-10-above-50s-not-allowed/articleshow/77381744.cms||Prasad RS
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||14 Bangladeshi nationals held in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: As many as 14 Bangladeshi nationals have been arrested in Anand district as they did not have any valid documents for staying in the country. Sleuths of special operation group (SOG) Anand have arrested them from the outskirts of two villages – Hadgud and Mogri – near Anand town on Tuesday. They were staying in small huts which are usually erected on corners or in middle of open fields by farmers for the last fortnight. The cops are probing as to how the Bangladeshi nationals managed to cross the border without any visa or passport. They are also probing whether they were staying in a sensitive area with the motive of committing some crime. “We are ascertaining the route taken by these people, the people involved and if there is any criminality,” Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian said on Wednesday. As language is becoming a major barrier in the interrogation, police is also taking help of translators. “They have stayed across different regions of the country,” said Rajian. “We are also interrogating nearby people while we have started the legal process,” he said. While the Bangladeshi nationals did not have passport or visa, SOG sleuths have also not found other documents like election card, driving license, pan card or other residential or address proof from them. The police will also initiate the process to deport them, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/14-bangladeshi-nationals-held-in-anand/articleshow/77380052.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Three deaths, spike of 108 positive cases in Amt||Amravati: Three covid deaths and a spike of 108 cases on Friday took the district’s toll to 86 and count to 2872. A report from the civil surgeon's office said that a 70-year-old woman from Vanipura in Karanja Lad town of Washim district, a 62-year-old man from Paratwada and a 47-year-old man from Gandhinagar in Old city, Badnera, died during treatment at the Covid hospital. The 100-plus spike is the third the district has reported this month and the fifth overall. The highest of 146 was reported on August 2. With 49 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1902. This left 884 active cases, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt again reported 34 cases to take its count to 689. Nine of them came from Daryapur that took its count to 38. Four cases came from Dharni that took its count to 47. Achalpur tehsil also reported four cases to take its count to 36 while two cases each came from Bhatkuli, Paratwada, Teosa and Chandur Railway that took their count to 32, 31, 11 and 16 respectively. Single cases came from Nandgaon Peth, Walgaon, Shirajgaon Kasba, Morshi, Chandur Bazar, Chikhaldara, Anjangaon Surji, Shirala and Rahatgaon. In the city, Badnera reported seven cases to take its count to 225 while Chaitanya colony reported its first spike of four. Four cases also came from Bhaji Bazar and Shankar Nagar that took their count to nine and 30 respectively. Krushnagar, too, reported four cases to take its count to 23. Deorankarnagar, Rampuri Camp and Rukmininagar reported three cases each to take their count to four, 13 and 41 respectively. Two cases each came from Rahulnagar, Yashodanagar, Ravinagar, PDMC, Kalyannagar and Mangilal Plot while single cases came from 27 other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-deaths-spike-of-108-positive-cases-in-amt/articleshow/77420682.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Homeo clinic sealed after doctor claims Covid-19 cure||HYDERABAD: Health authorities sealed Dr V S Reddy Homeo Clinic at Hanamkonda in Warangal following a complaint from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) that the homeopathy doctor was allegedly claiming to have a cure for Covid-19. DMHO Warangal urban Dr K Laitha sealed the clinic after IMA Warangal brought to the notice of the authorities that the doctor had been claiming that he has a cure for the virus and that there is no need to wear masks. In its complaint to the AYUSH Commissioner in Hyderabad, the IMA said the doctor was claiming to be the inventor of a magic remedy for coronavirus and making videos with Covid-19 patients. “He is also going for home visits of coronavirus patients and giving treatment and asking them not to wear mask and putting their life and others’ lives at risk,” IMA, Warangal, branch president Dr Kothagattu Srinivas said in the complaint to AYUSH commissioner. IMA urged that action be taken as per AYUSH regulations and cancel his licence to practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homeo-clinic-sealed-after-doc-claims-covid-19-cure/articleshow/77381747.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Techie rides horse, spreads awareness||HUBBALLI: He is the CEO of a little-known IT startup, but he goes about riding a horse. If the plan was to draw attention, then Dhananjya Acharya has certainly achieved it. Acharya, 32, a software engineer from Kothur village in Tumakuru, is going about spreading awareness on Covid-19. The horse-riding techie educates people on the importance of maintaining social distance, wearing masks and other precautions to fight the virus. He says his company has spent about Rs 50,000 on the campaign. The 32-year-old CEO of Bhavya Bharat Communication Service Pvt Ltd, told TOI the pandemic has instilled fear in people and rendered many jobless. He says his awareness campaign is his way of doing his bit to fight the pandemic. “Despite government’s repeated appeals, many are ignoring norms and exposing themselves to the virus,” he said. “Watching this ignorance, I pitched the idea of interacting with people in each district and educating them on precautions. I thought of doing it in an innovative way — like riding a horse.” Acharya says his team chalks out plans and fixes a programme. They then hire a horse in the district where they plan to spread awareness. “Riding a horse on major streets, we appeal people to wear a mask, use hand sanitisers, avoid crowded places, maintain social distancing and undergo tests if they have symptoms or come in contact with infected persons,” Acharya said. “To help people who have lost jobs, I ask them to earn money by uploading videos on My Mik, the show time app developed by our company.” Girish Gowda, who is part of Acharya’s team, said. “We have gotten a good response to our campaign.” The team has already conducted awareness programmes in Mysuru and Tumakuru and now plans to visit Bengaluru, Hubballi, Bagalkot and Vijayapura. Watch Covid-19 in Karnataka: Techie rides horse to spread awareness about coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/techie-rides-horse-spreads-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/77380897.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Locals, cops rescue newborn abandoned hours after birth in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: A newborn abandoned hours after his birth was rescued from among some bushes near a local tank at Rellivalasa under Pusapatirega police station limits in Vizianagaram district in the early hours of Wednesday. Villagers who heard the infant’s cries brought him home, bathed and fed him. Member of the Child Rights Protection Committee Kesali Appa Rao said he came to know about the abandoned baby on Wednesday morning. Rao alerted the police and Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials. Speaking to TOI, Pusapatirega sub-inspector V Balaji said the newborn was rescued by one R Gowri while one Ramanayamma has expressed an interest in adopting the baby. “We shifted the baby boy to the primary health centre (PHC) for first aid and alerted the District Child Protection Officer. The baby was produced before the child welfare committee and then shifted to Gosha hospital in Vizianagaram,” Balaji said. “The baby may have been born out of wedlock. We have registered a case under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of a child under twelve years by parent or person having care of it) of the IPC. We are checking records at private as well as at government hospitals to trace his parents. The condition of the infant is said to be stable. He is under observation and will undergo treatment for a week,” Balaji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/locals-cops-rescue-newborn-abandoned-hours-after-birth/articleshow/77380040.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Noyyal river overflows, floods streets||Coimbatore: Water from a canal connecting the river Noyyal had flooded the streets of Sri Sai Nagar, a residential area near Podanur in the city, on Wednesday. The bund of the canal was damaged at Jamjam Nagar near Podhanur and water flooded tens of houses in the locality. “Water had started flooding into the area during the early morning hours. As the day progressed, the water level gradually increased and entered the houses. No vehicles or pedestrians could walk through the streets,” said Sreekala, one of the residents. Explaining that they had faced a similar situation during the last year’s rainy season, she said that corporation officials should take serious steps to find a permanent solution. Later in the day, corporation officials restored the bund and had created a drain like structure along the streets to drain the water. Atleast five trees from different locations in Valparai region were uprooted and fell on the houses. Due to incessant rainfall accompanied by heavy wind, trees at Mudis, Sirukundra, Singona and Varatiparai were uprooted. Power supply was interrupted in the region as well. Similarly, a bridge connecting Mangalam Road and College Road across the river Noyyal near Anaipalayam in Tirupur district was also submerged on Wednesday. As a result of continuous rainfall in the catchment areas, the rivers have swelled up. The district administration has, also, asked people residing in Anaimedu region, which is close to the river, to vacate their houses.  Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Wednesday, directed the public works department to release water from Amaravathi dam for the benefit of farmers in Tirupur and Karur districts. As much as 1780 cusecs of water would be released from the dam from Thursday. “While 1210 cusecs of water would be released for 11 days from Thursday till August 16th for both irrigation and drinking water purpose to ayacut region, about 570 cusecs of water would be released through main canal to new ayacut region for irrigation purpose for 15 days from Thursday to August 20,” said the chief minister in a statement. The decision was taken based on the request of farmers from Tirupur and Karur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/noyyal-river-overflows-floods-streets/articleshow/77381719.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi government plans to curb death rate further, improve patient services||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will make critical interventions in patient management in private and government hospitals to bring down the number of Covid-19 deaths to zero. The interventions will be along the lines recommended by four separate expert committees formed last month to inspect 11 Covid hospitals with a high mortality rate. The panels have submitted their suggestions on hospital-specific steps needed to reduce deaths and improve patient services to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Kejriwal, who is personally monitoring this exercise, held a meeting of the committee members on Wednesday. On July 16, the health department sent a checklist to the hospitals aimed at reducing Covid mortality. The government said that deaths in Delhi had come down to 11 on Wednesday. For the 11 private and government hospitals, the expert committees had specific suggestions, said a Delhi government statement on Wednesday. For Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid facility in Delhi, the committee recommended use of early warning scorecards to ensure prompt detection and shifting of patients from the wards to the critical units. The committee made similar suggestions for Safdarjung Hospital, the only central government medical centres among the institutions, besides advising an increase in the number of Covid ICU beds. For the second largest Covid facility — Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital — the panel has recommended that wards be equipped with high-flow nasal oxygen and BiPAP machines for early recognition and transfer of sick patients to ICU and increased use of convalescent plasma early in the treatment regime, while Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has been advised to take care of early detection of complications in patients on prolonged ventilation. For Sir Balaji Action Medical Institute and Jaipur Golden Hospital, the committee has urged early application of high-flow nasal canulla. Kejriwal reiterated that these suggestions should be taken up reduce deaths to zero. The inspection by the committees after the intervention of the CM established that the death rate in all these hospitals had decreased when compared to the earlier numbers. Each of the four committees comprise specialists, two from internal medicine and two from anaesthesia. Three panels have been assigned three hospitals each, while the fourth has the responsibility of inspecting the remaining two hospitals. Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, RML Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Sir Balaji Action Medical Institute, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute and St Stephen's Hospital are among the facilities being scrutinised by the panels on factors like admission and triage management, clinical management and critical care. Of the 1.4 lakh Covid patients in Delhi, 4,044 have died in different hospitals. In June, there were more than 100 deaths on some days. The daily toll has been under 20 in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-govt-plans-to-curb-death-rate-further-improve-patient-services/articleshow/77381787.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC seeks status report on Hydernagar lake||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the district collector of Medchal Malkajgiri to visit Kindi Kunta lake at Hydernagar and furnish a report on the condition of the lake. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a petition filed by an NGO ‘Forum to Improve Things’ and 10 others seeking protection of the lake. The petitioners complained that the authorities themselves were a threat to the existence of the lake in Kukatpally. “They are destroying the lake and laying roads in the middle of the water body in the name of development,” they said. Counsel for the petitioner said the officials were filling up the lake and sought interim protection. At this, the bench directed the district collector to visit the lake and take stock of report to the court. “The official machinery is not serious enough to protect the lakes,” the bench observed. The lake falls in survey No. 119 of Kukatpally and is spread over a huge extent. “Officials of irrigation are now filling the lake with mud. This would alter full tank level area of the lake,” counsel said. “They are doing it in the name of beautification,” he said. “Don’t allow anyone to encroach into lake area and take steps to protect lake,” the bench said before posting the case to September 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-status-report-on-hydernagar-lake/articleshow/77381732.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Barring Beijing, no takers at UN for Pak stance||Except for China, every UNSC member-state realised that J&K is a bilateral issue to be dealt with bilaterally between India and Pakistan, said India’s permanent representative to UN TS Tirumurti on attempts by Islamabad to internationalise the issue. The official said there were no takers for Pakistan’s position at the UN. He also said the UN and its reports have time and again reiterated the involvement of Pakistan in terrorist attacks abroad. Tirumurti said contrary to what Pakistan has asserted, there had been no formal meeting of the Security Council on the India-Pakistan issue since November 1965.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barring-beijing-no-takers-at-un-for-pak-stance/articleshow/77383517.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Thane||Covid may cause temporary facial paralysis: Doctors||MUMBAI: Novel coronavirus could cause temporary facial paralysis called Bell’s palsy in some patients, doctors treating patients for five months said. Neurologist Rajesh Benny, with Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said he saw an unusual number of cases of Bell’s palsy between April-July. ``The incidence seems to have reduced in Mumbai now, but neurologist in areas where the infection is at its peak or reaching it, say they are seeing a surge in Bell’s palsy cases,” he said. In other countries too, doctors noted the link between Covid-19 and neurological manifestations such as Bell’s palsy. In April, doctors from China reported in a peer-reviewed journal, Neurology, were among the first to report Bell’s palsy as a symptom of Covid-19. “Covid-19 patients may present with Bell’s palsy at an initial stage. Bell’s palsy may be attributed to an immune response, caused by SARS-CoV-2,’’ they wrote. Patients with facial paralysis usually on one side of the face would go to a neurologist if they had typical Covid symptoms such as fever, breathlessness or cough. It is only when the neurologist finds a normal MRI that a CT scan and/or a Covid-19 test are ordered. “It’s only then that Covid is identified as the cause,” said a doctor. In Mumbai, in initial stage of Covid-19 curve, rules for testing for the virus were stringent. “Even if we suspected Covid in a patient with neurological symptoms such as Bell’s palsy, we were not allowed to write out a prescription for the test. At that time, tests were only allowed for patients with symptoms such as breathlessness and a history of travel,’’ said a senior doctor. But many patients with Bell’s palsy seem to have a mild Covid infection with few exceptions. Most don’t need hospitalization. Generally, Bell's palsy takes a month or two to disappear but could in some cases leave behind residual weakness, said Dr Sangeeta Ravat, who heads the neurology department of KEM Hospital, Parel. “As it usually has a viral cause, we treat the condition with antivirals and a short course of steroids,” she added. Bell's palsy can be painful in some patients. “While eyeballs can move, eyelids cannot. The cheek and lower jaw on the affected side too cannot move,” said Dr Ravat. Patients may need physiotherapy to recover fully. What’s Bell’s palsy?* Bell’s palsy is a temporary facial paralysis or weakness on one side of the face * As the working of the cranial nerve VII (facial nerve) is affected, muscles on one side of the face are affected. The ability to blink and make facial expressions are affected * Tear glands, saliva glands, middle of ear and tongue are also hit * Symptoms appear suddenly over a 48-72-hour period and improve with or without treatment after few weeks * Full recovery can take six months * Symptoms include sudden weakness of one side of face, drooping of mouth, drooling and inability to close eye (causing dryness of eye) * Patients may experience facial pain, altered taste, and may become intolerant to loud noise * Causes could be reactivation of an existing (dormant) viral infection. Impaired immunity from stress, sleep deprivation, physical trauma, minor illness or autoimmune syndromes are likely triggers * Treatment is mainly steroids and antiviral agents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-may-cause-temporary-facial-paralysis-docs/articleshow/77385199.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Firms rethink on honouring placements citing Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Students pursuing professional courses such as engineering and management are staring at a bleak future as companies are deferring joining dates and some are even revoking offers given before the lockdown. Many colleges had concluded their placement process before the nationwide lockdown that was declared in March this year. Companies that rolled out offers in March had given joining dates by mid-July. Now, many have either deferred their official onboarding of recruited students or have revoked their offers all together citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “I was offered a job in a cloud computing firm in March-end. While I was waiting for the official joining date, my offer was withdrawn by the company citing a policy decision on freezing onboarding of all new employees,” said Abhishek Kumar, a BTech final year student who has now re-registered for campus placements. While bigger companies are honouring the offers, college management said that it is the start-ups and mid-level firms that are mostly revoking offers. “The bigger companies, especially those into product and services, have honoured placements. One or two start-ups and mid-level firms have revoked their offers this year. However, it has not deterred the spirit of the students as they are getting offers from other firms,” said Rajiv Wankar, chairman, placement, guidance and advisory bureau, University of Hyderabad. Students, who joined internships in February, are also worried as it’s been six months and they have not got any confirmation letters from companies. “Due to the envisaged poor performance of the economy, my internship was never confirmed into a full-time job. I feel extremely demotivated as I spent six months in a firm where I could not convert my internship into a job,” said B Vinay, a student. With no clarity on examinations, college managements are also finding it difficult to hold onto offers as many companies are recruiting on a pre-condition that they will pay the students only once they clear the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firms-rethink-on-honouring-placements-citing-covid-19/articleshow/77381783.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Arrested DMK MLA illegally made cartridges, Madras HC told||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government informed Madras high court on Wednesday that the arrested DMK MLA Idyavarman had been running an illegal unit to manufacture cartridges for rifles in his farmhouse in Chengalpet. The legislator was arrested in connection with a gun-firing incident in Illalur village near Mamallapuram over a property dispute. “During a search conducted by police, ammunition and materials used for production have been seized besides unlicensed weapons. Therefore, a broader and deeper investigation has to be carried out to find out the source of the weapons and ammunition and whether he has connections with any prohibited agency/anti-social organisations/elements,” state public prosecutor A Natarajan said. The prosecutor made the submission while opposing the bail application moved by the MLA. Denying the allegations, senior advocate R Shanmugasundaram, representing the legislator, submitted that the prosecution is branding him as an anti-social element since he belongs to the opposition party. “It is usual in rural areas to possess such guns which were used for hunting. Moreover, when a father is attacked it was natural for a son to go for his defence. The firing happened only as an act of self-defence,” the senior counsel said. Opposing the contentions, Natarajan said, “Hunting is prohibited, how can the petitioner claim that the guns were used for hunting while his farm house is close to reserved forest.” So far, police have recovered three weapons of which one is illegal and licences of other two have expired. The injuries suffered by the victim were so severe that he was in hospital for 25 days, he added. Recording the submissions, Justice N Sathish Kumar directed the prosecution to produce the case dairies (CD) of the case to ascertain whether the probe is going in the right direction and adjourned the hearing to August 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arrested-dmk-mla-illegally-made-cartridges-hc-told/articleshow/77381772.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 97% of those surveyed willing to cycle to work, but bad air & safety are concerns||NEW DELHI: Almost 97% of the nearly 1,400 people surveyed by #DilliDhadakneDo — a joint initiative of civil society and Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) — are willing to use bicycles as a mode of transport in Delhi. However, the study determined that the absence of safe and convenient cycling lanes, poor air quality and unruly road traffic scare the citizens from taking up cycling. The survey primarily targeted lower income communities and finds 50% of the distance commuted by members of these groups was between 0 and 5km, which means they could use bicycles rather than other forms of transport for these short-distance trips. Believing that cycling will be the best option to travel because of the restrictions placed on social proximity due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mudra, a domestic worker living in Badarpur, told the surveyors, “We have to go out daily to our workplace but we cannot use buses due to social distancing, while autorickshaws and rickshaws are far too costly to use on a daily basis. So I use a bicycle, but I am risking my life every day because cars, buses and cycles use the same road space. Dedicated cycling lanes can make life easier for people like me.” The #DilliDhadakneDo campaign is a collective effort of civil society organisations working on clean air solutions for the capital, including the need for better and sustainable public transport, and in particular, cycling. Earlier this month, a movement was initiated to help make the capital India’s first cycling-friendly city and petitioned Delhi government to formulate a non-motorised transport policy that will prioritise cycling lanes in the city and allow everyone access to cycling as a Covid-resistant mode of transport. The plea urges Delhi government to enact laws that safeguard the interests of pedestrians and cyclists by creating temporary cycling lanes along the entire road network in Delhi, force markets and associations to create a dedicated free-cycling parking infrastructure and ensure a 5-km safety radius with bicycle lanes around all Delhi schools. Recalling the scary reality of Delhi’s mobility, Vimlendu Jha, environmentalist and executive director, Swechha, said, “Around 91% of people making a livelihood in Delhi use bicycles every day to commute, but are our roads designed for safe walking and cycling? Clearly the answer is no. For almost 11 lakh cyclists in Delhi, there are just 100km of cycling tracks. And don’t forget, Delhi has been dealing with the air pollution crisis for years now. The capital’s air quality problem can be helped to a large extent by developing a bicycle infrastructure and ensuring last-mile connectivity in the public transport network. Therefore, there is a dire need to strengthen policies to protect pedestrians and their right to walk and cycle in Delhi.” A Delhi government estimate put the number of regular bicycle users in the city at nearly 11 lakh. However, a recent IIT Delhi and IIT Roorkee study indicated that the number of cyclists had grown from 4% to 12% of daily commuters. The #DilliDhadakneDo campaign released the survey findings at a virtual townhall on Thursday with representatives of Delhi Government, civil society and citizens groups. Urging the state government to take immediate action, the campaigners pressed for non-motorised transport as a solution for the capital’s messy public transport and the messier air crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/97-of-those-surveyed-willing-to-cycle-to-work-but-bad-air-safety-are-concerns/articleshow/77402071.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dismissal may be a blessing in disguise for treasury scamster||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government decision – summarily dismissing the prime accused in treasury fraud case, M R Bijulal, from service – raises several legal questions and a concern about its intention. The hurdle, when such a decision is taken, is the Article 311 (2) of the Constitution, that says that ‘ no person who is the member of a civil service of the union or is an all-India service or a civil service of the state or holds a civil post under the union or a state shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges”. However, the proviso of the Article 311 also says that the provisions of 311(2) will not apply if the person is removed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct, which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge. It also says that if the president or the governor is satisfied that in the interest of state security, provisions of the article will not apply. In this case, not even a chargesheet has been submitted as investigation is progressing. “Only the president and the governor have been given such powers. The governor can dismiss an employee summarily, but that can be challenged in court which the government will have to justify. Such dismissals are applicable only if a security angle is involved,” said former law secretary B G Harindranath. No such security angle has been cited by the government. Article 311(2) proviso (b) also empowers the authority to dismiss or remove a person on its satisfaction for some reason to be recorded in writing that it is not reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry. In Union of India versus Tulsiram Patel (1985), case it has been held by a constitution bench that if the proviso (b) is applied on an extraneous ground or a ground having no relation to the situation envisaged in that clause, the action in so applying would be mala-fide, and, therefore, void. Government sources said that the decision to summarily dismiss Bijulal may backfire in court, unless he is convicted or government is able to prove that the crime he committed involves threat to state security. It is interesting that finance department decided to act in a manner that will ultimately help the accused, when criminal investigation has not ruled out the involvement of higher-ups in the crime, sources added. In multiple cases, SC had ruled against legally unsound dismissals. In M Ramanatha Pillai versus State of Kerala (1973) case, SC clearly said that the Article 311 will apply to both permanent and temporary posts in government. Also, in Superintendent of Post Offices versus PK Rajamma and others (1977), SC held that even an ‘extra departmental agent’ holds a civil post, and his dismissal or removal would be invalid if there was non-compliance with the Article 311 (2). After a high-level meet on Monday, finance minister TM Thomas Isaac announced the government decision. He said that since 1995, eight employees have been dismissed in this manner of which three dismissals were during the time of the present government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dismissal-may-be-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-treasury-scamster/articleshow/77380140.cms||KP Saikiran
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Cases filed against two bus drivers||Coimbatore: Police booked cases against two private buses for entering the district without e-pass near Karumathampatti check post in the district on Wednesday. When revenue divisional officer (south) Dhanalingam along with other officials were involved in vehicle checks at the check post, he noticed two buses – one with Tamil Nadu registration and the other with Kerala registration – ferrying more number of passengers than the permissible limit without following social distancing norms. According to sources, while the TN registration bus was ferrying 32 passengers from Krishnagiri to Kerala, the other bus was plying with 43 passengers from Bihar to Kerala. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cases-filed-against-two-bus-drivers/articleshow/77381789.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid may cause temporary facial paralysis: Doctors||MUMBAI: Novel coronavirus could cause temporary facial paralysis called Bell’s palsy in some patients, doctors treating patients for five months said. Neurologist Rajesh Benny, with Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said he saw an unusual number of cases of Bell’s palsy between April-July. ``The incidence seems to have reduced in Mumbai now, but neurologist in areas where the infection is at its peak or reaching it, say they are seeing a surge in Bell’s palsy cases,” he said. In other countries too, doctors noted the link between Covid-19 and neurological manifestations such as Bell’s palsy. In April, doctors from China reported in a peer-reviewed journal, Neurology, were among the first to report Bell’s palsy as a symptom of Covid-19. “Covid-19 patients may present with Bell’s palsy at an initial stage. Bell’s palsy may be attributed to an immune response, caused by SARS-CoV-2,’’ they wrote. Patients with facial paralysis usually on one side of the face would go to a neurologist if they had typical Covid symptoms such as fever, breathlessness or cough. It is only when the neurologist finds a normal MRI that a CT scan and/or a Covid-19 test are ordered. “It’s only then that Covid is identified as the cause,” said a doctor. In Mumbai, in initial stage of Covid-19 curve, rules for testing for the virus were stringent. “Even if we suspected Covid in a patient with neurological symptoms such as Bell’s palsy, we were not allowed to write out a prescription for the test. At that time, tests were only allowed for patients with symptoms such as breathlessness and a history of travel,’’ said a senior doctor. But many patients with Bell’s palsy seem to have a mild Covid infection with few exceptions. Most don’t need hospitalization. Generally, Bell's palsy takes a month or two to disappear but could in some cases leave behind residual weakness, said Dr Sangeeta Ravat, who heads the neurology department of KEM Hospital, Parel. “As it usually has a viral cause, we treat the condition with antivirals and a short course of steroids,” she added. Bell's palsy can be painful in some patients. “While eyeballs can move, eyelids cannot. The cheek and lower jaw on the affected side too cannot move,” said Dr Ravat. Patients may need physiotherapy to recover fully. What’s Bell’s palsy?* Bell’s palsy is a temporary facial paralysis or weakness on one side of the face * As the working of the cranial nerve VII (facial nerve) is affected, muscles on one side of the face are affected. The ability to blink and make facial expressions are affected * Tear glands, saliva glands, middle of ear and tongue are also hit * Symptoms appear suddenly over a 48-72-hour period and improve with or without treatment after few weeks * Full recovery can take six months * Symptoms include sudden weakness of one side of face, drooping of mouth, drooling and inability to close eye (causing dryness of eye) * Patients may experience facial pain, altered taste, and may become intolerant to loud noise * Causes could be reactivation of an existing (dormant) viral infection. Impaired immunity from stress, sleep deprivation, physical trauma, minor illness or autoimmune syndromes are likely triggers * Treatment is mainly steroids and antiviral agents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-may-cause-temporary-facial-paralysis-docs/articleshow/77385200.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Covid may cause temporary facial paralysis: Doctors||MUMBAI: Novel coronavirus could cause temporary facial paralysis called Bell’s palsy in some patients, doctors treating patients for five months said. Neurologist Rajesh Benny, with Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said he saw an unusual number of cases of Bell’s palsy between April-July. ``The incidence seems to have reduced in Mumbai now, but neurologist in areas where the infection is at its peak or reaching it, say they are seeing a surge in Bell’s palsy cases,” he said. In other countries too, doctors noted the link between Covid-19 and neurological manifestations such as Bell’s palsy. In April, doctors from China reported in a peer-reviewed journal, Neurology, were among the first to report Bell’s palsy as a symptom of Covid-19. “Covid-19 patients may present with Bell’s palsy at an initial stage. Bell’s palsy may be attributed to an immune response, caused by SARS-CoV-2,’’ they wrote. Patients with facial paralysis usually on one side of the face would go to a neurologist if they had typical Covid symptoms such as fever, breathlessness or cough. It is only when the neurologist finds a normal MRI that a CT scan and/or a Covid-19 test are ordered. “It’s only then that Covid is identified as the cause,” said a doctor. In Mumbai, in initial stage of Covid-19 curve, rules for testing for the virus were stringent. “Even if we suspected Covid in a patient with neurological symptoms such as Bell’s palsy, we were not allowed to write out a prescription for the test. At that time, tests were only allowed for patients with symptoms such as breathlessness and a history of travel,’’ said a senior doctor. But many patients with Bell’s palsy seem to have a mild Covid infection with few exceptions. Most don’t need hospitalization. Generally, Bell's palsy takes a month or two to disappear but could in some cases leave behind residual weakness, said Dr Sangeeta Ravat, who heads the neurology department of KEM Hospital, Parel. “As it usually has a viral cause, we treat the condition with antivirals and a short course of steroids,” she added. Bell's palsy can be painful in some patients. “While eyeballs can move, eyelids cannot. The cheek and lower jaw on the affected side too cannot move,” said Dr Ravat. Patients may need physiotherapy to recover fully. What’s Bell’s palsy?* Bell’s palsy is a temporary facial paralysis or weakness on one side of the face * As the working of the cranial nerve VII (facial nerve) is affected, muscles on one side of the face are affected. The ability to blink and make facial expressions are affected * Tear glands, saliva glands, middle of ear and tongue are also hit * Symptoms appear suddenly over a 48-72-hour period and improve with or without treatment after few weeks * Full recovery can take six months * Symptoms include sudden weakness of one side of face, drooping of mouth, drooling and inability to close eye (causing dryness of eye) * Patients may experience facial pain, altered taste, and may become intolerant to loud noise * Causes could be reactivation of an existing (dormant) viral infection. Impaired immunity from stress, sleep deprivation, physical trauma, minor illness or autoimmune syndromes are likely triggers * Treatment is mainly steroids and antiviral agents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-may-cause-temporary-facial-paralysis-docs/articleshow/77381174.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Forest dept begins eco-restoration project||Idukki: The forest department has begun a grassland restoration project at Anamudi Shola National Park (ANP) in Munnar. The project aims to convert 50 hectares containing exotic species such as Eucalyptus and Pine trees to grasslands within one year. Pampampadum Shola range officer M K Shameer said, “Two years before, over 50 acres of forest land in the ANP was gutted in a fire. The department then, on a trial basis, started an eco-restoration project at Pazhathotam area. Exotic species were cleared from the forest land and grass was planted. The success of the project inspired us to expand it to more areas.” To ensure the participation of local residents, the department has formed an eco-development committee (EDC) for the project, including 100 families in the region, said officials. The department will pay wages to the families supporting the project, Shameer said. The total length of Anamudi Shola National park is 32 square kilometre. Of the 32 sq km forest, 14 sq km is filled with exotic species. The increasing area of exotic species inside the forest is affecting the food and water availability of wild animals, the officials said. “We plan to phase out the exotic species in the forest land with grasslands over the years. The project is implemented with the support of the United Nations Development Project (UNDP), Green India Mission and other departments,” said the range officer. “We hope the grassland restoration project will assure food security to the wild animals in the region. The camera traps found that wild animals are regular visitors to the restored grass lands,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-dept-begins-eco-restoration-project/articleshow/77374116.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Censoring online videos: Madras HC notice to Tamil Nadu, Central government||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has ordered notices to the central and state governments on a public interest writ petition to establish a censor board for blue-pencilling videos uploaded on social media and OTT platforms. Admitting the plea moved by advocate K Suthan, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha on Wednesday directed the authorities to file their reply in four weeks. As an interim relief, Suthan wanted the court to restrain social media sites like YouTube, Facebook, Instagram and OTT platforms like Netflix, MX Player, Voot and Zee5 from uploading or telecasting any videos, including short films and web series till such censor board is established. According to the petitioner, there is enormous increase in YouTube channels because of its celebrity fame and billions of videos are being watched through YouTube every single day. There are several adult contents which are being uploaded day by day without any regulations. Such contents will spoil the future of school and college students, who are now attending the classes regularly through online, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/censoring-online-videos-hc-notice-to-state-centre/articleshow/77381829.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Coimbatore||2 stranded people rescued||Coimbatore: A 26-year-old woman and a 40-year-old man, who were found stranded, were rescued by the Avinashi town panchayat officials in Avinashi on Tuesday. The woman had attempted to reach Trichy by foot due to lack of public transportation. As the woman was mentally challenged, she was accommodated at a home near Thirumuganpoondi. Similarly, Sarathkumar, 40, was trying to reach Dharmapuri by foot. He was returning from Goa as there was no job there. He was sent in a truck to Dharmapuri. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-stranded-people-rescued/articleshow/77381820.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: New council to promote handloom as mainstream business||CHENNAI: The lockdown has impacted livelihoods of many, especially weavers, who are struggling for survival. That’s why, on August 7, National Handloom Day, the Women’s Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (WICCI) will launch its National Handloom Council, which will have chapters in every state. The aim is to organise, promote, revive and uplift the handloom industry in India. “There are many governmental and non-governmental organisations working to promote handloom but it’s still not enough. We need more initiatives to prevent the handloom industry from dying as it is our national pride,” says Sakina Ansari, national president, WICCI’s National Handloom Council. And they plan to do it by mainstreaming the handloom industry, she says. “Due to the pandemic, we cannot conduct physical events. So we will focus on creating awareness among youngsters through webinars. Later, we can network with government bodies to bring about policy changes,” says Sakina, adding that they plan to upskill weavers so that they can use technology to market their goods. C Sekar, a third-generation weaver in Anakaputhur, says the weaving community has been badly hit by the lockdown and needs technological expertise to market their goods online. “Weavers who used to get a minimum wage of Rs 9,000 per month are barely making Rs 2,000 as our saris and material are not being sold,” says Sekar. “If we are able to create websites and put our goods online it may help, but most people in our community are not educated.” Right now, with middlemen involved, handloom becomes a niche product bought by higher income groups. So the WICCI handloom chapters are looking at ways to make handlooms affordable. Every state handloom chapter, in conjunction with the national council and government bodies, will identify and work with clusters of weavers within each state to create better economic conditions. The council wants to make weaving handlooms part of the school and college curriculum. “We want to make it a part of the syllabus for Classes XI and XII and an elective in colleges,” says Sakina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-council-to-promote-handloom-as-mainstream-biz/articleshow/77381796.cms||Priya Menon
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 12 bike thieves arrested, 77 2-wheelers worth Rs 1 crore seized||HYDERABAD: Twelve members, belonging to three gangs of bike thieves operating from Hyderabad and Nizamabad, were arrested and police recovered 77 bikes worth over Rs 1 crore from the offenders. They only stole high-end bikes with mostly temporary registration number plates. During investigation of a bike theft case registered at the Karkhana police station in July, through CCTV camera footage analysis, police identified one of the two offenders as Md Adil, 20, a garments store worker of Musheerabad. Police picked up Adil and, based on the inputs provided by him and information obtained by analysing his phone call details, his associate was identified as Md Mohsin Shareef, 20, from Bholakpur. Mohsin was arrested on March 31 in six bike theft cases and he came out of prison on bail on May 21. After coming out of prison, Mohsin along with his five associates had stolen 15 bikes in the city by breaking handle locks and tinkering with ignition wires, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said on Wednesday. Police picked up Mohsin and seized nine bikes from his possession. Based on his confession, they recovered five more bikes from a gang member, Abdullah of Shastripuram. Mohsin also confessed to have sent one of the stolen bikes to Akbar of Nizamabad through Hindustan Parcel Services at Osman Gunj. Police team inspected the records and CCTV footage of Hindustan Parcel Services and realised that apart from Mohsin, during the past six months, Abood, Yasser Arafat, Abdullah and Farooq had also sent two-wheelers to Akbar, Azghar and Mannan of Nizamabad. Police picked up Abood, Abdullah and Farooq and they too confessed to have acquired bikes from the gangs of Mohsin and Mohd Ameenullah Khan on the instructions of Akbar and Azghar of Nizamabad. Police arrested Ameenullah, 20, an optical shop owner from Santosh Nagar and six of his associates. Cops also arrested Azghar of Nizamabad and Rizwan of Hindustan Parcel Service. “Gang members of Mohsin and Ameenullah have been stealing bikes of specific models, whose value is between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh as per the instructions of Akbar and his brother Azghar of Nizamabad. Akbar and Azghar are selling the stolen vehicles from city and also vehicles purchased by their associates wilfully defaulting vehicle loans, to customers in rural areas,” the commissioner said. Police seized 77 bikes from the 12 arrested accused of the three gangs.  “People should park their bikes in safe places and I appeal to colony associations to install CCTV cameras to prevent and detect crime,” the police chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-bike-thieves-arrested-77-2-wheelers-worth-rs-1cr-seized/articleshow/77381812.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, FIR against 11 sanitiser brands||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has registered an FIR against 11 sanitiser brands after their samples collected from various districts of the state failed the test. A notice has been issued to cancel or suspend the licence of these brands. Confirming this, state’s health and family welfare and home minister Anil Vij said around 248 samples were collected by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Haryana, out of which reports of 123 samples have been received. As per the reports, 109 samples have been cleared, while 14 samples failed. Among these, nine brands were found substandard, while five brands contained excessive quantity of methanol, which acts as a toxin. He said instructions have been given to recover the entire stock of failed brands of sanitiser from the market, so that people do not suffer any kind of harm. Vij said samples of two sanitiser companies in Kaithal district failed. Similarly, nine samples of another company in Karnal district have failed for having excessive amount of methanol. Apart from these, two brands in Hisar district have also not been found of good quality. A case has been registered against them and a notice issued for taking appropriate action. The minister informed that at the very initial stage of Covid-19 outbreak, they had received complaints of fake sanitisers selling in the market, following which the FDA was instructed to conduct raids in various districts of the state. Raids were conducted from March 6 to 8 by the administration and around 158 samples were collected. Similarly, 90 samples were collected from different parts of the state on May 22, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-haryana-fir-against-11-sanitiser-brands/articleshow/77381867.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Schools are forcing us to pay full fees, say parents||CHENNAI: Several schools have been asking for the full fees for the 2020-21 academic year despite orders from the government and the Madras high court against making such demands, say parents. While the government has fixed 75% of last year’s fee as this year’s tentative fee structure and said 40% of the amount alone should be demanded by August 31, the high court endorsed the structure and warned both school and college managements demanding full payment of contempt of court proceedings. However, these warnings seem to have gone unheard. “My son’s teacher informed all students that they must pay the full fee for the term, else they will not be allowed to attend online classes,” said a parent of a student from the Don Bosco Matriculation Higher Secondary School. “I was aware of the government order and when I tried to check with the school management, I couldn’t get any response,” the parent alleged. Xavier Packiam, the rector and correspondent of Don Bosco school, however, said the claims were untrue and that they were collecting only 33% of the fees as the first installment, instead of the 40% approved by the state. “A few parents had paid the full fee before the government directive and a few others are coming forward to pay the full fees now,” he said. Shyamala Subbu, principal of Velammal Vidyalaya said, “We follow the rules strictly and are not forcing anyone to pay the full fees, but some parents are willing to do so.” Requesting anonymity, another parent whose child has been admitted under the Right To Education Act in a private school in Vepery, said she has been asked to pay Rs 10,000 for textbooks and online classes. “The teacher said this during the online class, and called up parents to request we pay the full fees, so they could get their salaries properly,” the parent said. Saying complaints are aplenty from parents and teachers, S Arumainathan, state president of the Tamil Nadu Students and parents welfare association, said, “Teachers worry they won’t be paid unless students pay the full fee. School managements must take necessary steps to avoid conflicts.” Xavier Packiam said the pandemic was a unique challenge to them all. “For now, we have enough to pay our staff till November, salaries after that depend on the fees we collect later. We are doing the best we can,” he said. A senior official from the school education department said they have not received any complaints and that they have asked officers concerned to look for violations. Arumainathan said the state must have an exclusive helpline to address fee-related grievances. “The issues are many and parents are scared to come out and complain fearing for their child’s education. It is high time the authorities start inspecting every institution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-are-forcing-us-to-pay-full-fees-say-parents/articleshow/77380165.cms||Aditi R
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||386 recoveries, highest so far in a day in U’khand||Dehradun: In some good news, Wednesday saw the recovery of 386 Covid-19 patients in Uttarakhand, the highest number of daily recoveries so far in the state. With this, the tally of total cured patients in Uttarakhand has shot up to 5,233 cases even as the test results of 9,559 samples are still awaited. Meanwhile, 246 fresh infections were reported on the day taking the total Covid tally in the state to 8,254 cases. Among those who were diagnosed as infected were Sitarganj BJP MLA Saurabh Bahuguna. and around thirty ITBP personnel in Uttarkashi. A total of three Covid deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the death count from the disease so far in the state to 98.While one death was reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), another was reported from Base Hospital in Haldwani. The third death was recorded at AIIMS-Rishikesh where a 29-year-old Covid-19-positive man died of refractory septicaemia shock. On the day, the hill districts also recorded a surge in cases. Uttarkashi reported the maximum of 66 Covid-19 cases, followed by 50 cases from Nainital, 47 from Dehradun, 36 from Udham Singh Nagar, 20 from Haridwar, nine from Pauri, six from Rudraprayag, five from Tehri, two from Almora, and one from Bageshwar. Pithoragarh was the only district that reported no positive case on Wednesday. Meanwhile, in an analysis of Covid numbers in the state, Doon-based NGO, Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation, said that as many as 63% of the total cases in Uttarakhand (from March 15 to August 4) fell in the category of “contacts of earlier detected positive case, travel history not available at the time of release of health bulletin, health care workers, local residents and cases from hotspots like Dehradun sabzi mandi.” Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of the organisation, said, “According to our analysis, 50% (2,545) cases are contacts of earlier detected positive cases, 45% (2,262) cases are those in which the travel history was not available at the time of the release of the health bulletin, and 4% (197) are government staff, including police officials and healthcare workers. The remaining 0.8% (45) cases are from Dehradun sabzi mandi and 0.6% (32) cases are of other local residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/386-recoveries-highest-so-far-in-a-day-in-ukhand/articleshow/77378919.cms||Shivani Azad
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Eco-friendly idols, rakhis help Dhoolpet artisans stay afloat this festive season||HYDERABAD: Artisans and idol makers of Dhoolpet are the most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic as festivals have been reduced to a low-key affair this year. Hence, several of the artisans are switching over to make eco-friendly items to survive. Kailash Singh Hazari’s workshop is usually buzzing with activity at this time of the year with ready idols lined up for sale. However, he has now switched to making eco-friendly small idols, toys, rakhis and other items for the upcoming festivals. Kailash, who usually hire close to 40 workers to make the idols, is now working with ten workers. He made some 500 eco-friendly rakhis for Raksha Bandhan and has now prepared toys and candle stand made with cow dung and mud.  “All the 500 handmade eco-friendly rakhis sold out during the Raksha Bandhan, while eco-friendly toys, candle stands, diyas are also getting a good response. I want to encourage people to avoid spending on plastic-based toys which are harmful to the environment and instead buy eco-friendly products,” he said. Another artisan from Dhoolpet said he has taken an additional Rs 1 lakh loan for making fresh idols and other items. As the festivals are restricted to small gatherings, the artisans are making small-sized idols for homes and smaller residential societies, which will be easy to immerse in the nearest water bodies. “Of the 150 toys and other items, hardly 50 have been sold. We are hoping to get more buyers as the festivals kick-in. Even the eco-friendly small-sized idols will be easy to immerse and will not be harmful to the environment,” said Raju, another artisan from the area. He further added that at least eight to 10 such handmade items are made by each worker every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eco-friendly-idols-rakhis-help-dhoolpet-artisans-stay-afloat-this-festive-season/articleshow/77381842.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Reefs sunk off Chennai’s coast to help fishermen net good catch||CHENNAI: About one lakh traditional fishermen living along the coasts of Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts can look forward to a better catch from next year, thanks to the sinking of artificial reefs. The fisheries department, with guidance from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), sank these structures on Tuesday and Wednesday along the Chennai coast. Director of fisheries G S Sameeran said the government had announced sinking of these structures at a cost of Rs 10 crore in the three districts during the last budget. While the first phase of the programme covered five spots in Chennai district, six in Tiruvallur and 19 in Chengalpet, the next will cover Cuddalore, Mayiladuthrai, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram. Sameeran said sinking these structures within 2km of the shoreline will not only help traditional fishermen get more catch, but also prevent trawler operations in the area. Former director of Zoological Survey of India K Venkataraman said sinking artificial structures had multiple advantages. The location can be converted into a tourist spot that can offer scuba diving facilities. It also helps reduce journey time to fishing grounds thereby helping fishermen save on fuel, he said. However, he warned that the structures mostly aggregate the available fish stock from nearby areas rather than enhance overall fish population as they reduce larval dispersal among various habitats. Sinking artificial structures near a natural coral reef colony also affects the colony adversely. A risk assessment for fish population should be undertaken before sinking these structures, Venkataraman said. Watch Artificial reefs sunk off Chennai’s coast to help fishermen net good catch||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reefs-sunk-off-citys-coast-to-help-fishermen-net-good-catch/articleshow/77381864.cms||P Oppili
August 6, 2020||India||HC upholds ban on social media use by def staff||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Wednesday upheld the ban on social media for defence personnel, observing that it is a policy decision by the government based on feedback that social media usage by the Army can give the enemy an edge, reports Abhinav Garg. A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon passed the order while dismissing a petition by Lt Col PK Choudhary, which challenged the ban on accessing Facebook and Twitter. The bench said that “if the government, after complete assessment, has concluded that permitting use of certain social networking websites by personnel of its defence forces is enabling the enemy countries to gain an edge, the courts would be loath to interfere.” It also said that it does not appreciate the pleadings from a senior officer in the Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-upholds-ban-on-social-media-use-by-def-staff/articleshow/77383521.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: Court nixes plea, customs eyes HC move||KOCHI: The Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive), which is probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, is planning to approach the high court with a petition to allow further custody of Ramees K T, the mastermind in the case, after the same was denied by additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) on Wednesday. According to sources, customs officials are hoping that further questioning of the accused could lead to unearthing of evidence against other members of the racket -- including persons who allegedly abetted the smugglers -- which allegedly includes accountants, lawyers, mediapersons and politicians. Customs sleuths would soon record the arrest of four accused persons who were arrested last week by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the case. Customs had also sought custody of another accused, Mohammed Shafi, on Wednesday, which the ACJM court refused. Due to the Covid-19 situation, customs had Ramees in their custody for only seven days as his test result arrived over eight days after he was remanded. Though customs had approached the court on July 7 for extending his custody, it was not entertained as it was legally not possible to place a person in police custody after completion of 14 days from the first day of being produced. “Further interrogation is required to acquire clarity as to the modus operandi and details of other accomplices behind this smuggling activity, without delay,” customs said in the custody plea. Swapna, Sarith & Sandeep in ED custodyThe prime accused Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS were moved to the custody of the Enforcement Directorate by the special Kochi court considering the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) case on Wednesday. ED has so far booked the trio under Sections 3 and 4 (offence of money-laundering) of the PMLA. ED has told the court that there was indication of financial transactions involving laundered money between the accused and others. Meanwhile, Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Ali, both residents of Muvattupuzha, were sent in NIA custody till Friday by the special court considering NIA cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/court-nixes-plea-customs-eyes-hc-move/articleshow/77380175.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 2 lakh worth mobiles stolen from shop||HYDERABAD: Burglars stole mobile phones worth Rs 2 lakh from Touch Mobiles in Uppal during the early hours of Wednesday. On Wednesday morning, Asghar Ali, manager of the store, lodged a complaint with Uppal police alleging that unknown persons stole phones from the shop. “A part of the shop is still under construction. Burglars entered the open portion of the under construction area and dug a hole into the store,” Uppal inspector Ch N Ranga Swamy said. The offenders turned off the power supply to digital video recorder of CCTV cameras and took away the phones along with some cash and other electronic equipment from the shop, police said. “The incident happened at around 3.30 am and the recorded CCTV visuals are not very clear due to low light. We have asked the shop owner to furnish details of the stolen cell phones with IMEI numbers and invoices. We estimate that Rs 2 lakh worth items have been stolen,” the inspector said. A case was registered under sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-2l-worth-mobiles-stolen-from-shop/articleshow/77381869.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||Harassed by loan sharks, shop owner and wife commit suicide in Jetpur||RAJKOT: A hosiery shop owner and his wife ended life by drinking poison on the new bridge over Bhadar River in Jetpur town of Rajkot district on Wednesday. They were allegedly harassed by loan sharks. According to police, the couple — Alpesh Kanhaiya (34) and his wife 32-year-old Chhaya, resident of Gujarati Wadi in Jetpur, had consumed poison on Tuesday night and were admitted to Jetpur government hospital where they died during treatment on Wednesday morning. The couple got married three year ago. Alpesh’s elder brother Vikas Kanhaiya alleged in his police complaint that his brother was being harassed by a money lender for the past few weeks. Vikas has stated in his complaint that Alpesh owned shop Bhagwati Hosiery in the Main Bazar area of Jetpur for the last 10 years. Just before lockdown was imposed, Alpesh had taken a loan of Rs 15-20 lakh from different money lenders for business expansion. However, due to lockdown his business plans failed and he suffered huge losses. The complaint further stated that while Alpesh was reeling under financial crunch, the money lenders were harassing him for repayment of loan along with interest. Jetpur city police station’s sub-inspector S R Kharadi said that Alpesh had told Vikas about the harassment by the loan sharks. “When Alpesh and Chhaya were admitted to hospital on Tuesday night, Alpesh told Vikas that he had kept a record of the loans he had taken in his shop,” said Kharadi. “Once we open the shop and get details of money lenders, we can now take further action,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/harassed-by-loan-sharks-shop-owner-wife-commit-suicide/articleshow/77380193.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Confusion in West Kochi as residents in CZ venture out||Kochi: Confusion prevailed near the BOT bridge at Thoppumpady on Monday morning while enforcing restrictions of containment zone at areas under the Fort Kochi cluster forcing policemen to create screening pickets at three different locations on the Aroor-Edakochi-Ernakulam highway. According to police, vehicles from Aroor heading towards Ernakulam could use the highway without stopping at the containment zone. However, residents in the containment zone cannot leave unless they are part of any essential services. On Monday morning, vehicles coming from Aroor as well as those from the containment zones got blocked at Thoppumpady BOT bridge leading to heavy traffic. Police had to struggle to verify each and every vehicle so that those from the containment zone could be sent back. A senior officer with the Mattancherry police sub divisions said blocking the highway was impractical as many people from Aroor use the highway to go to Ernakulam. "We have now set up screening pickets at Palluruthy, Edakochi and near the Thoppumpady bridge. Apart from these, checkpoints have been set up near containment zone borders. Any vehicles coming from Aroor can use the highway without stopping in the containment zones and this applies for buses as well. However, those within the containment zones are not allowed to go out. At the same time, those who are part of essential services can go out," said a senior officer. Kochi city deputy commissioner of police G Poonguzhali who visited the spot said effective containment of the disease would be possible only through restricting movement of people. "Several central government officials and those who are part of essential services are living here. So, we have to verify each one of them. This could lead to traffic block. Also, the highway for people coming from Alappuzha to the city has not been blocked. So, that too needed to be checked and it contributed to the rush," the DCP told reporters. She added that instructions are being passed through loudspeaker to people living in containment zone. "We have been urging the people in CZs to stay at home. This is an area which has been declared as a critical cluster region. The spread of the deceased can be controlled only if all of us work together," she said, adding that those who are not aware of the restrictions would be given the benefit of doubt and would be sent back after making them understand the protocol. "The enforcement would get stringent in the coming days and then violators would face registration of FIR against them apart from fine," said the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/confusion-in-west-kochi-as-residents-in-cz-venture-out/articleshow/77380177.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Trainee for decade, 8 PAPs scale CSTPS chimney for job regularization||Chandrapur: Eight project affected persons (PAPs) of Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS), who have been working as trainees for nearly a decade, on Wednesday resorted to ‘Virugiri’ and scaled the tallest chimney of generation unit nos. 8 and 9 to press their demand of regularization in jobs. Despite assurances by the CSTPS authorities, the agitators were atop the chimney till filing of this report. CSTPS is the largest thermal power plant run by Mahagenco in the state. The eight PAPs — five men and three women — scaled the chimney in the plant in the morning and started shouting slogans demanding permanent jobs as promised by the government while acquiring their land. Even as the PAPs remained atop the chimney, Maharashtra Rajya Vijnirmiti Pragatkushal Kruti Samiti submitted a memorandum to the plant chief engineer warning of self-immolation by its members. The samiti claimed the PAPs are fighting for their rights for the last many years. However, they are being made to work as trainees for a nominal stipend for a decade. Because of the inordinate delay, many of them have crossed eligibility age for permanent jobs, said the samiti. CSTPS authorities claimed they have forwarded the demand to Mahagenco headquarters as regularization of trainees does come under their power. Meanwhile, MLA Kishor Jorgewar rushed to the spot and talked to power minister Nitin Raut over on the issue. Raut has assured to hold a high-level meeting on the matter on Monday. However, despite persuasion from CSTPS authorities and assurance from Jorgewar, the eight agitators refused to come down demanding appointment letters for all PAPs. It remains a mystery as to how the agitators climbed the chimney despite the presence of Central Industrial Security Force personnel on the CSTPS premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trainee-for-decade-8-paps-scale-cstps-chimney-for-job-regularization/articleshow/77381880.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||Cong to move no-trust motion against BJP-led govt in Manipur||Opposition Congress in Manipur has decided to move a no-confidence motion against the state’s BJP-led government on August 10 and has issued a three-line whip for its MLAs. Issuing a notice, whip of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Konthoujam Govindas said: “All the members of CLP, Manipur, are hereby informed that a three-lined whip is issued under the direction of the president of Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee that all the members are to attend the 11th session of the Manipur Legislative Assembly convening on August 10 from 11am till the end of the said session and remain in the House during discussion and voting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-to-move-no-trust-motion-against-bjp-led-govt-in-manipur/articleshow/77383524.cms||Prabin Kalita
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Collector seeks cooperation of residents to curb spread||Kochi: Collector S Suhas has called for cooperation of residents in West Kochi to contain the spread of Covid-19. Thanking the people of Aluva and Chellanam regions, he said positive cases in these clusters could be brought down with the help of health, revenue, police and cooperation of residents. He appealed similar support from residents of West Kochi where all areas have been placed under containment zone. “There are four super spreaders in West Kochi. But health officials are facing tough challenge as fake news is being spread through social media to mislead public. Legal action would be taken against those spreading such messages. The area is thickly populated. Many houses situated in northern parts of west Kochi have four to 10 members in a family. More cases are being reported from Kalvathy. We need to be more careful and we need cooperation from public,” he said. Among the four clusters in Ernakulam, Chellanam was the largest one with 259 positive cases. As the number of cases declined in the region, intensive testing was conducted for the past one week to understand the trend. As there was stabilization, restrictions were lifted from certain wards. "This is first time restrictions are being lifted from certain wards of Chellanam after it was declared as containment zone," he said. In Keezhmad cluster, 134 cases were reported and most of it were sporadic ones. Despite decrease in cases, restrictions will continue in the cluster, he added. However, Suhas said no one from outside will be allowed to enter the 430 old age homes in the district. Meanwhile, private hospitals have started admitting Covid-19 patients who fall under category b (moderate risk) and c (low risk). PVS hospital in Kaloor is ready to with 140 beds to treat such patients. Fishing boat owners and contractors should provide list of people coming from other states for fishing to police and revenue officials and also arrange quarantine facilities for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collector-seeks-cooperation-of-residents-to-curb-spread/articleshow/77380209.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||Congress leader, 19 others discharged in rioting case||Vadodara: A judicial magistrate’s court on Wednesday discharged senior Congress party leader and former MP, Madhusudan Mistry, and 19 others in a case of rioting and public property damage lodged against them in the run-up to 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Mistry and 19 others including Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s opposition leader Chandrakant Shrivastava alias Chandrakant Bhattu were booked after Mistry had allegedly tried to paste his own posters on those of Narendra Modi, who was BJP’s prime ministerial candidate and Gujarat chief minister, on Lakdipul Road in Dandiya Bazaar. “I told the court that the entire process, from registering the FIR to conducting the investigation and filing the chargesheet, was totally out of procedure. Police had no right to register the case or probe it,” said senior lawyer Pravin Thakkar, one of the advocates representing the Mistry and others. “Police should have given a complaint to a magistrate who would have decided on it,” said Thakkar. “There were several procedural lapses on part of police. First, the officer who was the complainant was also the investigating officer. Secondly, the chargesheet itself mentions that the main accused is a Rajya Sabha member then how could they charge him without taking permission of the chairman of Rajya Sabha?,” said another lawyer Kamal Pandya. It was also argued that the kiosk which was allegedly damaged was not a public property but owned by a private company. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate K S Makhija upheld the discharge plea and the arguments submitted by all 20 accused while the trial was at the framing of charges stage. Mistry was parachuted by the Congress as the BJP had picked Modi to contest from Vadodara seat. Before Mistry, then city Congress president Narendra Rawat was chosen to contest for Vadodara seat. Mistry had tried to climb on a pole on a road divider for pasting his poster over Modi’s poster, but he was prevented by the police as neither he nor any Congress leader had taken any permission for the program. He and other Congress workers were arrested and later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-leader-19-others-discharged-in-rioting-case/articleshow/77379010.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||MLA Selvam asks partymen to join BJP, dares DMK to expel him||Chennai: Challenging DMK leader M K Stalin to expel him from the party, Thousand Lights MLA K K Selvam on Wednesday called upon DMK functionaries to join the BJP, charging that there was no future for functionaries above 55 years in the Dravidian party. He was speaking at the BJP state headquarters, Kamalalayam, after taking part in a function organised to celebrate laying of foundation stone for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. Selvam said his own fate should be an eye opener to all. Those who continue to remain in the DMK should be ready to suffer, he said. He had met BJP national president J P Nadda in Delhi on Tuesday. BJP national general secretary Muralidhar Rao, state president L Murugan and vice president V P Duraisamy were present on the occasion. After meeting Nadda, Selvam had denied that he was joining the BJP. But the DMK immediately removed him from all party posts and suspended him from the party. “They (DMK) issued me a show-cause notice today. If they have guts, they can expel me from the party,” said Selvam, apparently with a view to continue as an unattached member of the assembly. “I became an MLA to serve the people of the constituency and not to listen to them (Stalin’s family),” he said. Charging that dynastic politics and family’s interference was at play in the DMK, he said initially, he used to listed to Karunanidhi, then his son Stalin and now grandson Udhayanidhi. He expressed disappointment over not being given the DMK district secretary post after the demise of J Anbazhagan. Interestingly, BJP V P Duraisamy once again sought to clarify that Selvam had not visited the party state headquarters to join the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mla-selvam-asks-partymen-to-join-bjp-dares-dmk-to-expel-him/articleshow/77380202.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Rape survivor shows recovery||KOCHI: The 75-year-old woman who was raped by a truck driver at Kolencherry on Sunday was physically assaulted after the crime. The son of the woman, who lured the elderly into her house and facilitated the rape, found the woman in an exhausted state at his house and went on to attack her. Meanwhile, the elderly woman has shown signs of improvements, hospital sources said. The accused — truck driver Muhammed Shafi (50) of Chembarakki, Vazhakulam, Manoj Asharimalayail (46) of Iruchira, Aikaranad, and his mother Omana Asharimalayil (66) were presented before a magistrate in the district on Wednesday. Shafi who resisted arrest was picked up by police using reasonable force with the help of local residents from his hideout on Tuesday. “All three would be party to crimes committed by each of them. The first accused Shafi has been charged with the rape, while Manoj committed brutal assault on the woman. Omana facilitated and abetted the crimes,” a police officer said. Police sources said Omana used to arrange sex workers for her customers. “ On the fateful day, a woman she arranged for the truck driver didn’t show up. Omana then lured the elderly woman, who had forgetfulness, into going home with her and Shafi then raped her. Manoj, who had a bad temper as well as a drinking problem, used to fight with his mother Omana for bringing women and customers to their home. On Sunday night, he found the elderly woman in his house exhausted and brutally attacked her,” said an official. As per a medical bulletin issued by Dr Vijay Paul Thomas of MOSC Medical College Kolencherry, the patient has shown slight improvement. “All vital signs have returned to normal and she has shown improvement in her mental status. Functioning of the kidney has returned to normal,” the medical bulletin said. According to the hospital, antibiotics are being given to her so as to prevent microbial infection and oxygen is also supplied to her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rape-survivor-shows-recovery/articleshow/77380196.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Joy over redemption of a decades-old vow, says Mohan Bhagwat, praises PM Narendra Modi and emphasises inclusiveness||AYODHYA: The dream of the Sangh to hold Hindutva centrestage unfolded in Ayodhya on Wednesday when RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat was given a pride of place next to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the dais during the bhoomi pujan ceremony. In his crisp speech spanning eight minutes, Bhagwat recalled how former RSS chief Bhaorao Deoras considered the construction of Ram Temple a challenge, which could take at least three decades. “We had taken a vow to build the temple at the disputed site. Today, we have done that. Before we took the first step, then Sarsanghchalak Balasaheb Deoras told us it would take 25-30 years. We toiled for 30 years and now on the 30th year, it’s a moment to rejoice for accomplishment of our mission,” he said. The temple became possible because of the efforts of many. “Several people made sacrifices and they are still alive in spirit among us. Then there are those who are not present here today. Advani Ji who led the rathyatra would surely be watching this ceremony from home. And there are others who could not make it due to the current circumstances,” he said. There is happiness all around over fulfilment of a desire, which goes back several centuries, he said. “And the biggest cause of joy is that today's ceremony marks the tangible representation of confidence and resolve to make India self-reliant. That this task is being performed by the person (PM), who has the mandate to create a glorious nation that looks after the welfare of all. This is another reason for joy,” he said in his overt praise of Modi. “That is why we miss Ashok Singhal and Acharya Ramchandra Paramhans. But their souls must be experiencing bliss after today's ceremony. The pandemic has forced the world to retreat into a shell and there’s a debate on whether there is a third alternative to the two current models of governance, market democracy and socialist-communist authoritarianism. Yes, it’s the essence of the qualities of Lord Ram. But for that to happen, we have to embellish Ayodhya in our hearts by embracing everyone not just in the country but even outside, irrespective of caste and creed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/joy-over-redemption-of-a-decades-old-vow-says-bhagwat-praises-modi-emphasises-inclusiveness/articleshow/77383096.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Youngsters from Mandya making a short film on local hero ‘Kere’ Kamegowda||MYSURU: Thrust into the national spotlight following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mention of his singular achievements, Kere Kamegowda of Malavalli taluk in Mandya district has become a local celebrity of sorts, inspiring awe and derision in equal measure among his neighbours. A group of youngsters in Mandya district have decided to pay tribute to the local hero, who is credited with the creation of more than a dozen lakes in his village, by making a short film called ‘Pond Man Kere Kamegowda’, which was directly uploaded on social media portals. The youngsters said that they wanted to highlight the ecological importance of the ponds that Kamegowda has made at the foot of the barren Kundini Betta near Dasanadoddi village. Activists Bhudanuru Satish, member of Navu Dravida Association Abhi Gowda and Jana Jagruthi Vedike functionary MB Naganna Gowda came together to make a film that would instil ecological awareness among the people, while also highlighting the achievements of Kamegowda. They said that the short film would be around five minutes’ long, with information about all the 14 lakes made by Kamegowda condensed in it.The team used drone cameras, and the small waterbodies are likely to be shown as from a higher vantage point. Naganna, who is leading the production of the short film, told TOI, “After some of his neighbours countered Kamegowda’s claims of having developed the lakes at Kundini Betta, we went to Dasanadoddi ourselves to put the debate to rest. Most of locals assured us that the lakes were developed by Kamegowda. Geology experts accompanied us, and they confirmed that they were man-made lakes.” In the course of making the film, the trio of youngsters learnt that the 14 lakes can cumulatively store up to 33 crore litres of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youngsters-from-mandya-making-a-short-film-on-local-hero-kere-kamegowda/articleshow/77382719.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Consortium offers 3,000 hotel rooms for asymptomatic patients||MYSURU: The Mysore Association of Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Diagnostic Centres (MAHAN) COVID care consortium in collaboration with the Hotel Owners Association has taken the initiative of converting select hotels into Covid Care Centres in Mysuru. Members of both the associations held press shared the details of the decision here on Tuesday. Hotel Association president Narayanagowda C said that asymptomatic patients who wish to avail the comfort and convenience of hotel stay with 24/7 medical support may opt for this facility. The initiative is aimed to ease the burden on the district administration in managing coronavirus cases and provide medical care in the comfort of a hotel for asymptomatic cases, he said. Stating that 3,000 hotels rooms have been set aside for the service, Narayanagowda said, “The package includes seven days of stay in a designated hotel with food and beverages as specified by the dietitian, 24/7 nursing care and monitoring, medication, tele-medicine facility with access to consultants across specialties, frequent monitoring of vitals and early recognition of deterioration, 24/7 ambulance service and much more.” “The price of the package varies based on the category of hotels. An all-inclusive price for at budget hotels is Rs 4,000 while it is s 6,000 in star hotels,” he said, adding that people can contact 9741922004 and 9980524242 to avail the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/consortium-offers-3000-hotel-rooms-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77380242.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||30% of placed students join work virtually; Microsoft offers Rs 44L pa at VJTI for 2020-21 batch||MUMBAI: About 20-30% of students from the 2019-20 batch who had bagged offers during campus placements are being virtually onboarded by companies though there is no clarity yet on their final-year exams. While a few of these students from non-IIT engineering colleges were taken on board in July, others are expected to join in August. Amidst the lockdown gloom, some colleges are getting encouraging responses from IT-based, finance and consulting firms that are keen to hire students from the 2020-21 batch too. At VJTI, Microsoft has picked a student from the current final-year batch for a package of Rs 44 lakh per annum, during the virtual placement drive this month. Uddan Ltd selected a student for a package of Rs 37 lakh pa and four were picked by Morgan Stanley for Rs 28 lakh pa. The process for Japanese firm Rakuten offering Rs 40 lakh pa and SAP Lab offering Rs 36 lakh pa is still on. IT-based, finance and networking firms are showing interest, said Nitin Gulhane, head of training and placement, adding that hiring at production, civil and manufacturing firms are stalled. Of the outgoing batch, Gulhane said 150 of the 499 students who were placed in 2019-20 are being virtually onboarded. “Some firms are waiting for the government decision on final-year exams,” he said. The college also started an extended placement drive for 2019-20 batch students who missed out on study abroad options. At Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra, about 20% of the total 184 placed students (2019-20) have joined work, virtually. And in the placement drive for the 2020-21 batch, 10 students were picked by Deutsche Bank for a package of Rs 19.63 lakh each. The bank has offered Rs 75,000 pm for a two-month internship. The process for JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, with a package of more than Rs 15 lakh is in the pipeline. Principal GT Thampi, said, “The internship offer is new to us. These are new beginnings and the industry is also experimenting with newer models for employee selection. IT, investment banking is thriving in the otherwise depressed market.” Morgan Stanley has picked three students from the 2020-21 batch at DJ Sanghvi College of Engineering in Vile Parle for a package of Rs 25.5 lakh pa, and five have been placed in JP Morgan for a package of Rs 14 lakh, said principal Hari Vasudevan. From the outgoing batch of 2019-20, around 20% of the placed students are virtually onboarded, including 39 hired by Quantiphi alone. Some students will be onboarded by TCS and Infosys in August, he added. “Though software industry still leads in hiring, jobs are available in core sectors, finance and consulting firms. As of now, hiring in these sectors seems to be unaffected by the lockdown,” said Vasudevan. Most firms have deferred their joining dates for students from the 2019-20 batch, and very few have withdrawn their offers, said colleges. Nainesh Koli, placement officer at Mithibai and NM Colleges, said 15% of the placed students from the outgoing batch are being virtually onboarded now. “Some companies have deferred their joining dates, while a few are changing the full-time offers to internships,” he said, adding that students seeking jobs independently may find it difficult without their degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-of-placed-students-join-work-virtually-microsoft-offers-rs-44l-pa-at-vjti-for-2020-21-batch/articleshow/77381923.cms||Yogita Rao
August 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State’s active positive cases decline with 25k recoveries||Bhubaneswar: As hoped by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the number of recovered Covid patients in the state crossed 25,000 with 1255 more getting discharged on Wednesday. Describing this as a ‘momentous occasion’ in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Naveen said, “All credit for the high recovery rate goes to our Covid warriors.” In the last 24 hours 1337 more tested positive for the virus, raising the total positive cases to 39,018 even as nine patients died, taking the death toll to 225. With more than 2,600 patients recovering in the last two days, Odisha, which was 10th among Indian states in terms of active positive cases, improved to 12th position. Odisha’s active positive cases of 13,011 is less than Assam (13,616) and Rajasthan (13,630). The state’s recovery percentage improved to around 66% compared to 63% last week with the number of cured going up to 25,738. The highest – 485 patients – recovered from the worst-hit Ganjam taking its cure rate to around 73%. Of the 11,812 positive cases in the district, 8,621 have recovered. Among others, Khurda (125), Sundargarh (122), Sambalpur (107) and Puri (75) saw impressive recoveries. The health department said the new deaths include seven men and two women. Five patients in Ganjam including four men aged 42, 53, 59 and 63 years and a 52-year-old woman died from the virus, raising the district’s Covid toll to 117. One man each died in Gajapati (27), Keonjhar (21) and Sundargarh (55) while a 60-year-old woman died in Khurda. Two positive patients died due to non-Covid reasons, raising the deaths due to comorbidities to 44. The new positive cases include the highest 201 from Ganjam followed by Khurda (196), Cuttack (168), Sundargarh (83), Keonjhar (80), Puri (73), Sambalpur (72) and Nayagarh (60). “The number of new positive cases are declining in Ganjam and Khurda, the two districts accounting for lion’s share of the viral load,” said Ajay Parida, director, Institute of Life Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/states-active-positive-cases-decline-with-25k-recoveries/articleshow/77380163.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu deluge brings back memories of black days||MADIKERI: Heavy rainfall across Kodagu district over the past three days brought back tragic memories of floods in 2018 and 2019. Although the district has witnessed a spell of rainfall since June, it has picked up pace resulting in mainly landslides, leaving a trail of destruction. Kodagu deputy commissioner Anies kanmani Joy has issued Red alert till August 7, Yellow alert from August 7-8 and Orange alert from August 8-10 in the district. According to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) executive engineer Somshekhar, the rainfall has left power supply infrastructure in tatters in several parts of the district with over 1,250 electric poles damaged in two days. Although power supply has been restored in some places in Madikeri, most of the region is in dark. Damages to electric poles is heavy in South Kodagu and restoration may take long time according to the Somshekhar. Kathlekadu-Siddapur Road was blocked for traffic movement after a landslide occurred along the stretch. Water level rises in CauveryWater level in Cauvery river has risen above 5feet at Bhagamandala and the water has reached the steps of Shri Bhagandeshwara temple. Due to the overflowing river, roads connecting Bhagamandala to Madikeri and Bhagamandala to Napoklu has been banned. District administration’s attempt to shift people to a secure location was rejected by the residents. River rafting teams were sent to Kushalnagar and Gonikoppal after observing flood like situation. While the roofing sheets of police maithrihall building flew due to gusty winds, several houses were partially damaged in Virajpet. In Malethirike Hills, several houses were damaged after electric poles fell on them. Malnad battered by heavy downpour Heavy downpour in Malnad region on Wednesday left a trail of destruction across Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. Several trees and electric poles were uprooted blocking roads after strong winds and rainfall battered the district. When the house of Shankara Bandari in Karakki village of Kodur grama panchayath in Hosanagar was destroyed, GP members responded quickly and shifted the family. Hulikal in Hosanagara in Shivamogga recorded maximum rainfall. Water levels in Mani dam near Yadur village rose from 577.2 meters to 578.18 meters in a single day. The dam’s maximum capacity is 594.36 meter. Malnad taluks of Mudigere, Sringeri and N R Pura were also badly affected. Tarffic was disrupted when a tree fell on National Highway-234 passing through Mudigere. Banalli-Saragodu road blocked after electricity poles downed along the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-deluge-brings-back-memories-of-black-days/articleshow/77381449.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Religious heads to spread awareness||Kochi: District health officials will rope in religious leaders to create awareness on Covid-19 in West Kochi area. The leaders will spread awareness on the need to intimate the health workers on symptoms and attend the swab collection camps being held as authorities are set to start intensive testing to gauge the ground reality of the spread before chalking out measures for containing the infection. According to health officials, they want more residents to come out and inform authorities about Covid symptoms. They also want people to turn up for swab collection drive without any reluctance. Religious leaders, who can reach out to the masses in West Kochi, will be identified. “Health officials need more cooperation from the public. We noticed many are reluctant to reveal the symptoms to healthcare workers. They don’t want to be lodged in other places if they are tested positive. A middle-aged person died in Fort Kochi the other day due to delay in getting treatment. Though the man had symptoms earlier, his relatives did not alert health workers. They alerted in the last minute when his condition deteriorated. We need to convince them by counselling with the help of religious leaders and others. We first test the primary contacts of the positive person and those who have Covid symptoms. We can contain the spread only that way. If there is any lapse on that part, it will be difficult to contain the infection,” said a health official. Dense population poses a big challenge as more than 10 family members are living under single roof in many houses. Two Covid first-line treatment centres have been set up in West Kochi. Three health teams, including two mobile ones, collected swab samples from 220 persons for RT-PCR test from Thuruthi in Kalvathy. “People looked at us with suspicion when we asked them to appear for testing. If we rope in the religious leaders and local politicians, who can convince the residents, our effort will bear fruit. Leaders of fishermen, headload workers and other community heads will also be roped in for the purpose,” said another health official. A division councillor in West Kochi said some people are reluctant to undergo testing out of fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/religious-heads-to-spread-awareness/articleshow/77380248.cms||T C Sreemol
August 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Two MROs suspended for tampering with records||VIJAYAWADA: District collector suspended two mandal revenue officers (MROs) for allegedly tampering with land records at Musunuru mandal in Krishna district on Wednesday. The accused officers were identified as Madan Mohan Rao, MRO of the mandal and former MRO of Musunuru Nagaraju. According to Krishna district administration, the current MRO Mohan Rao had tampered the records of a land belonging to a farmer in Katrenipadu village and registered it on another person’s name. After the farmer checked his land records online, he was shocked to find it registered under another man’s name. The farmer alleged that the tahsildar had taken bribe from the realtor and registered to another person. Vigilance officials found irregularity in the matter as the farmer had the documents under his name but the revenue records showed something contradictory. They also verified other records and found many similar irregularities in the mandal headquarters. Based on the recommendations of the vigilance report, the district administration took departmental action by suspending both of them and ordered a detailed inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-mros-suspended-for-tampering-with-records/articleshow/77380198.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||From Mylapore to Avadi: A daily trip to shower a mom and her puppies with love in Chennai||CHENNAI: Several people in the city have been feeding community dogs since the lockdown began, but S Kuppuraj is different. Every day, he drives to Avadi to see Cutie, a female dog he translocated, from the Kapaleeshwarar Temple to a friend’s construction site. The technical officer at University of Madras first found Cutie on a stationary tricycle generally used to carry a generator that lights up processions taken out from the Kapaleeshwarar Temple at night. Aware that the temple authorities would kick her out as she was suffering from mange, a skin disease, he took her in his car and freed her at his friend’s construction site. He also ensured she got regular medicines to cure the disease. But, as Cutie was getting used to her new environs, the guest workers who used to feed her left for their native places in special trains and Kuppuraj once again had a problem. “I had to show my identity card to the policemen every time I travelled from Mylapore to Avadi,” says the Mylapore resident. Then Cutie became pregnant. “She was not keeping well due to the skin disease. Many told me to sterilize her, but I didn’t want to do it. Since there was no one left at the construction site, I travelled regularly to the site with food for Cutie,” he said. Soon, Cutie gave birth to eight pups, but only three survived. Kuppuraj placed the mother and newborns inside a rescue cage. “Like many, I too never expected that the lockdown would last long. But Cutie and the pups needed care, so I visited them every day, which I still do,” says the man who has been taking care of dogs, particularly those suffering from mange, for more than two decades. All the care and affection showered by Kuppuraj, apart from the regular medication, have shown results and Cutie is improving. Her pups too are active. And, Kuppuraj continues to visit the family every day. “I am just back after visiting them. It has been a regular affair for me after work since the lockdown began in March-end. I am planning to bring them somewhere close to my house in Mylapore so that I can take care of them well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/from-mylapore-to-avadi-a-daily-trip-to-shower-a-mom-her-puppies-with-love/articleshow/77380244.cms||M T Saju
August 6, 2020||Cuttack||Behera Sahi in Cuttack reports 112 cases||Cuttack: The city has witnessed the highest single-day spike of 143 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours. Out of these, 112 were detected from a single slum, Behera Sahi, in Malgodown. The city’s Covid tally touched 1,325 on Wednesday. Behera Sahi was declared a containment zone on July 29. So far, 217 cases have been detected there over the past eight days. Fifty-seven of the cases were reported on August 3 alone. “Recently, 200 samples were collected from Behera Sahi for testing. Of them, 112 returned positive on Wednesday. All the cases are contacts of an earlier positive case,” said Cuttack Municipal Corporation. (CMC). Of the 112 cases detected in Behera Sahi on Wednesday, 62 are men. The slum has turned out to be a cause of concern as it adjoins the state’s biggest wholesale mandi of Malgodown. Most residents of the slum work in Malgodown as labours, trolley pullers, rickshaw pullers and auto drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/behera-sahi-in-cuttack-reports-112-cases/articleshow/77380173.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||SC to Centre: examine why insurers not reimbursing entire Covid treatment cost||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday took judicial notice of general complaints about insurance companies playing truant in reimbursing the full cost of Covid treatment and told the Union government to proactively look into the problem faced by citizens during the pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told solicitor general Tushar Mehta to "take care of the insurance companies" who are allegedly slashing the reimbursement amount due to Covid patients. It has been the general complaint that the cost of Covid-19 treatment has risen because of an increase in the number of consumable items - from PPEs to face shields - by doctors, nurses and health workers but the insurance companies were not reimbursing the billed amounts for consumables by hospitals. Mehta said that the Insurance Regulatory Authority has already issued strict instructions to all insurance companies that the entire cost of consumables has to be included in the Covid treatment. "The IRDA can be asked to ensure that no person seeking reimbursement o Covid treatment cost in hospitals is left high and dry," he said. The CJI-led bench said, "At the time of pandemic, the insurance companies cannot adopt a hands-off approach, especially when people are facing hardship." These remarks came during the hearing of PILs filed by advocate Sachin Jain and others who sought capping of the cost of Covid treatment at hospitals across India. Appearing for association of private hospitals, senior advocate Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi said that the PILs appear to be sponsored by insurance companies to cut down on their reimbursement outgo, given the large number of patients seeking a higher reimbursement. He said the Centre has issued a guideline on Covid treatment cost. "At present there are so many beds vacant in the dedicated Covid hospitals set up by the governments. One can understand that the hospitals will charge a lot when the number of beds is less than the requirement. The private hospitals are also hardpressed financially as the footfall of non-Covid patients is just 20% of the normal times." The bench said it "more or less agreed with the Centre's guidelines on Covid treatment cost". However, it suggested to Mehta to explore the possibility of categorising cities in different tiers so as to keep the cost of Covid treatment comparatively low in smaller towns. "Afterall, capacity to pay is important," the bench said. SC asked all counsel to give suggestions to improve the Centre's guideline to Mehta within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-lens-on-insurers-over-covid-claims/articleshow/77383525.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Bhoomi pujan of Ram temple symbolises second liberation day: Modi||Ayodhya: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday dedicated the historic ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya to the struggle and sacrifice of hundreds of kar sewaks, drawing a parallel to martyrs of India’s independence. Stopping short of calling Ayodhya’s tryst with history as the nation’s second liberation day, he said, “Today, the dream has come true. I offer my tributes to those who laid down their lives for the cause of temple like those who died for India’s freedom. Now, a grand temple would be built for Ram. The Janmabhoomi is finally free after centuries-old wait.” “Lord Ram will no longer stay in a makeshift temple. He will have a grand temple,” he said. The Prime Minister’s Ayodhya visit, his first after becoming prime minister, comes 10 months after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the temple at the once disputed site in Ayodhya. Modi also took the opportunity to attack the opposition for belying the existence of Lord Ram. “They were not successful in their attempts,” Modi said, in an apparent reference to the Congress affidavit in Supreme Court, challenging the existence of Ram. “Lord Ram is in our hearts and in our soul. Ram stood for truth and he’s complete and a source of light for crores of people,” Modi said, stressing that the god who’s revered by one and all is reflected in every tradition. “He was there in the bhajan of Mahatma Gandhi. Ram is relevant in various religions and regions of the country. Residents of several countries offer prayers to Ram. Indonesia which has the largest Muslim population has many Ramayanas. Ram is worshipped there. Even in Iran and China you would find mention of Ram,” he said. “The slogan of Jai Sri Ram is reverberating in the entire world. Ram Bhakts are rejoicing and feel proud to be part of the occasion. Many would be surprised and happy at the same time to be part of this moment,” he said. Modi said that when the Supreme Court delivered its judgment, there was maryada (discipline). Like people backed Gandhi during the freedom movement, this day would not have been possible without people’s support,” Modi said, stressing that shilaas (pillars) have become a source of energy. “The strength shown by people in the Ram temple movement is a subject of research,” he said. Modi said that a grand temple will pave way for development of Ayodhya. “Every area will progress. People from the whole world would come here,” he said, even as the Yogi Adityanath government in UP plans to roll out projects of Rs 500 crore soon. Reaching out to the downtrodden, Modi said, even Lord Ram provided shelter to the poor and downtrodden who came to him. “This temple will be an inspiration for one and all,” Modi said, adding maryada (principles) of lord Ram was equally relevant in current time of pandemic,” he said. Modi said the saying “bhay bin hoye na preet” was related to Lord Ram and is relevant to the country in present times. “The more we get stronger the more people would love us,” he said. Modi’s statement comes in backdrop of the recent Chinese aggression in Ladakh. “Ram will be a symbol of nationalism, faith and pledge,” the PM said, adding India was writing a golden script. “All corners of the country are ‘Ramamay’. Every heart is full of pride and joy. The temple is a symbol of diversity. The message of Ram should reach the world,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bhoomi-pujan-of-ram-temple-symbolises-second-liberation-day-modi/articleshow/77383097.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Chatbot part of city police’s revamped website for better online service delivery||Bhubaneswar: The commissionerate police on Wednesday redesigned its website (http://bhubaneswarcuttackpolice.gov.in) with the inclusion of several features for the smooth delivery of online services to the citizens. For the first time, police have added a chatbot to the portal. Chatbot is a computer programme that can hold a conversation with a person, usually over the internet. “In this case, it is meant to facilitate interaction between police and the citizens. Chatbot is part of artificial intelligence (AI), which enables the computer to generate answers to questions posed by people using some key words,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said. The police said the refurbished website was still in the testing stage. “We are trying to turn it into a platform primarily for delivering services to citizens online. We have integrated the website with Odisha Police’s citizen portal so that people can avail themselves of different services online,” Sarangi said. The police further said steps are being taken to make the website accessible to the differently abled people with a provision of audio-video content. “We will lay stress on social media interaction with users. The website has been made mobile compatible for the convenience of users. Adequate cyber security features have been added to it,” the commissioner said. Sources said the new website will have traffic-related details. Notably, the commissionerate police’s dedicated website (www.bhubaneswarcuttacktrafficpolice.in) has been lying defunct for the past two years. Former commissioner of police Y B Khurania had launched the portal on July 30, 2018, to sensitise motorists and commuters to road-safety rules.. The website had interesting features where users could test their knowledge of road-safety rules by participating in a quiz online. There were also plans to send a proposal to the home department to consider giving some incentives to those persons who would successfully clear the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/chatbot-part-of-city-polices-revamped-website-for-better-online-service-delivery/articleshow/77380186.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 6, 2020||Kochi||Man conducts headstand protest at Chellanam||Kochi: As the relay hunger strike seeking a permanent solution to sea erosion at Chellanam reached 281 days but yet to get the attention of the government, a 58-year-old man conducted the hunger strike on headstand posture on Monday. V T Sebastian, a resident of the coast and one of the patrons of the Chellanam Janakiya Vedi that leads the protest, conducted the strike at his house. He did an inversion posture of standing head down for 15 minutes continuously and resumed it after short breaks of 10 minutes from 10am to 4pm. Sebastian said that his protest is against the government’s neglect towards the pleas of the residents as the village is being taken by the sea. “On July 20, Chellanam witnessed it worst ever sea-flooding since 1965 and even those houses which were situated at more than 250m distance from the sea were flooded and damaged by the waves. We have been raising our voices in the form of letters and protest over the past 280 days seeking a permanent solution to our woes. But the government has done nothing except asking us to leave our houses and settle down somewhere else. My protest through headstand is a reply to the unscientific measures like geobags and geotubes by government,” he said. Sebastian said that he used to do headstand in his youth but had stopped later. For doing it again after more than 25 years, he has been practising it for the past few days. “I did not even drink water during the protest. It was difficult to stand like that for long, so I took short breaks in between. But I think living with the fear of getting killed by the sea is even more difficult,” Sebastian said. More than 500 families along the Chellanam coast have been affected by the frequent sea erosions over the past one decade and it has worsened over the past few years. Though they say that a strong seawall and breakwaters are the only solution the government had gone for geotube project which remain stalled for more than eight months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-conducts-headstand-protest-at-chellanam/articleshow/77380304.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid-19 toll 100-plus for third day, dip in infections in south||CHENNAI: For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 100-mark to a record 112. The victims included a four-day-old baby from Madurai. Among the deceased, five were brought dead to hospital and eight others had no comorbidities. TN’s overall Covid toll is now 4,461. On the positive side, the number of people getting discharged was above the 6,000-mark for the past two days. With 6,031 patients discharged on Wednesday, the state now has 54,184 active cases. The state reported 5,175 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 2,73,460. Chennai continued to report the most new cases (1,044) and deaths (25). Neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur together recorded 1,301 cases and 19 deaths. The number of new cases has halved in Coimbatore. The district reported 112 cases on Wednesday while it registered 228 cases on Tuesday. Commenting on the increasing death rate there, G Ramesh, deputy director of public health, Coimbatore, said they were trying to detect people with symptoms and comorbidities as early as possible. “We believe early detection and treatment will reduce mortality,” he said. Salem, which was reporting around 60-70 cases a day last week, had 159 cases. Health officials from the western district attributed the increase to delay in reconciliation of earlier positive cases. R Sadheesh, commissioner of Salem corporation, said they have increased the number of tests done a day from 300 to 1,500. “We have tested more than a lakh people in the contained areas,” he added. While Madurai reported 106 fresh cases, Infections in the southern districts continued to fall for the second day. Virudhunagar, which had seen more than 300 cases a day on an average for the past two weeks, reported only 67 new cases and no deaths. Tirunelveli too saw a drastic drop with 26 new cases, while Theni logged 278 new cases and seven deaths. Pudukottai and Trichy recorded 150 cases and 136 fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-toll-100-plus-for-3rd-day-dip-in-infections-in-south/articleshow/77380270.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC imposes Rs1 lakh cost on man seeking sister’s release||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court imposed a cost of Rs1 lakh on a brother who had filed a petition seeking release of his sister, who was arrested under charges of flesh trade, from the government shelter home. A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Avinash Gharote directed its registry to donate the amount to District Bar Association (DBA) here for helping needy lawyers struggling for survival due to Covid-19 lockdown and closure of courts. Government lawyer KL Dharmadhikari said the girl was an adult and could have sought release herself after being arrested in the flesh trade. He objected to the brother’s move to seek release of his sister, currently kept at women’s shelter home. Agreeing with the government pleader’s view, the judges clarified that there was no legal basis for the brother to file a petition for adult sister’s release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-imposes-rs1-lakh-cost-on-man-seeking-sisters-release/articleshow/77381965.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Armyman on border posting gets ‘virtual’ justice from MahaRERA||NAVI MUMBAI: Posted in a border district of Ferozepur in Punjab, seeking justice had become a difficult proposition for armyman Bijay Kumar Singh who was deprived of possession of a flat he had booked in Pune three years ago. But mandatory e-hearings during the Covid-19 pandemic enabled faster redressal of his complaint by the MahaRERA. Singh, an army subedar clerk, had approached MahaRERA after builder Hanumant Harpale allegedly sold the Rs 30 lakh flat he had booked in the Kala Gold project at Fursungi in 2017 to another buyer and demanded additional stamp duty and registration charges for a fresh agreement for the adjoining flat. MahaRERA had earlier dismissed Singh’s complaint as he could not present himself during hearings on three occasions. But it delivered justice to Singh last month via videoconferencing. “Technology has made it possible for the complainant to attend the hearing, while continuing duty as a soldier at the border,” MahaRERA member Vijay Satbir Singh said. In July 2017, Singh paid the builder Rs 20 lakh for the Rs 30-lakh flat and an agreement was executed. Singh alleged that the builder later sold the flat to another person for Rs 33.5 lakh and executed another agreement for the sale of an adjoining flat and promised possession on February 1, 2019. But he didn’t get the flat. Besides, Singh alleged, the builder demanded additional money, apart from the pending Rs 10 lakh. The builder, in his response, claimed that the flat number was wrongly mentioned in the agreement due to inadvertence and that dues were pending. MahaRERA, in its July 20 order, said the complainant needs to pay only the balance Rs 10 lakh and is not liable to pay extra towards stamp duty and registration for the second agreement as the mistake in the first one was the builder’s. It also ordered the builder to pay interest for the delayed possession from the agreed date of possession till the date of completion certificate for violating the provision of Section 18 of RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/armyman-on-border-posting-gets-virtual-justice-from-maharera/articleshow/77386172.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Armyman on border posting gets ‘virtual’ justice from MahaRERA||NAVI MUMBAI: Posted in a border district of Ferozepur in Punjab, seeking justice had become a difficult proposition for armyman Bijay Kumar Singh who was deprived of possession of a flat he had booked in Pune three years ago. But mandatory e-hearings during the Covid-19 pandemic enabled faster redressal of his complaint by the MahaRERA. Singh, an army subedar clerk, had approached MahaRERA after builder Hanumant Harpale allegedly sold the Rs 30 lakh flat he had booked in the Kala Gold project at Fursungi in 2017 to another buyer and demanded additional stamp duty and registration charges for a fresh agreement for the adjoining flat. MahaRERA had earlier dismissed Singh’s complaint as he could not present himself during hearings on three occasions. But it delivered justice to Singh last month via videoconferencing. “Technology has made it possible for the complainant to attend the hearing, while continuing duty as a soldier at the border,” MahaRERA member Vijay Satbir Singh said. In July 2017, Singh paid the builder Rs 20 lakh for the Rs 30-lakh flat and an agreement was executed. Singh alleged that the builder later sold the flat to another person for Rs 33.5 lakh and executed another agreement for the sale of an adjoining flat and promised possession on February 1, 2019. But he didn’t get the flat. Besides, Singh alleged, the builder demanded additional money, apart from the pending Rs 10 lakh. The builder, in his response, claimed that the flat number was wrongly mentioned in the agreement due to inadvertence and that dues were pending. MahaRERA, in its July 20 order, said the complainant needs to pay only the balance Rs 10 lakh and is not liable to pay extra towards stamp duty and registration for the second agreement as the mistake in the first one was the builder’s. It also ordered the builder to pay interest for the delayed possession from the agreed date of possession till the date of completion certificate for violating the provision of Section 18 of RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/armyman-on-border-posting-gets-virtual-justice-from-maharera/articleshow/77381959.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
August 6, 2020||Kochi||When city lost thattukadas to Covid, many people lost their livelihood too||Kochi: Till the outbreak of the pandemic, street food and ‘thattukadas’ were thriving in Ernakulam. These makeshift shops spread across the city were an important aspect of Kochi’s nightlife. But ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 and the following lockdown, many vendors had to shut down their business and look for other options to make a living. Even shops which are functioning now don’t get enough customers as people are not ready to eat from ‘thattukadas’ fearing risk of infection and also due to restrictions in working hours. Street vendors said revival of the street food industry will not happen any time soon. There were around 750 street food vendors in the city prior to the lockdown and more than 30% of them are not functioning now. Many shops which used to get daily evening business worth Rs.8,000 have not been getting even Rs.2,000 now. While most shops that functioned on wheeled and covered vending carts still remain shut, only those vendors who have food trucks are now seen functioning. The struggle to ensure mandatory social distancing has worsened now as the monsoon has strengthened making eating in the open difficult. “It has been four-and-a half-months since I closed my shop that functioned in a covered cart near St Albert’s College. Since the lockdown started, I could not do business. I used to cook food at home and sell them at the shop in the evenings. It has been our family’s sole livelihood. Two weeks back I had to mortgage my daughter’s golden chain so that we could meet our daily needs. I am planning to reopen the shop next week but the number of customers would be very low,” said V B Ibrahim, Work-from-home and increasing number of containment zones are other reasons for dip in business. Guest workers, who were major street food customers, leaving to their native states has also reduced the business significantly. Also, the deadline of 7pm for shops is a major issue as 90% of business in ‘thattukadas’ happens at night. Even those shops which sold snacks and tea on roadsides have been closed. Vendors who used to sell chat, samosa, baji etc., have vanished. A B Sabu, Kochi corporation councillor and state president of kerala vazhiyora vyapari thozhilali congress, said the street food industry will not revive until Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. "Ensuring social distancing and hand sanitization in these small eateries are very difficult and many of these vendors were fined up to Rs.10,000 by authorities as they failed to follow protocols. Hundreds who had relied on the business for a living have been affected," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/when-city-lost-thattukadas-to-covid-many-people-lost-their-livelihood-too/articleshow/77380350.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Jayakwadi storage reaches 54%, more than double of last year||AURANGABAD: The Jayakwadi major irrigation project, located around 45 km from the city, in Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district, on Wednesday had 54% of total live storage. The catchments areas of Nathsagar, the dam’s reservoir, have received around 533 mm rainfall since June. During the corresponding period last year, Nathsagar’s catchments had received 124 mm rainfall and the dam had live storage of 21% of its capacity, reveal the official records. Jayakwadi has also received inflows of around 500 mcum (17.6 TMC) during the current rainy season. A senior official of the state water resources department (WRD) on Wednesday said the Jayakwadi dam has sufficient water to meet the drinking water needs against its annual reservations from Aurangabad, among other usages. “With around two months of the rainy season still to go, coupled with chances of heavy rainfall during the withdrawal phase of the monsoon, the dam may get filled to its designed capacity. Also, the reservoir may get inflows from dams located upstream in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts,” he said. Besides addressing the drinking water needs, the Jayakwadi dam also offers water to industrial areas in Aurangabad and Jalna, which together draw around 75 MLD of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jayakwadi-storage-reaches-54-more-than-double-of-last-year/articleshow/77379045.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Shimla||Six arrested for gang-rape of minor in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Six persons have been arrested for allegedly gang-raping a minor girl in Kangra district. Though the incident took place on July 4, a police complaint was lodged August 3 after an accused sent the girl a video of the crime. Those arrested are in the age group of 19 to 42 years. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said the girl was out with a friend and on their way home when the accused surrounded them. He said the accused thrashed the girl’s friend, who fled from the spot, leaving her alone. The accused molested her and made a video of the incident. They also threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident. Ranjan said while the girl remained silent, the accused circulated the video on social media. When one of the accused sent her the video, the girl told her parents about it. The girl and her parents, approached the police with the complaint on August 3, he said. Based on the girl’s statement, an FIR has been registered under sections 376-D (gang-rape), 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He said the accused have been taken in police remand and further investigation are going on in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/6-arrested-for-alleged-gang-rape-of-minor/articleshow/77381975.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||Went to Ramjanmabhoomi to send out message that Muslims not against Ram mandir: Litigant Iqbal Ansari||Q: Your father Hashim Ansari spent his entire life fighting for the Babri mosque. How did you feel after attending the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple? A: Yes, my father fought for Babri Masjid and after his death I took over his mantle and was the litigant in the Ayodhya title suit. We were fighting a legal battle. After the Supreme Court verdict, it is our duty to accept the judgment in its spirit. I went to Ramjanmabhoomi to send out a message that Muslims are not against Ram temple. Q: How do you see the apex court verdict in context of Muslims? A: The Supreme Court verdict clearly states Muslims did not demolish a temple to build the mosque. Our Hindu brothers are with us and we are with them in their moment of joy. Q: What did you tell Prime Minister Modi? A: I wanted to present him a Ram Charitra Manas, but due to the Covid pandemic, he did not accept gifts. We exchanged greetings. The general secretary of Ram Mandir Trust, Champat Rai, accepted the book on his behalf. Q: What’s there for Muslims post-Ram Temple? A: Majority Hindus are very tolerant. Ram is their belief and if we respect their faith. There will be no conflict between the two communities after the temple comes up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/went-to-ramjanmabhoomi-to-send-out-message-that-muslims-not-against-ram-mandir-litigant-iqbal-ansari/articleshow/77383106.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 6, 2020||Kochi||A pandemic turns lives of daily wagers topsy turvy||Kochi: As the number of daily trips reduced due to the pandemic, K Baiju, a taxi-driver by profession, has now been trying to earn by selling ‘uiyyappam’ and other snacks to motorists. Narayanan, a 56-year-old autorickshaw driver in Palarivattom, has transformed his vehicle into a mobile tea stall. He now sells tea and snacks after parking the vehicle on roadsides. In the case of Mohammed Shihab, a plumber in Fort Kochi, selling home-grown lettuce and bitter gourd on the roadside is his only option to win bread for his family. A stroll through the city would bring in front of us stories of hundreds of Baijus and Shihabs and how life has changed for worse due to Covid-19 and related restrictions. Many self-employed people whose livelihoods were affected by the lockdown are now relying on small street vending business. These people have been trying their luck by setting up roadside stalls and using their vehicles as mobile shops to sell essential commodities. Most of them sell fishes, homegrown vegetables, dosa batter, fried chips etc., to make a living. “Since the implementation of the lockdown, construction sector has taken a beating leaving people like me to starve. So I started making banana and jackfruit chips at home and sell it along the highway. I now sell around 50 packets a day and it helps me to keep my family running,” said Ajith Kumar, who was a mason. According to A B Sabu, state president of Kerala vazhiyora vyapari thozhilali congress, nearly 1,000 people have entered into street vending business since the lockdown started. “Most of these people are new to street vending business and they have no other option. Many people have even bought old vehicles to use them as mobile shops to sell products like coconut, vegetables, eggs and fish. However, the increase in the number of street vendors who sell such essential commodities along roadsides has affected the business in traditional shops,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-pandemic-turns-lives-of-daily-wagers-topsy-turvy/articleshow/77380363.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Sahil Syed booked in one more fraud case||Nagpur: Another case of fraud was registered against Sahil Syed at Nandanvan police station following a court order. Sahil is currently in jail with six cases registered against him so far. Police said Shyamrao Rargode, a resident of Nandanvan, owns a plot of land worth Rs1 crore in Ramna Maroti area. A man named Raghuveer Sharma allegedly got the plot registered in his own name through forged documents. Sharma then sold the plot to Sahil. Upon learning about this, Shyamrao’s son Avinash lodged a complaint with Nandanvan police. Police could not find Raghuveer Sharma during the investigation. The police have filed a charge sheet in the case. Meanwhile, Avinash made an application in court seeking re-investigation in the case. The court directed Nandanvan police to re-investigate the matter. Police launched an investigation, where it came to light that Sahil had forged a no-objection certificate from the Industrial Employees Housing Society and sold the plot to a man named Parvez. After that Nandanvan police booked Sahil. Meanwhile, Sahil’s accomplice Nilima Jaiswal alias Tiwari was arrested on Wednesday by the crime branch in the Alexis Hospital case. She will be produced in court on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sahil-syed-booked-in-one-more-fraud-case/articleshow/77381989.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Lucknow||1st PM to visit Janmabhoomi, Modi scripts history with temple foundation||Lucknow: It was tryst with history for Narendra Modi on Wednesday as he became the first prime minister to visit and offers prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi site. Prior to him, late PM Rajiv Gandhi had visited Ayodhya but had skipped going to Ramjanmabhoomi. Dressed in traditional dhoti-kurta, Modi’s fleet of three choppers from Lucknow landed at Saket Degree College in Ayodhya around 11.30am. He was received by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the two leaders then headed to the Hanumangarhi temple where the PM offered prayers and stayed for 10 minutes. Modi was also gifted a headgear by the chief priest of the temple. The Prime Minister then headed to the makeshift temple of Ram Lalla Virajman on the Janmabhoomi complex and did a ‘shashtang pranaam’ (bowing in reverence) before the lord’s idol. Modi performed a short puja and then drove down to the main RJB site where bhoomi pujan was to be done. Just before entering the main site, PM Modi planted a sapling of the Parijaat tree, which is revered in the ancient scriptures. Sporting a face mask as part of Corona protocol, Modi sat with folded hands and performed the bhoomi pujan rituals. The auspicious moment came at 12.45pm when Modi placed the first brick for the Ram temple amid chants of vedic mantras by 21 priests. The air was filled with chants of Jai Shri Ram as leaders greeted each other. When Modi placed the first brick, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat clapped in appreciation. It was now time for unveiling the foundation stone to kick start the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The foundation stone of the temple gave credit to PM Modi, Mohan Bhagwat, who was the special guest, besides CM Yogi Adityanath, Governor Anandiben Patel and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Modi’s visit to Ayodhya came a day after the trust unveiled the picture of the proposed Ram temple. The photograph was also tweeted by the Prime Minister Office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1st-pm-to-visit-janmabhoomi-modi-scripts-history-with-temple-foundation/articleshow/77383112.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Vadodara||Manager cheated of Rs 8.5 lakh in Gujarat||VADODARA: A marketing manager living on Ajwa Road was cheated of Rs 8.5 lakh by his distant relatives and their partner by promising to start a business at his farm in Dabhoi. The complainant Majid Hussain Sindhi told police that his distant aunt Mehrunisa Baluchi, her husband Nisar Ahmed Baluchi, daughter Nasreen Baluchi and their partner Neeraj Chauhan had talked about starting prawn farm and cattle rearing business at his farm in January last year. Since Sindhi found it attractive, he agreed. As Sindhi did not have initial investment amount, the accused asked him to take a loan and they promised to pay the instalments until the business starts making profit. Sindhi took a personal loan of Rs 6 lakh from a private bank and later borrowed Rs 2.5 lakh from his friends to pay the entire amount to pay the accused. Nasreen then asked Sindhi to pay the first two instalments and she will adjust the payment later to which Sindhi agreed. The business did not start and Sindhi was not paid any instalments for his loan until June. A few weeks later Sindhi learnt that they all had conned several people in Vadodara with similar promises. When Sindhi threatened them to approach police, they did not pay any heed and did not return the money. Sindhi waited until recently and then lodged a complaint at Bapod police station on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/manager-cheated-of-rs-8-5-lakh/articleshow/77380102.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||No interference by courts if transfer orders passed for administrative exigencies: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that no interference should be done by the courts in the transfer orders passed by any authority in the interest of administrative exigencies. “The transfer orders cannot be interfered with by the courts, as a matter of routine, as though they are appellate authorities. No interference should be done with orders passed in the interest of administrative exigencies. The only exception is if there is a violation of a statutory provision or a patent mala fide exercise of administrative authority. The position in this regard has been settled and there is no doubt in it,” the HC has held. HC’s Justice Sudhir Mittal has passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Sandeep Kumar, an ex-servicemen presently working as a clerk at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (CCSHAU), Hisar. Kumar had challenged the transfer order dated May 20 under which he was shifted from Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Bhiwani to Hisar university campus. After serving the Navy for around 17 years, the petitioner had joined Hisar agriculture university as clerk in November 2019. In December 2019, he had submitted a request for his transfer from Hisar to KVK, Bhiwani, on compassionate grounds citing the health condition of his ailing mother. His request was considered and on January 10, he was transferred to Bhiwani against a vacant post. However, within four months, he was sent back to Hisar and a female employee was posted in Bhiwani. Aggrieved, he had approached the HC arguing that his re-transfer to Hisar after four months was unreasonable. While contesting the petition, the female employee argued that she had to travel to Hisar on a daily basis, but on account of a fracture in the backbone, her movement had become extremely difficult. She claimed that the university authorities shifted her only after realising that her case had greater merit. “Admittedly, the woman employee has suffered a fracture of her spine in February 2020. It has not been disputed that she resides in Bhiwani and that she has to commute daily to Hisar. Under the circumstances, she cannot be expected to transfer to Hisar and expediency requires that she should remain at Bhiwani,” ordered the HC while dismissing the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-interference-by-courts-if-transfer-orders-passed-for-administrative-exigencies-hc/articleshow/77381991.cms||Ajay Sura
August 6, 2020||Kochi||District admin to complete more works under Op Breakthrough||Kochi: In the wake of waterlogging continuing in several parts of the city, the district administration is planning to carry out more works under Operation Breakthrough. As per the plan, at least half a dozen projects will also have to be done in the city so as to reduce waterlogging. The waterlogging issue in the areas like Ernakulam Junction railway station, KSRTC bus station, Karikkamuri and Kammattipadam can be addressed only if Mullassery canal is renovated. A few years ago, corporation authorities had implemented a project where the bed of the canal was raised by around 1.5m by concreting it. This reduced water carrying capacity of the canal to a great extent. Now, the concrete portion on the bed should be removed so as to bring back the original depth of the canal. Removal of silt from Thevara-Perandoor canal and clearing of silt from the canal mouth at Thevara end is another project suggested. This will help address waterlogging in areas like P and T Colony, Udaya Colony and Panampilly Nagar. There are many canals which are supposed to drain out water from many canals to the backwaters in the Marine Drive area. But the canals are not opened directly to the backwaters. One of the link canals near High Court Junction, which now ends in the backwaters after taking many diversions, is opened directly to the backwaters crossing Shanmugham Road. It will help the smooth flow of water. There are more than half a dozen of such small canals or drains along the High Court-Ernakulathappan temple stretch. According to some of the officials associated with Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML), the linking of these canals to backwaters can be undertaken by the agency. The CSML is carrying out the work on the drainage on Abraham Madamackal Road in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-admin-to-complete-more-works-under-op-breakthrough/articleshow/77380394.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Another Central Jail inmate falls, dies||Nagpur: In second accidental death in as many months in Central Jail, a 31-year-old prisoner died as he suffered injuries after slipping on the floor while carrying a grain sack. According to police, the deceased Dinesh Charpe, a resident of Ganesh Nagar (Gittikhadan), was serving eight-year imprisonment. He suffered severe head injuries after the fall and was rushed to GMCH where he died on Wednesday at 7am. Dhantoli police have registered a case of accidental death and probing further. In July, a Central Jail inmate Yadav had died after he slipped on bathroom floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-central-jail-inmate-falls-dies/articleshow/77381995.cms||---
August 6, 2020||India||HC notices to Centre, J&K on 100% job quota for domiciles||SRINAGAR: The J&K HC on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre and the Union Territory administration on a petition challenging the legal validity of 100% reservation of government jobs for permanent residents, including those who have recently acquired domicile certificates. Admitting the petition, the single-judge bench of Justice Tashi Rabstan gave the respondents four weeks to file their replies on the contention that Section 5A of the amended Jammu & Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act of 2010 contradicts Article 16(3) of the Constitution, which guarantees equal opportunity in employment to all citizens. The petitioners — Ladakh lawyer Najmul Huda and Haryana residents Nishant Khatri and Sachin Miglani — had first approached the SC, but were told on July 15 that any grievance about job reservation in J&K should be heard by the HC there before exploring any further legal recourse. In its March 31 executive order on 100% reservation in public employment for anyone domiciled in UT of J&K, MHA said the rule would be applicable to anyone who has stayed in Valley for over 15 years or cleared Class 10 and 12 exams from a local institution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-notices-to-centre-jk-on-100-job-quota-for-domiciles/articleshow/77383529.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Trichy||78% of Trichy’s containment zones have less than five Covid-19 cases||Trichy: As a complete lockdown is not possible in the near future, Trichy Corporation has intensified the number of containment zones. Around 78% of the active containment zones in the city have less than five Covid-19 positive cases, while the city accounts for 82% of the total containment zones in the district.The corporation has established 14 containment zones in several parts of the city that have reported even less than five cases. Walaja Road, Kavibharathi Nagar and Saveriyar Koil Street in Ponmalai that reported only two positive cases have become containment zones. The civic body feels that close-packed vicinities may become hotspots without stringent measures. LIC Colony near KK Nagar, Ganapathipuram in Ariyamangalam and Nawabthottam in K Abishekapuram have a containment zone each, the vicinities have reported only three positive cases each recently. Kajamalai RPF training centre in Trichy city is the only containment zone that has more than 10 positive cases. The entire district has 22 containment zones as on August 3. Trichy Corporation alone has 18 active containment zones.“We are establishing containment zones at the locations wherever necessary to make people fall in line. The mass movements of people from areas that have positive cases are contained to reduce the disease spread,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. In rural areas, containment zones are established at Puthanatham, Ponampatti and Ootathur. Rural Trichy has 44 positive cases in active containment zones, while Trichy city has 75 positive cases in 18 active containment zones. Trichy Corporation has deputed 44 sanitary teams to oversee the disinfection measures in the active containment zones, while there are 19 teams in the rural areas to monitor the containment measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/78-of-trichys-containment-zones-have-less-than-five-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77382000.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur registers 702 cases||Kolhapur: A total of 702 Covid-19 cases — highest one-day tally — were reported across Kolhapur district on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive patients to 8,416. The death toll also increased to 229 as 12 people succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday. Of the 702 cases, the maximum (188) were reported from Kolhapur city. The district’s count of active patients is currently at 4,576. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai has ordered registration of FIR against doctors for negligence while treating Covid-19 patients. 278 cases in Sangli Sangli district reported 278 cases on Wednesday along with six deaths. The total number of cases in the district has now reached to 3,750 while 1,919 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhari has informed the citizens that there is no shortage of oxygen in any of the public and private hospitals. “The oxygen is immediately being made available by the suppliers and therefore there is no need to panic,” he said. “A help desk will be set up at the hospitals for the relatives to know about the well-being of the patients. The relatives can also complain about the bills issued for the treatment by private hospitals to the help desk. More number of private hospitals from the rural parts of the district will be acquired soon for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” Chaudhari said. Solapur reports 49 cases Solapur city reported 49 Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The total number of Covid cases in the city has now reached to 5,239 along with 369 deaths. Currently 1,417 patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-registers-702-cases/articleshow/77379124.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||UHBVN officials, Chandigarh-based firm booked for Rs 6 crore fraud||YAMUNANAGAR: Yamunanagar police on Wednesday booked officials of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and a Chandigarh-based firm for allegedly causing a loss of Rs 6.09 crore to the electricity department. The case was registered on the complaint of Sandeep Pahuja, sub-divisional officer (construction) of UHBVN in Yamunanagar. In his complaint, the SDO said, “As per a work order dated August 20, 2014, a Chandigarh-based firm Arvinda Electrical was assigned the task to supply and erect material for the construction of new 11KV lines/feeders, including 20 sqmm aluminum conductor steel reinforced (ACSR) cable. The firm was also assigned to remove old cables and replace them with new 80 sqmm ACSR. The tenure date of the work was kept till May 19, 2015.” “But after the verification of the work, it came to light that the firm only partially completed work on 19 out of 33 feeders. The firm under a conspiracy took payment of about Rs 10.16 crore from UHBVN. However, as per the work done, the actual amount to be paid was lesser and the firm took extra payment of about Rs 6.09 crore,” the SDO claimed. “The role of then junior engineer (construction) Satish Kumar; Balwan Singh, SDO (construction) Yamunanagar; K S Bhoria and SK Makkar, executive engineers (construction) Karnal; and divisional accountant Nafe Singh was probed. These officers/employees fraudulently used their office status by conniving with the firm,” the officer said. A case has been registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 417 (punishment for cheating), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 476 (counterfeiting device or mark) of the IPC and 8 (taking gratification, in order, by corrupt or illegal means, to influence public servant) and 9 ( taking gratification, for exercise of personal influence with public servant) of the PC Act at Gandhi Nagar police station in Yamunanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uhbvn-officials-chandigarh-firm-booked-for-rs-6cr-fraud/articleshow/77382030.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plasma therapy no magic bullet, say AIIMS doctors||NEW DELHI: Initial findings from the trials at AIIMS to assess the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients have arrived. It shows that the therapy does not reduce the risk of death due to the infection by the novel coronavirus. The institute completed a randomised control trial to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy recently with two groups of 15 Covid-19 patients each.  Read the whole story on TOI+ Why plasma therapy is no magic bulletWatch Delhi: Plasma therapy no magic bullet for Covid, say AIIMS doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plasma-therapy-no-magic-bullet-say-aiims-doctors/articleshow/77382041.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||hooch tragedy: 2 SITs set up to fast track probe in all 5 FIRs||Chandigarh: Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Wednesday ordered constitution of two special investigation teams (SITs) to fast-track probe in all five cases registered in the hooch tragedy. ADGP law and order Ishwar Singh will supervise both the SIT investigations. Three FIRs have been registered in Tarn Taran, one each in Amritsar (rural) and Batala. SP-level officers have been nominated as investigating officers (IOs) for these cases to ensure comprehensive probe. These IOs would file final reports in the concerned courts under their own signatures. DIG Ferozepur range Hardial Singh Mann will head the SIT for investigating FIRs registered in Tarn Taran, IG border range Amritsar Surinder Pal Singh Parmar would head the SIT probing FIRs in Amritsar and Batala. The Taran Taran SIT would also have SSP Tarn Taran Dhruman Nimbale along with SP (investigation) Tarn Taran Jagjit Singh Walia, who has been nominated as IO. The second SIT would have SSP Amritsar (rural) Dhruv Dahiya and SP investigation Amritsar (rural) Gaurav Toora as IO for FIR registered at police station Tarsikka. SSP Batala Rachpal Singh and SP investigation Batala Tejbir Singh as IO in FIR registered at police station Batala city. The head of both the SITs has been authorised to seek assistance of any officer or wing or unit of the state police, or any department of the Punjab government for ensuring proper recording of evidence and making out a foolproof case to secure conviction of the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-2-sits-set-up-to-fast-track-probe-in-all-5-firs/articleshow/77382040.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht jathedar skips Ayodhya event||AMRITSAR: The acting jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh chose not to attend the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned two places pivotal to Sikh religion, Amritsar and Patna Sahib, as well as about Gobind Ramayan written by Sikh’s 10th master Guru Gobind Singh in his speech. Former jathedar of Takht Patna Sahib, Giani Iqbal Singh performed ardas during the bhog of akhand path at Ayodhya’s Gurdwara Brahamkund Sahib to express gratitude for the construction of the temple. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust had extended invitation to the Akal Takht jathedar to attend the ‘bhoomi pujan’ and the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat had invited him to attend the bhog at the gurdwara. In his speech, Modi said, “From Somnath to Kashi Vishwanath, from BodhGaya to Sarnath, from Amritsar to Patna Sahib, from Lakshadweep to Leh, the entire of India is Ram Maya.” Remembering Guru Gobind Singh, the PM said, “There is Kamban Ramayana in Tamil, Kumudendu Ramayana in Tamil, Oriya, Kannada. If we go to Kashmir, there is Ramavatarcharit, Ramcharitam in Malayalam, Krittivasi Ramayana in Bengali, Guru Gobind Singh himself wrote Gobind Ramayana.” When TOI tried to contact Giani Harpreet Singh on Wednesday, his personal assistant Jaswinder Singh picked up his phone and said the jathedar was in a meeting. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), an alliance partner of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab also maintained silence about the jathedar skipping the bhoomi pujan ceremony. Even former Punjab BJP president and sitting Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik refused to comment. According to sources, SAD (Badal) didn’t want the Akal Takht jathedar to attend the ceremony fearing further erosion of its panthic image and vote bank. Despite repeated attempts, SAD (Badal) spokesperson Daljeet Cheema could not be contacted as his mobile phone was switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/akal-takht-jathedar-skips-ayodhya-event/articleshow/77382745.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai lawyer forged docus to help gangster||Madurai: Sivagama Sundari, the Madurai-based lawyer, who was arrested for forging the identity papers for Sri Lankan underworld kingpin Angoda Lokka, had shifted three houses in a span of one year. Sundari used one of these addresses to get Aadhaar card for Lokka. All the three houses are located within 1km radius in Railar Nagar near Koodal Pudur on the outskirts of Madurai. Although, police suspect that Lokka could have stayed with her in Railar Nagar, neighbours said they did not see any suspicious movement. It is suspected that she used a copy of the ration card Lakshmi, landlady of one of the houses, to get the Aadhaar card by incriminating documents. Lakshmi told TOI that Sundari had asked her for the ration card to get a cooking gas connection and she did not suspect anything. “I was shocked to find out that the Aadhaar card of a suspected don carried my address,” Lakshmi said. Sources said that Sundari had helped in cremating the purported dead body of Lokka at Thathaneri crematorium. Three people, including Sundari have been arrested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-lawyer-forged-docus-to-help-gangster/articleshow/77382746.cms||V Devanathan
August 6, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on plea to stop sand quarrying in delta region||Madurai: The Thanjavur district collector has been directed to file a status report on a plea which sought the government not to carry-out sand quarrying operations in the delta region as notified under the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam of the Madras high court further directed that the report should also contain information as to whether the quarried sand is used for government construction works or sold to private persons. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by V Jeevakumar, a resident of Budalur taluk in the district. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the collector in his proceedings had granted permission to the public works department (PWD) officials to operate new sand quarries at the water flowing area in around 24 hectares at Kollidam river at Thiruchennampoondi at Budalur taluk. He stated that granting permission for the quarry is in contravention to the Act. The judges observed that when the case was listed for admission during the previous hearing, the court put up a query as to whether the rules have been framed and notified for the Act. The additional advocate general (AAG), K Chellapandian submitted that draft rules are under circulation and likely to be notified soon. Denying the facts in the petition, the AAG submitted that permission was granted for only 600m stretch and the operations are being monitored by the officials.Taking cognizance of the submissions, the judges directed the collector to file a status report in this regard. The case was adjourned to September 2 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-plea-to-stop-sand-quarrying-in-delta-region/articleshow/77382743.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Shimla||BJP passed temple resolution for first time in Himachal Pradesh’s Palampur in 1989||SHIMLA: Laying of the foundation stone of Ram temple in Ayodhya has left BJP leaders of Himachal Pradesh elated as 31 years back BJP’s national leadership had passed a resolution for the first time to construct Ram temple during its national executive meeting held at Palampur town of Kangra district in 1989. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that it was a monumental occasion. BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal said that from the very beginning in 1980, the BJP had made its goal to build a grand temple at Ayodhya and the party was committed to constructing the temple in a constitutional manner from the beginning. He said that in 1989, BJP’s national executive meeting was held at Rotary Bhavan in Palampur. The party passed the resolution of Ram temple for the first time here under the leadership of L K Advani and the rath yatra was started from Somnath in Gujarat on September 25, 1990. Senior BJP leader and chairman of Himfed Ganesh Dutt said that in 1992, he was actively associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement as the convener of Shila Pujan and was the head of the first batch of 56 karsevaks from Shimla in 1992. He said that they were all arrested and imprisoned very close to a place in Ayodhya. “Now is the time that the dream has come true for many who had sacrificed their live for this wonderful cause,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-bjp-leaders-elated-over-laying-of-ram-temple-stone/articleshow/77382747.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Beds for Covid-19 patients increased to 1.2 lakh, says health secretary||TUTICORIN: Stating that the number of beds to treat Covid-19 patients in the state has been increased to 1.2 lakh from 75,000 a few weeks ago, health secretary J Radhakrishnan has said that efforts are under way to increase the number further and also those with oxygen support. He was interacting with reporters at Tuticorin on Wednesday after inspecting Covid-19 treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital and reviewing the situation in the district. “We have more than 3,500 ventilators. But people need oxygen support,” he said. “We have asked all taluk and non-taluk hospitals with separate buildings that have 50 or more beds to be equipped with oxygen supported beds,” he said. They have been instructed to be completed on a war-footing in 45 days. About Rs 75 crore from the Rs 150 crore allotted for capacity building in government healthcare facilities has been utilised, he said. To a question on private hospitals fleecing Covid-19 patients, he said action has been taken against five hospitals and some of them have refunded. Three days ago, Covid-19 treatment licence issued to a private hospital at Kilpauk in Chennai was suspended indefinitely. Complaints of fleecing can be reported on the helpline number ‘104’ or through the respective joint director of health services. The health secretary also warned stringent action against government as well as private hospitals that show negligence in disposing of used PPE kits. He added that complaints of neighbouring states indulging in such acts have also risen. Respective district collectors should monitor that such biomedical wastes and properly disposed through TNPCB-approved agencies. Lauding the district for bringing down the number of cases from a spike a few days ago, he appreciated the low death rate of 0.7% against the state average of 1.6%. He observed that there is a lack of compliance on the part of rural populace in wearing masks. The spread could be curtailed further if 90% of them wear masks. Later, talking to reporters in Tirunelveli, he said that the number of cases in the state has dropped to 5,000 a day from 7,000 a few days ago, which is a good sign. A total of 28 lakh RT-PCR tests have been conducted in the state so far, he added. “About 60,000 tests are conducted every day now and officials have been asked to increase tests to identify patients at the earliest,” Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beds-for-covid-19-patients-increased-to-1-2-lakh-says-health-secy/articleshow/77382748.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||Temples lit ghee lamps, dressed deities as Lord Ram to mark Ayodhya event in Goa||PANAJI: Hundreds of lamps lit up the premises of several prominent temples across Goa all through Wednesday to celebrate the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Shree Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Though the temples have still not opened to devotees due to the pandemic, their managing committees ensured that the event in Ayodhya did not go unmarked. Most temples arranged the lamps to spell out ‘Shree Ram’. In Shiroda, the famed Shree Kamaxi Temple dressed the deity in the form of Lord Ram. “We did ‘Ram Alankar’ or dressed Shree Kamaxi as Shree Ram. The deity is usually seated, but she was dressed to appear to be in standing position. And she was holding a bow and arrow in her hands like Lord Ram. In the ‘garbh kudi’ (sanctum sanctorum), a large ghee lamp was lit all through the day. Several lamps have also been lit in the temple premises. A special saptashatti paat and shahasra kumkumarchan was also held on this day,” said president of Shree Kamaxi Saunsthan managing committee Umesh Kamat Budkule. The managing committee said that the lamps will light up the premises for 24 hours “as a mark of support for the historic event in Ayodhya”. Shree Mahalaxmi Temple, Panaji, Shree Damodar Temple, Zambaulim, Shree Laxmi Narcinva Temple, Veling, Shree Mahalassa Narayani Temple, Mardol, Shree Shantadurga Temple, Kavlem and Shree Ramnath Temple, Ramnathi were the other centuries-old temples in Goa that lit up their premises with ghee lamps. Some devotees expressed regret at not being able to celebrate the day the way they wanted due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temples-lit-ghee-lamps-dressed-deities-as-lord-ram-to-mark-ayodhya-event/articleshow/77382087.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Rajkot||Medical interns from abroad shine as nCov warriors||Rajkot: While these freshers had come here to learn the ropes of their trade, Covid-19 threw seven interns who had completed medical studies abroad and joined 12 months internship in Rajkot civil hospital in March, totally into the mayhem of the pandemic. These freshers who have studied from the Philippines, Russia and Ukraine require to complete one year internship before they can start practice as medical professionals in India. These seven are part of total 18 interns serving in the civil hospital under senior doctors. They joined when the spread of Covid-19 was in its initial stage in March and are now fighting it as frontline warriors when the contagion is at its peak. Leader of the team of intern doctors who studied medicine in Philippines, Dr Drashti Seta said, “We are helping senior doctors right from the admission of Covid patients till they recover and are discharged. I am happy that I am with my family supporting them in this period of crisis and also serving my country.” Along with her, Dr Mittal Sanghani, Dr Jalpa Dodiya, Dr Hitesh Parekh, Dr Aashish Modha and Dr Pratik Ganatra too joined an interns in Rajkot civil hospital in March. “Our parents are worried because we are working in Covid ward but I think this is the best time to serve the society. We are also provided psychological counselling by the hospital as we continue working with Covid patients,” Dr Seta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/medical-interns-from-abroad-shine-as-ncov-warriors/articleshow/77379180.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Webinar triggers debate as Sikh scholars object to limiting guru to boundaries||Patiala: A webinar on the contribution of Guru Tegh Bahadur to Indian nation, organized by Punjabi University on Wednesday, became a hot topic of discussion as some Sikh scholars objected to drawing boundaries while studying the life of the ninth Sikh guru. The event was addressed by the Punjab information commissioner, some scholars from different religions and university vice-chancellor. However, some Sikh scholars said the ninth Sikh guru should not be looked from the prism of national boundaries as he attained martyrdom while protecting human rights. Former IAS Gurtej Singh said, “It was guru’s martyrdom and not sacrifice. The guru is not just about one country, rather for humanity and universal goodness. The university has set low standards by limiting Guru Tegh Bahadur to the Indian nation. It should not confuse people.” Another Sikh Scholar Bhai Ashok Singh Baghdia said Guru Tegh Bahadur protected human rights and had given a message to the entire world. He said the guru cannot be limited to any boundary of a country. Head of Shri Guru Granth Sahib studies department Prof Sarbjinder Singh, who was part of the webinar, said Sikh religion do not accept monochromatic colour state. “Our gurus had always a firm belief in multicolour shades of our country where flowers of all kinds symbolising all religions flourish.” University VC Prof B S Ghuman said, “The sacrifice and teachings of our great guru forms the basis of national integration of our country. Guru Tegh Bahadur set an example by fighting for religious freedom and respecting all religions.” Pawan Kumar Singla, information commissioner, Punjab said, “The guru sahib worked for the downtrodden sections of the society. By sacrificing himself for getting religious freedom for the Hindus, the guru has set an example in the field of human rights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/webinar-triggers-debate-as-sikh-scholars-object-to-limiting-guru-to-boundaries/articleshow/77382083.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government think-tank to devise ways to boost tax revenue||NEW DELHI: Facing problems in funding development and welfare projects, Delhi government has asked Dialogue & Development Commission (DDC) to conduct a detailed study on how to increase tax revenue without putting additional burden on traders and people. The government’s think-tank has to present its findings within two months. Delhi’s tax revenue to GSDP ratio has been declining slowly since 2009 due to lower collection than estimated. This has resulted in the government facing a challenge in spending on infrastructure and planning and funding welfare projects. This year, with the economy battered by the novel coronavirus pandemic, tax collection has been hit hard. The government received around Rs 2,015 crore less tax compared with last year.While tax collection in 2019 was Rs 5,792 crore from January to March, this year it was only Rs 3,777 crore. Deputy CM and finance minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday told DDC there was scope for improving tax revenue to GSDP ratio by improving the revenue base. He directed the commission to suggest short and long-term measures to improve the capital’s revenue base. DDC was also asked to consult experts and relevant organisations working in public finance to carry out the study “so as to present a holistic analysis of the current situation and improvement measures that hold the maximum potential”. “The pandemic has put a huge strain on revenue and, therefore, all-out efforts need to be made towards revenue augmentation so that the government is able to undertake necessary works and programmes for the welfare of people,” Sisodia stated. While Delhi has one of the highest per capita incomes in the country, it holds the 19th position in terms of tax revenue to GSDP ratio. While the ratio was 6.2% in 2009-10, it reduced to 5.4% in 2014-15 and 4.7% in 2018-19. In comparison, the average ratio for all states was 5.9% in 2009-10, which increased to 6.3% in 2014-15 and 6.7% in 2018-19. The ratio in 2019-20 for Uttar Pradesh was 9.1%, Kerala 7.7%, Rajasthan 7.2%, Maharashtra 7.1% and Andhra Pradesh 7%. Jasmine Shah, DDC vice-chairperson, said that Delhi government’s early call for opening the economy and a robust healthcare strategy had set the right conditions for economic revival. “DDC will conduct a rigorous study by involving field experts to improve the revenue base. We are confident that with time and a proper strategy we will be able to overcome the revenue deficit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-think-tank-to-devise-ways-to-boost-tax-revenue/articleshow/77382089.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai sees 106 cases, baby among 22 dead||Madurai/Trichy: Madurai’s happiness at having reported less than 50 cases after 47 days on Tuesday was short lived as the number of new Covid-19 cases went up to 106 on Wednesday. The 22 deaths in the southern region on the day included a four-day-old baby which was admitted on July 29. The baby died on Sunday, making it the youngest coronavirus victim in the state. The central region recorded a mild increase with 544 new cases on Wednesday taking its total to 15,841, and 11 deaths. The southern districts had 15,040 active cases and central districts 4,459. Theni reported seven deaths followed by Madurai (6), Sivaganga and Tirunelveli (three each), Dindigul (2) and Tuticorin (1). Deaths in the southern districts have climbed to 859 now. On the eve of the chief minister’s visit to the southern districts to review the Covid-19 situation and preparedness, the region recorded 1,118 new cases on Wednesday. The day’s tally is the lowest single-day addition of cases in the region since July 12. The 106 who tested positive in Madurai were out of 3,914 samples tested the previous day. Responding to the sensational dip in cases to 40 on Tuesday, district collector Dr T G Vinay ruled out any malfunctioning of testing kits. Drastic fluctuations were seen in other districts too. Virudhunagar reported only 67 fresh cases on Wednesday and no deaths though it had consistently reported more than 300 cases a day from July 21, including 577 on July 28. Tirunelveli reported only 26 cases compared to 155 on Tuesday, with three deaths. However, there were discrepancies between the figures in the state bulletin and the those given by the district administration. On Tuesday, Tirunelveli district reported 147 new cases while the bulletin in the evening said 155. On Wednesday, the district report said 177 but the state bulletin said 26. Theni reported 278 new cases taking the district total to 6,539. Kanyakumari reported 175 new cases, Tuticorin 173, Tenkasi 121, Dindigul 71, Sivaganga 69 and Ramanathapuram 32. In the central region, Pudukottai and Trichy recorded 150 and 136 fresh cases respectively on Wednesday. The region had seen a decline from 564 fresh cases on August 1 to 381 on August 5 gradually. Pudukottai’s total cases touched 2,666. There were 136 fresh cases in Trichy taking its overall tally to 4,733 while the death toll of 64 remained the highest in the region. Two patients in Trichy, Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur and one patient from Nagappattinam died of Covid-19 and other comorbidities between August 1 and 3. Cases in Thanjavur district dipped to 79 from 146 on Tuesday. The total number of cases so far reported here is 3,322. Nagapattinam recorded 52 fresh cases Karur district had only 50 cases. Except for 15 cases, including a one-day-old baby, the others were cross-notified from other districts. The total positive cases were 654 in Karur. New cases in other districts were Ariyalur – 36, Tiruvarur- 21 and Perambalur – 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-sees-106-cases-baby-among-22-dead/articleshow/77382750.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Neighbour murders couple, then kills himself||NEW DELHI: A couple was murdered by their neighbour, who later killed himself, in outer Delhi’s Narela early on Wednesday. The deceased, Hashim and Minnat, were in their early fifties. They were sleeping when their neighbour, Mushtaq, started knocking on their door at 2.40am. When the couple didn’t open, Mushtaq broke open the door and barged in. Police officers said, Mushtaq slit the victims’ throats and stabbed them in front of their children. Leaving the two gasping for breath, Mushtaq returned to his house. He then went to his room and consumed poison. The PCR received calls from neighbours and cops rushed to the spot. The three were taken to a hospital, but declared dead on arrival. Their bodies were sent for postmortem. A murder case has been filed and inquest proceedings initiated. The trio lived in rented accommodations in Bakner village and belonged to Bihar. Mushtaq was an e-rickshaw driver, while Hashim was a mechanic. The two families often fought over petty issues, neighbours told cops. Even last week they fought twice — once over parking of Mushtaq’s e-rickshaw and then for water, neighbours said. Mushtaq had even warned the couple of dire consequences, they said. He apparently consumed liquor on Tuesday night and then committed the double murder before killing himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/neighbour-murders-couple-then-kills-himself/articleshow/77380482.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Amritsar||Declared tankhayia, duo says did no wrong, seeks pardom from Akal Takht||Amritsar: A day after being declared tankhayia (guilty of religious misconduct), Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member Gurinderpal Singh Gora and SGPC dharam parchar committee (DPC) former member Rattan Singh Jaffarwal approached Akal Takht to seek pardon. Gora denied that he had any role in rebaptisation of former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah. He also denied that he was seen in the photographs going viral on social media in which he and Jaffarwal were seen with Langah. “These could be old photographs. I don’t know about them. All I know is I have always been dedicated to Akal Takht and will abide by its directions. I have come here to seek pardon for any mistake that may have been committed inadvertently by me,” he said. Jaffarwal also denied having any role in the attempts to bring back excommunicated Lanagh in Sikhism. “Akal Takht is supreme for me and my family. I will abide by its directions,” he said. On Tuesday, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had declared both Gora and Jaffarwal tankhaiya for their alleged role in rebaptisation of Langah. A day earlier, the panj pyaras (five beloved ones) who had performed the initiation ceremony and had pronounced religious atonement upon Langah had also approached the Akal Takht to seek pardon . On Monday, Langah and his family members had appeared before panj pyaras (five beloved ones) at Gurdwara Garhi Baba Banda Singh Bahadur situated in Gurdas Nanagal village in Gurdaspur district to seek pardon for the “mistake: committed by him in the past. The SGPC had also suspended three employees of the gurdwara for not informing about Langah’s rebaptisation to the SGPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/declared-tankhayia-duo-says-did-no-wrong-seeks-pardom-from-akal-takht/articleshow/77382749.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar visits flood relief camp in Darbhanga||PATNA/DARBHANGA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas in north Bihar on Wednesday. According to disaster management department (DMD), the population affected by floods increased from 63.60 lakhs as on Tuesday to 66.60 lakh in 16 districts by Wednesday evening. Nitish conducted the aerial survey of embankments in and around Darbhanga, including Hayaghat, Ekmighat, Barachia, Kolhuaghat bridge and Rajaghat bridge among others before his helicopter landed at Darbhanga airport. He visited the relief camp at Makhnahi government school and inspect various facilities and services being provided to the evacuated people there. The CM also issued a slew of instructions and asked the officials concerned to make antigen and RT-PCR tests mandatory for people staying in the relief camps. He also asked the officials to ensure quality food as well as ‘kadha’ for inmates of the relief camps to boost their immunity. The officials were told to distribute face masks free. Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM told the CM that gratuity relief of Rs6,000 per family was being provided through direct benefit transfer (DBT) to the flood-affected people. Few blocks of Darbhangha have been worst hit in north Bihar for nearly three weeks now. Khiroi river, which wreaked havoc in Darbhanga, was flowing above the danger level at the two flood gauges in the district. The water level was showing rising trend at Kamtaul and a falling trend at Ekmighat. Bagmati river was also flowing above the danger level at Hayaghat. Water level at Hayaghat flood gauge on Tuesday evening was measured at 48.06m, whereas the highest flood level for the same is 48.96m. As per daily flood bulletin issued by water resources department (WRD), Bagmati river was flowing above the danger level at all five flood gauges in Sitamarhi district and one flood gauge in Muzaffarpur. The swollen Burhi Gandak was also flowing above the danger level all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts, but the water level showed either falling or static trend on Wednesday evening. Kamla Balan was also flowing above the danger level at both flood gauges in Madhubani district, but showed either static or falling trend. Meanwhile, East Central Railway’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar said special trains were being run on Darbhanga-Sitamarhi and Saharsa-Mansi route. However, rail operations continued to remain suspended on Samastipur-Darbhanga route and trains were running on diverted routes. As far as weather forecast is concerned, officials at Patna Meteorological Centre claimed that only light to moderate showers are expected at many places in Bihar over the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-visits-flood-relief-camp-in-darbhanga/articleshow/77380487.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||New regime enables victims to rest in respect||Margao: The new mechanism put in place by the South Goa district administration since nearly two weeks back has ensured that those dying of Covid-19, despite spurt in numbers, are accorded a decent farewell. On Wednesday, the South Goa district administration conducted the last rites of five Covid bodies, out of which two funerals took place at the Hindu crematorium in Margao, another two in Ponda and one in Vasco. “Though it was a taxing time for the administrative and medical teams at the Covid hospital handling the funerals, to organise the logistics and coordinate with the agencies concerned, the synchronised method put in place for dealing with the funerals has minimised the hardships that would otherwise be caused to the kin of the deceased,” a district administration official said. Nevertheless, in view of the rising number of deaths per day, the Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha that runs the Hindu crematorium at Margao, conceding to the request made by the South Goa district administration, allowed one more pyre to be used for the cremation of the Covid victims. Earlier, one pyre in the crematorium was reserved for conducting the funerals at the Pajifond crematorium. Confirming the development, Pandurang Naik, president of Mathagramasth Hindu Sabha said that as per the arrangement agreed upon, Covid funerals are allowed in the crematorium between 5pm and 6pm. “On humanitarian grounds, we have allowed the use of the crematorium to be used for conducting the funerals of Covid victims of all faiths,” Naik said. Sources in the Covid hospital said that the addition of one more pyre for Covid deaths will help the administration in faster processing of claims and disposals of the bodies. The ESI team for funerals also handles disposal of Covid bodies from Goa Medical College in cases where the deceased is from South Goa. Sources said several bodies in the GMC morgue are awaiting disposal, and that they would be cleared soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-regime-enables-victims-to-rest-in-respect/articleshow/77382091.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Madurai||Jobless Trichiites who returned get a fresh lease of life||Trichy: Trichiites who have returned from foreign countries, other states and districts during the pandemic have found a new lease of life through self-employment back home, though on a small scale, thanks to a long-term loan of Rs 1 lakh disbursed through Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project (TNRTP). C Thanganathan, 30, of Senthamangalam village near Musiri, is an MSc, MEd holder who worked as a teacher in a private school at Kallakurichi. Six years into his profession, he got married in January, but the pandemic upended his life and he lost his job. On returning to his native place with his wife, he decided to take up his family profession of Korai mat making and with the Rs 1 lakh loan from TNRTP, he got into the business. “I could earn about Rs 40,000 a month. Though my heart lies in teaching, I found it sensible to go for the trade in which we are experienced,” said Thanganathan on Wednesday. P Varadharajan, 31 of Mutharasanallur, lost his job at an IT company in Chennai. The BE computer science graduate was an App developer and launched his own company at his house with the loan. “I have two US-based clients and was earning Rs 70,000 a month. Now, I cannot make more money but I have a great scope in near future,” he said.L Amudha, 39, of Perumalpalayam near Thuraiyur has started her own beauty parlour at her house. A resident of Chennai, she was married to an engineer of Perumalpalayam who was working in Saudi Arabia. As her husband lost his job, both of them shifted their base to Perumalpalayam. “Though it is a slow start, it will pick up in this rural area. Now, I make about Rs 15,000 a month,” said Amudha. There were about 4,000 in Trichy district who returned from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Maldives, Bahrain, Singapore and a few other countries besides from states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Chennai and Coimbatore. The project staff identified around 1,600 such “reverse migrants” from Musiri, Andhanalllur, Manapparai, Manikandam and Thuraiyur blocks where the scheme is implemented. Among them, 400 would be eligible for the loan given the age criteria and other conditions. “As of now, we have given loans to 68 reverse migrants and 48 of them have started their business. We are looking for more eligible candidates,” said TNRTP district executive officer I Aroon Joshva Roosevelt. On Wednesday, a camp was organized at Kalaiarangam marriage hall where 107 turned up. The officials said that not everyone was interested to take up self-employment as some expected to return to their previous jobs once the pandemic ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jobless-trichiites-who-returned-get-a-fresh-lease-of-life/articleshow/77382112.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 6, 2020||Trichy||2 inmates jump govt home for juveniles||Trichy: Two boys, who were kept as juvenile in conflict with law at government observation home on East Boulevard Road in Trichy, escaped from the home after attacking the guard on Wednesday. The inmates, aged 16 and 17 years, staying in one of the two dormitories of the home, escaped at around 7 am on Wednesday, said Yovan, superintendent of the observation home. “Usually, their rooms will remain locked. In the morning, the bed sheets and pillows are shifted to other areas. As it happened today, the boys came out of the room. They attacked the security guards and sneaked out through the main door,” said Yovan. The security guard of the home was identified as Raja, aged about 50, said the Fort police. Yovan also said that the main gate of the home was also kept open to allow the milk and vegetable vendors, when the boys escaped. The incident was brought to the notice of the Fort police station few hours after the incident. Sub-inspector of police Dhayalan said that the boys had been kept in the home for the past two months after getting caught for their involvement in cell phones and battery thefts in Trichy. Both of them were orphans and had no one to bail them out. The police also said that there was no provision of registering a case for this incident. Dhayalan said that the search was on to trace them. Yovan said that they had CCTV surveillance and the incident of the boys escaping was recorded. Total 11 juvenile in conflict with law were in the home including the two who escaped. Since the incident showed the lack in the safety aspect of home, the issue was brought to the notice of the member of the national commission for protection of child rights (NCPCR) Dr RG Anand, who said that he will look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-inmates-jump-govt-home-for-juveniles/articleshow/77382133.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Idol workshop in Delhi stays idle amid Covid fears||NEW DELHI: The workshop in south Delhi’s Chanderlok where Durga idols are created bears a deserted look. With an air of uncertainty surrounding Durga Puja this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, clay artisans who had come to Delhi from West Bengal have no orders in hand and are, therefore, planning to return to their hometowns. According to the idol makers, the bulk of the orders were normally in by Raksha Bandhan. This year, not a single puja committee has contacted them so far. Manik Pal, who leads the team of artisans from Krishnanagar, isn’t yet in Delhi due to the lockdown in West Bengal. “I received a booking for a small idol a month ago from a Durga Puja organiser, but declined since that wouldn’t cover the expense of my travelling to Delhi and back,” Pal told TOI from his village in Krishnanagar. The 15 artisan families who used to arrive in Delhi with Pal will not have their usual earnings this year with the puja committees considering only a day-long puja. “We used to get orders for at least 50 idols from across Delhi and that work constituted the bulk of our yearly income,” disclosed Pal. “It will difficult for us this year. Since we go to Delhi every year, setting up workshops in Kolkata and Krishnanagar will be like encroaching on the work of other artisans with fixed customers in these areas.” Pal had already invested some money in raw material for the idols’ ornaments and faces losses. Subrata Pal, who works at another idol workshop near Shiv Mandir, hasn’t lost hope yet. “I plan to go to Delhi alone and even if I get at least two orders a month before Durga Puja, I will earn something,” he said. The Chanderlok and Shiv Mandir workshops create almost 80% of the Durga idols used by puja committees in Delhi. Subrata added, “If things don’t work out during Durga Puja, I will go to Delhi during the Saraswati Puja in January and set up the workshop in Chittaranjan Park where the demand is high. If these don’t happen, I can’t sustain my family.” Sadhan Mandal, a traditional drummer from Kanthi in West Bengal’s Midnapore district, who too makes money in Delhi at puja time, has returned to his village. “Leave alone bookings, there isn’t even an enquiry about our availability this year,” Mandal muttered. “Fortunately, I have a farm plot that will help my family keep starvation at bay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/idol-workshop-stays-idle-amid-covid-fears/articleshow/77380598.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 6, 2020||Ludhiana||No BJP ‘hidden hand’ in SAD bickering: Avinash Rai Khanna||JALANDHAR: It is commonly believed in political circles in Punjab that there could be hidden hand of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) behind Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s attempt to raise a new Akali Dal, saffron party’s national vice president Avinash Rai Khanna has strongly denied the possibility. He has also said SAD (Badal)-BJP alliance would remain intact while going to the polls in 2022. “We can’t do anything to weaken our alliance partner SAD (Badal) and any perception that BJP is doing anything to fan trouble with Akali fold is completely misplaced. If our alliance partner remains stronger, we also gain strength so can’t even think of weakening our alliance partner,” said Khanna, who also remained Punjab BJP president, while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. “We have never disturbed our alliance partner. Whatever is happening within Akali Dal is their internal matter,” he said. It may be mentioned here that rumours that Dhindsa enjoys BJP’s blessings is being widely shared in hushed tones in political circles of Punjab and even at ground level within Akali Dal, this perception is being widely shared. Asked that there has been clamouring from within BJP that party would get more seats in 2022 elections and this was causing heartburn among Akali circles, Khanna said both parties would sit before elections and every issue would be resolved amicably. “BJP gives this alliance a great importance. Punjab is a border state and Hindu-Sikh unity is very important. We have always been saying this alliance is not just political but social as well. It signifies Hindu-Sikh unity in Punjab, which is very important. We stand by Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat,” he said. When pointed out that there was a common understanding that BJP could dump SAD (Badal) if it keeps losing ground among Sikhs, Khanna said BJP would stay with SAD (Badal) which is the original Akali Dal. “In rural areas, the stronghold of Akali Dal continues, at the end of the day people go with the party that holds the old election symbol,” he added. The party recently had started projecting Sikh faces, but Khanna said Sikh leaders had been working in the party earlier as well. “They are always there, but that does not mean we are preparing to dump the partner. BJP has been taking along all the communities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-bjp-hidden-hand-in-bickering-in-akali-dal-khanna/articleshow/77382771.cms||IP Singh
August 6, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP demands CBI probe||Chandigarh: The Punjab BJP unit on Wednesday demanded a CBI probe into the illicit liquor tragedy. In a virtual conference with Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, the BJP core group led-by its Punjab unit president Ashwani Sharma said the tragedy was unprecedented and the liquor mafia was working under the absolute patronage of the state government. “Sadly, the system is so corrupt and well entrenched in the state that we saw 112 people losing their lives,” said Sharma. Reddy assured to apprise Union home minister Amit Shah of the whole situation in Punjab and action against the guilty. Punjab BJP leaders alleged that rampant corruption was apparent from the mere fact that in the last few months since lockdown, the state exchequer had lost 5,600 crore in revenue due to the sale of illegal liquor. Sharma also accused chief minister Amritsar Singh of fooling the people by constituting a SIT when news of illicit liquor sale in the state was highlighted. “However, when names of some senior Congressmen cropped up, the investigation was hushed up,” said Sharma. Sharma also apprised Reddy that since Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa had shown the courage to point out the Punjab government’s total failure in controlling the liquor mafia, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar had started a campaign against party men who were honest enough to voice their dissent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-demands-cbi-probe/articleshow/77382099.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai fuel stations urged to set up vehicle pollution test centres||Madurai: There are only 18 Pollution Under Control (PUC) centres in Madurai district to test emission for 10.49 lakh vehicles including 46,776 vehicles registered as goods and passenger carrier vehicles. Most of these centres are located close to RTO offices and its sub-offices, making it difficult for commuters to access.Following the Supreme Court order, the transport department had urged all fuel refilling stations to install PUC a couple of years ago. It did not get much traction. Officials are planning to insist more so that at least a section of the fuel stations install one. Joint commissioner of the transport department, Madurai region (Madurai, Theni and Dindigul) Ravichandran said that there are only 32 testing centres in the region, where 16.80 lakh vehicles are being used. Fuel refilling stations and vehicles sales and services centres should come forward to install PUC centre. “To set up a centre it will take only Rs 3-4 lakh for two separate equipment for both diesel and petrol vehicles. A space of 8-metre length and 3-metre width is enough to set up the centre,” he said.A pollution certificate must be obtained for all vehicles including government transport vehicles once in six months, except for vehicles in the first year of purchase. A fine amount of Rs 10,000 can be levied for not getting the pollution certificate as per the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019. “Emission certificate is hardly insisted on day to day checking conducted by traffic police of RTO officials. It is obtained only when the vehicles go for fitness certificate and application is made for driving license. With the pollution level in the air increasing, it is time to concentrate on that aspect too. As and when there is a crackdown on the certificate, people will need more testing centres,” said a transport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-fuel-stations-urged-to-set-up-vehicle-pollution-test-centres/articleshow/77382775.cms||V Devanathan
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao Hospital runs up Rs 1-crore hotel bill for health workers||NEW DELHI: As the operational costs mount and pending hotel bills for lodging healthcare workers cross Rs 1 crore, North Delhi Municipal Corporation will review the continuation of Hindu Rao Hospital as a dedicated Covid facility. Corporation officals say that the presence of Covid patients has been low all through the month, with more than 90% beds lying vacant. There has been growing demand to start normal services as well. Mayor Jai Prakash said that Disaster Management Authority (DMA) and Delhi government will take the final call on the issue on Friday. “We will prepare a report on the issue along with senior doctors and heads of department and then send it to DMA for the final decision,” said Prakash. “The patients may not be coming to the hospital, but our expenses keep running.” The cash-strapped municipal body is planning to send the lodging of Rs 1 crore to Delhi government. “Delhi government should foot the lodging bill. Their hospitals are also lying vacant but the expenses are continuing,” the mayor added. To minimize the risk of spreading infection, the municipal body had decided to book hotel rooms for its healthcare workers in two hotels. A corporation official said that while doctors are staying in a hotel in Connaught Place, other healthcare workers have been lodged in a hotel in Karol Bagh. “It was a necessary measure but the under the current circumstances, the expenses are disproportionate to the number of patients at the hospital,” an official remarked. “The daily lodging bill is around Rs 6 lakh. The overall bill in the last 18 days has crossed Rs 1 crore,” he added. While the municipal corporation had earlier decided to shift some of its doctors to other healthcare facilities to share the workload, a senior doctor said that only 10 out of 250 doctors were shifted to Kasturba Gandhi maternity hospital along with 20 nurses. The latest occupancy report from the Hindu Rao Hospital shows that it is currently providing medical care to 19 Covid patients, out of which 7 are on oxygen support. The report shows that 304 beds have been dedicated to run the Covid facility, but the facility has only seen a total of 48 admissions till now. Out of the total number, 28 have been discharged after recovery and four deaths have occurred. The hospital has also seen four cases of leave against medical advice (LAMA). Watch Delhi: Hindu Rao Hospital runs up Rs 1-crore hotel bill for health workers, NDMC to review continuation as Covid facility||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-runs-up-rs-1-crore-hotel-bill-for-health-workers/articleshow/77382139.cms||Paras Singh
August 6, 2020||Goa||HC seeks govt reply on plea to declare Cuncolim zone||Panaji/Margao: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the state government to file a reply on a petition filed by Cuncolim councillor Shashank Dessai seeking declaration of Cuncolim industrial estate as a containment zone in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. Jatin Ramaiya, counsel for the petitioner, submitted to the court that Cuncolim municipality has also made a representation to the government seeking reliefs similar to which have been made in the petition.  The court also directed the municipality to file its reply by August 11. The division bench comprising justices M S Jawalkar and M S Sonak passed the order. The writ petition was filed by Dessai, councillor of ward 2 and resident of Veroda, stating that the chief Secretary and South Goa district collector failed to curb the rise in Covid cases in Cuncolim. The petitioner stated that no action was taken by the authorities despite several representations by him highlighting the surge in cases, including a complaint about certain units in the industrial estate functioning in violation of 14-day closure order issued by the government on July 8. The petitioner also stated that while several areas in the state were declared as containment zones despite fewer positive cases, no such decision was taken despite a sharp spike of cases in Cuncolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-to-declare-cuncolim-zone/articleshow/77382131.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Varanasi||Smart India Hackathon concludes, winners announced||Varanasi: The 36-hour grand finale of Smart India Hackathon (software edition)-2020 concluded on Tuesday evening with the announcement of winners in eight groups. The event which was hosted by Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on the digital platform witnessed active participation of 240 talented individuals in 39 groups. The grand finale was organised by the innovation cell of ministry of HRD and India Council for Technical Education and focussed on use of innovate software tools as a solution against eight challenges and also to develop new facilities for Airports Authority of India. While announcing the results, co-convenor of the event, Manish Arora said, “Teams including Against The Current Pune, Awesome Case Bhopal, Tech Hackers Moradabad, Pentium Reboots Kolkata, Gudlavalleru College Vijaywada, Metroid Ahmedabad, Canotomas of Pimpadi-Chinchwad in Maharashtra and Technoturners of Thapar University Punjab have been adjudged as winners in their respective groups.” The results were announced during a virtual valedictory ceremony in which organising committees’ Prof BC Kapri and event convenor Prof Kavita Shah praised all participants and the contribution of jury members, mentors and volunteers. Addressing the ceremony, general manager (IT) of Airports Authority of India, SK Malik said, “I hope the solutions provided by the participants against eight challenges given to them by AAI, would prove useful.” For the grand finale of SIH-2020, the Airports Authority of India had given tasks for developing tools which can help in search and rescue a missing aircraft, airport mapping database, a web based software for smooth operations of various facilities, preventive maintenance, mobile based inventory management system, mobile application based passenger facilitation system using artificial intelligence and machine learning for the contest of developing software as solution against them. The event had been formally inaugurated by the BHU vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar on August 1 while on the same day in evening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also addressed the participants through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/smart-india-hackathon-concludes-winners-announced/articleshow/77382109.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Nutured this baby with great care, hard work’||MARGAO: With the administrative reshuffle having taken place in the ESI-Covid hospital, deputy director of health services, Dr Ira Ameida who was removed as its nodal officer, expressed her satisfaction over having been able to “nurture this baby with great care and hard work” from the time the ESI hospital was designated as the Covid hospital on March 25. Almeida exuded confidence that the change of guard at the Covid hospital and the transition of its management to Goa Medical College and hospital would be a smooth affair. “Our team has been managing the effort for the past four months, but the scale now certainly calls for a much larger team and effort and there can be no better than that from the state’s apex hospital,” Almeida said. She pointed out that the medical care at the ESI-Covid hospital had always been provided by the GMC and complemented by the ESI staff with directorate of health services (DHS) handling administration, human resources and procurement, while also providing support whenever needed. The handover meeting took place on Tuesday after a detailed verbal briefing with Dr Vishwajit Phaldessai and Dr Uday Kakodkar and GMC/ESI specialist teams, during which she went over various admin and other relevant processes, she said. “I handed over a written copy of the handover document to Dr Vishwajit who accepted the signed document. As per the order I should have handed over to Dr Jagdish Kakodkar, HoD, preventive medicine as the newly appointed administrator. However, Dr Jagdish was not present at the handover meeting. Dr Uday declined to sign the handover document as he said he had not received the official order. The handover meeting was also attended by 15 doctors (specialist teams from GMC and ESI) including me as this also served as our final briefing which we used to conduct twice daily as a matter of course,” she told TOI. Almeida assured of her support to the new officers taking charge of the Covid hospital. “I remain committed to seeing the Covid hospital succeed in the service of the community in these demanding times under the new management,” Almeida said. “I am fully committed to handholding the new team during their transition,” she said, adding that the Hospicio team has been working on Covid management since February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nutured-this-baby-with-great-care-hard-work/articleshow/77382142.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Amritsar||Pak Sikh religious, political leaders urge community to back army||Amritsar: Pakistan’s Sikh religious and political leaders have come out in the open to exhort the community to “help” militant movements in Kashmir. Messages were delivered to the Pakistani Sikh community on Wednesday, which is being observed as Youm-i-Istehsal (the day of exploitation) in Pakistan. Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSPGC) president Satwant Singh in his message said supporting Kashmiris in their “cause” is their duty, which they would continue to perform. He claimed that Kashmiris are being subjected to atrocities and denied their rights. “Sikhs have been helping the oppressed and it is time for the Sikhs to help Kashmiris,” he said in the video message. The Pakistan government has declared August 5 as Youm-i-Istehsal to register its protest against the Indian government over the Kashmir issue. Sources here said that involving PSGPC in the Kashmir issue to provoke Sikhs is a well-planned machination of the ISI-backed Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), which manages and takes decisions of the PSGPC, largely dubbed as a puppet body in the hands of ETPB. In another message, Mahinderpal Singh, parliamentary secretary, Human Rights and Minority Affairs, urged the Pakistani Sikhs to be prepared to help the army and the government for the cause of Kashmiris. He claimed that Kashmiris were not allowed to meet each other and blamed the Modi government for snatching away their democratic rights. Addressing the Pakistani Sikhs, he said, “I request you to help the Pakistan army and government for the cause of Kashmiris.” The sources said this is a direct message to the Pakistani Sikhs to help the ISI-backed Kashmiri militants. “For the first time, we have seen that Pakistan has used its mainstream Sikh leadership to spew venom against India,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-sikh-religious-political-leaders-urge-community-to-back-army/articleshow/77382780.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 6, 2020||Trichy||App-based vegetable delivery picking up pace||Trichy: As people are confined to indoors owing to increasing Covid-19 cases, mobile app-based door delivery of vegetables is slowly picking up pace in Karur. People’s fear of visiting vegetable shops has prompted traders to try app-based delivery service to deliver vegetables at homes. Earlier, there were only two such delivery services so far, but it has increased to five in the last few months, especially during the peak lockdown period. Unlike in Coimbatore or Trichy, the app-based food delivery system is yet to get popularity in Karur. Vegetable sellers are using the same service providers to deliver vegetables to their customers. When J Maheshwaran, 22, took over his father’s wholesale vegetable business in November last year he chose to get his vegetables door delivered with the help of an app-based delivery service. He said he was getting less than 4-5 orders per day in December last year. But, Covid-19 outbreak has changed the scenario and the number of orders has increases to 20 per day. To attract more families, he has introduced vegetable combos costing between Rs 100 and Rs 500, which have been received well. During the early weeks of the lockdown, the district administration had arranged vegetable vendors to supply essentials to the door steps. Now that it has been stopped, the app-based door delivery system has become a convenient mode for many families to avoid venturing out. Availing the service for quite some days, M Akilesh, 25, from Jawahar Bazaar, said that the quality of vegetables was good. The sellers are even ready to replace vegetables if the customers complained of its quality. While the delivery charges too are nominal, availability of cashless transection is making the system safer. We keep the vegetables in turmeric water before using them to rule out a possible Covid-19 infection from vegetables, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/app-based-vegetable-delivery-picking-up-pace/articleshow/77382167.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||NCW virtual hearing on Aug 7 in complaint against Mundhe||Nagpur: The National Commission for Women (NCW) will hold a virtual hearing on August 7 into the allegations levelled by company secretary of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) Bhanupriya Thakur against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe over denial of maternity benefits, mental harassment and humiliation early this year.The virtual hearing will begin at 11.30am, NCW’s undersecretary Priti Kumar said in a letter issued to both Mundhe and Thakur on July 28. In the letter to Mundhe, the commission has also mentioned that in default, it may proceed to take such action as it deems proper.Thakur had approached the NCW and submitted a complaint alleging that Mundhe denied her maternity rights but also served a show cause notice to terminate her.In her complaint, Thakur claimed that she had to leave her 3-month-old baby at her hometown 100km away from Nagpur because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Mundhe, she claimed, denied her request to work from home or guide her on how she could bring her infant baby to Nagpur in such a situation where the government had advised not to travel or leave the town with kids under 10 years of age.Following Thakur’s complaint, NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma served notice to Mundhe stating the commission condemns such activities by the department. The civic chief had been asked to submit a detailed report in the matter after taking due action, within seven days after receiving its letter, Sharma’s letter stated. Apart from complaining to NCW, Thakur had also lodged a written complaint with chairman of NSSCDCL Pravin Pardeshi and drawn his attention to the alleged harassment by Mundhe.Mundhe is also facing allegations of misconduct with former chief knowledge officer of NSSCDCL, who filed a police complaint for harassment and humiliation. The civic chief had called her at Ravi Bhavan after office hours. Although she was asked to come alone, she took along two male employees with her. There, she was allegedly asked to share confidential data related to the project with one Prashant Magar. But, as she refused, Mundhe shouted at her in front of outsiders and also warned of consequences for not following his instructions.The Sadar police had transferred her complaint to the office of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncw-virtual-hearing-on-aug-7-in-complaint-against-mundhe/articleshow/77382176.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 6, 2020||Madurai||CM to take stock of Covid-19 scene in Madurai today, launch schemes||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will visit Madurai, where Covid-19 positive cases are coming down, for a review of the situation on Thursday. It is expected that he will launch a few schemes on the occasion. Covid-19 tests were conducted for all those who would participate in the CM’s meet. Minister for co-operatives Sellur K Raju and minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar reviewed the arrangements for the chief minister’s visit. They said that it would be a low key affair. Though the number of Covid-19 positive cases has come down to 40, there is no plan to reduce the number of tests as 3,500 screening tests would be continued, said minister Udayakumar. He said that it was a relief that the cases, which had climbed to 400 per day, came down to 40. The chief minister is expected to launch new schemes to the tune of Rs 326 crore and also inaugurate projects that have been completed for Rs 21.56 crore. He will also participate in a series of events in Dindigul, which include an interaction with traders. Meanwhile, hundreds of government officials and police personnel apart from AIADMK functionaries and cadres in Madurai, Tirunelveli and Dindigul have undergone tests for Covid-19 as part of the CM’s visit. In Madurai, more than 100 officials and personnel at the district collectorate including the district collector were screened. The attendees who will be assisting the officials at the meeting hall were also tested. The cook and menial staff at the circuit house have also been tested to avoid any chance of the CM contracting Covid-19. Corporation officials and police personnel who will be in the close circle, party functionaries and MLAs too were tested. “The test results of those who will be attending the functions be declared tonight,” an official told TOI. More than 75 AIADMK functionaries were screened in Tirunelveli. “We will get the result on Thursday morning. Only those who test negative will be allowed to meet the CM on Friday,” Nanguneri MLA A Narayanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-to-take-stock-of-covid-19-scene-in-madurai-today-launch-schemes/articleshow/77382778.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Goa||‘Put in place strategy to counter pandemic’||Panaji: The state government needs to stop using comorbidities as an excuse for every Covid-19 death recorded in Goa, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said. He also urged Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Wardan and Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane to put in place an effective strategy to counter the pandemic. As on Wednesday, Goa recorded a total of 64 Covid-19 deaths. The state has 7,423 confirmed cases and 2,072 active cases and the rate of increase in new cases remains on the rise. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/put-in-place-strategy-to-counter-pandemic/articleshow/77382175.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Noida||After building collapse, Noida plans anti-squatter drives in old sectors||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Wednesday ordered an exhaustive survey in sectors 9 and 10 to identify squatters who occupy public space along roads thereby causing congestion, before carrying out anti-encroachment drives in the areas near Harola. Though the industrial plot owners and entrepreneurs in the two old sectors have been raising the issues of encroachments and other unauthorised activities for long, the need to carry out the survey was felt in the wake of the recent building collapse that claimed two lives. TOI has learnt that in a virtual meeting between senior Authority officials and office-bearers of the Noida Entrepreneurs Association held earlier this week, the former sought support from the industry owners to check illegal construction, while the latter raised their grievances against squatters. Officials said Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari has directed officials to allow only authorised hawkers in the areas. “Some 2,150 hawkers are registered with the Authority. We will initiate a drive against the unauthorised hawkers in the coming days,” OSD Indu Prakash Singh said. Moreover, the Authority will also examine the industrial plots which are being used for commercial activities and leading to bottlenecks and congestion in sectors 9 and 10, officials said. In another decision taken on Wednesday, the Authority decided to revive all the projects related to supplying improved quality water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-building-collapse-noida-plans-anti-squatter-drives-in-old-sectors/articleshow/77382163.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets season's average rainfall in just two months||MUMBAI: The mega city reported intense rain activity on Wednesday. Following the extremely heavy downpour, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) observatories at Colaba and Santacruz have surpassed the season's average rainfall of 2,066mm and 2,260.4mm, respectively, for four months in a span of about two months. So far, IMD Colaba has recorded 2,301.8mm and Santacruz 2,338.2mm.  IMD's Colaba observatory recorded 293.8mm rain in the 12 hours between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Wednesday-the highest 24-hour rainfall for the month of August since 1974 or the past 46 years.  Winds in the range of 70-80 kmph, occasionally gusting to 106 kmph, were reported in the island city. The average wind speed during Cyclone Nisarga was 92 kmph. While parts of south Mumbai reported heavy rainfall during the day, by evening, several localities in the suburbs and adjoining areas such as Thane and Navi Mumbai caught up. IMD's Santacruz observatory recorded 103mm of rain in the 12 hours of August 5 (8.30am to 8.30pm). The weather bureau has forcast the wet spell is likely to continue. IMD has issued a yellow alert for Thane, Mumbai and Raigad for Thursday, August 6, which indicates heavy rain in isolated places, and an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in Palghar. A warning for fisherman was issued too, due to squalls with wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph along north Maharashtra coast during the month. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the sea. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said they have already issued a forecast for the possibility of floods in the city and the suburbs. The prevailing weather conditions that gave Mumbai and its adjoining localities these intense showers were due to a well-marked low pressure area over the north-west Bay of Bengal, off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts, along with associated cyclonic circulation extending till the upper tropospheric levels tilting south-westwards. IMD, though, said it is "very likely" to move west-northwest and weaken gradually during the next two days. "Very intense development was seen over the west coast with monsoon vigorous on north Konkan, which includes parts of Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar. The Ghat areas of Maharashtra are also expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall due to it," said Hosalikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-seasons-average-rainfall-in-just-two-months/articleshow/77383542.cms||Richa Pinto
August 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Furnish workers’ fund information on August 18, labour department told||PANAJI: The labour department failed to submit the information sought by the Goa Lokayukta on Wednesday and instead sought an additional period of six weeks, which Lokayukta Justice (retired) P K Misra refused to grant. Misra has kept the next hearing on August 18 by when the labour commissioner has been asked to furnish the required information about the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Assistance Scheme Covid-19. The scheme in question has come under the scanner after it was found that ineligible individuals took benefit. The department in a submission before the Lokayukta said that detailed information about the names and designations of the officials who identified the beneficiaries along with other details dates back to 2012 and requires inputs from the taluka-level offices. “There are practical hurdles and difficulties that come in the way of smooth functioning on account of the Covid-19 crisis,” said the department submission. “All the records are required to be inspected, collected and compiled before the information can be furnished.” GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat questioned how the department could have disbursed the funds to individuals under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Assistance Scheme Covid-19. Some of the bogus beneficiaries of the scheme include sarpanches and former sarpanches and BJP karyakartas. Kamat also said that during the hearing, the labour commissioner said that registration of construction workers was outsourced to a Bengaluru-based firm called Labournet. “The labour minister cleared the file being the chairman of the labour board. This makes it clear that a third party did the registration. The scam is bigger than what we said,” said Kamat. Goa Lokayukta had prima facie found sufficient irregularities to justify the probe into the financial assistance offered to building and construction workers to tide over the pandemic. GFP has alleged that around Rs 13 crore has been disbursed to 15,490 beneficiaries who claimed to be construction workers and labourers during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/furnish-workers-fund-info-on-aug-18-dept-told/articleshow/77382186.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Delhi||Reopen hotels, defer charges and fees in Delhi: CII panel to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal||NEW DELHI: To restart economic activity in the hospitality sector, the CII national committee on tourism on Wednesday wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal requesting that hotels be reopened at the earliest. The panel also requested for waiver and suspension of certain fixed charges to be paid to Delhi government and deferment of licence fees. While appreciating the administration’s efforts in handling the pandemic, the letter requested Baijal to allow economic activities and businesses to operate under MHA’s guidelines. “First and foremost, enable hotels (all categories), accommodations, restaurants, banquet halls, spas and gyms to resume economic activities without any restriction of timings,” it added. The letter, signed by the committee’s chairman and CEO of Indian Hotels Company Limited Puneet Chhatwal and co-chairman and MakeMyTrip founder and executive chairman Deep Kalra, urged the administration to immediately provide a stimulus to the hospitality industry so that it could bounce back strongly. Stating that support was needed to protect jobs and businesses, the letter requested waiver of statutory dues and fixed charges for the lockdown period, deferment of statutory dues, including property and municipal taxes, for 12 months, a blanket exemption of 12 months for auto renewal of licences, complete waiver of excise fees for FY 2020-21, reduction in electricity tariffs and GST rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reopen-hotels-defer-charges-and-fees-cii-panel-to-lg/articleshow/77382190.cms||Amin Ali
August 6, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Gorakhnath temple lit up to celebrate bhoomi pujan||GORAKHPUR: The Gorakhnath temple was once again illuminated on Wednesday as the temple priest Kamalnath, manager Dwarika Tiwari, media in-charge Vinay Gautam and other staff lighted diyas to celebrate the Bhoomi Pujan of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Gorakhnath temple manager Dwarika Tiwari said, “The most awaited day has finally come after 500 years, and the dream of crores of Hindus to see the start of construction of Lord Ram’s temple at his birthplace in Ayodhya has come true.” BJP MP Shiv Pratap Shukla, who is the party’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha, said, “Today a long awaited dream has come true. The souls of third Sarsanghchalak of RSS Balasaheb Deoras ji, international president of VHP Ashok Singhal ji, Rashtrasant Mahant Avaidyanath ji, Ramchandra Paramhans ji, Kothari brothers and many kar sevaks who sacrificed their life for the Ram temple would be certainly very happy.” “Lakhs of Ram Bhakts played an active part in the struggle for construction of Ram temple at Ramjanmabhoomi. Many of us even went to jail but we remained determined and dedicated to the cause of making a temple where Lord Ram was born. I congratulate all those who played a role in the Ram temple movement,” Shukla added. Gorakhpur MP, Ravi Kishan was overwhelmed with emotions while talking to the media and said his father was earnestly waiting for this day. “My father would have been extremely happy if he were alive today. He was earnestly waiting for this day when the construction of Ram temple would begin but he left this world. I’m sure his soul will be very happy,” he added. “It is a momentous occasion as the Bhoomi Pujan by PM Narendra Modi marks the beginning of the construction of Ram temple. Today is like Diwali for us as we waited for 500 years for this. With Ram temple a new era will begin,” he said. The VHP office in Gorakhpur was also decorated since Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhnath-temple-lit-up-to-celebrate-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77382180.cms||Arjumand Bano
August 6, 2020||Kolkata||Paid Rs 3,100 for fake Covid test: Actor||KOLKATA: A theatre actor residing in south Kolkata has alleged that a doctor, who claimed to be attached with Howrah District Hospital, carried out a fake Covid test on him and charged Rs 3,100 at his chamber at New Alipore. When the actor — Rishav Adhikari, 27 — asked him for a printout of his Covid report, the doctor allegedly gave him a printed discharge certificate of Howrah hospital, on which it was hand written that he was Covid negative. Adhikari’s theatre guru and thespian Soumitra Mitra has reported the matter to cops. According to Adhikari, he had fever on July 6 and visited the doctor on July 10. “He prescribed medicines but there was no improvement. I was having breathing trouble. So, I went to him again on July 15. This time, he administered an injection. On July 18, I went for a follow-up visit and he administered another injection. By July 22, I was fit. But, I still wanted a Covid test done to be sure that I didn’t have the virus. It was then that he demanded Rs 3,100 for a swab test,” claimed Adhikari. Four days later, hearing nothing about the report, the family enquired from the doctor. “The next morning, he said that I was Covid positive. I said I needed the report to inform local police and Swasthya Bhawan. He said that was not required. It was then that I told him that I knew someone senior in CMO. The doctor suddenly said that I was negative and that it got mixed up with another report. He asked me to go to his chamber to collect a report. It was there that I found that he had prepared a report that showed that I was admitted at the hospital from July 19-22. In explanation, he said that unless someone got admitted, a Covid test is not done,” Adhikari added. When contacted, Narayan Chatterjee, the superintendent of the Howrah district hospital, denied that the discharge certificate was issued from the hospital. “Nowhere is it visible that the paper is from our hospital. There is a PGT doctor by that name but he has denied — in writing — that he was involved. We have no records about anyone called Rishav Adhikari. We are still investigating the details,” said Chatterjee, adding that the discharge certificate could be of another hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/paid-rs-3100-for-fake-covid-test-actor/articleshow/77382197.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Rain keeps shoppers away from markets, most malls stay shut||Kolhapur: The rain played a spoilsport on the first day of markets and malls reopening after four-and-a-half months of Covid-related restrictions in Kolhapur. While most malls remained shut or had minimal footfalls, even the markets wore a deserted look with people choosing to remain indoors. Also, because of the heavy rain, regular vendors too did not turn up to sell vegetables. At some markets, such as Kapiltirth, citizens were seen buying essentials. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), however, deployed more personnel at the markets to regulate the crowds. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said: “We have provided five thermal scanners and five oximeters to the staff in each ward. They will visit several places, including markets, and check the temperature and blood oxygen levels of the citizens. This is to ensure that suspected Covid patients are isolated immediately. I have also asked the sanitation staff to ensure disinfection every two hours in the markets. I myself will visit the markets regularly to check if the staff is working as per the directions.” He said the weekly mandis (on Sundays) will remain shut and only shops are allowed to open. Most of the Sunday mandis are located near the markets for the convenience of the citizens. Meanwhile, gym owners continued to wait for the notification allowing them to reopen their establishments. A senior district official said as per the order of the state government, gyms are not allowed to open. “We have forwarded the petition of the gym operators to the state government. We are waiting for a reply,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rain-keeps-shoppers-away-from-markets-most-malls-stay-shut/articleshow/77379314.cms||---
August 6, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe’s diktat for business licence is ultra-vires to MMC Act: CAMIT||Nagpur: The move of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to impose professional tax on shopkeepers and all professionals, including lawyers, chartered accountants practicing within corporation limits has created an uproar. Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) strongly protested Mundhe’s recent order directing all business and professional establishments to obtain licence from Nagpur Municipal Corporation contravenes the provisions of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 (MMC Act). This action is not only arbitrary but is also against the well settled proposition of law, CAMIT stated. Actually, Mundhe has once again violated the MMC Act by issuing the notification to implement the new rule. “The powers of municipal commissioner are not absolute. They are subjected to approval and sanctions from the corporation (House) and standing committee as prescribed in the Act. It appears that the commissioner has circumvented the provisions of the MMC Act regarding sanction from corporation to fix the fee and has assumed the power on himself to revise the same time to time,” said Dipen Agrawal, president of CAMIT, while submitting a memorandum to district guardian minister Nitin Raut, and also terming Mundhe’s decision arbitrary. “This order of the commissioner testifies the belief that traders are soft targets available to the administration to thrash and browbeat them now and then. It will increase inspector raj, open floodgates for corruption and hamper the ease of doing business initiated by the central and state governments,” said Agrawal. According to him, the Act empowers the civic chief to regulate only selective commodities and activities which may create nuisance or danger to public safety and health. Section 376 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, Section 229 of Nagpur Municipal Corporation Act, Section 394 of Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act and Sections 280 and 281 of Maharashtra Municipal Council, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Township Act operate in the same field i.e. to regulate certain activities so that they do not cause any danger to the health and property of the residents. Raut assured to discuss the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhes-diktat-for-business-licence-is-ultra-vires-to-mmc-act-camit/articleshow/77382224.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 6, 2020||Dehradun||Construction on NH-58 delayed due to redesign in road structure||Haridwar: The long-pending NH-58 project, which was scheduled to be finished by the end of this year, keeping in mind Maha Kumbh 2021, has been delayed by one more year, officials said. The NH-58 connects Delhi to Uttarakhand. After hoteliers in Bhupatwala area and seers objected to an elevated road and demanded a flyover instead, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) agreed to make changes in the highway’s design to accommodate a 2km-long flyover from the old RTO crossing to Shantikunj. “An elevated road with retaining walls on either side would aggravate the already menacing problem of water-logging in Haridwar. The city has been dealing with water-filled streets for decades,” said Bhupatwala municipal councilor Aniruddh Bhati. Residents, however, are not happy with the delay. A local resident, Ratan Mani Dobhal alleged that the road was delayed due to political pressure. “The project is already a decade behind schedule. Apart from the financial loss, the project has now been delayed further. It is widely speculated that the flyover was agreed upon to favour the ashrams and hotels, as it will let them have ample parking space.” Another resident, who did not wish to be named, said, “An underpass was being built near Shantikunj. Now it is being demolished to accommodate the flyover.” Union education minister and Haridwar MP Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank had earlier expressed concern over the project’s “slow pace of progress”. Describing it as “a key project in his constituency”, he had directed officials to ensure its early completion. NHAI project manager PS Gusain told TOI, “The construction work on the highway will be completed by November this year. The flyover, however, will take a year more.” When asked about the financial losses the change in design will bring, Gusain said, “It will depend on the nature and extent of changes and these are still being worked out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/construction-on-nh-58-delayed-due-to-redesign-in-road-structure/articleshow/77379272.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
