August 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 131 new Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: The state on Thursday reported 131 fresh cases of Covid-19, including 47 from Kullu, 21 from Hamirpur, 16 from Solan, 14 from Una, nine from Sirmaur, seven each from Bilaspur and Mandi, four each from Kangra and Shimla and and one each from Chamba and Kinnaur districts. With this, the state's Covid tally has risen to 3,047 of which 1142 cases are active, 1,865 patients have recovered,12 have died while 26 have migrated out of the state. A total of 1,58,537 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Thursday of which 1,54,295 have tested negative while results of 1,195 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-131-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77400936.cms||Anand Bodh
August 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: TCS gets nod to set up ITeS in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: In a boost for economic activity in undivided Dakshina Kannada amidst the corononavirus pandemic, the Karnataka government at its State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) has cleared four projects totalling Rs 556.38 crore, offering employment to 4,209 people. Among these the big-ticket investment is by TCS, the Indian multinational information technology service and consulting company, which will set up its ITeS services at Karnad Village providing employment to little over 4,000. TCS will come up in 38.29 acres of land in Chitrapu, Belayur, Karnad Villages. The lone project that has been cleared in Udupi is a food park by M/s Udupi Food Park which will be located at Mudaru Village, Karkala Taluk. The estimated investment is Rs 26.78 crore and will generate employment for 14 persons. M/s Finpower Aircon Systems Pvt.Ltd will set up its air conditioning machinery unit at Ganjimutt Industrial Area. The investment is Rs 17.35 crore and has the ability to generate employment to 120 persons.  Uday Shenoy, HR Manager of the firm told TOI that the work would start only after they get the required amount of land sanctioned. "As of now they have cleared three acres of land, but we actually need five acres to have the unit up and running," said Shenoy. The Firm presently has its unit in an acre of land at Baikampady Industrial area and the Ganjimutt project is aimed at expanding business. The firm manufactures commercial air conditioners. The Solid Blocks and Hollow Blocks unit of M/s Redstone Trading Corporation will come up in 8.83 acres of land in Kairangala village, Bantwal taluk, with an investment of Rs 17.25 crore. It will generate employment for 68 persons.  Mohammed Fayaz, partner of the trading corporation said apart from solid and hollow blocks, the unit would also manufacture cement pipes, electric poles and other value-added cement products. "The unit will come up within a year after the land is handed over to us," he said. John Richard D’Silva, partner, M/s Udupi Food Park, said the food park will be set up in 18 acres of land that has already been purchased. The food park will offer space for entrepreneurs and food industries on rental, lease or outright purchase. D’Silva, who expects the park to start in another seven months, will set up his own three cashew processing and allied units in that Food Park. The food park will come up at Mudaru Village, Karkala Taluk, Udupi District at a cost of Rs 26.78 crore. The employment generation is pegged at 14 people, but D;Silva said the employment potential will go up depending on the units that will set up shop there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tcs-gets-nod-to-set-up-ites-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/77400970.cms||Stanley Pinto
August 7, 2020||Goa||Yaya Toure drops asking price for India sojourn||PANAJI: When several Indian clubs received a pdf file in their emails, offering them the chance to sign Manchester City legend Yaya Toure, they simply dismissed it. Most knew that the midfielder who reportedly earned £230,000 (approx. Rs 2.07 crore) a week during his peak at the Etihad won’t come cheap. Harcus Consultancy Group, who are his South East Asian representative and player endorsement agent, also set the bar high when his price was fixed at $1.5 million (approx. Rs 11.25 crore) for an annual deal. A few inquiries later, however, clubs were told that the UEFA Champions League winner is willing to accept one-third of that amount -- post-Covid situation in world football – and would settle for offers closer to $500,000 (approx. 3.75 crore). “We were a bit surprised that a player of his calibre wanted to come to India. However, we also expected his salary to be quite high, so we didn’t pursue him. It was evident from the very beginning that the price would be beyond reasonable expectations of most ISL clubs,” said Ravi Puskur, FC Goa’s director of football. The 37-year-old, who last played in China for Qingdao Huanghai, was willing to bring down his price even further, if there were proceeds to gain from shirt sales. But that concept is alien to the Indian football market. FC Goa were not the only side to have been contacted. Bengaluru FC officials received the same proposal and, not surprisingly, CEO Mandar Tamhane didn’t take it too seriously. “Yaya Toure has been offered to us by Harcus (Consultancy). I got the message on Linkedin and three others from my team have it too. I have not responded, nor has the gentleman done a follow-up,” said Tamhane. Two other ISL clubs also confirmed that they were contacted, but not much headway was made. The ISL has a cap of Rs 16.5 crore for player salaries and bonuses, but payments for marquee players like Toure are not part of the cap. The former Barcelona and Manchester City star made a name for himself at FC Barcelona and then became a club legend at Manchester City, winning three Premier League titles, two League Cups and FA Cup. The midfielder left City in 2018 to join Olympiakos. His time in Greece lasted for just three months as his contract was terminated by mutual agreement. The Ivorian then moved to China with Qingdao Huanghai, before a much-publicised move to Brazil failed to materialise. Toure was recently seen training with League Two club Leyton Orient in England.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yaya-toure-drops-asking-price-for-india-sojourn/articleshow/77401046.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 7, 2020||Chennai||Koyambedu market not likely to reopen soon||CHENNAI: Reopening of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) is unlikely anytime soon as the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has refused to specify a date to throw open the facility for public. The market was completely shut in May after it emerged as a major hotspot for coronavirus, following which traders in the wholesale market were shifted to temporary wholesale markets at Madhavaram and Thirumazhisai for selling fruits and vegetables. A delegation comprising representatives of KWMC met CMDA, Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai Police officials on Thursday. The meeting comes in the wake of a traders’ body calling for a stir on Monday to protest against delay in reopening shops at Koyambedu. KWMC is maintained by market management committee (MMC) functioning under the aegis of CMDA. According to official sources with CMDA, traders were pressing for announcing a date to open Koyambedu. However, the officials did not commit on the date. Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associa-tions secretary S Chandran, who participated in the meeting, said CMDA authorities categorically told the delegation that the issue had to be decided after discussions with the chief minister. "We were also told that the entire market at Koyambedu is being refurbished and a separate committee to look into various issues including the menace of unauthorised vendors encroaching Koyambedu premises would be formed working in tandem with the existing MMC. But, there was no concrete decision on the date to reopen KWMC," he said. Authorities have sought more time to respond to our demand, he added. Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu president A M Vikramaraja said that their association was expecting a positive decision by Friday over their representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/koyambedu-market-not-likely-to-reopen-soon/articleshow/77401124.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Yaya Toure drops asking price for India sojourn||PANAJI: When several Indian clubs received a pdf file in their emails, offering them the chance to sign Manchester City legend Yaya Toure, they simply dismissed it. Most knew that the midfielder who reportedly earned £230,000 (approx. Rs 2.07 crore) a week during his peak at the Etihad won’t come cheap. Harcus Consultancy Group, who are his South East Asian representative and player endorsement agent, also set the bar high when his price was fixed at $1.5 million (approx. Rs 11.25 crore) for an annual deal. A few inquiries later, however, clubs were told that the UEFA Champions League winner is willing to accept one-third of that amount -- post-Covid situation in world football – and would settle for offers closer to $500,000 (approx. 3.75 crore). “We were a bit surprised that a player of his calibre wanted to come to India. However, we also expected his salary to be quite high, so we didn’t pursue him. It was evident from the very beginning that the price would be beyond reasonable expectations of most ISL clubs,” said Ravi Puskur, FC Goa’s director of football. The 37-year-old, who last played in China for Qingdao Huanghai, was willing to bring down his price even further, if there were proceeds to gain from shirt sales. But that concept is alien to the Indian football market. FC Goa were not the only side to have been contacted. Bengaluru FC officials received the same proposal and, not surprisingly, CEO Mandar Tamhane didn’t take it too seriously. “Yaya Toure has been offered to us by Harcus (Consultancy). I got the message on Linkedin and three others from my team have it too. I have not responded, nor has the gentleman done a follow-up,” said Tamhane. Two other ISL clubs also confirmed that they were contacted, but not much headway was made. The ISL has a cap of Rs 16.5 crore for player salaries and bonuses, but payments for marquee players like Toure are not part of the cap. The former Barcelona and Manchester City star made a name for himself at FC Barcelona and then became a club legend at Manchester City, winning three Premier League titles, two League Cups and FA Cup. The midfielder left City in 2018 to join Olympiakos. His time in Greece lasted for just three months as his contract was terminated by mutual agreement. The Ivorian then moved to China with Qingdao Huanghai, before a much-publicised move to Brazil failed to materialise. Toure was recently seen training with League Two club Leyton Orient in England.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yaya-toure-drops-asking-price-for-india-sojourn/articleshow/77401383.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 7, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Former SAD (B) MLA Nirmal Singh joins Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's group||PATIALA: Former MLA from Bassi Pathana Justice (Retd) Nirmal Singh along with some of his supporters joined Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Thursday at Bassi Pathana town of Fatehgarh Sahib district. Nirmal Singh claimed that the caste-based discrimination within the SAD (Badal) and the dictatorial behaviour of party’s president Sukhbir Singh Badal forced him to leave the party that had also abandoned its basic principles. While speaking to TOI, he criticised the BJP’s policy of interlinking of rivers and said he would never support it as it can prove disastrous for Punjab and was against the riparian principles. “On January 29, 1955, the Centre allocated 8 MAF water to Rajasthan from Punjab’s share without any right of Rajasthan under the internationally accepted riparian principles. Even, no royalty has been given to Punjab. But, Punjab also failed to hold any meeting with non-riparian states to get any royalty”, said, Nirmal Singh, who in May 2000, was elevated as Judge of Punjab and Haryana court. He later joined as Member of Interstate Water Dispute Tribunal in December 2009 and then resigned from the post in January 2012. Nirmal Singh, 73, who was elected as a SAD (B) MLA from Bassi Pathana in 2012 and had also contested unsuccessfully from Chamkaur Sahib in 2017, said he was inactive for over two years. “I had joined Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s new political party ‘Shiromani Akali Dal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-former-sad-b-mla-nirmal-singh-joins-with-sukhdev-singh-dhindsas-group/articleshow/77401211.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Eight trains from Kerala diverted due to tunnel collapse in Konkan railway||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as eight trains in Kerala will be operated on a diverted route via Pune due to the collapse of a tunnel lining wall between Madure and Pernem stations in Karwar region of Konkan railway division on Thursday. Here are the details: * Train No. 02617 Ernakulam – Hazrat Nizamuddin Superfast Special Express is diverted via Madgaon - Londa – Miraj - Pune - Panvel – Kalyan route till August 20. * Train No. 02618 Hazrat Nizamuddin– Ernakulam Superfast Special Express is diverted via Panvel – Pune – Miraj – Londa – Madgaon till August 20. * Train No. 06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central – Lokmanya Tilak (T) Special Express is diverted via Madgaon - Londa – Miraj - Pune - Panvel route till August 20. * Train No. 06345 Lokmanya Tilak (T) - Thiruvananthapuram Central is diverted via Panvel – Pune – Miraj – Londa – Madgaon till August 20. * Train No. 02431 Thiruvananthapuram Central- New Delhi Rajdhani Special Express is diverted via Madgaon -Londa - Miraj - Pune - Panvel till August 20. * Train No. 02432 New Delhi - Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani Special Express is diverted via Panvel – Pune – Miraj – Londa – Madgaon till August 18. * Train no 02284 Hazrat Nizamuddin - Ernakulam Duronto special express train is diverted via Panvel – Pune – Miraj – Londa – Madgaon till August 15. * Train no 02283 Ernakulam - Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto special express train is diverted via Madgaon -Londa - Miraj - Pune - Panvel till August 18. * Passengers may contact 022-27587939 and 10722 for train inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/eight-trains-from-kerala-diverted-due-to-tunnel-collapse-in-konkan-railway/articleshow/77401473.cms||Anasooya Sakthidharan
August 7, 2020||Goa||Retired judge-led panel likely to probe match-fixing in Goa||PANAJI: Goa Football Association (GFA) president Churchill Alemao is likely to appoint a five-member panel led by a retired judge to probe suspicions of match-fixing in the Goa Pro League. Sportradar, a company that monitors betting odds movements and patterns worldwide to identify suspicious activities, have identified six matches in the Goa Professional League with “suspicious betting patterns indicative of match-manipulation.” The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has asked GFA to conduct an investigation into these matches, and Alemao is in favour of an independent panel. “It’s better that an independent panel investigates. The GFA cannot do it on its own,” Alemao told TOI at the GFA headquarters in Panaji on Thursday. Once Alemao gave the go-ahead, the GFA quickly put the proposal before its executive committee, who have been asked to provide feedback before August 12. “Following the directives of the AIFF to conduct an investigation into the six red-flagged matches of Goa Professional League from October 16, 2019 to November 19, the president proposes to constitute a five-member committee headed by a retired judge and consisting of lawyers and retired government officials to conduct the inquiry,” GFA general Jovito Lopes wrote to the members. The composition of the panel is not fixed as yet. While the committee would be headed by a retired judge, there was no indication of how many lawyers, or retired government officials, would be accommodated. Asked whether at least one footballer could be part of the panel to provide key insights, Lopes said that decision would be left to the investigating committee. “Sportradar concludes that due to suspicious betting pattern, it indicates fixing. A report is then sent to AFC/AIFF showing red flags. It is only after the findings of the inquiry it is established whether the match was fixed or not. “In the case of GPL, the AFC suggested that there is evidence of suspicious betting pattern which indicates fixing, there being no proof as yet to establish that match-fixing actually took place,” the GFA said in a statement on Thursday. While Alemao enjoys majority in the committee and the panel would get the necessary vote, some members are likely to favour a police investigation. According to some members, the police is best equipped to conduct an investigation, while worries over the probe committee’s jurisdiction and powers also came to the fore. Alemao himself was convinced that the committee will to do justice to the role assigned to them. “I was first notified about the suspicious matches by the AIFF integrity officer when he was here for an integrity session for Churchill Brothers. He attended the I-League game after the session and told me about the suspicious matches. I sought proof, and when he went back (to Delhi), the report was sent to us (on March 3). “We were not provided with any proof. Till now we do not know how AFC or Siraj concluded that there were these suspicions,” said Alemao. That the AIFF remained silent for five months after sending the report to GFA was also questioned. “Siraj wrote to me (on Wednesday) only after I had sent an email to (AIFF general secretary) Kushal Das earlier in the day. Till then, they were silent. We were not asked anything about the inquiry,” said Lopes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/retired-judge-led-panel-likely-to-probe-match-fixing-in-goa/articleshow/77401891.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 7, 2020||India||Art unlocked: Artistes on virtual stage to connect with audience||* On Michael Jackson’s death anniversary, Bengaluru band Joel Jacob Collective did a ‘tribute concert’ for the King of Pops. As coloured lights and smoke set the mood, the musicians entertained their audience — all of them sitting at home. Comments throughout the show kept the singers motivated.* When lockdown kept his fans away from theatres, ‘dastango’ (raconteur) from Lucknow Himanshu Bajpai connected with a virtual audience to perform his ‘Dastangoi’ (story-telling). “It is important for us to keep the art alive,” said Bajpai.Artistes – from classical singers and dancers to theatre groups and Indie bands – are going online as live audiences are out of bounds, to remain connected with their admirers. And, many are earning too. Read more from this seriesWhile many Bengali plays, like Arun Mukhopadhyay’s iconic Mareech Sangbad, are being streamed as films on OTT platforms, Sutradhar, a theatre group in Hyderabad, screened a pre-recorded play Biryani Aur Haleem selling tickets online for Rs 200. Indian classical musicians are uploading content to boost their brand. Many like Ustad Rashid Khan and Pandit Bickram Ghosh in Kolkata are doing paid shows online. “Our careers have shifted online for now. I see it as a good thing. I’m getting a decent fee,” said Ghosh. Pune-based Swara Zankar created its own platform to facilitate paid virtual concerts to unlock classical music. Prominent vocalists participated in the Bhaktiranga fest last month and the ongoing annual Swara Malhar festival. In Odisha, Odissi danseuse Aruna Mohanty conducted an online dance festival – Udayaraga (ushering in a new dawn) — recently. Videos were uploaded on Orissa Dance Academy’s online platforms. Not just in Bengaluru, Indie bands are going live online in Kolkata too, many of which are ticketed shows. Some singers, including Bangla band Fossils’ frontman Rupam Islam, are doing solo shows. And, the Goa University choir was invited to represent Asia to be a part of a virtual rendition of Amazing Grace with legendary American singer-songwriter Judy Collins. Folk artistes across the country too are going online. In Rajasthan, Ustad Anwar Khan, Mangainar artiste from Jaisalmer, was asked by various international and national groups to perform live on social networking platforms. “When there is no other source of income, online performances have ensured us our daily bread,” said Khan. Known as king of ‘Nati’ (Himachali folk songs), Thakur Dass Rathi, whose live shows remain in high demand across Himachal Pradesh, released songs on virtual platforms during the lockdown. Jeevay Punjab, a group of aspiring artistes promoting Punjabi folk music, has opted for social media and online platforms to showcase their talent and raise funds. It has 51,000 YouTube subscribers and 8,000 followers on Facebook. The group is using its online presence to raise funds to launch their first album. Telugu litterateurs have adapted to the new normal through online Avadhanam, a literary feat unique to Telugu and Kannada culture. About 330 scholars participated online during the lockdown in the grand event, which otherwise is a Herculean task to perform even on stage. (With inputs from Lucknow, Kolkata, Pune, Bengaluru, Goa, Ahmedabad, Bhubaneshwar, Jaipur, Ludhiana, Bhopal, Shimla & Hyderabad)(This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/art-unlocked-artistes-on-virtual-stage-to-connect-with-audience/articleshow/77395998.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||‘Emerging areas like AI, quantum tech must be India’s focus’||Prof Govindan Rangarajan, director, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), has taken charge of the institute in the middle of the pandemic. He speaks to  Chethan Kumar on the institute's goals and vision, the path Indian science must take in the coming years to be able to compete globally and Covid response. Excerpts:■Can you elaborate on the institute’s goals and vision for the next five years…In the coming years, IISc aims to position itself among the world’s foremost academic institutions. We will focus on building our core research strengths in all frontiers of science and engineering, and maintain our emphasis on imparting world-class education. We’ll continue to encourage high-impact research (both fundamental and applied), greater industry interaction and incubation of start-ups. Our faculty will continue to contribute to the success of national and international initiatives. We’ll continue activities with direct social impact, such as training school teachers, disseminating sustainable rural technologies, and research in areas like climate change, healthcare, water management, and renewable energy. At the same time, we seek to adopt modern professional practices, and benchmark ourselves against international standards. ■ Indian scientific community has responded well to Covid, are you happy with IISc’s contribution?We’re proud that several research groups at IISc immediately stepped up to the challenge even from the early days of the pandemic, and have been working tirelessly on Covid-19 solutions. IISc has always encouraged faculty members from diverse disciplines to work together to address such critical challenges. There are different areas our researchers are contributing to: diagnostics (including rapid, cheaper and mobile testing solutions), vaccine development, hospital assistive devices like ventilators and oxygen concentrators, santisation solutions, models predicting pandemic spread and more. We’ve also set up a test centre to facilitate increased testing. ■ How do you think the new education policy will impact doing science in India?The new education policy is a detailed and comprehensive document. We will need some time to study its recommendations to understand what changes it will bring about in higher education and research in the country. ■ Interdisciplinary science has become more relevant than ever now, is India doing enough?There are no boundaries in nature between physics, mathematics, biology, and chemistry. So, in order to better understand how the world works and to solve our pressing problems, we must move towards an interdisciplinary curriculum, something I believe the new education policy also emphasises. We’ve also adopted this philosophy in our research. We’ve set up many departments that are inherently interdisciplinary — new centres that work on water, energy, nanotechnology, bioengineering, data science, autonomous systems and so on. In fact, this is why we set up the Division of Interdisciplinary Research in 2014, which I chaired until I took over as the director. And when I look around, I see many more universities and colleges pushing for interdisciplinary education and research, which is encouraging. ■ Which are, in your opinion, some of the focus areas Indian science must look at in the next decade?We must continue to do cutting-edge basic research we are known for. In particular, Indian science should focus on emerging areas such as quantum technologies, artificial intelligence, materials genomics, and cyber physical systems. But it’s also important to focus on the pressing problems that we face, ranging from infectious diseases to climate change. As I’ve mentioned before, these are not problems that can be addressed solely by researchers specialising in just one field — as we’re seeing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, it is important, especially in a country like India, to strike a balance between what are traditionally called fundamental and applied research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/emerging-areas-like-ai-quantum-tech-must-be-indias-focus/articleshow/77402776.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 7, 2020||World||US Senate votes to ban TikTok app on government devices||WASHINGTON: The US Senate on Thursday unanimously voted to approve a bill from Senator Josh Hawley banning federal employees from using video-sharing app TikTok on government-issued devices, amid threats from the White House to ban the company. The app has come under fire from US lawmakers and the Trump administration over national security concerns because China's ByteDance owns the technology. The company currently faces a deadline of Sept 15 to either sell its US operations to Microsoft Corp or face an outright ban. Sources have previously told Reuters that ByteDance executives value all of TikTok at more than $50 billion. Under a Chinese law introduced in 2017, companies have an obligation to support and cooperate in the country's national intelligence work. "I'm encouraged by the bipartisan support we have seen in this body to hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable and that includes ... holding accountable those corporations who would just do China's bidding," Senator Hawley said in a statement. "And, if I have anything to say about it, we won't be stopping here," the Republican senator added. Last month, the House of Representatives voted to bar federal employees from downloading the app on government-issued devices as part of a proposal offered by Representative Ken Buck. With passage in the House and approval by the Senate, the prohibition is expected to soon become law in the United States. A TikTok spokeswoman said its growing US team has no higher priority than promoting a safe app experience that protects users' privacy. On Wednesday, TikTok said it was working with experts from the US Department of Homeland Security to "protect against foreign influence" and fact-check potential misinformation about the election. The company has increasingly emerged as a platform for political discourse and activism. Users recently said they helped inflate attendance expectations at US President Donald Trump’s June rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Last year, the company said about 60% of its 26.5 million monthly active US users are aged 16 to 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-senate-votes-to-ban-tiktok-app-on-government-devices/articleshow/77402902.cms||---
August 7, 2020||World||Lebanese judge: 16 port staffers arrested over Beirut blast||BEIRUT: Sixteen staff members at Beirut's port, the site of a massive explosion, have been detained over the deadly blast that devastated large parts of the city, a military prosecutor said Thursday. Lebanese authorities had announced an investigation into Tuesday's explosion, which they said was triggered by a fire igniting 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse at Beirut's port. Lebanon's foreign minister said on French radio Thursday that an investigating committee had been given four days to determine responsibility for the blast, which killed more than 130 people and wounded at least 5,000. Military prosecutor Fadi Akiki said in a statement that 18 staffers at Beirut's port had been called in for questioning, 16 of whom remain in custody pending further investigations. They include port and customs officials as well as maintenance workers and their managers, Akiki said. His statement came as an official confirmed to AFP that the central bank had ordered an asset freeze for seven port and customs officials, including Badri Daher, director-general of Lebanon's customs authority. The official spoke on the condition of anonimity because he is not authorised to speak on the issue. A banking source confirmed to AFP that all the country's commercial banks recieved the order, which also lifts banking secrecy from accounts owned or linked to those in question. Even as they counted their dead and cleared streets of debris, many Lebanese were boiling with anger over a blast they see as the most shocking expression yet of their leadership's incompetence. Many have raised questions as to how such a huge cargo of highly explosive material could have been left unsecured for years. French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited Lebanon on Thursday, called for an international enquiry, echoing demands widely supported in Lebanon and abroad for an independent probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/lebanese-judge-16-port-staffers-arrested-over-beirut-blast/articleshow/77402625.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||RBI opens one-time window for companies, individuals to recast loans||MUMBAI: For the first time since the 2008 financial crisis, the Reserve Bank of India on Thursday announced an across-the-board loan restructuring scheme that will extend to individuals, in addition to airlines, hotels and steel and cement companies hit by the pandemic. The step is being viewed as the central bank’s effort to shoulder the burden of seeing the economy through the worst peacetime crisis in the last 100 years. The loan restructuring scheme comes in the backdrop of the government putting the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in cold storage, at least for the time being. The Centre promulgated an ordinance to keep insolvency action in abeyance for at least six months after acknowledging that IBC was helping improve the payment culture. Several businesses, such as hotels, airlines and even factories are either shut or are operating below capacity due to health restrictions and lower demand, resulting in widespread job losses. The potential long-term damage to businesses, which had a good track-record of paying loans, prompted RBI governor Shaktikanta Das to allow loan resolution to ensure that they retained their viability. Read AlsoRBI keeps repo rate unchanged: Key things to knowThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday decided to keep key lending rate unchanged in its August policy review meeting. The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC), headed by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, kept repo rate untouched at 4 per cent; and reverse repo rate at 3.35 per cent.The regulator has mandated that banks set aside 10% of the restructured amount for possible loss in future, a move that will force the government to provide additional capital to state-run lenders that control two-thirds of the business. The details of the scheme will be worked out by an expert panel headed by veteran banker KV Kamath. The committee will provide a checklist to lenders to help them decide on restructuring and also vet large loans for viability. Home loan borrowers who have availed of RBI’s repayment moratorium, which ends on August 31, will have to wait for their banks and housing finance companies to announce the details of the restructuring scheme. According to lenders, the restructuring could be like a step-up feature where they pay a smaller EMI for initial years. RBI’s scheme also gives lenders the option to extend a moratorium. The only condition is that the term of the loan should not be extended by more than two years. Also, borrowers who have defaulted before the moratorium announced in March 2020 will not be eligible for restructuring. Restructuring is also not available to financial sector entities, central and state government as well as local bodies like municipalities. “Restructuring a home loan is simpler than restructuring a business loan. For salaried, who have seen a reduction in income, there is a clear indication of the cash flow,” said Rajkiran Rai, MD & CEO, Union Bank. There are safeguards to ensure that banks keep an eye on such loans. They have to make an additional provision of 10% and also be prepared to classify them as non-performing assets even if they miss out on one EMI. Read AlsoProtracted spread of Covid-19 poses downside risk to economy: RBIThe Reserve Bank of India on Thursday sounded a note of caution saying that protracted spread of the Covid-19 pandemic poses "downside risk" to the domestic economy which is expected to remain in the negative zone in the current fiscal.Until now, banks could not provide relief without classifying a borrower as a defaulter (non-performing asset) or changing the owner. Now banks can restructure loans for existing owners of businesses. Bankers made it clear that this restructuring is not a giveaway promoting indiscipline among borrowers. “This scheme does not benefit defaulters and penalise those who have been diligent. Only those who have been paying in time until the Covid lockdown will be eligible,” said Samuel Joseph Jebaraj, deputy MD, IDBI Bank. He said that while businesses that have borrowed beyond their means can also apply (if they have not defaulted) they may not pass the test of viability and not be eligible. Under the new scheme, banks have to decide on extending the restructuring scheme by December 2020 and restructuring must be implemented by March 2021. In respect of the restructured loans, banks have to maintain 10% additional provisions. There is an indirect pressure on minority lenders in a consortium to fall in line and sign the restructuring agreement as those not participating in restructuring must make additional provision of 20%. According to Das, the Covid-19 economic stress can potentially impact the long-term viability of a large number of firms, otherwise having a good track record under the existing promoters, due to their debt burden becoming disproportionate, relative to their cash flow generation. “Such widespread impact could impair the entire recovery process, posing significant financial stability risks. Considering the above, with the intent to facilitate a revival of real sector activities and mitigate the impact on the ultimate borrowers, it has been decided to provide a window to implement a resolution plan for corporate, without a change in ownership, and individual loans,” said Das. Watch RBI's one-time window for companies, individuals to recast loans gives helping hand to India Inc||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-opens-one-time-window-for-companies-individuals-to-recast-loans/articleshow/77403162.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 7, 2020||India||Manoj Sinha surprise pick as new J&K LG||NEW DELHI: BJP veteran and former central minister Manoj Sinha was appointed lieutenant governor of Jammu & Kashmir in a surprise move after the abrupt exit of G C Murmu on Wednesday. The 61-year-old is seen to enjoy a rapport with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comes across as an affable politician with a reputation for getting things done. He will be the first politician to be appointed LG in the newly formed Union territory and his track record as in-charge of the communications ministry and as MoS railways in Modi 1.0 indicates that he is seen as someone with experience in infrastructure development besides bringing a political touch to the office that might be needed whenever assembly polls are held in J&K. Sinha lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Ghazipur to BSP's Afzal Ansari, who was backed by the Samajwadi Party, in a contest where caste trumped the goodwill he had earned by implementing a string of development projects. The assignment suggests that the loss did not dim his standing before the PM. A three-time MP, Sinha is an engineer and a product of Banaras Hindu University, where he was elected president of the students’ union. Known for his relaxed manner, Sinha is seen to have the skills for an outreach that will be needed with the progressive release of political leaders in the UT and restoration of the normal political process. Sinha arrived in Srinagar soon after his appointment was announced and is likely to take oath on Friday. His experience and access to the top BJP leadership can be expected to place him on a better footing while engaging with political parties and leaders in the Valley and in Jammu. The assignment will, however, test Sinha, as some of his predecessors have discovered. Development tasks are not easy to implement in the face of resistance from terrorists and separatists and the political cauldron in the UT remains in a state of ferment. The near-constant efforts of Pakistan to destablise the region and prevent normalcy, particularly in the aftermath of the nullification of Article 370 and the decision to divide J&K into two UTs, present a unique set of challenges different from the political assignments Sinha has handled. A Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said, "The President has been pleased to appoint Manoj Sinha to be the lieutenant governor of Jammu & Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office." Sinha was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1996, 1999 and 2014. Previously, the Centre had deputed former Union minister Satya Pal Malik as governor of the erstwhile J&K state. He was seen as an unconventional choice and often spoke his mind freely with mixed results. Sinha was also in contention for the UP chief minister’s post but BJP chose Yogi Adityanath. Watch Manoj Sinha arrives in Srinagar to take charge as Lt Governor of J&K||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/manoj-sinha-surprise-pick-as-new-jk-lg/articleshow/77403538.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||India, US reiterate working towards secure, sovereign Indo-Pacific||WASHINGTON: US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday discussed the relationship between US and India to advance peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific. The two leaders also reiterated their cooperation to advance peace in Afghanistan and their commitment to fighting Covid-19. "Great speaking with Indian minister of external affairs Dr S Jaishankar about the US-India relationship and our work to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. We remain united to advance peace in Afghanistan, and to a secure and sovereign Indo-Pacific in which all countries can prosper," Pompeo said after his call with Jaishankar. Principal Deputy Spokesperson, US State Department Cale Brown in a statement said that both leaders agreed to continue close cooperation on a full range of regional and international issues and look forward to Quadrilateral consultations and the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year. Pompeo had recently said that US, Australia, India, and Japan had reinvigorated the "Quad" grouping. "We're proud to have stepped up maritime manoeuvres in that body of water alongside friends like Australia, India, Japan, and the UK," he said. He said all 10 ASEAN nations have insisted that the South China Sea disputes must be settled on the basis of international law, including UNCLOS. Pompeo has been urging countries to push back against China, whose Chinese Communist Party (CCP) he said, rather than helping the world during this Covid crisis, is bullying its neighbours and militarizing features in the South China Sea. Meanwhile, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and Taliban deputy leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar had over a recent video call discussed the start of the intra-Afghan talks. Also acting minister of foreign affairs of Afghanistan, Mohammad Haneef Atmar met with Vinay Kumar, Indian Ambassador to Kabul, on Monday afternoon wherein the two sides deliberated importance of further strengthening regional consensuses on the Afghan peace process. On February 29, the United States and the Taliban movement signed a peace deal in Qatar's capital city Doha for a gradual withdrawal of US troops and the beginning of intra-Afghan negotiations and prisoner exchanges. The Taliban has announced a three-day cease-fire during Eid al-Adha last week, which was welcomed and reciprocated by the Afghan government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-reiterate-working-towards-secure-sovereign-indo-pacific/articleshow/77403722.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||India’s Covid count crosses 2 million, record 62k+ cases on Thursday||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases recorded in India crossed 2 million on Thursday, with the last 1 million cases coming in just 21 days, even as fresh infections surged in the country to an all-time high of over 62,000 in a single day. India also reported 912 deaths on Thursday, the second-highest in a day so far. Just two other countries have recorded over 2 million coronavirus cases, the US and Brazil. While the number of deaths in India at the 2-million stage is far less than the other two, India has the fastest growth rate of the infection (3.1%). At the same stage, the US had a growth rate of 1.1% and Brazil 2%. It took 21 days for infections to rise to 2 million from the 1-million mark. The last 0.5 million cases have come at a faster pace; just nine days. India recorded 62,482 cases on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 20,23,821, as per data collated from state governments. This was the first time that daily cases in the country crossed the 60,000 mark. The previous highest was 57,151 recorded on July 31. The number of tests conducted across the country on Wednesday was also the highest so far at over 6.6 lakh. Thursday was the second straight day when the country reported more than 900 Covid-19 deaths. On Wednesday, 918 deaths were recorded. The biggest surge in fresh infections on Thursday came on the back of at least nine states recording their highest jump in cases, led by Maharashtra, which reported 11,514 cases. The other states were Karnataka (6,805 new cases), Uttar Pradesh (4,658), Bengal (2,954), Telangana (2,092), Odisha (1,699), Punjab (1,049), Jharkhand (1,060) and Meghalaya (51). Besides, Andhra Pradesh reported as many as 10,328 cases, its second highest number so far. Although Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day cases, beating the previous record of 11,147 on July 30, Mumbai’s share in the state’s daily cases declined further to just 8% on Thursday. After Mumbai and Pune districts, Thane became the third to breach the one lakh mark in cases on Thursday. Three districts — Mumbai, Pune and Thane — account for 3,25,378 (68%) of the state’s case tally. A dozen corporations come under these districts, showing that the disease burden continues to be predominantly in urban areas. Worryingly, Maharashtra for the second day in row added over 300 deaths. With the addition of 316 deaths on Thursday, the third highest so far, total fatalities for the state rose to 16,792. Mumbai reported 57, the highest in seven days. The Covid-19 surge continued in Andhra Pradesh as the state registered 72 deaths and 10,328 fresh cases on Thursday. As many as 63,686 more samples were tested (30,947 through VRDL, Truenat and NACO tests, and another 32,739 through rapid antigen tests). Telangana reported 2,092 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths as authorities of worst-affected districts are running out of beds. Warangal recorded no availability of beds for the second consecutive day. The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial hospital (MGM) there said they need more beds, even as the district continued to record over 100 cases each day. For the fourth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu saw more than 100 Covid-19 deaths while the number of fresh cases rose again in the southern districts after falling for two days. The cumulative toll is now 4,571, including the 110 people reported dead on Thursday. However on all these four days, the number of people who recovered exceeded the number of new infections by a small margin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-crosses-2-million-record-62k-cases-on-thursday/articleshow/77403743.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||First phase of digital health mission likely to cover some UTs||NEWDELHI: All government health programmes and health insurance schemes will be linked with the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), enabling beneficiaries to digitally capture their health records into one health ID as well as seek faster reimbursement for health claims from insurers. The final “strategy overview” document prepared by the National Health Authority (NHA) for implementation of NDHM has been approved at the top levels of government and NHA is now setting the stage to launch the digital platform in select places. TOI has reviewed the document. The first phase will include Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep, Ladakh and Puducherry, a source said. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that PM Narendra Modi is likely to announce the launch of the mission as part of his Independence Day speech on August 15. NDHM is envisaged as a complete digital health ecosystem with a personal health IDs for every Indian, digitisation of health records as well as a registry of doctors and health facilities across the country. “All government health programmes are required to integrate with the service and issue health IDs as part of their programmes. This will ensure that information from visit to public health facilities and those being captured across various health programmes like RCH, NIKSHAY, NCD, PMJAY will be included in the patients’ longitudinal health record,” the document says. However, it clarifies that obtaining a health ID will not mean inclusion of all benefits under the schemes.This ID will be applicable across states, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and pharmacies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-phase-of-digital-health-mission-likely-to-cover-some-uts/articleshow/77403785.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 7, 2020||India||Priority is when & how to reopen schools, says WHO chief scientist||CHENNAI: In the absence of a vaccine, states should test more and isolate Covid-19 patients, WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan told TOI in an interview. She, however, added that states should reopen schools so that learning and overall health of the children are not affected. “One of the emerging priorities is how and when to reopen schools. Disruptions to instructional time in the classroom can have a severe impact on a child’s ability to learn. That puts schools as one of the high priorities in the coming days. The impact can be worse when the poor and marginalised children are out of school for long. They may not have facilities to access online education and many may not return to schools if they don’t restart,” she said. The WHO scientist also cautioned that being out of school increases the risk of abuse, child marriage, violence and other threats. When asked how reopening of schools is possible when the pandemic is peaking in many places, Swaminathan said it is a tough call, but in the absence of a vaccine the governments will have to implement the known health and social measures. “Preparation for reopening must start well in advance. Most governments now have improved strategies to track, test and isolate Covid patients. We must continue to make use of these tools. Initially, schools should open in low incidence districts with staggered timings,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priority-is-when-how-to-reopen-schools-says-who-chief-scientist/articleshow/77403857.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 7, 2020||India||G C Murmu replaces Mehrishi as CAG||NEW DELHI: Former J&K lieutenant governor G C Murmu, a 1985 batch IAS officer, was appointed the Comptroller and Auditor General on Thursday. He will succeed Rajiv Mehrishi, who is retiring on Friday. A government notification said the President had appointed Murmu to be the CAG from the date he took charge of the office. Murmu resigned as J&K LG on Wednesday in a surprise move. While the Centre swiftly chose former Union miniser Manoj Sinha as his successor in Srinagar, the decision on who would succeed Mehrishi as CAG did not come until late on Thursday evening. Trusted by PM Narendra Modi, Murmu served in the home department of Gujarat when Modi was chief minister. Later, he served as Modi’s principal secretary in the state. He was brought to the finance ministry to handle the Goods and Services Tax regime as additional secretary after Modi became prime minister and was involved in the implementation of indirect tax reforms. Incidentally, Murmu will have at least four deputy CAGs senior to him in batch and three others of his batch to assist him in his new assignment. The CAG is assisted by seven deputy CAGs from the top cadres of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. The CAG brings out at least 150 reports annually for both the central and state governments and is the supreme audit institution of the country. Watch Strengthened local governance with public participation in J&K: says former LG, GC Murmu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-c-murmu-replaces-mehrishi-as-cag/articleshow/77403897.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||Last leg of Naga talks may start in Delhi today||GUWAHATI: The Centre has invited the NSCN (IM) for one last round of talks in Delhi on Friday to close the 23-year-old Naga peace process and ink a “final settlement” by Independence Day. Apart from NSCN (IM) members, the meeting will be attended by representatives of Assam, Manipur and Arunachal, parts of which the outfit claims are “Naga areas”. Its primary demand — and the stumbling block in the decadeslong dialogue — is territorial integration of all Naga-inhabited areas of the northeast. A top NSCN(IM) functionary said on Thursday, “Our team will travel to Delhi tomorrow for the peace talks. Hoping for a positive outcome.” Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), a conglomerate of seven other organisations participating in the dialogue, said it had already closed its negotiations with the Centre. NSCN (IM)’s 86-year-old general secretary Thuengaleng Muivah, who has been in Delhi since July 20 for medical treatment, is likely to lead the negotiations at Friday’s meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/last-leg-of-naga-talks-may-start-in-delhi-today/articleshow/77403922.cms||Prabin Kalita
August 7, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi’s archaeologist to get Nat’l award||Varanasi: Noted archaeologist and former head of the department of Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Banaras Hindu University Prof Vidula Jayaswal will be awarded with Dr VS Wakankar National Award on Friday. The department of culture, Madhya Pradesh government has instituted the National Award in memory of Late Dr VS Wakankar. This award is given to archaeologist for contribution of constructed creativity and outstanding achievement in the field of archaeology and history by doing extensive research in the subject. According to the archaeological officer Dr Ramesh Yadav, under this award series, Prof Vidula Jayaswal will be awarded for the year at her residence in Varanasi on Friday. After completing her PhD from BHU, she received post-doctoral training at the department of archaeology, University of Berkley, California, USA. A scholar of repute, her field of specialization is Prehistory, Indian Archaeology and Art History. During her tenure at BHU, Jaysawal had led the excavations in the periphery of Varanasi at Ramnagar (2004-2005 & 2006-2007) and Akatha (2001-2002 & 2002- 2003). The archaeological remains found at Akatha suggested that it had a settlement in 1800 BC while Ramnagar had settlement in 1750 BC. These findings of Akatha and Ramnagar made her work on a fresh exercise to ascertain the actual age of Kashi (Varanasi), which has a living history from 800 BC based on earlier excavations at Rajghat. In 2014, Jayaswal had undertaken an excavation work with the help from the Archaeological Survey of India at Rajghat to unearth the antiquity of Varanasi. Based on the earlier findings, the ASI records suggest that the site of Rajghat perhaps represents the ancient Kashi. This area has been one of the oldest settlement sites and still possesses natural groves and old remains. This mound was excavated by BHU and from 1960 to 1969 and a trial trench was dug in 1957. The excavation carried out at Rajghat brought to light artifacts dating back to 8th century BC to 18th century AD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasis-archaeologist-to-get-natl-award/articleshow/77399484.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||Death toll in Vadodara crosses 100||Vadodara: The number of deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause crossed 100 in the city and district with two more deaths being confirmed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Thursday. Since Wednesday night, 104 more cases of the viral infection have come to light. The total number of victims of the pandemic in the city and district reached 101 as per official data. The figures do not include persons who had tested positive for Covid-19, but died due to comorbidities or those whose death audit reports are still pending. The fresh cases detected in the VMC limits included 30 in the west zone, 21 in the south zone, 18 in the east zone and six in the north zone. As many as 28 cases were reported outside VMC limits in Vadodara district including cases from Padra, Kanjat, Karjan, Por, Savli and Dabhoi. One person from Anand also tested positive in the city. The number of persons discharged from hospitals or home quarantine reached 4,029. These included 39 persons who were discharged on Thursday. The data includes Covid-19 positive patients who died due to comorbidities. The condition of 57 persons admitted in various hospitals was reported to be serious as they were on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Another 144 patients were breathing with the help of oxygen. The total number of persons in hospitals now stands at 1,126.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/death-toll-in-vadodara-crosses-100/articleshow/77399136.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Containment zones to see heightened vigil||PATNA: With numerous complaints regarding free movement of people pouring in, the district administration has geared up to ensure strict perimeter control in the containment zones across Patna. At a meeting held on Wednesday evening, chief secretary Deepak Kumar instructed the officials concerned to ensure additional deployment of magistrates and police personnel in the containment zones. At present, there are 100 containment zones that cover altogether 33,888 households and 1.37 lakh people in the district. “The officials have been told to find out the localities and areas with more Covid positive cases so that more police personnel are deployed for strict vigilance and extra precautions taken,” officiating district magistrate (DM) and deputy development commissioner Richie Pandey told this newspaper on Thursday. He added, “Chief secretary Deepak Kumar has asked the authorities concerned to ensure that symptomatic patients living in containment zones are tested. Door-to-door screening and surveillance of all the people in these areas will be done by Asha workers. Besides, health check-ups will also be conducted in every household after an interval of three days.” To monitor all such activities, additional magistrates have been deployed in the containment zones. The district administration is also planning to create micro-containment zones in the city. Meanwhile, many residents complained that the exercise of sealing houses and declaring containment zones was just an eyewash because people were crossing barricades and moving freely across the city. Paliganj resident Saif Mallick claimed that his area was sealed a week ago, but people were roaming around as if everything was normal. “There are no policemen to keep tabs on the movement of people. Vehicles are plying on the road and all shops are open,” he rued. Rajiv Nagar resident Deepa Singh said, “The locals have removed the barricade and hawkers are moving freely.” While many are concerned about the careless attitude of people, some are not happy with their inclusion in containment zones. Pritha Shankar, a resident of Buddha Colony, pointed out, “Four positive cases were reported from a flat near my house, but our entire lane was sealed. Now, we are finding it difficult to get essential commodities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/containment-zones-to-see-heightened-vigil/articleshow/77400083.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Two Magadh Mahila College hostels turn Covid hotspots||PATNA: Even as the offices of Patna University (PU) and all its allied units have resumed operations with limited staff, Magadh Mahila College (MMC) is still shut as its hostels have reportedly turned into Covid hotspots. Altogether seven people, including hostel superintendents, their family members and other staff, have tested positive for Covid-19 and are under quarantine. They are being treated in their respective hostel rooms. MMC principal Shashi Sharma told this newspaper on Thursday, “The first case was reported on July 25 when the husband of the superintendent of Maitreyi Hostel located on the college campus tested positive. Other family members, including the superintendent, were also infected. Later, few staff of Avantika Hostel were found to be corona positive.” The principal alleged that she did not receive any support or help from the district administration in the hospitalization and treatment of the infected staff. She made necessary arrangements for them and got the entire college campus thoroughly sanitized. She claimed, “The situation is now under control as no fresh case has been reported this week.” Although the college is closed for students and teachers, a multi-storey hostel that can accommodate nearly 640 girls is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 31.08 crore. “People from outside the state are engaged in the construction work, but we are taking all precautionary measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” Sharma said. MMC office is likely to reopen on August 16. PU medical officer also infected: One medical officer of PU Central Dispensary, Dr Khursheed Alam, has tested positive for corona and is being treated. “The entire university office and its surroundings are being sanitized regularly,” PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-magadh-mahila-college-hostels-turn-corona-hotspots/articleshow/77400158.cms||B K Mishra
August 7, 2020||Patna||Covid treatment: Rate caps for Patna private hospitals soon||PATNA: At a time when people are under financial distress due to Covid-19 pandemic, private hospitals in the city are allegedly increasing their financial load by charging exorbitant amount for treatment. A Covid patient from Motihari, who was recently discharged from a private hospital at Bypass, said he was made to pay Rs 1.63 lakh for five days. “They took Rs 25,000 as advance at the time of admission. In the name of treatment, I got five anti-viral injections, each costing around Rs 5,300, and some other medicines,” he added. Another man from Aurangabad alleged a private hospital in Bhagwat Nagar charged Rs 14,000 per day for one ICU bed. “The daily charge for the room was Rs 3,500. Besides, I had to pay for gloves and masks as well,” he added. A youth from Kankarbagh said a private hospital on 90 Feet Road is charging as high as Rs 7 lakh for Covid treatment. “Since it’s difficult to get admission in government hospitals, people are forced to go to private hospitals,” he added. Dr Sunil Kumar, secretary of state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said private hospitals were charging on their own as there was no rate fixation. “I also heard some hospitals at Bypass are charging up to Rs 50,000 per day from one patient. Patna civil surgeon should regulate the rate,” he added. Meanwhile, a committee has been set up by the district administration to fix a rate cap for private hospitals treating Covid patients. Patna DM incharge and deputy development commissioner Richie Pandey heads the committee comprising Patna civil surgeon and other senior doctors. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the committee will cap the rates for private hospitals. “The committee was formed a couple of days back to stop private hospitals from charging more money from people. The final charges for Covid treatment at private hospitals will be approved by Patna DM Kumar Ravi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-treatment-rate-caps-for-private-hospitals-soon/articleshow/77400233.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Pharmacists and nurses protest outside health minister’s residence||PATNA: Over 100 pharmacists and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) protested outside the official residence of health minister Mangal Pandey here on Thursday, demanding increase in their payment. Their representatives also met Pandey, who asked them to come for the talks again on Friday. These pharmacists and ANMs were roped in by the state health society under the National Health Mission, along with Ayush doctors on contract basis in 2015. Akhil Bhartiya Pharmacist Association general secretary Rajeev Kumar Sinha said they all joined in 2015 and while payment of Ayush doctors had been increased manifold, pharmacists and AMNs were ignored. A pharmacist said Ayush doctors were getting Rs 20,000 per month, pharmacists Rs 12,000 and ANMs Rs 10,500 when they were hired. “The Ayush doctors are getting Rs 44,000 per month now while our salary remains almost the same,” he added. “We are also getting less than the pharmacists roped in by the state government on contract basis. While we get around Rs 13,000 now, the state government’s pharmacists are being given Rs 37,000,” Rajeev added. He said their delegation was called by the health minister at secretariat, but while three representatives were on the way, police detained them. “It was on the intervention of the health minister that our colleagues were released. The health minister has accepted some of our demands and the talks will continue on Friday,” Rajeev added. He said at present, around 550 pharmacists and 750 ANMs are working in Bihar under NHM. As a mark of protest, they first went under home quarantine from June 15 to 29 and then on an indefinite strike. “We tried all possible ways to get our voices heard. Since no one was listening to our grievances, we opted for peacefully protesting outside the minister’s bungalow,” Rajeev added. One of the ANMs at the protest site, Renu Kumari, said, “Our salary should be revised just like the Ayush doctors.” A health department official too said pharmacists and ANMs were being paid much less than their counterparts hired by the state government, especially permanent ones, even though there was not much difference in the work they do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pharmacists-and-nurses-protest-outside-health-ministers-residence/articleshow/77400280.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot could have got 45 MLAs if he had taken our advice: Bairwa||JAIPUR: Young Congress legislator Prashant Bairwa, who was once seen close to Sachin Pilot but is currently in the Ashok Gehlot camp corralled in Jaisalmer, on Thursday said the sacked deputy chief minister could have had 40-45 MLAs and not just 19 if the latter had taken advice from people like him. “(But) Somebody else was turning the game (in Pilot camp). He did not realise he has a big team. The people he has trusted will be the first to ditch him. They will run back to us,” Bairwa said, talking to a local news channel while returning to his hotel in Jaisalmer after a medical check-up, accompanied by Gehlot’s trusted cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad. The MLA declined to name Pilot’s advisors. “I will post selfies with them once they are exposed,” replied the MLA, who represents Niwai assembly constituency in Tonk district. Pilot represents Tonk assembly constituency. The two Congressmen have had a long and close association with each other. Bairwa, who has been in the Gehlot camp ever since the political turmoil started on July 11, claimed that Pilot was acting on the advice of MLAs who would ditch him at the first opportunity. The MLA, who is of the same age as that of the rebel leader, said Pilot has a “hot temperament” and “something” might have forced him to revolt “in the heat of the moment.” Bairwa described Pilot as a “good politician” who has well-wishers in the Gehlot camp too. “But that does not mean we will not vote for the Congress. We will 100 per cent vote for the Congress. We are not among those who give someone a shove,” Bairwa said. “Congress made Pilot the ‘big leader’ that he is,” the MLA added. Bairwa said money and BJP were surely involved in the present political crisis and he was with the Gehlot camp after having rejected these. “If BJP was not involved, these MLAs would not have stayed in the BJP-ruled Haryana and that state’s police would not have shielded them. Now they have moved to Gujarat, which again is a BJP ruled state,” Bairwa claimed. He added, “There are MLAs who want to return (to Gehlot camp) but they are not being allowed.” Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad said, “Congress gave so much to Pilot. He was the longest serving PCC chief. Despite that, he took such a decision. What will people make of it? Farmers and the common man will see that you are selling yourself. The kind of anger that people now have against him was never seen before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-could-have-got-45-mlas-if-he-had-taken-our-advice-bairwa/articleshow/77402671.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Postpone civic polls by 3 months: Congress to Rajasthan SEC||JAIPUR: As elections to 129 municipal bodies (nagar palika) are scheduled to be held this month, the Congress on Thursday urged the state election commission (SEC) to postpone it by three months looking at rising Covid cases. The BJP, however, said it was ready to participate in the electoral process if the government was prepared to conduct it. Meanwhile, state election commissioner P S Mehra cited examples of countries that conducted polls amidst the pandemic. The SEC has also sought the latest Covid data from the health department, which will be submitted in a couple of days. The LSG department had urged the SEC to postpone the polls. “We had said if the administration and SEC are ready to conduct polls (in this situation), we are up for it. If they can conduct it by ensuring social distancing and following Covid norms, we are ready to participate in the electoral process. We also suggested them to conduct their own survey and issue guidelines for the polls since it can’t be stalled indefinitely,” said BJP’s Nahar Singh, who attended the meeting. Congress’ Satyendra Bhardwaj said, “Looking the at the rising Covid cases, we suggested that the polls be postponed for three months. After three months, they should conduct a review of the situation and decide. I also cited a Supreme Court judgment (Kishan Singh Tomar case) in which the court deferred the polls in Ahmedabad.” “While they (SEC) said the number of voters in each polling booth has been reduced to 600, I asked them how they will manage the crowd during public meetings and campaigns. There will be a violation of the Covid guidelines issued by the Centre and the state. How will they control such a situation?” “Mehraji asked, how one could guarantee the situation will improve in three months. He gave examples of countries that conducted elections amidst the pandemic. However, I said, the situation and the election process/atmosphere may vary from country to country. It’s difficult to follow these things in India,” he added. Sri Lanka and Singapore conducted elections in their countries amidst the pandemic. Mehra said, “We have recorded their suggestions (with regard to conducting the polls). Nothing can be said (about conducting elections) at this moment. We will conduct it (the polls) as and when a decision is taken.” Meanwhile, BSP’s Charan Singh said as per the Constitution, the polls must be conducted with the completion of the tenure. However, he asked the commission if the government was prepared to conduct the polls in this situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/postpone-civic-polls-by-3-months-cong-to-sec/articleshow/77402678.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s dad filed FIR due to Maha govt’s non-cooperation: Minister||PATNA: A senior minister in the Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar has slammed the Maharashtra government for its “non-cooperation” in the probe into the alleged suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “It was because of the non-cooperation of the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police that the actor’s family preferred to lodge an FIR at a police station in Patna for a fair investigation into the matter,” said state water resources minister Sanjay Jha, a confidant of CM Nitish Kumar. He claimed that Sushant’s family first got the indication of non-cooperation from an article written by Sanjay Raut in the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece—Saamana— soon after the incident in June in which he wrote ‘there was no need of any investigation into SSR’s death by suicide’. “It was a clear indication for the high ups in the Mumbai police on how to approach the case related to a Bihar-born actor. Moreover, the investigation of the Mumbai police revolved around Bollywood personalities to divert the line of investigation. They did precious little for 40-45 days, which shows lack of professionalism of the investigating officers of that state,” the minister said. He also expressed his displeasure over the manner an IPS officer from Bihar was virtually “confined” under the garb of quarantine. “The Bihar DGP has been asked to take up the matter properly, seek legal opinion and move accordingly. We were of the opinion that the IPS officer will be allowed to return after observation of the Supreme Court on the matter,” he told TOI. He clarified that IPS officer Vinay Tiwari had gone to Mumbai after duly informing his counterparts in Mumbai. “Instead of cooperating with him in the investigation, the officer was confined in the name of quarantine by the municipal corporation authorities at the behest of police officers of that state,” he added. The minister further said it was a deliberate attempt by the Mumbai police to scuttle the probe. “Had it not been the case, the IPS officer would not have been quarantined a few hours after landing in Mumbai. Why didn’t they do the same with the four members of the SIT sent earlier by a flight to Mumbai from Patna for investigation,” he asked. The Mumbai police swung into action only after an FIR was lodged in Patna against Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for abatement to suicide and huge transactions from his (Sushant’s) bank accounts. “Had Sushant’s father K K Singh, who is now 74 and unable to travel frequently, not approached the Patna police, the Mumbai police would have hushed up the case,” the minister said. Former Union minister and Saran BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy asked if the Maharashtra government will treat the CBI officers, who will now probe Sushant’s case in the same manner. “It’s the constitutional right of an investigating officer to question any suspect regardless of their position,” he said. He further said, “The Maharashtra government is violating the rights of IPS officer Vinay Tiwari by holding him hostage even though the government of India has issued a notice for a CBI probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-dad-filed-fir-due-to-maha-govts-non-cooperation-minister/articleshow/77400409.cms||Ramashankar
August 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar faces tsunami of unemployment, failing economy: Rahul Gandhi||PATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said all big changes in the country have begun from Bihar and now the Grand Old Party will once again begin the fight against corruption and atrocities from the state. Rahul was addressing around one thousand state Congress members at a virtual meeting. He said everyone has to come together in the fight against corruption and bring back the glory of Bihar. “We have to do this together and keep in mind each other’s prestige and respect. It is Congress’s duty to bring all opposition parties on one platform,” said Rahul, indicating Congress will not be on the back foot in this assembly election. He then added, “The next government in Bihar will be ours. We will form the government together and our main issues will be employment, education and health.” He said any decision will have to be taken together in the alliance. Sources said he was also told about the delay by RJD in seat sharing and Rahul tasked senior leaders of the state to sort out these issues fast and begin the preparation for election. Hitting out at the Centre, Rahul said he had cautioned them of Covid-19 pandemic almost six months ago but they didn’t listen and now India has the highest number of daily cases. “Once again I am saying that in the next six to twelve months, India as well as Bihar will face a big tsunami of unemployment and a failing economy. Institutions set up by the Congress have been razed and Constitution is being tampered with. But this country knows how to revive and fight back. It can be done with love and not hatred and only Congress can do it,” Rahul said. Talking about martyrdom of jawans of Bihar Regiment in Ladakh, Rahul alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi lied about the Chinese transgression in Ladakh and in a way humiliated the sacrifice made by the soldiers. He then hit out at CM Nitish Kumar for being quiet on corruption and developmental issues now. Rahul said the state government was not speaking on issues of labourers and unemployment. “The Bihar government had the worst performance in Covid-19 pandemic. We will raise all these issues along with all the opposition parties,” said Rahul. He told his party workers that he will be coming to Bihar and visit district and block headquarters. Congress Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Congress general secretary KC Venugopal reviewed the digital membership drive and asked the party workers to strengthen it further. State Cong wants Rahul back as prez:State Congress leaders expressed their desire to have Rahul Gandhi back in the role of party’s national president. Sources said state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha while welcoming Rahul to the meeting said party workers wanted him to be in the lead role. Even Gohil said he was feeling as if he was calling their party’s president to address the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-faces-tsunami-of-unemployment-failing-economy-rahul/articleshow/77399758.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 7, 2020||Business||Credit-starved regions to get more loans, startups in priority sector now||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday decided to bring loans to startups under the ambit of priority sector debt for banks, while opting to focus on credit-starved regions, which can now look forward to getting a higher share of credit. In addition to continuing with the past practice of granting priority sector status for loans to underprivileged and other segments that have an impact on well-being, weightage will be given to the region in which the loan is distributed. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that higher weight will be assigned for incremental priority sector credit in the identified districts where credit flow is comparatively lower. Last year, RBI deputy governor M K Jain had pointed out disparities in the share of credit in rural areas. Jain said that an analysis of funds released by the government under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund also flowed more to states that had a higher share of rural bank credit. A panel constituted by the RBI and headed by Jain to study credit in rural areas noted that few states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka were getting agri-credit higher than their Agri GDP, indicating the possibility of diversion of credit for non-agricultural purposes. The policy tweak is also expected to enhance access to capital for early-stage startups at easier norms than current options available to them. This is the first review for priority sector lending norms since April 2015. Banks are required to allocate 40% of their adjusted net bank credit, or credit equivalent amount for off-balance sheet exposure, whichever is higher, to priority sectors that include agriculture, education, housing, micro and small enterprises. “Priority sector lending status is also being given to startups and the limits for renewable energy, including solar power and compressed bio-gas plants, are being increased,” Das said.Startups, which often chase growth in early stages instead of profitability, find it hard to get loans from banks, especially public sector banks. Even for private-sector lenders, startups that have raised noticeable capital from venture capital or private equity players are the priority. Experts said the central bank’s move will enhance the ability of all startups to borrow at better terms and dilute their holdings less. “This is positive news. Startups have always missed out because rules were made, thinking these are typical SMEs, which they are not. There is a cash-burn here. Even for startups who raised money, the other option to raise debt was through venture-debt. It came at a coupon rate of 14%, and with 10% of the funds being kept as warrants for converting into equity,” said Orio Venture Partners managing partner Anup Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-starved-regions-to-get-more-loans-startups-in-priority-sector-now/articleshow/77402709.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Patna family court judge dies of Covid||PATNA: In a major loss to the judicial fraternity in the state, Patna family court principal judge Harish Chandra Srivastava died of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday. Srivastava (58) is the first judge in the state to succumb to Covid. The judge was admitted to AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday after he complained of breathing problem. He was tested Covid-19 positive at the hospital. Bihar Judicial Services Association secretary Ajit Kumar Singh has condoled the death of the senior judge. “Though several judicial officers in the state were earlier tested Covid-19 positive, all of them recovered. Srivastava’s death is a major loss for us,” Singh added. As per details available on Patna high court website, Srivastava was a native of Kotwa Narainpur in Balia district of Uttar Pradesh. He had joined judicial services on December 16, 1995 after getting selected through Bihar Public Service Commission. Srivastava was set to retire on July 31, 2022. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases continued to surface from Bihar sector headquarters of Central Reserve Police Force at Rajiv Nagar. CRPF sources said the count of cases increased to more than 100. “A DIG-rank officer and his wife are among those affected,” sources said, adding 25 Covid positive CRPF personnel have been shifted to Koilwar in Bhojpur where a battalion is stationed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-family-court-judge-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77400107.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Shivraj Singh Chouhan writes to PM against Punjab CM’s opposition to MP’s basmati bid||BHOPAL: After the rosogolla war between Bengal and Odisha, it’s battle over basmati between Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday criticised Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s opposition to MP’s attempt to get geographical indication (GI) tag for basmati rice being grown in the state, saying it is “politically motivated”. He has written to PM Narendra Modi, urging him to grant GI status to encourage farmers and basmati-based industries. “I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab in the matter of GI tagging of basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh and consider it politically inspired. I wish to question the Punjab CM, Captain Amarinder Singh, what hostility does he have with the farmers of Madhya Pradesh? It is not a matter of Madhya Pradesh or Punjab, it is a matter of farmers of the country and their livelihood,” Chouhan said, adding that MP has records of basmati cultivation since 1908 in 13 districts. This is in response to the Punjab CM’s letter to Modi in which he has argued that if MP gets GI tag it would not only affect the interests of farmers in Punjab and other states, whose basmati already has GI tag, but also “benefit Pakistan”. “GI tagging of MP basmati would negatively impact Punjab’s agriculture and also India’s basmati exports, which stand at Rs 33,000 crore a year. Any dilution in registration of Indian basmati may give an advantage to Pakistan (which also produces basmati, as per GI tagging) in the international market in terms of basmati characteristics and quality parameters,” Singh’s letter says. Rejecting Punjab’s argument, Chouhan said that the case of Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) with Pakistan has no connection with MP’s claim. “It comes under GI Act of India and has no connection with the claims of basmati rice within the country. Basmati exporters of Punjab and Haryana are buying basmati rice from Madhya Pradesh. The central government’s export data confirms this. The central government has been supplying ‘breeder seed’ of basmati to Madhya Pradesh since 1999,” he said. “The Scindia State records show that in 1944, seeds were supplied to farmers of the state. The Indian Institute of Rice Research (IIRR), Hyderabad, has recorded in its ‘Production Oriented Survey Report’ that basmati rice is being produced in Madhya Pradesh for 25 years,” he added. A copy of this report has been sent to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. A high-level committee is examining MP’s representation, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shivraj-writes-to-pm-against-punjab-cms-opposition-to-mps-basmati-bid/articleshow/77402654.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Precautions in place, but low footfalls at salons||PATNA: Beauty salons in the city may have been following strict precautionary measures to contain the spread of coronavirus, but they are still struggling to attract customers. Getting chairs and equipment sanitized and using disposable products have been of no use to them. Beautician Swati Gupta has got a thermal screener installed at the entry of her salon in Dak Bungalow. She also provides sanitizers, masks and gloves to the customers. “My employees wear PPE kits and maintain adequate distance from each other. Despite such precautionary measures in place, the footfalls are low,” Swati said and added that only four to five customers visited her salon every day. Customers are also making sure that salons make adequate arrangements to ensure their safety. “I called up the salon manager, whom I have known for years, to make sure that it is safe to go there. I heaved a sigh of relief when she told me about the precautions being taken at the salon,” said Tanya, a management student, who lives in Raja Bazar. A marketing consultant, who did not wish to be named, said, “Looking presentable during video calls with clients is an indispensable part of my profession. I, therefore, have no choice, but to visit salons regularly.” Given the risks involved in grooming people, some salons in the city continue to remain shut while others are providing normal services like haircut, waxing, manicure, pedicure and facial. “Our massage parlour and steam room are closed. We are also not giving services like hair colour and extension as they require the customer to spend a lot of time at the salon,” claimed Mamta, the manager of a salon on Boring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/precautions-in-place-but-low-footfalls-at-salons/articleshow/77400326.cms||Arunima Lal
August 7, 2020||Business||Issuer will be able to send cheque’s pic||MUMBAI: Account-holders will soon be able to send to their bank the details of a high-value cheque they issue to third parties, which will enable safer and faster clearance of cheques above Rs 50,000. The RBI in its monetary policy announcements said it was introducing the ‘positive pay’ mechanism for cheques, which will enable the bank to spot a forgery or misuse in issued cheques. “Under this mechanism, cheques will be processed for payment by the drawee bank based on information passed on by its customer at the time of issuance of cheque. This measure will cover approximately 20% of total cheques issued in the country by volume and 80% by value,” the RBI said. Read AlsoEasy liquidity led to faster monetary transmission; banks pass on 1.62% rate cuts in 17 months: RBIThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said monetary transmission has improved considerably due to comfortable liquidity conditions and banks have passed on the benefit to borrowers by reducing lending rates by about 1.62 per cent in the last nearly one-and-a-half years.At present, there is straight-through processing under the cheque truncation system with optical/image character recognition technology, which scans and sends an image of the cheque for clearing. ‘Positive pay’ will further augment customer safety in cheque payments and reduce instances of fraud on account of tampering of cheque leaves. ICICI Bank has been one of the early adopters of this feature. The bank had introduced a mobile app that allows customers to upload pictures of the cheque they issue to their own banks. Read AlsoRBI to set up 'innovation hub' to promote financial inclusion, efficient bankingThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it will set up an 'Innovation Hub' in the country for ideation and incubation of new capabilities which can be leveraged to deepen financial inclusion and promote efficient banking services.When the beneficiary submits the cheque for encashment, the details are compared with those provided to the bank through the app. If they match, the cheque is honoured and in case of a mismatch, the cheque is referred to the issuer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/issuer-will-be-able-to-send-cheques-pic/articleshow/77402609.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Covid: Test and recovery rates improve in Patna division||PATNA: The rate of tests and recovery registered the highest increase in the last 24 hours in Patna division having six districts under its jurisdiction. While the state capital recorded 3,958 Covid tests in the last 24 hours, 267 people have recovered from the coronavirus during this period, said Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. After holding an online review meeting with DMs of six districts, he said the total testing in the division reached 13,570 and number of recovery to 549 in one day. While the number of tests in Rohtas was 3,334, it was 3,032 in Buxar, 1,847 in Nalanda and 1,584 in Bhojpur on Thursday. Agarwal said the number of positive cases was on fast decline in Kaimur as it dropped from 8% a week ago to 1.5% in the last 24 hours. Agarwal has asked the DMs of these districts to further increase the number of tests and ensure quality treatment of patients in government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/test-recovery-rates-improve-in-patna-division/articleshow/77400484.cms||VK Tripathi
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Godavari river flow gets smoother as concrete removed from its bed||Nashik: The Godavari is fast getting back its natural glory, as the concrete structure between Dutondya Maruti and Gadge Maharaj bridge, near the Ramkund area, has been removed. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) had started the work of removing the concrete from the riverbed last month as part of its beautification project. “We have removed the concrete to streamline the flow of the river. We are also working on reviving the old kunds in the river,” said smart city officials.According to environmentalist Devang Jani, the Godavari was self-reliant and flowed on its own around the year due to natural springs. “Later, the river became dependent on the Godavari dam as the natural springs got buried due to concretisation,” said Jani. In 2015, Jani had filed a PIL in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking the removal of concrete from the Godavari riverbed. The HC had said it was the right of devotees to get pure water and that the responsibility fell on Nashik Municipal Corporation to make it available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/godavari-river-flow-gets-smoother-as-concrete-removed-from-its-bed/articleshow/77399691.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 7, 2020||Patna||Schools to organise virtual activities for students on Independence Day||PATNA: There will be no physical involvement of students in Independence Day celebrations to be held at private, government and government-aided schools in the district amid Covid-19 pandemic on August 15. District education officer (DEO) Jyoti Kumar has asked the heads of all schools to organise the flag hoisting ceremony in presence of teachers and principals by taking all necessary precautions. “The flag hoisting ceremony will be held at schools, but the participation of students and their parents will not be allowed,” a circular issued by the DEO read. Some private schools have decided to conduct live-streaming of flag hoisting ceremony and organise virtual activities, games and other events for students. M K Das, principal of Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School, Kankarbagh, said teachers would attend the flag hoisting ceremony by adhering to Covid norms and students will join the event through Zoom mobile application. “Teachers have been asked to involve kids in activities like flag making, quiz and patriotic songs,” he said. Sharat Kumar Singh, principal of Litera Valley School, said an inter-house championship would be organised after the flag hoisting ceremony. “Teachers living in nearby areas will attend the event. Students can see live broadcast of the flag hoisting ceremony through mobile application and social media platforms,” he said. Singh added, “For students, we will organize events like singing, dancing, quiz, debate, painting and art and craft competition based on patriotic theme. The inter- house event will be of four hours and managed by 28 teachers. The winning house will be rewarded,” Singh said. Principal of St Xavier’s High School Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ said he would take a decision after consulting the teachers. “We will not be able to organise flag hoisting ceremony on the school premises as celebrations will be organised at Gandhi Maidan, which is at a stone’s throw distance from the school. However, we will organise some virtual events for kids,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-to-organise-virtual-activities-for-students-on-independence-day/articleshow/77400514.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 7, 2020||Business||RBI looks at offline card, e-payments||BENGALURU: The RBI said it is looking to start a pilot to expand offline payments via cards, mobile devices and wallets. This will widen the adoption of digital payments in non-metros and in areas with less or slow internet connectivity. “The RBI has been encouraging entities to develop offline payment solutions. It is, therefore, proposed to allow a pilot scheme for small-value payments in offline mode with built-in features for safeguarding interest of users, liability protection, etc,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. Das’s comment comes at a time when digital payments across online and offline channels are increasing and further being accelerated by the pandemic as people avoid handling cash. The RBI will come out with guidelines on the matter soon. “We expect simplification of the guidelines to on-board merchants, their know-your-customer (KYC) requirements. So, it becomes easier to grow an offline merchant base — as easy for a bank as easy for a fintech platform,” said Ashneer Grover, co-founder and CEO, BharatPe. Payments firms like PhonePe, Paytm and Amazon Pay are expanding their merchant networks to boost offline payments in India. The banking regulator also said payment service operators (PSOs) should build online dispute mechanisms to address grievances related to failed transactions. “To begin with, authorised PSOs shall be required to implement online dispute resolution (ODR) systems for failed transactions in their respective payment systems. Based on the experience gained, ODR arrangements will be extended to other types of disputes and grievances,” the RBI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-looks-at-offline-card-e-payments/articleshow/77402502.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||Indian Hotels posts Rs 313-crore Q1 loss||MUMBAI: Indian Hotels Company (which runs the Taj chain) has reported a loss of Rs 313 crore for the first quarter of fiscal 2021, as against a profit of Rs 5 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue fell 86% to Rs 144 crore in the April-June period as more than 50% Taj hotels remained closed because of Covid-led lockdowns. The company also reported an other income of Rs 32 crore, which included a gain of Rs 3 crore from the sale of a residential flat, and lease rent concessions of Rs 17 crore received for certain properties. Pre-tax losses to some extent were lowered due to a gain of Rs 82 crore from the purchase of Tata Africa’s 50% stake in Taj Cape Town hotel. Taj said that it has secured additional financing for the next 12 months to “prevent disruption of operating cash flows” and to enable it to meet its debts and obligations, as they fall due. “We have taken substantial steps to preserve liquidity. In addition, we are rationalising all costs and maintaining the highest financial prudence. This will assist us in managing the evolving situation,” said IHCL CFO Giridhar Sanjeevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-hotels-posts-rs-313-crore-q1-loss/articleshow/77402562.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||Home loans will also be rejigged, details awaited||MUMBAI: Individuals with home loans and other personal loans, who do not have the ability to repay, will have to wait a bit longer to know what relief is available. While the RBI has not announced any specific relief for home loans, bankers say that there is enough leeway under the RBI’s proposed restructuring scheme to rejig loans to those who have suffered income-loss. “The RBI statement is clear that restructuring is available for personal loans, also the bank’s board can approve restructuring that allows extension of the residual tenor of the loan, with or without payment moratorium, by up to two years,” a public sector bank chief said. He added that with lending rates headed down, there is scope to provide enough relief to borrowers, who have availed rates at 8% and above, by extending EMIs. However, banks said restructured borrowers will not get the same rate as regular ones as they would need to keep aside 10% provision on these advances. Given the cost of capital, the interest rates could be higher by around 0.3% for such loans. “Home loans are easier to restructure than business loans as it is anticipated that earnings will resume once the pandemic abates and there is enough leeway to extend the term of the loan,” the CEO said. Bankers expect to come out with a mix of repayment holiday or step-up EMIs, where the repayment amount increases after the initial years. Most of the older home loans, which have not been refinanced, continue to be at rates above 8%, whereas the lowest home loan rate is now 6.7% (Union Bank of India). Another option that may be available to lenders is a flexible EMI facility where the borrower does not pay on the due date but whenever he receives money for two years. Bajaj Finance has already converted a section of its performing loans into flexible loans. According to the CEO of a housing finance company (HFC), it is not in the interest of lenders to repossess houses immediately on default. Even during normal times, HFCs initiate discussions with the borrower before the loan turns into a non-performing asset (NPA). This gives the borrower an opportunity to retain his credit score by selling the apartment on his own. However, the challenge is that liquidity has come down in the real estate markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-loans-will-also-be-rejigged-details-awaited/articleshow/77403382.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 7, 2020||Kanpur||Police to reopen old cases lodged against Jai Bajpai||Kanpur:District police are all set to reopen old criminal cases associated with gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Jaikant Bajpai and take a re-look at cases wherein he was given clean chit after police had submitted its final report. The move came on the instructions of IG Range Mohit Agarwal. The police will reopen the cases to see whether Jai Bajpai had influenced investigators and got his involvement underplayed, said a senior official. Soon after the Bikru ambush, it came to fore that police had soft-pedalled the majority of cases associated with Bajpai as the latter used to influence investigators by involving certain high-profile people. “Cases in which final reports were submitted will be reopened again. If any discrepancy will be found, then we will reinvestigate the case after bringing the same to the knowledge of the court,” said SSP Preetinder Singh. To recall, the police had earlier accused Bajpai of providing gangster -Vikas Dubey 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolvers and cash worth Rs 2 lakh on July 2 prior to the Bikru ambush which had left eight cops dead and seven including a civilian injured. He had also attempted to flee, but was arrested along with one of his aide Prashant Shukla alias Dabblu. Also, to recall, Jaikant alias Jai Bajpai, was taken into custody by police on July 4. Earlier, the police had also seized his three luxury vehicles Audi, Fortuner, and Verna abandoned by him and his aides in Kakadeo’s Vijay Nagar area. It came to fore that Bajpai after being asked by the gangster was supposed to ferry him and his gang members to their safe hideouts in two luxury cars and an SUV. However, due to extensive checking and patrolling by police, he and his aides abandoned the SUVs near Vijay Nagar crossing on July 4 and fled thereafter. After seizing vehicles that were without registration number plates, police detained Bajpai within hours and handed him to the Special Task Force (STF). The police had later sent him to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-to-reopen-old-cases-lodged-against-jai-bajpai/articleshow/77402782.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 30% patrons back with stay-safe, stay-fit mantra as gyms reopen||KOLKATA: No high-fives while entering the gym, no pat on the back from the trainer after a heavy workout and no more chitchat or exchange of smiles. For those who returned to gyms and yoga classes after a gap of four months, the place is no longer the same where one not only sweated it out but also bonded with fellow fitness enthusiasts whose days were incomplete without a dose of crunches and bench presses. In fact, sweat, most found, was a feared word as it could help spread the virus. Hence, the first-day first-show of the resumption of indoor workouts was mostly about low-intensity workouts. “We focussed more on low-intensity workouts — mostly breathing exercises, free hands and cardio — as most of the members were coming back after a long hiatus. While working out under the current Covid protocols, which requires wearing a face shield even while exercising, we didn’t want to stress them unnecessarily,” said Souvik Banerjee, premium trainer of Core Gym, adding that only 10 members were allowed per slot. Though a large number of gym enthusiasts waited eagerly for the re-opening and were back on Thursday, they had “distance” and “isolation” staring at them instead of the warmth of togetherness. “That has probably gone out of our lives now and we will have to learn to live apart, just to be able to live,” said fitness enthusiast Satyendra Prasad, who was back at his gym at Club Verde Vista, which is a part of his residential complex in Upohar. The new normal meant a member is to be thermal checked, get into a fresh pair of gym shoes, sanitize hands, wear a visor and start exercising as trainers watched them from a distance and directed them from one exercise to other after every fixed duration and attendants stationed beside gym equipment rushed to sanitize the kits after every use. At sharp 6am, friends Himanshu Valecha and Rajeev Singh trooped into the Mudiali branch of Karma Fitness Studio, armed with towels, water bottles, visors and face masks as per the Covid protocol but said they were happy to be back, finally. Owner Gagan Sachdev said that 30% members were back on the first day. Yoga centres sought for even fewer members per slot on the first day. Ghosh’s Yoga College near Garpar Road re-started yoga sessions at the institute’s premise on Thursday with only three-members per batch in the large hall that usually catered to a minimum of 10-12 students earlier. “The first thumb rule for us is to maintain social distance. Each of the students who have come today were primarily checked with thermal guns. Everyone was asked to carry their own mats as per the Centre-issued guideline. Apart from that, we will sanitize the halls after a batch ends and a new batch begins. We have also restricted the number of teachers,” said Muktamala Mitra, vice-principal of institute — the city’s oldest yoga centre. Mitra, however, said that it would not be possible for students to perform yoga postures wearing a mask. “Proper breathing cannot be separated from yoga. So, we have asked students to perform postures with unobstructed inhalation,” Mitra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30-patrons-back-with-stay-safe-stay-fit-mantra-as-gyms-reopen/articleshow/77400965.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government lays out home-to-hospital regime for Covid patients||KOLKATA: The state on Thursday charted out a plan to hand-hold Covid patients right from the time they seek hospitalization till they move to a satellite centre and eventually back home. Addressing a range of concerns from unavailability of ambulances, difficulties in getting a correct Covid test done to securing a hospital bed and ensuring enough plasma is stored in blood banks to treat critical patients, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and chief secretary Rajiva Sinha sought to assure people that Bengal was not heading for a healthcare crisis. Calcutta University students, it was announced, worked as volunteers by helping tele-medicine and counselling services.  Sinha said a 24-hour helpine (033-40902929) for ambulance would solve the crisis. “We have provided free ambulance services to 54,571 patients, including 513 on Wednesday. We have also provided telemedicine to 42,584 patients, 2,912 people, on Wednesday,” he said. The helpline for telemedicine is 033-23576001. A tele-psychology counselling has also been introduced from August 1. Calcutta University psychology and journalism PG students have counselled 3,875 people. “Like Covid Warrior team, we have formed a Covid Helping Hand team. They are helping doctors by attending calls and transferring them to physicians, according to the requirement,” the CM said. The government has formed a five-member team of microbiologists to visit labs and conduct random sampling to ensure tests were correct. “We have done this to avoid any false positive or false negative report. If any test is found incorrect, proper measures will be taken to make reports error free,” Sinha added.  Banerjee said the state was exploring new treatment possibilities, including the use of cord blood, for critical patients. “We have a plasma bank with antibodies donated by recovered patients. Plasma is being used to treat critical patients. We are getting expert opinion on whether the facilities of the government’s cord blood bank can also be utilised,” she said. Urging people not to be scared by numbers, Banerjee said Covid cases would rise as more tests were being held in the state. “The death rate is 2.2%, of which 87.6% is due to comorbidity. In 70% cases, patients reached hospitals late. One should not ignore symptoms and get tested and treated early,” she said. Assuring people there were enough hospital beds, Sinha said the problem was with people seeking beds in hospitals of their choice. “We can guarantee beds and best treatment. But in a pandemic, we can’t ensure admissions to particular types of hospitals,” he said. Of the 4,000-odd Covid patients currently in hospitals, around 1,144 are critical, 1,043 are moderate and 1,134 patients mild or asymptomatic. “In July and August, we hospitalized 72,158 patients, including 1,934 on Wednesday, through tele-services. Mild or asymptomatic patients should not be in hospital. They should be at home or in safe houses,” Sinha said, adding the state was keeping track of each patient through the Covid Patient Management System.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-lays-out-home-to-hosp-regime-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77401005.cms||Saibal Gupta
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Friends gang up, wean patient off oxygen with video call lure||KOLKATA: Among the many critical patients that doctors at MR Bangur Hospital have successfully treated in this pandemic is a 53-year-old who was admitted with acute respiratory distress on July 22. However, doctors encountered a strange problem while treating Subrata Roy. Even though his oxygen saturation level improved, he feared he would suffocate if taken off oxygen support. Ultimately, his friends — one of them a Covid doctor at a different government hospital — helped wean him off supplemental oxygen. Roy, who works as an accountant in a private firm and dabbles in photography, developed low fever in mid-July but ignored it. He got tested on July 20 and the positive report came on July 22. By then, he had developed breathing trouble and was taken to MR Bangur Hospital. It was his friends from the Photographic Association of Bengal (PAB) who arranged for the ambulance and hospitalization after one of them contacted Sonarpur Uttar MLA Firdousi Begum. PAB’s illustrious members include Satyajit Ray, Nimai Ghosh and Aparna Sen. For nine days, doctors battled on as his oxygen saturation fluctuated. Thereafter, his condition improved rapidly and by Monday, his parameters were stable. All the while, Indranil Mitra, a doctor at a government hospital dealing with Covid patients, kept track of Roy’s condition. Though Roy’s oxygen saturation had improved, Mitra saw he continued to wear the oxygen mask during the video calls. Probing the cause, he learnt it was a result of a panic attack Roy had suffered last Friday when he saw a patient in the next bed collapse. Sensing it was more a psychological issue than a physiological one, Mitra organized a WhatsApp group video call with other club members to boost Roy’s confidence. Chatting about various subjects, one of the members subtly told Roy he wasn’t audible, prompting him to remove the oxygen mask. “Seeing Roy remove the mask for the first time in several days and speak without discomfort was great. But we didn’t express delight or surprise. Instead, we decided we would call him around 8pm every day,” recounted Shankar Mondal, former secretary of PAB. The next day, Roy removed the mask without being prompted. By the end of the conversation, Roy realized he didn’t require oxygen support any more. He was discharged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friends-gang-up-wean-patient-off-oxygen-with-video-call-lure/articleshow/77401023.cms||Sudipto Das
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyber-security alarm over fake oximeter app on social media||KOLKATA: The cyber cells in and around Kolkata and CID have asked netizens to be careful when downloading apps advertised as being able to track vital Covid parameters, like pulse and blood oxygen level. Cops felt that with hackers now employing new modus operandi every day — from announcing unbelievable discounts on online purchases from top restaurants to offering online pujas — this may be yet another ploy to get the public to part with banking details. There have been a few online applications claiming to detect pulse and blood oxygen level — two of the parameters for detecting Covid-19. According to cops, many messages are being circulated on WhatsApp, but, upon enquiry with the experts, it has been found that the apps may throw up false results which may put lives in danger. The apps also ask for biometric fingerprints, photographs and seek permission to access contacts and other key details on the phone. “There are some apps which claim to measure blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) levels. We decided to check these claims with the help of experts and doctors. These apps do not show accurate results nor are they recommended by doctors. The readings are mostly wrong. Also, the chances of phishing, data theft or any cyber-security concerns cannot be ruled out,” an officer said. The messages circulating on social media sites, such as WhatsApp, have direct links for the download and the developer cannot be verified. Nor are the ratings available. The cyber cell officers said the key information of passwords for the other apps, especially finance-related ones, may be stolen through these malicious apps. “The police will want to take action in each case. But there has to be a complaint. we want to reiterate that one needs to check every aspect before downloading such apps,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. Initially, these apps had seen major downloads across the city, with many forwarding the links over Whatsapp groups. Elderly citizens, who anyway are the most prone to cyber cheating, received several such forwards. However, after the applications were found untrustworthy, they were taken down from Google Playstore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-security-alarm-over-fake-oximeter-app-on-social-media/articleshow/77401040.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Hidco gears up for online Baishe Shrabon||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is organizing a virtual ‘22se Shrabon’ programme on Friday. Eminent singers and recitation artists will participate in the programme though live telecast mode on the Hidco and Rabindra Tirtha’s Facebook and You Tube pages from 6pm onwards. The occasion will also mark the 8th anniversary of Rabindra Tirtha that was inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 7 in 2012. A documentary booklet on the last one year at Rabindra Tirtha will be released online as part of the occasion. Hidco had organized the ‘22se Shrabon’ recording event last Tuesday when the artistes performed at Rabindra Tirtha auditorium, which was empty without spectators. Only the cameramen, musicians and technicians dealing with lights, camera and sound were present there for the recording. The artistes had been received in the separate museum hall on the Rabindra Tirtha premises for the recording. The contents of the programme will remain in the Hidco and Rabindra Tirtha’s Facebook and You Tube pages after the telecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-gears-up-for-online-baishe-shrabon/articleshow/77401065.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Take care of housing society elders, West Bengal CM tells youngsters||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday stressed on the need for community support in these times of pandemic and asked younger residents of housing complexes to take initiatives to look after the needs of the elderly, especially those living alone in the complex. “The young members of the apartment associations should keep a regular check on elderly residents in the building and help them in getting daily essentials and medical supplies. In case of any trouble, they should immediately get in touch with the cops for help,” the CM said at Nabanna during a media briefing on Thursday. While chief secretary Rajeeva Sinha suggested a dedicated helpline number for elderly residents, Banerjee added that Kolkata Municipal Corporation should form a liaison with the building residents’ bodies and help the elderly in whichever form necessary. “I live in a standalone building with my bed-ridden husband and 90-year-old mother. My only son lives abroad. I am dependent on our driver who fetches all daily essentials for us, but living alone with two sick senior citizens leaves me extremely worried,” said Geeta Chakraborty, who lives in Jadavpur. A Tollygunge high-rise resident said that although the apartment association has arranged for home delivery of all essentials, including meat and groceries, she is hesitant to seek help from others. There is no initiative from the association to personally reach out to all elderly residents for all their necessities. Representatives of major high-rises and apartment complexes said many of them have formed dedicated teams comprising young and middle-aged residents who regularly check on elderly residents of the complex and help them get their essentials. “From the start of the lockdown, our priority has been elderly residents. We have passed on a list of mobile numbers of all the functionaries of the association and we also check on them every alternate day,” said Indrani Chowdhury, secretary of board of societies at Saptaparni apartments. Debjani Mookherjee of Urbana apartments said, “The residents’ association has been providing regular support in terms of delivering daily essentials to elderly residents’ doorsteps, deputing housekeeping personnel and proving medical assistance with help from resident doctors.” Meanwhile, a Kolkata Police officer said that, prodded by commissioner Anuj Sharma last Tuesday, all police stations have been asked to update their list of elderly residents based on the “Pranam” register. They have also been asked to include those who are still not part of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/take-care-of-hsg-society-elders-cm-tells-youngsters/articleshow/77401053.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 7, 2020||Patna||‘Bihar Prithvi Diwas to see more involvement of people’||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will officially announce the number of saplings planted in the state on August 9 to mark Bihar Prithivi Diwas, principal secretary (environment, forest and climate change department) Dipak Kumar Singh tells TOI’s Sheezan Nezami in an interview. ExcerptsWhat is the significance of Bihar Prithvi Diwas (Bihar Earth Day)? Though World Earth Day is celebrated on April 22, Nitish had started the concept of Bihar Prithvi Diwas on August 9 in 2011. August 9 also marks August Kranti Diwas. One decade has passed since we started celebrating Bihar Prithvi Diwas and every year people take pledge to protect the environment on this day. What are government’s plans for Bihar Prithvi Diwas celebrations this year?We had set a target of planting 2.51 crore saplings between June 5 (World Environment Day) and August 9 (Bihar Prithvi Diwas). Plantation is still going on and on August 9, the CM will make an announcement regarding the actual number of saplings we have planted so far. CM and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi will plant saplings on R-Block-Digha Road on August 9. Plantation will also be done at all the panchayats, block headquarters, sub-divisional headquarters and district headquarters. Bihar Prithvi Diwas is being celebrated since 2011. How will the celebration be different this time?This year, we have focused on more public participation. People are being provided saplings for Rs 10 at our 280 nurseries across the state. From mid-July, we also started mobile counters across the state. Through these counters, we have sold 80,000 plants. Over 65,000 plants have been sold through nurseries as well in the last two months. Will Covid-19 pandemic have an impact on Prithvi Diwas celebrations?Yes. We are not organising any programme in schools this time. Also, we had planned to hold a mega celebration to mark 10-year completion of Bihar Prithvi Diwas by involving one crore people to plant saplings. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to cut short the celebrations. Will such programmes be of any help to the state?There are lots of benefits and as I have said earlier, people have become more conscious regarding environment. Every day, I get at least two calls with people complaining about felling of trees. They visit our website and take our contact numbers to inform us. Also, green cover outside the forest areas has increased in Bihar. In 2011, there was 2% green cover in Bihar, excluding recorded forest area. A survey done by the Forest Survey of India in 2017, report of which was published in 2019, green cover outside the forest area has risen to 7%, mainly because common people have now started planting saplings. Any message to people of Bihar for Prithvi Diwas?I am thankful to the people of the state for the way they have come forward to protect the environment and appeal to them to plant one sample each on August 9. People can also click their selfies and post them on social media with #Biharearthday hashtag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-prithvi-diwas-to-see-more-involvement-of-people/articleshow/77400427.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Flood-hit villagers rescue 250 deer from swollen rivers||PATNA: People marooned in flood-hit districts of Gopalganj, Saran and East Champaran are rising above their own distress to help save herds of deer and other wild animals from Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) and the adjoining Chitwan National Park in Nepal being swept away by floodwaters. “Around 250 deer, 10 endangered crocodiles and a number of reptiles have been saved with the active support of people in Gopalganj, Saran and East Champaran districts,” said Hemant Rai, conservator-cum director of VTR. Residents of Baikunthpur, Majha and Barauli in Gopalganj alone have so far rescued around 15 sambar deer being swept away in the swollen Gandak. Some of them were handed over to forest officials while a few are being taken care of by the villagers themselves. Gopalganj divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar Singh said on Thursday, “Nine of them have already been handed over to the officials of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) at Bettiah. Efforts are on to rescue more such animals that have fallen victim to flood in the Gandak.” A forest department employee told this newspaper that around half of the rescued sambar deer were taken to forests near Bettiah, which are not affected by flood water originating from Nepal. “We have formed separate teams that are carrying out patrolling in villages,” he said. On Thursday, a forest department team rushed to a village under Baikunthpur block in Gopalganj after reports of a baby deer rescued by some villagers reached the district forest office. “A dedicated team with a vehicle has been engaged in the rescue operation,” said forest guard Rajan Giri, who is posted in Gopalganj. A wildlife activist Sanjay Kumar said, “It’s a double whammy for the flood-hit people of Gopalganj, Saran and East Champaran districts. On the one hand, they have to save themselves and on the other they are working hard to save wildlife being washed away by floodwaters. After all it’s a question of survival for both of them.” Earlier, 20 hog deer were rescued by villagers of Panapur in Saran district. The rescued animals were handed over to the forest department officials. Forest officer Lav Kumar Rai said the residents of Prithvipur, Basahiya, Dhobbal and Rampur Rudra had rescued the hog deer being washed away. Similar reports have also poured in from East Champaran where over 80 deer were rescued. The forest department officials didn’t rule out smuggling of deer during floods. In July, the Muzaffarpur police lodged a case against five poachers—Shiv Manjhi, Chanchal Ram, Patthal Ram, Arvind Ram and Manoj Manjhi—on charges of being involved in smuggling of wildlife animals, including deer. A senior forest department officer said, “The hog deer falls under Schedule 1 species of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 that forbids hunting through strict regulations. During Monsoon wild animals, mostly hog deer come out from forests in search of shelter and people take advantage of the situation and go for a hunt.” (With inputs from Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-hit-villagers-rescue-250-deer-from-swollen-rivers/articleshow/77399739.cms||Ramashankar
August 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 2 lakh more pass Inter, Matric exams after getting grace marks||PATNA: State education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma on Thursday said students who failed in one or two subjects by few marks in Intermediate and Matric examinations conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) have been awarded grace marks in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The minister also released the list of candidates who have been awarded grace marks. “Altogether 72,610 more students have passed the Class XII examinations after getting grace marks. Similarly, 1,41,677 students have passed Class X after getting grace marks,” Verma said. Altogether 2,08,147 Class X candidates had failed in one or two subjects – 1,08,459 in one subject and 99,688 in two subjects. In Class XII, 46,005 students had failed in one subject and 86,481 in two subjects. Verma said it was not possible for the BSEB to conduct compartment exams due to the pandemic. He added, “Awarding grace marks to the students is an one-time exemption due to Covid- 19.” Additional chief secretary (education) R K Mahajan and BSEB chairman Anand Kishor were present when the pending results of Class X and XII were released by the minister. The BSEB had declared the Class XII results in a record time on March 24 and Class X results on May 26 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-lakh-more-pass-inter-matric-exams-after-getting-grace-marks/articleshow/77399774.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man kills wife brutally over family row, flees||PATNA: A man brutally killed his wife by stabbing her multiple times in head, face, neck and other parts of the body over a family dispute at Matiyao village under the Yadunathpur police station area in Rohtas district on Wednesday night. The victim was identified as Ribha Devi (30). SHO of Yadunathpur police station Shambhu Kumar said Ribha’s husband, Raju Singh alias Fitun Singh (36), was arrested on Thursday. He said the woman had been living at her parent’s house at Matiyao village for the last two months. The couple got married around 12 years back and had two minor sons and a daughter. “After Raju reached the place of his in-laws, Ribha’s parents and other family members welcomed him. However, he entered into an argument with his wife at night and started stabbing her. The woman was stabbed multiple times in head, face, neck, abdomen, limbs and other parts of the body. She was rushed to a hospital, but died on the way. Raju fled the house after committing the crime. Efforts are on to arrest him,” the SHO said. He added Raju is a resident of Ratangarh village under the Kandi police station area in Garhwa district of neighbouring Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-wife-brutally-over-family-row-flees/articleshow/77399943.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks Centre, UP reply in NSA against Kafeel Khan||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the Central as well as the Uttar Pradesh government to file their respective replies (counter affidavits) in response to a petition challenging detention of Dr Kafeel Ahmad Khan under the National Security Act (NSA). Dr Kafeel was booked under NSA by district magistrate, Aligarh on February 13, 2020 for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during the protests there over the Citizenship Amendment Act (NSA). Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13, 2020 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months, i.e., till August 12, 2020. The detention under NSA was extended as according to district administration, there was apprehension that his release may lead to law and order problems. The NSA allows preventive detention for up to a year. This extension dated May 13 has also been challenged in this petition. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Nuzhat Perween, mother of Dr Kafeel, a division bench comprising Justice Manoj Misra and Justice Deepak Verma directed to put up this petition on August 19, 2020 for the next hearing. Earlier, Dr Kafeel Ahmad Khan was arrested at Mumbai airport on January 29, 2020 in connection with a case registered at Aligarhs Civil Lines police station under section 153-A of the Indian Penal Code. The section relates to promoting enmity between groups over religion and other differences. However, he was granted bail by the court on February 10. The petitioner has taken the ground that when the CJM, Aligarh had granted bail to Dr Kafeel on February 10, 2020, then why he was not released forthwith. Instead of releasing him, NSA was imposed on him on February 13 at 5.30 p.m. in order to continue his detention, which shows malafide on the part of the administration, she added. Secondly, she took the plea that once the bail is granted by the competent court, the NSA cannot be imposed on the person concerned. Hence, imposing NSA to nullify bail was illegal. Earlier, the NSA was imposed on February 13 for a period of three months, which was going to expire on May 12. However, on May 13, another order was passed by the district administration extending the detention under NSA for further three months, i.e., till August 12, 2020. Does the extension make any sense in the situation of a lockdown, she had added. The doctor had earlier faced arrest following the deaths of over 70 children in a week at a government hospital in UP’s Gorakhpur in 2017. Later, he was released on bail by Allahabad High Court on April 25, 2018. The court passed this order on August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-centre-up-reply-in-nsa-against-kafeel-khan/articleshow/77399289.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 7, 2020||Business||Stocks upbeat, bonds subdued on rate pause||TNN Mumbai: Investors on Dalal Street were upbeat on the RBI decision on loan restructuring for select lenders as they feel the move would reduce financial difficulties for a large number of borrowers and lenders both. As a result, soon after the RBI decision was made public, sensex rallied over 550 points but closed 362 points higher at 38,025. However, in the bond market, yields hardened as investors in this were expecting the central bank to cut rates or increase the minimum holding limit of government bonds for banks, or both. Dalal Street investors were also enthused by the RBI’s decision to pause on cutting rates which they interpreted as a signal from the central bank that the slide in the economy in the last few months starting end-March is showing some signs of levelling out. As a result, the buying after the policy announcement was across the board with Infosys, HDFC Bank, TCS, ICICI Bank and RIL as the top contributors to the sensex’s gain, BSE data showed. In the debt market, after the RBI policy was announced, the benchmark 10-year government securities yield moved up by six basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 5.87% from 5.81%. Yields of state development loans and corporate bonds moved up correspondingly. Along with a pause on rates, the central bank also left the minimum held-to-maturity (HTM) limit unchanged. “The RBI delivered a dovish pause,” said Ram Kamal Samanta, VP — investment, Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance. “While showing concern for growth, the central bank has delivered an accommodative pause to balance near-term spike in inflation,” Samanta said. Unrelated to the central bank’s monetary policy decisions, in the commodities market price of silver rallied sharply, continuing its recent trend. On the MCX, all the silver futures hit the 5% upper circuit during the day, at above the Rs 76,000-per-kg mark setting a new all-time high mark for this precious metal. The previous all-time peak was recorded more than nine years ago, on April 25, 2011, at slightly above the Rs 75,000-level. Gold too continued its record-breaking rally and the September contracts were trading at above the Rs 56,000-per-10gm mark. In the international market, it was nearing the $2,100-per-ounce level, also an all-time peak price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stocks-upbeat-bonds-subdued-on-rate-pause/articleshow/77402427.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||Norms for banks’ debt MF buys eased||TNN Mumbai: The RBI on Thursday made it easier for banks to invest in debt schemes and debt-oriented exchange-traded funds (ETFs) of mutual funds. It said that banks can allocate 9% capital to all their direct debt investments as well as those which are through the mutual fund route. This will release some additional money for banks to invest in the debt market, the RBI said. Money managers said that for fund houses this will mean, on one hand, the MF risk weight will be on a par with direct investment in debt papers, but on the other, there will be volatility charge since a major part of banks’ investments through the MF route are liquid and overnight funds, which may, at times, witness more volatility. However, after the RBI decision, fund houses expect more inflows from banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/norms-for-banks-debt-mf-buys-eased/articleshow/77402294.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Centre’s MSME credit scheme finds few takers in Bihar||PATNA: The Centre’s Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme launched in May to give 100% collateral-free loan to MSMEs has found few takers in Bihar owing to low economic activity amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 13, as part of the Centre’s first tranche of economic stimulus, the scheme aims to help MSME borrowers by providing them a pre-approved sanction limit of up to 20% of their total loan outstanding as on February 29, 2020. While the scheme was implemented to help cash-strapped businesses amid lockdown, the response has been far from encouraging, with most commercial borrowers either opting out or not responding to the sanction letter sent by banks. The president of Bihar Industries Association (BIA), Ram Lal Khaitan, who also owns a warehouse business in Fatuha, told this newspaper, “Even though I got a pre-approved sanction letter from my bank, I did not avail it. The moratorium on principal repayment is one year but interest has to be paid during this time. At a time when business activities are running low, I found it prudent not to burden my business with additional debt.” Elaborating on the dull response of eligible borrowers, a bank official based in Patel Nagar, who did not wish to be named, said, “All existing MSME borrowers with an annual turnover of up to 100 crore for FY 2019-20 are eligible to avail this facility. The number of borrowers eligible under the scheme is very less and the ones that are eligible, their businesses have been hit during the lockdown. They are not sure if they would be able to repay the amount in time.” The eligibility criteria for availing the credit line is that the business enterprise should have a combined outstanding loan of up to 25 crore as on February 29 2020. This is a major hindrance for micro entrepreneurs in the state as they are not eligible for the scheme in the first place. “Bihar mostly comprises micro entrepreneurs whose annual turnover is nowhere close to 100 crore. Hence a lot of borrowers are not eligible for this line of credit. This scheme is well-suited for big states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat whose economy is dominated by big industries and medium enterprises,” said Abhishek Singh, secretary general of Bihar Entrepreneurs Association. While some experts attributed the low number of beneficiaries of the scheme to its structural challenges, others expressed concerns over ECLGS long-term benefits to MSMEs in the post lockdown era. “There has been a slump in overall demand and purchasing power of people due to lockdown. Basic sectors such as food processing have witnessed around 65% slump in demand. The Line of credit extended is 20% of the working capital, which is too low. Therefore, even if the credit is granted, it will mostly go into paying salaries and other overhead costs,” said Satyajit Singh, a leading makhana manufacturer and exporter in the state. “The need of the hour is to formulate policies that will lead to overall industry revival rather than burdening businesses with additional debt,” added Singh, who is also a member of the national committee for promotion of food processing sector under the Centre’s Covid financial package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-msme-credit-scheme-finds-few-takers-in-bihar/articleshow/77400125.cms||Arunima Lal
August 7, 2020||India||Ram’s conduct, values relevant even today: V-P||NEW DELHI: In a social media post, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya was “much more than a religious affair” and added that Lord Ram's conduct and values constituted the “core” of Indian consciousness and were still relevant today. Naidu said construction of a temple for Lord Ram was more a“re-coronation of the highest human values of truth, morality and ideals that the ‘maryada purushottam’ epitomised during his life”. “As the king of Ayodhya, he led an exemplary life, worthy of emulation by the common men and other nobles,” he said. On Wednesday, to mark the ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya, Naidu and his wife recited the Ramayana. His family also donated Rs 5 lakh each for the fight against coronavirus and towards construction of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rams-conduct-values-relevant-even-today-v-p/articleshow/77403924.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Waterlogged Adarsh Nagar residents fear electrocution||Jaipur: Monsoon seems to have exposed the status of civic arrangements in the city. Three street dogs were electrocuted on Wednesday afternoon after coming in contact with the water clogged on the street where a broken electric pole’s wires were lying. The incident occurred in Adarsh Nagar area near the water tank at around 2pm. Carcasses of three street dogs were later picked up by the Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater employees but this could have been a human tragedy as well. Yashika Lalwani, one of the residents who first saw the dogs lying on the street said, “I was horrified seeing them lying on the road. It could have been any of us in the locality. Broken wires of the pole came into contact with water clogged on the streets due to rains. Waterlogging is a serious issue which is still prevalent across Jaipur. We complained to the municipal corporation employees but they do not act quickly which creates problems later.” According to the information received by the officials, around 1,200 street light-related complaints have been registered at the helpline of JMC. For waterlogging, in the month of August, around 188 complaints have been received at the flood control centres set up by the municipal corporation in the city. A senior JMC official said that they are resolving the complaints received, but sometimes due to heavy rainfall it takes some time. Tiya Lalwani, another resident of the area said that being a pet owner, it was a painful moment. “This could have been any of us. Their bodies were lying on the road for hours before any employee came to pick them up. I have complained to the municipal corporation office as well. It is high time that they start working diligently,” said Lalwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waterlogged-adarsh-nagar-residents-fear-electrocution/articleshow/77402684.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Seers’ body wants Kashi, Mathura next on agenda||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) has said that the saint community is happy over its long-pending dream of having a grand temple of Lord Ram at Ayodhya being fulfilled finally, and wants Kashi and Mathura to be next on the agenda. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “It is a matter of solace and pride that the bhoomi pujan for the construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has been done after a long battle. We demand that the flag of Sanatan Dharma should be hoisted in Kashi and Mathura also for which the Akhara Parishad would do everything possible, remaining within the constitution limits.” He added, “These two holy sites were forcefully taken away from Hindus and it would be a noble step if our Muslim brothers return them or else the Akhara Parishad would knock the doors of the court.” “The Bhoomi Poojan ceremony at Ayodhya was a wonderful and unique event. Seeing Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeting the saints before the auspicious event by bowing to them shows how humble and down to earth he is. The foundation of fulfilling the pledge taken by Sanatan Dharma has been laid. The sacrifices of those associated with the cause for years have borne fruit,” said Giri while talking to TOI on Thursday. The souls of all the kar sevaks who sacrificed themselves for Ram temple must have found peace, he added. Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad general secretary Hari Giri said the construction of a grand Ram temple will mark a new dawn for those who believe in the establishment of Ram Rajya in the country.“It is a matter of pride for those who believe in Sanatan Dharma,” he added and applauded the efforts of PM Modi for fulfilling his promise on coming to power||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kashi-mathura-next-on-agenda-abap/articleshow/77399328.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||PDI of US sets up facility in Hyderabad||Hyderabad: US-based Professional Datasolutions Inc (PDI), which provides ERP, fuel pricing, supply chain logistics, and marketing cloud solutions for retail and petroleum industries, on Friday announced the expansion of its India operations with the opening of a new office in Hyderabad with a capacity to accommodate over 70 people. The company said that the new office, which will have a capacity to accommodate over 70 people, will help accelerate its development of cloud-based products, mobile-first experiences and analytics solutions with its agile engineering teams. PDI, which already has an office in Chennai, has hired around 40 people in Hyderabad, all of whom were hired and onboarded remotely and are also currently working remotely, it said. The Hyderabad expansion ramps up the company’s total India headcount of the company to 200. “As one of the most tech-savvy markets in the world, India is at the epicenter of cutting-edge technology. We are very excited to add Hyderabad regional center to the list of regional locations that PDI is committed to investing in to build industry-leading solutions and its customer support,” said Ravi Sankar Mocharla, vice president (engineering) & site leader, PDI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pdi-of-us-sets-up-facility-in-hyderabad/articleshow/77421765.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Nation will watch magician Gehlot’s show on August 14’||JAISALMER: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal, who came here on Thursday, said the entire country will watch the magic of ‘our magician’—a reference to chief minister Ashok Gehlot— on August 14, the day on which the state assembly session would commence. “That day everything will get clear,” said Dhariwal on whether the Gehlot government would be able to prove its majority in the House. The minister claimed the government was “safe”. At the same time, he added it was yet to be decided if the government would seek a trust vote during the session. On Rajasthan high court’s notices to the six MLAs who switched over from BSP to Congress, Dhariwal said, “We will abide by the court order.” Earlier in the day, the high court directed the court notices be served to the six MLAs, currently staying in Jaisalmer, through the district judge and the district SP. Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh said he was yet to receive any official information about the high court order. “Whatever will be the court order, it will fulfilled,” the SP said. After the high court order, the security of the six MLAs was increased. While stating that he would not comment much on the matter pending before the court, the parliamentary affaris minister said, “The government is in majority. The court decision will not make any difference to the government’s majority.” Dhariwal claimed that MLAs from the rebel Sachin Pilot group want to return to the Gehlot camp. “This will be clear in the coming days. The MLAs are calling us regularly to be with us.” The parliamentary affairs minister refuted the charge that MLAs were being forcefully held in two hotels in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/nation-will-watch-magician-gehlots-show-on-august-14/articleshow/77406678.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 7, 2020||Udaipur||‘Nation will watch magician Gehlot’s show on August 14’||JAISALMER: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal, who came here on Thursday, said the entire country will watch the magic of ‘our magician’—a reference to chief minister Ashok Gehlot— on August 14, the day on which the state assembly session would commence. “That day everything will get clear,” said Dhariwal on whether the Gehlot government would be able to prove its majority in the House. The minister claimed the government was “safe”. At the same time, he added it was yet to be decided if the government would seek a trust vote during the session. On Rajasthan high court’s notices to the six MLAs who switched over from BSP to Congress, Dhariwal said, “We will abide by the court order.” Earlier in the day, the high court directed the court notices be served to the six MLAs, currently staying in Jaisalmer, through the district judge and the district SP. Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh said he was yet to receive any official information about the high court order. “Whatever will be the court order, it will fulfilled,” the SP said. After the high court order, the security of the six MLAs was increased. While stating that he would not comment much on the matter pending before the court, the parliamentary affaris minister said, “The government is in majority. The court decision will not make any difference to the government’s majority.” Dhariwal claimed that MLAs from the rebel Sachin Pilot group want to return to the Gehlot camp. “This will be clear in the coming days. The MLAs are calling us regularly to be with us.” The parliamentary affairs minister refuted the charge that MLAs were being forcefully held in two hotels in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nation-will-watch-magician-gehlots-show-on-august-14/articleshow/77406679.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||‘Nation will watch magician Gehlot’s show on August 14’||JAISALMER: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal, who came here on Thursday, said the entire country will watch the magic of ‘our magician’—a reference to chief minister Ashok Gehlot— on August 14, the day on which the state assembly session would commence. “That day everything will get clear,” said Dhariwal on whether the Gehlot government would be able to prove its majority in the House. The minister claimed the government was “safe”. At the same time, he added it was yet to be decided if the government would seek a trust vote during the session. On Rajasthan high court’s notices to the six MLAs who switched over from BSP to Congress, Dhariwal said, “We will abide by the court order.” Earlier in the day, the high court directed the court notices be served to the six MLAs, currently staying in Jaisalmer, through the district judge and the district SP. Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh said he was yet to receive any official information about the high court order. “Whatever will be the court order, it will fulfilled,” the SP said. After the high court order, the security of the six MLAs was increased. While stating that he would not comment much on the matter pending before the court, the parliamentary affaris minister said, “The government is in majority. The court decision will not make any difference to the government’s majority.” Dhariwal claimed that MLAs from the rebel Sachin Pilot group want to return to the Gehlot camp. “This will be clear in the coming days. The MLAs are calling us regularly to be with us.” The parliamentary affairs minister refuted the charge that MLAs were being forcefully held in two hotels in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nation-will-watch-magician-gehlots-show-on-august-14/articleshow/77402695.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain fills up reservoirs, raises hope||The recent rainfall in Western Ghats has helped the water level in reservoirs in southern districts of the state to inch up. Karnataka, meanwhile, released 43,333cusecs (cubic feet per second) water in the Cauvery from the Kabini dam, which received plentiful water following heavy rain in its catchment areas in Wayanad region, on Thursday morning. By evening, water released from the Kabini and Krishnarajasagar reservoirs crossed 50,000cusecs, resulting in heavy inflow at Biligundulu, the entry point of Cauvery in Tamil Nadu. The inflow to Biligundulu was recorded at 21,000cusecs in the evening, while the Mettur reservoir saw an inflow of 6,000cusecs. The inflow is expected to increase in the night. Presently, only 3,000cusecs water is released from the Mettur dam as the water level in the dam is just 64.2ft, against its total capacity of 120ft. The water level is expected to rise steadily in the coming days. Last year, the Mettur dam had touched the 100ft-mark on August 13. The water release from across the border has brought cheer to the delta region. Central Water Commission, the top technical wing of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti, has been closely monitoring the situation. Heavy rain in the Nilgiris has, meanwhile, spurred the inflow to Bhavanisagar dam in Erode. At 8pm on Thursday, the inflow to the dam stood at 31,733cusecs. The outflow is maintained at 900cusecs since much of the river downstream is also brimming due to incessant rainfall. The water storage in the dam was recorded at 23.917tmcft (thousand million cubic feet), against its total capacity of 32.8tmcft. The PAP group of dams - Sholayar, Parambikulam and Aliyar - received steady inflow in the range of 1,694cusecs to 6,832cusecs in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Papanasam and Manimuthar in Tirunelveli saw storage rising to 1.8tmcft and 1.3tmcft, respectively. Mullaperiyar in Idukki district in Kerala, which supplies water to five southern districts of Tamil Nadu, saw an inflow of 6,956cusecs. The current storage in the reservoir is 3.262tmcft, against its total capacity of 10.57tmcft. “If only the rain continues for a few more weeks, there could be a healthy storage in the reservoirs,” said an official. Meteorology forecast is that the monsoon trough is active. Isolated/scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall likely across Tamil Nadu, Kerala and south interior and coastal Karnataka, during the next four to five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-fills-up-reservoirs-raises-hope/articleshow/77402619.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents protest at school over fees||Hyderabad: Alleging that Global Indian International School is violating fee norms, parents and student leaders on Thursday staged a protest in front of the school in Uppal. The parents said that as most of them are suffering losses in business or facing salary cuts, hence the fees should be reduced. Meanwhile, K Srilatha, principal of the school, said that the school is adhering to all the norms. “We did not enhance the fee this year and provided an option to pay fee month-wise. The online classes are disconnected for few students due to some technical error and will be rectified,” she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-protest-at-school-over-fees/articleshow/77401076.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Youth, girl found dead in Krishnanagar hotel room||LUCKNOW: In a sensational incident of a suspected murder and suicide, a 22-year-old youth Akash and his friend Kajal were found dead in a hotel room in Krishnanagar on Thursday afternoon. The youth was hanging from the ceiling fan while the girl was lying dead on sofa with about 70 wounds on her body inflicted with a fork that was recovered from the spot. The bodies were sent for post-mortem and police officials said the cause of death of both would be known only when the report comes. No suicide note was found from the spot. The hotel’s manager (operations) Hasan told reporters that they were frequent visitors and had come on Wednesday and were allotted room number 310. The hotel staff tried to alert them after they did not check out by afternoon as per booking and called them. When the calls were not picked the staff came and rang the bell but got no response and got suspicious. “The staff opened the door by using master key and were shocked to see the bodies and informed us,” said assistant commissioner of police, Krishnanagar, Deepak Kumar Singh. Further probe revealed that Kajal had gone missing from her home at 11am on Wednesday and her father had lodged a named complaint against Akash accusing him of luring her away, ACP Singh said. Both had also switched off their phones, he said in the complaint. “Akash had secured Kajal’s photographs which he had morphed. He also had a video showing her with him in some act. He was using them to blackmail her for meeting him. When we confronted Akash on the issue, he abused us and threatened to kill us,” the girl’s father added. Police said bruises were also found on the hands and body of Akash indicating some scuffle had taken place. The post-mortem would ascertain the exact cause of their death, said officials. (Names of victims have been changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-girl-found-dead-in-krishnanagar-hotel-room/articleshow/77403353.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Burglar targets house of people hospitalized for Covid treatment||Coimbatore: An unidentified person escaped with more than three sovereigns of gold and a television set from a house at Kovilpalayam near Kinathukadavu on the outskirts of the city when the inmates were admitted to a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Police said the house belonged to S G Prasath, 41, of Kovilpalayam. “The house remained locked from July 24 after Prasath and three other family members were hospitalized with Covid-19. After treatment, he returned home on the night of July 29 and found gold ornaments and the TV set were missing. The doors were, however, intact,” a police officer said.Prasath lodged a complaint with the Kinathukadavu police on Wednesday evening. He said the house key was handed over to his relatives before he got admitted to the hospital.Police said the culprit should have been entered the house by opening the door with the key. “Prasath is not suspecting the role of any of his relatives in the theft. But an outsider should have entered the house only after breaking open the locks. Based on his complaint, we have registered a case,” said Murali, inspector of police, Kinathukadavu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglar-targets-house-of-people-hospitalized-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/77402649.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||ACB takes ‘agent’ Jain in its custody||Jaipur: Two days after the Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police withdrew sedition charges against Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, middleman Sanjay Jain and a third person in connection to the alleged bid to topple the Ashok Gehlot Congress government, the ACB on Thursday took Jain in its custody through a production warrant. The ACB is likely to apply for a police remand on Friday while producing him in court. Jain was earlier arrested by the SOG in the alleged conspiracy to topple the Congress government by horse-trading of MLAs. ACB officials are likely to interrogate Jain on various issues including his phone calls to some MLAs. “All what I can say is that Jain has been taken into custody. We will produce him in the court on Friday and will try to take him in remand,” said a senior officer of ACB. ACB was yet to decide on their future course of action. None of the ACB officials when approached was clear on if they will check the financial status of the suspected MLAs especially if they have bought any property or invested in past a few months. “I will do what my seniors will guide me,” said Alok Sharma, the investigating officer of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-takes-agent-jain-in-its-custody/articleshow/77402712.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 patient leaves King Koti hospital, goes missing||HYDERABAD: A 49-year-old employee of a private engineering college, who tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at King Koti Hospital, left the Covid ward on August 4 without informing the authorities. Based on the complaint of his wife, the police registered a missing case and launched a manhunt to locate him. The missing patient, K Simha Chary, 49, from Injipur in Ibrahimpatnam is a lab technician at a private engineering college in Meerpet. At 9am on August 1, Simha Chary was admitted at King Koti Hospital with symptoms of Covid. A few days later, he tested positive. Chary’s 75-year-old mother, Sambamma died at their house in Injipur on August 4 due to ill health. As Chary had tested positive for Covid, his wife and other family members did not inform him about Sambamma’s death and performed her final rites. Meanwhile, a relative of Chary informed him about his mother’s death on the phone. “Chary left the hospital and boarded an auto to reach Ibrahimpatnam. While travelling in the auto, he called his wife and asked her to stand outside their house with money to pay the auto driver. After the auto reached near their house, his wife confronted Chary for leaving the hospital and took him back to King Koti Hospital,” Narayanguda SI D Karunakar Reddy said. After Chary went inside the Covid ward, his wife went home. In the evening, she called her brother-in-law, who is also admitted at the hospital with Covid symptoms. “he informed her that when he went out in the evening to buy fruits, Chary left the hospital and had left his phone on the hospital bed. There are no CCTV cameras at the hospital to find out where he went. We are looking at camera footage from nearby areas to locate Chary,” the SI said. On August 5, Chary’s wife lodged a complaint with police and a missing case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-patient-leaves-king-koti-hosp-goes-missing/articleshow/77401113.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kanpur||Over 5 lakh childrento be given vitamin A||Kanpur: Around 5.78 lakh children will be administered doses of Vitamin A under the Child Health Nutrition Month slated to be commenced from August 13. “ In a bid to enhance immunity and prevention from several ophthalmic problems, including moon blindness among children, the child development and health department will launch the Vitamin A campaign in the state from August 13,” said district immunization officer Dr A K Kannojia . He informed TOI that chief minister Yogi Adityanath would inaugurate the programme at state level on August 10. “Under the first phase target, Vitamin A would be supplemented to 5,78651 children of nine months to five-year age group. No other activities would be organized like previous years. The main programme would be conducted under Covid protocol,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/over-5-lakh-childrento-be-given-vitamin-a/articleshow/77402828.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Dwarka temple to be closed for Janmashtami||Rajkot: The famous Dwarkadhish temple of Lord Krishna will remain closed for four days from August 10 to August 13 to avoid heavy rush of devotees for Janmashtami.Lakhs of people throng the temple town for Krishna Janm on the day of the festival and they start trooping in a day before. Devbhumi Dwarka district collector NK Meena, who issued a notification in this regard on Thursday, said, it’s not possible to control the massive rush even with pass systems. “With passes, we can only accommodate 10,000 devotees in a day.”Though the temple will remain closed for devotees, prayers will be performed and the entire ritual will be streamed live on the social mediaThere are total 97 Covid-19 positive cases in the district out of which eight are reported in Dwarka town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dwarka-temple-to-be-closed-for-janmashtami/articleshow/77399766.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Extra floors and smaller farm houses to boost govt revenue in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The draft Rajasthan (Urban Areas) Building Regulations has made changes in small plots to curb illegal construction by allowing them extra floors, while reducing size of land for farm houses and buildings in ecological zones. This is expected to increase revenues for the government, but builders and architects in the city said if the changes in smaller plots housing are adopted in the current form, it will pave the way for chaotic development, choking the ease of living and straining the already stretched infrastructure. Architects said 90% of illegal construction happens in the buildings where the plot sizes are below 500 sq-mtr as builders are not required to get building plan approved. Currently, two floors, including ground level is allowed along with stilt on a 30-ft road. The draft policy has made a case for increasing the floor to G+2 along with stilt. “Of course, the additional floor will bring in more revenues for the government but it will create further strain on the resources,” said an architect. But he said since the additional floor will be legal, people, who earlier depended on NBFCs and paid higher interest cost, will now be eligible to get loans from scheduled commercial banks. Similarly, on a 60-ft road, the height of the building has been increased from 15 metres to 18 metres which will allow two more floors. Builders’ community said the plan to reduce the size of farm houses from 2,500 sq-mtr to 1,500 sq-mtrs is a step in the right direction. The draft also mentions of allowing green buildings with 1,000 sq-mtrs in ecological zones. “If these proposals in the draft get finalized, this will help more and more people to buy farm houses and live in natural settings. Because of the high sizes of land, the dream of living in a farm house could not become a reality for many. But now, it will be easier to own a farm house or a green building. This will also boost revenues for the government,” said Sunil Jain, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Rajasthan. The draft has made a case for increasing the office space area in residences for professionals like lawyers, chartered accountants and architects from 25% of the space to 35% keeping in view the difficulties they face due to Covid crisis. “This will encourage more to work from home,” added Jain. One of the major changes made in the draft is freeing stilt area from the measurement of height. But the height benefit is capped at 2.5 mtrs. Jain said this is applicable to all kinds of buildings and will help the developers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extra-floors-and-smaller-farm-houses-to-boost-govt-revenue/articleshow/77402764.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Six criminals held under ‘Operation All Out’||LUCKNOW: Cracking the whip against criminals, Lucknow IG launched the ‘Operation All Out’ in the range and swooped down six history-sheeters carrying a bounty of over Rs 20,000. In the course of operation, properties of four other criminals were confiscated. Inspector general of police, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh said an extensive search operation was carried out for two days across the range in six districts Kheri, Sitapur, Lucknow Rural, Rae Bareli, Hardoi and Unnao. “We managed to nab five criminals in Sitapur and one in Kheri carrying a cash prize of Rs 20,000. Properties of four other criminals worth Rs 7 lakh were also seized,” she said. Singh said such operations would be launched from time-to-time and all district police chiefs have been instructed to prepare a list of active criminals and list the preventive action taken against anti-social elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-criminals-held-under-op-all-out/articleshow/77403377.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Agra||First Covid patient undergoes plasma therapy in Aligarh||Agra: A 72-year-old Covid-19 patient in Aligarh was administered the first dose of plasma therapy at AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) on Thursday. The plasma was administered after the male patient stopped responding to regular treatment for infection. According to JNMC principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui, the patient, who has a history of hypertension and diabetes, had tested Covid positive three days back. While he was admitted to the hospital, five members of his family were quarantined. Though he responded to the initial treatment, the doctors later noticed progression of symptoms and decided to transfuse plasma in the patient. He added, with his consent, the patient was induced with the first dose of 200ml of plasma.People who have recovered from COVID-19 have antibodies to the disease in their blood and the same is known as convalescent plasma. “Three resident doctors of JNMC have donated their plasma so far and many more are willing to donate,” Prof Siddiqui said. Convalescent plasma can be given to people with severe COVID-19 patient to boost their ability to fight the virus, he added.He said that the patient will be given a second dose of 200ml on Friday and his condition would be closely monitored. AMU vice-chancellor and a surgeon by profession Professor Tariq Mansoor said, “JNMC has emerged as the frontline hospital of western Uttar Pradesh in the war against Covid-19 with more than 80% recovery rate. It has conducted around 50,000 tests so far. The medical college has also installed a new machine and started plasma therapy that will arrest the mortality rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/first-covid-patient-undergoes-plasma-therapy-in-aligarh/articleshow/77399792.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||VFES to conduct virtual fire audit in Covid wards||Vadodara: In the wake of the fire tragedy in Ahmedabad’s Covid hospital, Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services (VFES) is going to conduct a virtual fire audit of all designated coronavirus wards of all hospitals in the city. The fire department has formed teams of different fire stations to visit all hospitals and check safety preparedness and no-objection certificates (NOC). “Since no other persons other than hospital staff, that too in personal protection equipment (PPE) kit, are allowed in the Covid-19 wards, we are deliberating on conducting virtual fire audit of all hospitals having coronavirus patients,” said fire officer Manish Mod. “There are 50 hospitals in the city with ICU facilities and they also have the equipment and other apparatus to fight a fire. But we will check whether the staff can use this equipment so that before fire brigade reaches, the hospital staff can try to contain the situation,” said another fire officer, Om Jadeja Incidentally, even before the incident of Ahmedabad, fire department in Vadodara was preparing itself for any emergency in Covid-19 wards. “Last month we conducted a mock-drill at Panigate fire station to check how we can control an emergency in a Covid-19 ward and also evacuate coronavirus patients,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. On being asked about the situation of state-run hospitals especially SSG Hospital, he said, “SSG Hospital has the equipment to fight a fire and all buildings within the campus except one have NOC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vfes-to-conduct-virtual-fire-audit-in-covid-wards/articleshow/77399293.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||467 patients discharged from 20 community isolation centres||Surat: About 467 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after recovery from various community isolation centres in Surat city till date.Around 20 communities including Patidars, Muslims, Anavils, Vohras, Jains and others have set up isolation centres with a combined bed capacity of 1,411 in Surat in the first week of July.The communities had responded to the request by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to set up isolation centres for patients with mild or moderate symptoms and those who don’t have isolation facilities at their homes.“As on Thursday, 310 Covid-19 patients are under treatment at various isolation centres and 467 patients have been discharged,” said RJ Makadia, a retired IAS officer appointe as officer on special duty (OSD) at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said.The unique model of community isolation centres has eased burden on public hospitals. As on Thursday, there were 1,101 beds vacant at different community isolation centres in the city. RH Hadia, who is coordinating Ahir community's centre in Varachha, told TOI: "We have a capacity of 50 beds in our isolation centre. Around 36 Covid-19 patients have been discharged till date and 12 are under treatment. We have a team of 27 doctors from our community who are giving free service round-the-clock at the centre.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/467-patients-discharged-from-20-community-isolation-centres/articleshow/77399733.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||PGI, KGMU doctors to curb coronavirus in Kanpur||LUCKNOW: With Kanpur recording the highest number of cases in the state along with Lucknow, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for a team of specialist doctors from SGPGI and KGMU to visit the city and provide assistance and guidance in strengthening the health facilities there. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation on Thursday, the CM said the number of cases in Kanpur, Jhansi, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj should be brought under control. Kanpur recorded 447 cases on Friday, the second highest after Lucknow. Jhansi recorded 34 cases, Varanasi 281, Prayagraj 197 and Gorakhpur 135. Additional chief secretaries for health and health education, Amit Mohan Prasad and Rajneesh Dube have been directed to review the condition of L-2 and L-3 hospitals in Lucknow and assess availability of beds. These are the Covid special hospitals which are providing facility for oxygen and ventilators. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that while the state had a sufficient number of beds, the CM had desired that the capacity of the L-2 and L-3 facilities be increased further. Yogi has asked DG health and DG health education to present a report on the L-2 and L-3 hospital beds availability and prepare a plan on how to increase beds in these hospitals. Meanwhile, district magistrates and senior police officials have been directed to review containment zones and ensure their rationalisation. Awasthi said that the CM has asked for medical tests to be carried out for each person in a containment zone and ensure that any person displaying any symptom for Covid-19 gets themselves tested at the earliest. The administration and police have been asked to ensure that contact tracing is being done in containment zones, door to door surveillance is being carried out and to report on what action has been taken in the case a person is suspected of having the virus. To monitor those in home quarantine, the CM has said that the helpline at the integrated command and control centres should be used in this regard. The CM helpline can also be used for this purpose, Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgi-kgmu-docs-to-curb-virus-in-kanpur/articleshow/77403383.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Board for welfare of unorganised workers soon||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced the formation of a ‘State Social Security Board for Unorganised Workers’ in order to ensure social security for them. He said the designation of district employment officer will now be district employment and skill development officer as he believed skill development of youth and labourers was important for employment generation. Meanwhile, the primary task of the social security board will be to form the outline of the social security schemes for these labourers. He also directed that district collectors to ensure better utilization of Raj Kaushal portal launched for employment generation. Gehlot also directed the officials to launch a campaign throughout the state for the registration of disadvantage eligible construction labourers/workers through Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) welfare board so that every the labourers could get the benefit of the social security schemes run under the board. The chief minister said it was important to train youths as per the demand of industries so as to link them with employment. “Large scale training programme should be conducted for this,” he said. He said ongoing schemes for skill development must be integrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/board-for-welfare-of-unorganised-workers-soon/articleshow/77402775.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools blocking digital classes for fee defaulters: Parents||HYDERABAD: Parents allege that private schools in the city have started disconnecting online classes for those who failed to pay the second term fee. They said that a few schools are openly admitting that classes will resume only after the fee dues are cleared, while others are indirectly asking them to pay the fees. “It’s been more than three weeks since my son’s school has disconnected online classes. They are not responding to our emails. When we try to log in, a pop-up window is displayed asking to pay the fee,” said V Vijaya Lakshmi, whose child is a class 7 student in a private school in Bachupally. She said that she even wrote to the management saying that the fee structure they imposed is abnormal as they are collecting about Rs 20,000 per month for two hours of online classes. Another parent, Ilyaz Khan, whose children are studying at a private school in Tolichowki, said that the school is issuing a transfer certificate (TC) if parents raise any issues. “The school has disconnected online classes last week. When few parents raised the issue and filed a complaint, they issued TC. They are threatening that they will shut down the school or not register our children’s names with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for examinations,” said Khan, whose three children are in class 6, class 9, and class 10. Parents of an international school located in Rajender Nagar also complained that the school management has gone back on their words and started disconnecting online classes for defaulters. Few even took to Twitter to raise the issue. The education department officials, meanwhile, said that they have received a few complaints. “We have received complaints against four to five schools. We will initiate action after conducting a detailed enquiry,” said Venkata Narasamma B, district education officer, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-blocking-digital-classes-for-fee-defaulters-parents/articleshow/77401192.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Fights with wife drive shop owner to suicide||SURAT: A 38-year-old grocery shop owner hanged himself to death allegedly due to frequent quarrels with wife in Rander on Wednesday. The deceased Paras Jain, a resident of Udhna, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his shop. Police recovered a note from the shop in which Jain has stated that he was upset because of frequent fights with his wife and was therefore taking the drastic step. He alleged that his wife was harassing him ever since they got married a year ago. Investigation revealed that it was the second marriage of both Jain and his wife. The deceased was from Rajasthan and had settled in the city for many years. “We are yet to question Jain’s wife in detail,” said an official from Rander police station. Jain had a daughter from his first marriage that lasted for seven years. He had divorced his first wife a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/frequent-fights-with-second-wife-drives-grocery-shop-owner-to-suicide/articleshow/77399790.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Young lover couple set afire by woman’s family, man dies||KANPUR: A young couple was set on fire by the woman’s family members who were against their alleged relationship at a village under the limits of Mataundh police station in Banda district on Wednesday. While the man died, the woman is battling for life in the hospital in Kanpur. Bhola, 25, a native of Karcha village used to work as a daily-wager in Surat city of Gujarat. “As per his family members, Bhola was in an alleged relationship with a village girl. After the lockdown, he had returned home and often used to meet his girlfriend at the latter’s home in the absence of her family members,” police said. On Wednesday, Bhola’s 20-year-old girl friend had again made him a call and asked him to reach her house while all other members of her family were away, the police said. “Soon, Bhola reached her home. It was while they were present inside a thatched room, girl’s family members locked them from outside and later set afire the thatched structure after pouring kerosene on it,” the police said and added,” the villagers after coming across loud shrieks somehow rescued them and rushed them to district hospital, where Bhola succumbed to wounds”. The woman too suffered serious burns and after primary treatment was referred to Kanpur. “An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of IPC following a complaint by man’s family members at Mataundh police station. Searches have been intensified to make the arrest of the girl’s family members possible. A few relatives from the girl’s side have been detained and further investigations are underway in this regard. We are in the process of recording the statement of the girl. The man’s body has been dispatched to mortuary for postmortem examination,” said additional superintendent of police Mahendra Pratap Chauhan. He added that police have been deployed in the village to avoid any backlash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/young-lover-couple-set-afire-by-womans-family-man-dies/articleshow/77402798.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 7, 2020||Kanpur||PGI, KGMU doctors to curb coronavirus in Kanpur||LUCKNOW: With Kanpur recording the highest number of cases in the state along with Lucknow, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for a team of specialist doctors from SGPGI and KGMU to visit the city and provide assistance and guidance in strengthening the health facilities there. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation on Thursday, the CM said the number of cases in Kanpur, Jhansi, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj should be brought under control. Kanpur recorded 447 cases on Friday, the second highest after Lucknow. Jhansi recorded 34 cases, Varanasi 281, Prayagraj 197 and Gorakhpur 135. Additional chief secretaries for health and health education, Amit Mohan Prasad and Rajneesh Dube have been directed to review the condition of L-2 and L-3 hospitals in Lucknow and assess availability of beds. These are the Covid special hospitals which are providing facility for oxygen and ventilators. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that while the state had a sufficient number of beds, the CM had desired that the capacity of the L-2 and L-3 facilities be increased further. Yogi has asked DG health and DG health education to present a report on the L-2 and L-3 hospital beds availability and prepare a plan on how to increase beds in these hospitals. Meanwhile, district magistrates and senior police officials have been directed to review containment zones and ensure their rationalisation. Awasthi said that the CM has asked for medical tests to be carried out for each person in a containment zone and ensure that any person displaying any symptom for Covid-19 gets themselves tested at the earliest. The administration and police have been asked to ensure that contact tracing is being done in containment zones, door to door surveillance is being carried out and to report on what action has been taken in the case a person is suspected of having the virus. To monitor those in home quarantine, the CM has said that the helpline at the integrated command and control centres should be used in this regard. The CM helpline can also be used for this purpose, Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pgi-kgmu-docs-to-curb-virus-in-kanpur/articleshow/77407122.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 7, 2020||Varanasi||SI, three other policemen attacked by panda at Vindhyachal temple in Mirzapur||Varanasi: Sub-inspector Ravikant Mishra suffered grave head injuries while three other policemen were also injured when a panda (priest) Amit Pandey attacked them inside Vindhyachal temple premises in Mirzapur district on Wednesday late night. The incident occurred when the police had gone to catch Pandey after he had attacked another priest in a dispute over recording a video clip inside the temple premises. After attacking the policemen, Pandey allegedly injured himself. Police rushed him to a hospital under their custody. Later, the officials of Mirzapur administration and police held a meeting with Vindhya Panda Samaj and banned the use of mobile phones and cameras inside sanctum sanctorum of Vindhyachal temple. ASP (city) Mirzapur Sanjay Kumar said that on Wednesday late night, priest Vishwanath alias Visshu filed a complaint with Vindhyachal police station alleging that Pandey thrashed him when he was performing aarti of his shift inside sanctum sanctorum of the temple. To investigate the matter, SO Ravikant Mishra reached the spot after which Pandey locked himself inside Radha-Krishna temple in the main temple premises, said the ASP adding that after sometime ha suddenly came out and attacked Mishra with a stick. Mishra suffered grave head injury, said Kumar adding that when the temple security policemen including SI Sribhagwan, constables- Deep Narain and Santosh tried to intervene, Pandey also attacked them. When more cops rushed to stop him, Pandey started hitting his head against grills injuring himself said Kumar. All injured were rushed to divisional hospital in Mirzapur city, where Mishra was admitted in a critical condition while other policemen were discharged after first aid. Kumar said that family members of Pandey, who is already accused in 16 criminal cases, requested the police to take him to Varanasi for better treatment hence they were allowed to him to a hospital under police custody. On Thursday afternoon, city magistrate Jagdamba Prasad and Kumar held a meeting with VPS president Pankaj Dwivedi and other office bearers during which they unanimously decided to ban photography inside temples sanctum sanctorum, the cause of dispute between the two priests. Watch Shocking: Cops attacked by temple priest in UP's Mirzapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/si-three-other-policemen-attacked-by-panda-at-vindhyachal-temple-in-mirzapur/articleshow/77399528.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Intensify patrolling in closed industrial areas: SGCCI to CP||Surat: At a time when the industrial activity in Surat has resumed at a slow pace, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has urged the city police to intensify night patrolling in the areas housing diamond and textile units to curb the incidents of thefts.SGCCI office-bearers met the newly appointed police commissioner Ajay Tomar on Thursday with the demand for more patrolling in the industrial areas to protect the merchants connected with diamond and textile trade.In the last 10 days, two incidents of thefts were reported from the industrial areas in Varachha and Ved Road. In the first case on July 29, thieves stole two embroidery machines worth Rs 5 lakh and weighing about two tonnes from a unit in Varachha.In the second case reported at the Ved Road Industrial estate on August 5, the thieves broke into the closed powerloom unit and escaped with the winding motors fitted in the powerloom machines. A number of winding motors were stolen from the about 100 powerloom machines which were worth Rs 1.5 lakh. Sources said that the thieves had targeted the Pandesara GIDC and Sachin GIDC on late night on August 2 with a target to break into powerloom units, but were chased away by security personnel. The interim president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “Majority of the powerloom and diamond units are yet to restart operations. The closed units could become easy targets of thieves. Following rise in thefts, we have urged city police to increase surveillance activity in industrial areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/intensify-patrolling-in-closed-industrial-areas-sgcci-to-cp/articleshow/77399714.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Agra||Ahead of Janmashtami, Mathura administration restricts outsiders’ entry into city||AGRA: The Mathura administration has decided not to allow any outsiders in the district for three days between August 11 and 13, for Janmashtami celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The festival will be celebrated on August 12. Mathura SP (crime) Radheshyam Rai said that a plan has been prepared to put restrictions on public entry in the district for three days. “We have also written a letter to the district authorities in the neighbouring states to inform the people that the Janmashtami celebrations in Mathura have been cancelled,” he added. The SP said 39 barriers will be placed at the interstate borders the district shares with Rajasthan and Haryana and its borders with other districts, including Agra, Aligarh, Hathras and Noida. However, the usual Janmashtami rituals will be performed behind the closed doors in the temples and the organisers will also have to follow Covid-19 protocol. Janamasthami celebrations attract lakhs of pilgrims to Mathura every year. Kapil Sharma, the secretary of Sri Krishna Janmasthan temple, said that public entry will be banned in the temple from 12 pm on Monday and the temple doors will reopen for public on August 13 at 3 pm. However, other popular temples, including Banke Bihari and Prem Mandir in Vrindavan, will remain shut for public till September 30 and August 31, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ahead-of-janmashtami-mathura-admin-restricts-outsiders-entry-into-city/articleshow/77399802.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Govt teachers prepare music album to teach kids local culture||UTTARKASHI: In a bid to promote local languages and enhance general knowledge of children, a group of government teachers has come out with a music album in Garhwali. The album, consisting of 14 Garhwali songs, is based on the history of Uttarakhand. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) recently released the album on YouTube. Speaking about the initiative, a government teacher and composer of songs, Nand Kishore Hatwal said, “We decided to use folk songs for educating students as they are popular among every age group. Moreover, it is easy and interesting for children to learn in a rhythmic pattern.” “After working on the project for nearly two years, our team of government teachers has prepared 14 Garhwali songs in a traditional folk music format like jagar (music used to awaken the deities). The SCERT has recently released these songs in order to enhance general knowledge and promote the local language,” Hatwal added. Another government teacher, Om Badhani, who sang the songs, said, “Each song is based on a different topic. They are based on the state's history, demography, flora and fauna, famous personalities, fairs and festivals, mountain ranges, rivers and tourist places. We have also prepared songs on the state’s symbols, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks, which will be released soon.” “Besides general information, the students will also learn about different local music forms and traditional instruments by watching these videos. We are also planning to prepare a similar music album in Kumaoni, Jaunsari and several other local languages,” he added. Watch Uttarakhand: Teachers prepare music album to teach kids local culture||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-teachers-prpare-garhwali-music-album-for-children-to-enhance-knowledge-promote-local-language/articleshow/77399814.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 7, 2020||Surat||ED attaches property of Chennai-based firm||Surat: The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) attached immovable properties worth Rs 7 crore of N Anantha Padmanabhan, a Chennai-based bullion trader, in connection with the bogus import case involving Afroz Fatta and R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd on Thursday. Officials from Surat ED attached assets including 9,600 sq-ft land and commercial building with 20,292 sq-ft construction at Thyagarayanagar in Chennai held in the name of NAC Jewellers Private Limited, owned by Padmanabhan. The Rs 7 crore worth propoerties were attached under the provision of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. Official sources said that investigation under the PMLA was initiated based on a complaint received by the Surat Crime Branch police from ICICI Bank against M/s. R A Distributors Pvt. Ltd and others alleging that the companies had prepared fake bills of entry and presented the same before ICICI Bank for illegal outward remittance in the guise of import. Investigation conducted by ED revealed that nine companies having accounts in ICICI Bank at Surat remitted huge amounts of money on the basis of forged bills of entry to three companies in UAE and 15 companies in Hong Kong. The main sources of credits in these accounts were from eight entities including Vandana & Co., M/s. Natural Trading Co., M/s. Maruti Tading, having accounts in Axis Bank along with 469 other entities. These eight main entities had received funds through various cheque discounters and a web of around 2,700 companies. It was further revealed that Afroz Mohamed Hasan Fatta, Madanlal Jain, Bilal Haroon Gilani, Jayesh Desai, Rakesh Kothari were involved in this racket. These accused created shell companies using dummy directors and partners. Official sources said that Jain, the main conspirator had earned commission for his role in the illegal transactions of foreign remittances made on the strength of fake bills of entry. Part of the said commission about Rs 7 crore was routed to the bank account of firm controlled by Padmanaban. It was also established that this transaction has been carried out by Padmanaban with full knowledge that the money so received was tainted and further said money was utilized in business furtherance his jewellery company. In order to cover up these transactions Jain prepared bogus invoices of sale and purchase of diamonds between M/s NAC Jewellers and M/s Natural Trading Co. (controlled by Jain) to show diamond purchases. Earlier ED had arrested Afroz Fatta, Jain, Manish Shah, Rakesh Kothari and Jayesh Desai and attached their properties worth Rs 34.29 crore and filed five prosecution complaints before designated Special court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ed-attaches-property-of-chennai-based-firm/articleshow/77399749.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Chittor excise gets 56kg gold meant to weigh ex-PM Shastri||UDAIPUR: A CJM court in Udaipur has ordered to hand over 56.8kg of gold, which was raised by crowd funcing 55 years ago to weigh (tuladaan) former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his proposed visit to Chittorgarh in December 1965, to the custody of CGST-Chittorgah. The market value of the gold presently is estimated around Rs 31 crore. The yellow metal was deposited in the safe custody of Chittorgarh administration before Shastri’s proposed visit but the event could not be held due to his sudden demise. The gold stock had been in dispute since then and came for judicial considerations before different Udaipur courts and Rajasthan High Court in the last 51 years. Swarna Tuladaan was proposed by one Ganpat Lal Anjana, a resident of Gomana in Chhoti Sadri of Chittorgarh, who raised the gold through crowd funding and later deposited the metal under the Gold Bond scheme of the Gold Control Act. Shashtri died in Tashkent in January 1966 and on February 26, Ganpatlal put up an application before the Chittorgarh collector claiming back his gold since the event was cancelled. Meanwhile, one Gunwant from Gomana registered a criminal case against Ganpatlal and few others alleging misappropriation of the precious metal which was seized by police under the criminal case proceedings. An additional assistant sessions judge court in its decision in January 1975 held Ganpatlal and his aides guilty and the gold was ordered to be given away to the Gold Control officer. The accused men appealed before the additional sessions court which released them in August 1978. Meanwhile, the men went for criminal appeal and revision before the high court, which maintained the subordinate courts’ decision on the metal to be given to the custody of the gold control officer. After Ganpat's death, his son and legal heir Goverdhan Anjana claimed the gold custody while the assistant commissioner, CGST-Chittorgarh too moved an application for the custody of the disputed gold. Assistant attorney general Sangeet Purohit, attorney Kinshuk Jain and Pravin Khandelwal represented the CGST while advocate Bhanwar Singh Rao represented Anjana. Deciding on both the petitions and discarding Anjana's claims, the court ordered in favour of the government department. The CJM ordered the officer-in-charge of the maalkhana to give the gold to CGST-Chittorgarh (Division G) for rightful use in the interest of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chittor-excise-gets-56kg-gold-meant-to-weigh-ex-pm-shastri/articleshow/77402785.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Allahabad||NSA against Dr Kafeel Khan: HC seeks Uttar Pradesh, Centre’s reply||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the Central as well as the Uttar Pradesh government to file their respective replies (counter-affidavits) in response to a petition challenging detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA). Dr Kafeel was booked under NSA by district magistrate, Aligarh, on February 13 this year for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University campus during the protests there against the Citizenship Amendment Act (NSA). Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13, 2020 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months — till August 12. The detention under NSA was extended as according to district administration, there was apprehension that his release may lead to law and order problems. This extension dated May 13 has also been challenged in this petition. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Nuzhat Perween, mother of Dr Kafeel, a division bench of Justice Manoj Misra and Justice Deepak Verma directed to put up this petition on August 19 for the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nsa-against-kafeel-hc-seeks-state-centres-reply/articleshow/77403387.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man kills his only daughter for relationship outside religion||RAJKOT: In a brutal case of honour killing, a 54-year-old man allegedly killed his only daughter as she insisted on marrying a man from the minority community on Thursday. Accused Gopal Nakum clubbed his 20-daughter Ila with a washing bat till she died after a heated altercation over the same issue at their house in Shahnagar Society in Gandhigram area at around noon. After killing her, Nakum straight went to the Gandhigram police station and surrendered himself. “During preliminary questioning, Nakum told us that he was fiercely against Ila’s relationship with a man from a different religion. He killed her in a fit of rage after a verbal duel,” said Khumansinh Vala, inspector, Gandhigram police station. Ila was a second-year BA student of Mahila College on Kalavad Road. She and the man named Fardeen, who was her neighbour, fell in love about a year ago. Gopal also told police that his wife Savita died around a month ago due to massive cardiac arrest. According to him, Savita died due to constant stress over Ila’s stubbornness to marry Fardeen and frequent quarrels over the issue, said Vala. After Savita's death, Gopal and Ila left their rented house in Shivpara in Hanuman Mandir Chowk and went to live in Gandhigram, about two km away. He wanted to keep her away from the man. However, Fardeen's family members had no objection to their marriage. On Thursday morning, Ila refused to make breakfast or eat anything and kept insisting that Gopal agreed to her marriage with Fardeen. She told her father that she would eat only if he agreed. Gopal got enraged and picked up a washing bat and started beating Ila mercilessly. A neighbour, who rushed there hearing the commotion, saw Gopal leaving the house and Ila lying unconscious on the floor. He immediately informed the police and Ila was taken to the civil hospital in 108 emergency ambulance. However, she was declared dead on admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-kills-daughter-for-relationship-outside-religion/articleshow/77399805.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Varanasi||Administration to outsource doctors as comorbidity leads to rise in Covid deaths||Varanasi: In view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 deaths in Varanasi, the district administration has asked the chief medical officer to outsource doctors for assisting in a special drive going on to give preventive treatment to people with comorbidity. The requirement of doctors has also increased with the introduction of home isolation facility for asymptomatic patients. Talking to TOI on Thursday, DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Preventing Covid deaths has become a challenge in the district as most of the people dying due to Covid-19 are already suffering from old ailments like cardiac, kidney, blood pressure, respiratory problems,diabetes, hyper tension, and tuberculosis. In the recent door-to-door surveys, number of persons with comorbidity is over 50,000 in the district. We have targeted to cover them all with preventive treatment. So far, 72 lives have been claimed by comorbidity in the district. The first Covid death was reported on April 4. By July 5, number of Covid positive cases had reached the mark of 627, of which 23 patients had lost their lives. Between July 6 and August 5, the number of Covid cases crossed the mark of 3,543, while 49 Covid deaths were also reported in this period. To tackle comorbidity, Sharma said, mobile clinics are being operated for giving preventive treatment to over 50,000 people suffering from different ailments. “We have sufficient staff strength including doctors at Covid-19 facilities. But more doctors are required for assisting in the special drive as well as taking care of patients availing home isolation facility. Some requirements are also at primary health centres,” said Sharma. The CMO has been asked to outsource around 20 doctors through walk-in-interview process at the earliest. The doctors should have minimum qualification of MBBS. More lab technicians are also required for accelerating the pace of Covid sample testing. “Initially, the appointed doctors will work for 60 days. However, if the Covid-19 menace will continue and further requirement is felt, period for seeking their services will be extended Moreover, many doctors deployed at primary or community health centres are reluctant in performing field duties. The DM asked the CMO to deploy them at level-2 facility in DDU district hospital. He also directed the CMO to ensure that rapid response teams of the health department are attending the patients tested Covid positive within 24 hours after the arrival of their lab test reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/administration-to-outsource-doctors-as-comorbidity-leads-to-rise-in-covid-deaths/articleshow/77399505.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Sedition case against group of women||HYDERABAD: Special Investigation Team (SIT) of CCS on Thursday registered a sedition case against a group of women from Saidabad for holding congregational prayers against the Supreme Court’s verdict on the Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya. On the directions of the Hyderabad police commissioner, the sedition case, which was initially registered by the Saidabad police, has been transferred to CCS. Muslim cleric Maulana Abdul Islahi’s daughters, Shabista and Zille Huma were booked for organising special congregation Qunoot-e-Nazilah in November 2019 against the Supreme Court verdict. On November 14 last year, the Saidabad police had taken suo motu action against the women for their alleged inciting remarks and slogans during a prayer programme held at Eidgah Ujale Shah Sahab. After analysing videos of the congregation and protest, the cops reportedly found that the woman protesters had uttered several words that were inflammatory in nature and detrimental to the peace. The two women were also involved in a case of attacking policemen at the Saidabad police station. A non-bailable warrant is pending against them. A case was filed under IPC Sections 124-A, 153-A & B and 295-A“We have re-registered a sedition case against the women. The case will be investigated by SIT of CCS,” joint commissioner of police (detective), Avinash Mohanty told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sedition-case-against-group-of-women/articleshow/77401204.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Inter-state casting pipes thieves’ gang busted in Rajkot, 15 nabbed||Rajkot: Rajkot rural police on Thursday managed to foil the nefarious plans of a gang of inter-state casting pipes thieves while they were plotting to execute another robbery on Rajkot-Porbandar highway in Upleta. Cops arrested 15 members of the gang and with this also solved the theft they had committed in Upleta around a fortnight back. The gang members admitted of 14 thefts of casting pipes in just one year from different states. Police said that one of the gang members Taiyab Khan, a native of Mewat in Haryana, had conducted recce of the spot. Once they were confident, they had planned to strike on Wednesday night. However, the local crime branch (LCB) sleuths had received tip-off about the gang based on which they were nabbed along with three trucks and weapons. Cops said that the gang also keep dangerous weapons like sickle, knives, stones and iron rods with them in case they are challenged.Khan revealed to the police police that he conducted surveys in different places of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. After the survey, Khan used to bring his gang in trucks to steal casting pipes. The stolen pipes are then transported to Delhi for selling. Except Khan and another member Irshad, no other member of the gang had ever been arrested by police. The duo was booked for theft by Seoni police in Madhya Pradesh last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/inter-state-casting-pipes-thieves-gang-busted-in-rajkot-15-nabbed/articleshow/77399878.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Lockdown in Jodhpur & Bharatpur on weekends||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: While several parts of the state have reported spike in Covid-19 cases, Jodhpur, Chittorgarh and Bharatpur announced lockdowns on Saturdays and Sundays. In Jodhpur and Bharatpur, lockdown will be imposed every Saturdays and Sundays, while in Chittorgarh, the district administration has kept it only for Sunday. In Jodhpur, the lockdown will begin from 8.00 pm on Friday and would continue till 6.00 am on Monday. During this period, entire commutation will remain restricted on the roads except for the persons, associated with essential services comprising government employees in medical, transport, public health and engineering department, telecom and private persons engaged in chemical and other essential industries, food supplies, transport, banks, fuel and medical shops. The district magistrate Indrajit Singh said that the decision has been taken followed by a meeting with the medical and health department, police and members of trade and business organisations in view to the constantly surging positive cases in Jodhpur. “The decision has been taken in view of the safety of the citizens and would help in containing the expansion of the virus infection in the city”, Singh said. In Bharatpur too, similar decision has been taken. “Bharatpur will remain under lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders. Also, on other five days, the market will be allowed to remain open from 10am to 5pm. However, for industrial, relaxations have been given during lockdown so that it will not affect employment,” said Nathmal Didel, district collector, Bharatpur. He said that they are also taking strict actions violating social distancing norms and for not wearing masks. “In past 45 days, we have challaned 10,000 people for violating norms,” said Didel. In Chittorgarh too, lockdown has been imposed in every Sundays. Additional district collector (Chittorgarh) Mukesh Kumar Kalal said, “Lockdown has been announced for Sunday aiming to prevent unnecessary movement of people to prevent spread of the virus.” Similarly, Barmer administration has also decided to resume a partial lockdown for one week in Barmer and Balotara starting from Friday. For this one week, all those areas with unabated positive cases will remain shut for public movement with food and milk supply to be made available at door step. Remaining parts of the towns will remain open only from 9.00 am to 5.00 pm and that too with strict compliance of the Covid 19 guidelines. The Barmer administration has also decided to withdraw the permission of home quarantine for the positive cases and will now be keeping all the positive cases at the Covid Care Centers to ensure that they remain under watch for the entire quarantine period. Before this, Jalore has practiced one week lockdown in its Bhinmal and Sanchore sub division considering the surging positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/lockdown-in-jodhpur-bharatpur-on-weekends/articleshow/77405840.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown in Jodhpur & Bharatpur on weekends||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: While several parts of the state have reported spike in Covid-19 cases, Jodhpur, Chittorgarh and Bharatpur announced lockdowns on Saturdays and Sundays. In Jodhpur and Bharatpur, lockdown will be imposed every Saturdays and Sundays, while in Chittorgarh, the district administration has kept it only for Sunday. In Jodhpur, the lockdown will begin from 8.00 pm on Friday and would continue till 6.00 am on Monday. During this period, entire commutation will remain restricted on the roads except for the persons, associated with essential services comprising government employees in medical, transport, public health and engineering department, telecom and private persons engaged in chemical and other essential industries, food supplies, transport, banks, fuel and medical shops. The district magistrate Indrajit Singh said that the decision has been taken followed by a meeting with the medical and health department, police and members of trade and business organisations in view to the constantly surging positive cases in Jodhpur. “The decision has been taken in view of the safety of the citizens and would help in containing the expansion of the virus infection in the city”, Singh said. In Bharatpur too, similar decision has been taken. “Bharatpur will remain under lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders. Also, on other five days, the market will be allowed to remain open from 10am to 5pm. However, for industrial, relaxations have been given during lockdown so that it will not affect employment,” said Nathmal Didel, district collector, Bharatpur. He said that they are also taking strict actions violating social distancing norms and for not wearing masks. “In past 45 days, we have challaned 10,000 people for violating norms,” said Didel. In Chittorgarh too, lockdown has been imposed in every Sundays. Additional district collector (Chittorgarh) Mukesh Kumar Kalal said, “Lockdown has been announced for Sunday aiming to prevent unnecessary movement of people to prevent spread of the virus.” Similarly, Barmer administration has also decided to resume a partial lockdown for one week in Barmer and Balotara starting from Friday. For this one week, all those areas with unabated positive cases will remain shut for public movement with food and milk supply to be made available at door step. Remaining parts of the towns will remain open only from 9.00 am to 5.00 pm and that too with strict compliance of the Covid 19 guidelines. The Barmer administration has also decided to withdraw the permission of home quarantine for the positive cases and will now be keeping all the positive cases at the Covid Care Centers to ensure that they remain under watch for the entire quarantine period. Before this, Jalore has practiced one week lockdown in its Bhinmal and Sanchore sub division considering the surging positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-in-jodhpur-bharatpur-on-weekends/articleshow/77402792.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Agra||UPSWC issues notice to Agra DM, SSP over death of 2 women||Agra: The Uttar Pradesh State Women Commission (UPSWC) has issued a notice to Agra district magistrate and senior superintendent of police in connection with a murder of a woman and her daughter and an alleged suicide case of a woman doctor. Taking suo moto cognizance, Sushma Singh, vice-president of the commission, has sought a report on action taken in both cases. The first case relates to the murder of a 30-year-old woman and her three-year-old daughter allegedly for dowry on Tuesday night at Dhanoli village under Malpura police station. The deceased woman's husband has been arrested. The couple's 18-month-old daughter who was injured is battling for her life. In the other case, a doctor, Deepti, of Tajganj in Agra, died during treatment at a hospital in Faridabad on Thursday. The police are preparing to file a case based on the suicide note left by her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upswc-issues-notice-to-agra-dm-ssp-over-death-of-2-women/articleshow/77399833.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Lay bare online classes policy: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that it is donning the role of parents, the Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from the state government, details and guidelines of its online education policy and safeguards it has for the poor and the primary school kids. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said: “We are insisting on the poor because they cannot afford to procure the latest gadgets and primary kids because they cannot withstand long hours of continuous on-screen teaching.” The judges said the attention span of a primary school child is not more than 10 minutes. “You (government) cannot harass him or her for hours together. That too in a virtual school that has no playground or fun. Already, we are hearing disturbing stories of DPS and Oakridge imparting four to five hours of non-stop teaching,” they said while hearing a PIL filed by Hyderabad School Parents’ Association (HSPA). State’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar told the judges that the state cabinet had approved the new education policy (NEP) and that the government would soon come out with guidelines. “The state has not yet commenced the academic year and an announcement to this effect will be made in a few days from now. As of now, the government schools are imparting education only through distance and online classes mode,” he said. At this, the judges reminded him about certain private schools which are functioning under state control which have already commenced classes through online mode. “The private schools that run on central and CBSE syllabus have commenced their academic year from March 2020 itself,” they said. “Your policy and guidelines should be able to address the digital divide apart from equipping the mastery to make students cope up with the lost time,” the judges said. HSPA complained in its petition about the premature commencement of online classes even before the government announced the beginning of the new academic year and also about coercive methods by private schools to shell out hefty fees during the pandemic. “The government’s failure to rein in private schools despite being armed with several laws is more pronounced now,” argued Yakarapu Sheelu, counsel for the HSPA. Earlier, CBSE counsel A Chaya Devi sought time to file a counter. The judges said they would like to hear from the CBSE and also from the Centre as to how they would address the issues that arose on account of the ground realities prevailing in the society. Another counsel Chandrasekhar Nizampur urged the court to allow him to implead the parents of five private schools which are exploiting the parents in the name of online classes. “A parents’ association is already before us. Now this high court itself is striving to defend the rights of the parents and students, Hence, more parents need not come on board,” the judges said and posted the case to August 27. The bench directed the registry to tag the current plea along with another related PIL on the same matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lay-bare-online-classes-policy-hc-to-t/articleshow/77401218.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 7, 2020||Dehradun||Need to project 2022 polls as Trivendra govt versus Congress show: Harish Rawat||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Congress started its virtual rallies by holding a meeting with party members of Nainital on Thursday. All senior state party leaders including Uttarakhand chief Pritam Singh, former CM Harish Rawat, leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh and state in-charge Anugrah Narayan Singh addressed the party members and told them to gear up for the preparations and challenges in the future. Former CM Rawat said that the BJP wants to make the 2022 state election a “Modi versus Congress” show. “However, we need to project it as a Trivendra Singh Rawat versus Congress election by highlighting the issues of unemployment, inflation and poverty, which the BJP members are trying to avoid. They want to take the election in a wrong direction but it is the duty of Congressmen to project the real picture before the people,” said Rawat. He asserted that a large scale awareness was required for the same and party members need to prepare themselves for the 2022 elections accordingly. Pritam Singh said that the BJP government has proved a complete failure in handling Covid-19. “Due to the wrong policies and planning of the BJP, the entire state’s tourism sector – which is the backbone of the economy – has suffered. So many units have closed and people are fast losing their jobs,” Singh added. Meanwhile, BJP’s media incharge Devendra Bhasin termed the virutal rally of the Congress as a "flop show". “They are just trying to follow us and without any issues or agenda for public welfare. Their efforts will fall flat,” said Bhasin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/need-to-project-2022-polls-as-trivendra-govt-versus-congress-show-harish-rawat/articleshow/77399839.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||4 Alwar civic staff arrested for bribery||ALWAR: Unearthing a racket of corruption at the municipality of Behror town of Alwar, a team of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday arrested four government officials including executive officer, a junior engineer, a revenue officer and one cashier of the Municipality, Behror for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 85,000. The said amount was demanded in lieu of releasing an outstanding payment of the complaint for the development works he had completed. A private person has also been arrested in the case. Director general of ACB, Alok Tripathi said that a complainant approached the ACB headquarters and stated that he had received work order for development works in the Behror municipal limit area. “The complainant added that the work given to him was completed on time and he was expecting payment of his dues of nearly Rs 12.50 lakh,” Tripathi added. Thus, the group of officers including Manisha Yadav, the executive officer, Virendra Yadav the revenue officer, Sanjiv Sharma the revenue officer and cashier Yashoda Nandan Sharma demanded 8 percent of the total amounted bill as bribe. They were demanding this bribe in lieu of releasing the outstanding payment of the complainant. Thus, under the direction of Additional Director General (ADG) ACB, Dinesh MN a trap was laid. Following the trap all these officers were arrested by the team of ACB. A private person was also arrested in this case. Further investigations in the case were on, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-alwar-civic-staff-arrested-for-bribery/articleshow/77402789.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-only tag lifted for crematorium||NEW DELHI: With Delhi having flattened the death curve in the past one month, the city’s only Covid-designated crematorium at Punjabi Bagh will now be reopened for non-Covid cremations as well. The facility with four CNG furnaces and 70 traditional wood-based pyre platforms has been receiving on average only four to five bodies every day. A senior south corporation official said that a meeting in this regard was held by the additional commissioner on Wednesday during which it was decided to reopen the facility for normal cremations. An order on removal of its Covid-only status would be released soon, the official added. The NGO managing the crematorium had been demanding for the last one month that the facility should be reopened for non-Covid cremations since the Covid situation is now under control. Deepak Sharma, a pandit at the crematorium, said that 60-70 Covid bodies were being received every day in June, which was leading to crowding. “Now, the number has gone down to 4-5 bodies a day and it has become difficult for eight pandits and eight helpers to sustain themselves,” he added. Another south corporation official said that there has been a steady fall in the number of bodies being received at the Punjabi Bagh facility from June 20 onwards. The facility was declared to be the first corona-exclusive cremation site in the capital on June 8 and was initially receiving 40-50 bodies daily for corona-protocol funerals. It also faced a situation wherein the daily cremation capacity was breached and bodies had to be diverted to Nigam Bodh Ghat and the Lodhi crematorium. “The decision regarding barring non-Covid cremations at the Punjabi Bagh site was taken when things had started to get out of control. The intention was to prevent any crowding and mixing of people who might have come in contact with Covid-19 patients,” said the official. “The mortality rate and the risk factor have gone down now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-only-tag-lifted-for-crematorium/articleshow/77401225.cms||Paras Singh
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Five TNAU alumni crack UPSC exam||Coimbatore: Five alumni of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) here have cleared the UPSC exams this year. They graduated from the university and its affiliated colleges over the past six years. A release from TNAU said S Bharani, who completed her BSc Agriculture at Agriculture College and Research Institute, Coimbatore, in 2014, has cleared the UPSC exam and has got 58th rank. S Sangeetha, from Bellampatti village in Dharapuram, Tirupur, who completed her BSc Agriculture at Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai, in 2014 secured 499th rank. A police officer currently, she is undergoing her DSP training. Similarly, S Abinaya, who came 559th graduated with an agriculture degree at Agricultural College and Research Institute, Coimbatore, in 2014. She is now an agricultural officer in the state agriculture department at Paramakudi. S Malliga, from Kothgiri, Nilgiris, who completed BTech Biotechnology in TNAU in 2015 came 621st. N Venkatesa Prabhu, from Udumalaipettai, Tirupur, now a probationary officer in Indian Forest Service, who is undergoing training at Dehradun, came 751st. He had completed UG in Agriculture at Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Trichy in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-tnau-alumni-crack-upsc-exam/articleshow/77402771.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Agra||18 PAC, 17 policemen test Covid-19 +ve in Agra region||Agra: At least 17 policemen in Agra and Hathras districts have tested Covid-19 positive in Agra region. Out of these 12 were fresh recruits who were on training in the police lines of Hathras district and five policemen on duty in Agra district. Besides, 18 jawans of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) in Agra were also found positive. Over 50 colleagues of the patients were sent into home quarantine. At least one Covid death was also reported in Agra district on Thursday. A 70-year-old man died under treatment at the SN Medical College. The resident of Rajeev Market was a patient of diabetes and hypertension. He had suffered respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 101 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 38 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 2,001. These included the wife of Agra MP SP Singh Baghel. She was kept in home isolation. By the time this report was filed, the RT-PCR test report of the MP was awaited. As many as 32 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Agra on Thursday. Of the 2,001 cases reported in the district, 80.26% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 294 active Covid-19 cases. Bareilly continued to report more than 100 cases per day as 129 fresh cases were reported on Thursday. Besides, two individuals - a man from Rampur Garden locality and a 70-year-old man from Suresh Sharma Nagar locality - died due to Covid-19. Moreover, at least 20 people, including a shopkeeper and a labourer, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Thursday, taking the total tally to 2,353, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/18-pac-17-policemen-test-covid-19-ve-in-agra-region/articleshow/77399868.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Gang forges thumb impressions, hacks 100 bank accounts||LUCKNOW: Police in Basti district arrested seven persons for forging thumb impressions of villagers, hacking 100 bank accounts and withdrawing around Rs 30 lakh. The cyber cell police said that the arrested gang members were identified as Sanjay Pandey, Sarvesh Diwedi, Shahbuddin aka Sunil Mishra, Rakhi Mishra, Amar Bahadur,Surendra Mishra and Surya Prakash Shukla. Posing as health officials they visited Dhodhari village under Gaur police station and took villagers' details, including thumb impressions, for providing them a health insurance scheme. However, after some days Rs 30,000 got debited from their accounts between July 26 and 28. A villager, Shyam Gupta was the first to report the incident at Gaur police station on July 28. Gupta in his complaint had stated that Rs 30,000 was debited from the account of his father while no transaction was done by him or his father. Later, it was detected that a similar amount was debited from bank accounts of 99 others of the same village. Superintendent of police, Basti, Hemraj Meena, said, “A probe revealed that neither ATM nor e-wallet was used to take out the money, but it was withdrawn through Aadhaar enabled Payment System (AEPS) which was used by villagers.” He said during visits to the village miscreants took thumb impressions and aAadhaar card and PAN card details of villagers. Then they used these details and thumb impressions to make payment using AEPS, he added. “We got CCTV footage of gang members entering the village and also spotted Sanjay and Sarvesh who were earlier arrested for cyber fraud and were carrying Rs 5,000 cash reward. Three teams were constituted to work out the case. Later, seven persons were arrested and the police recovered Rs 10 lakh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gang-forges-thumb-impressions-hacks-100-bank-accounts/articleshow/77403413.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Man held for sexual assault on 12-year-old in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The man who had allegedly sexually assaulted a 12-year-old girl and later brutalised her with a pair of scissors inside her house in outer Delhi’s Peeragarhi two days ago was arrested on Thursday from Mangolpuri in northeast Delhi. Shalini Singh, joint commissioner (western range) said, “The accused, Krishan (33), is a repeat offender. He was previously involved in four criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder and burglary.” He has been booked under relevant sections of POCSO Act and IPC. The initial probe has revealed that Krishan was reccing the area on Tuesday evening to commit burglary. When he reached the building, he found people present in houses on the first two floors. When he reached the third floor, he found the door of the flat open and entered inside. When the girl saw him, she raised an alarm. He then threw a sewing machine at her head. When she continued to shout, he stabbed her with the pair of scissors repeatedly. During interrogation the accused claimed that he was drunk at the time of the incident. The girl was stabbed at least five times by Krishan with a pair of scissors. He had left presuming that she had died. The weapon has been found and sent for forensic analysis to check for his fingerprints. Krishan was identified with the help of footage from close to a hundred CCTV cameras. Based on them, police prepared an electronic route and used technical surveillance to trace his location. Twenty special teams comprising more than 200 policemen had been tasked to track down the offender. In one clip, he was seen leaving the building six minutes after entering it. “The timing of the assault and his entry and exit matched, which is why he became our prime suspect. Krishan was identified after quizzing locals. The parents of the girl, who work in a sewing factory, told us that they did not know the man,” said an investigating officer. The statements of the parents and other residents of the building who had seen the girl in the brutalised state have been recorded. They will be called in for a test identification parade of the accused. The survivor, who is being treated at AIIMS, resided with her parents and elder sister in a one-room flat. The building houses 18 other families of daily wage labourers. On Tuesday around 5.30pm, the child was spotted in her balcony bleeding from her head and stomach by a woman, who alerted others and took her to a hospital. The survivor had sustained a skull fracture and damage to her intestines. Doctors at AIIMS said though she was removed from the ventilator on Wednesday night, her condition was still critical. “A team of doctors from paediatric surgery, gynaecology and neurosurgery departments are monitoring her condition constantly. She underwent two surgeries on Wednesday, the first to repair her skull, and the second to rebuild her perineum. She may require another surgery for the head injury,” said a doctor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Delhi: Man sexually assaulted 12-year-old, brutalised her with scissors; held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-12-yr-old/articleshow/77401281.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Covid: Infection count nears 49k, recovery numbers improve in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More persons recovered from Covid in comparison to new infections reported on Thursday. While 1,282 patients recovered from the ailment, 1,151 new infections were reported from across the state taking the case count to 48,996. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 757. For two days in a row, the number of recovered cases have been over 1,000, which has brought down the count of active cases marginally. The active cases, which were 13,251 on Wednesday, have come down to 13,108. Barmer reported the highest recovery of 422 cases, followed by Alwar (270), Jodhpur (144) and Jaipur (68). The recovery rate has also increased from 70% to 71% in one day, which means for every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered. The growth rate of new infections has also slipped below 3%. From July 29 to August 5, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.9% daily. Active cases are still a major cause of concern for the health authorities. In Alwar, there are 2,558 active cases, followed by Jaipur (1,663), Jodhpur (1,589), Kota (1,238) and Bikaner (634). Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (204), Jodhpur (140), Jaipur (109), Kota (130), Bhilwara (92), Udaipur (82), Bikaner (71), Ajmer (67), Bharatpur (40), Sriganganagar (36), Chittorgarh (22), Tonk (21), Churu (21), Dungarpur (19), Banswara (17), Rajsamand (16), Jhalawar (15), Bundi (13), Pali (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Dholpur (4), Hanumangarh (3), Dausa (2), Baran (1), Jalore (1) and Karauli (1). Bikaner reported five deaths taking its toll to 47, Dholpur reported two fatalities taking the district toll to 18 and Jodhpur reported its 85th casualty. Bundi reported its first Covid fatality and Jhunjhunu its 6th. Jaipur reported its 213th fatality and Nagaur its 32nd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infection-count-nears-49krecovery-numbers-improve/articleshow/77402812.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Direct banks to give interest subvention, MSMEs tell officials||Coimbatore: Micro and small industrialists in the district want the district administration to direct regional managers of banks to implement the interest subvention scheme. The scheme was announced by the Centre in November 2018. The Reserve Bank of India had sent communications to banks regarding this in February 2019. Through the scheme, all GST registered micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with Udhyog Aadhaar can get 2% interest subvention on fresh or incremental loans. “Firms that had availed loans from November 2018 to March 2020 from scheduled commercial banks can get 2% interest subvention for a period of 17 months. For a loan of Rs 1crore, MSMEs can get an interest subvention of up to Rs 2.83lakh,” a petition submitted by the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) said. To avail the scheme, banks have to submit an affidavit of the MSME unit that availed the loan to the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), Focia coordinator S Surulivel said. “But many banks have not yet started the procedure. Some are unaware of it.” The scheme will help them in this time of crisis, Focia coordinator J James said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/direct-banks-to-give-interest-subvention-msmes-tell-officials/articleshow/77402783.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Univ to scale up its tech infrastructure||Hyderabad: UoH is all set to ramp up its information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure as the varsity decided to commence online classes from August 20. “The vice-chancellor announced the university’s plan to shore up ICT infrastructure at the department level or at the level of individual faculty members to enable them to effectively deliver online teaching,” the UoH said in an official release on Thursday. The varsity has also accepted a recommendation to re-purpose the existing boarding allowance scholarship of Rs 1,000 a month into a digital access grant to students from deprived backgrounds. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/univ-to-scale-up-its-tech-infrastructure/articleshow/77401268.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Udaipur||Covid: Infection count nears 49k, recovery numbers improve in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More persons recovered from Covid in comparison to new infections reported on Thursday. While 1,282 patients recovered from the ailment, 1,151 new infections were reported from across the state taking the case count to 48,996. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 757. For two days in a row, the number of recovered cases have been over 1,000, which has brought down the count of active cases marginally. The active cases, which were 13,251 on Wednesday, have come down to 13,108. Barmer reported the highest recovery of 422 cases, followed by Alwar (270), Jodhpur (144) and Jaipur (68). The recovery rate has also increased from 70% to 71% in one day, which means for every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered. The growth rate of new infections has also slipped below 3%. From July 29 to August 5, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.9% daily. Active cases are still a major cause of concern for the health authorities. In Alwar, there are 2,558 active cases, followed by Jaipur (1,663), Jodhpur (1,589), Kota (1,238) and Bikaner (634). Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (204), Jodhpur (140), Jaipur (109), Kota (130), Bhilwara (92), Udaipur (82), Bikaner (71), Ajmer (67), Bharatpur (40), Sriganganagar (36), Chittorgarh (22), Tonk (21), Churu (21), Dungarpur (19), Banswara (17), Rajsamand (16), Jhalawar (15), Bundi (13), Pali (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Dholpur (4), Hanumangarh (3), Dausa (2), Baran (1), Jalore (1) and Karauli (1). Bikaner reported five deaths taking its toll to 47, Dholpur reported two fatalities taking the district toll to 18 and Jodhpur reported its 85th casualty. Bundi reported its first Covid fatality and Jhunjhunu its 6th. Jaipur reported its 213th fatality and Nagaur its 32nd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/infection-count-nears-49krecovery-numbers-improve/articleshow/77406154.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ajmer||Covid: Infection count nears 49k, recovery numbers improve in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More persons recovered from Covid in comparison to new infections reported on Thursday. While 1,282 patients recovered from the ailment, 1,151 new infections were reported from across the state taking the case count to 48,996. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 757. For two days in a row, the number of recovered cases have been over 1,000, which has brought down the count of active cases marginally. The active cases, which were 13,251 on Wednesday, have come down to 13,108. Barmer reported the highest recovery of 422 cases, followed by Alwar (270), Jodhpur (144) and Jaipur (68). The recovery rate has also increased from 70% to 71% in one day, which means for every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered. The growth rate of new infections has also slipped below 3%. From July 29 to August 5, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.9% daily. Active cases are still a major cause of concern for the health authorities. In Alwar, there are 2,558 active cases, followed by Jaipur (1,663), Jodhpur (1,589), Kota (1,238) and Bikaner (634). Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (204), Jodhpur (140), Jaipur (109), Kota (130), Bhilwara (92), Udaipur (82), Bikaner (71), Ajmer (67), Bharatpur (40), Sriganganagar (36), Chittorgarh (22), Tonk (21), Churu (21), Dungarpur (19), Banswara (17), Rajsamand (16), Jhalawar (15), Bundi (13), Pali (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Dholpur (4), Hanumangarh (3), Dausa (2), Baran (1), Jalore (1) and Karauli (1). Bikaner reported five deaths taking its toll to 47, Dholpur reported two fatalities taking the district toll to 18 and Jodhpur reported its 85th casualty. Bundi reported its first Covid fatality and Jhunjhunu its 6th. Jaipur reported its 213th fatality and Nagaur its 32nd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/infection-count-nears-49krecovery-numbers-improve/articleshow/77406157.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid: Infection count nears 49k, recovery numbers improve in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More persons recovered from Covid in comparison to new infections reported on Thursday. While 1,282 patients recovered from the ailment, 1,151 new infections were reported from across the state taking the case count to 48,996. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 757. For two days in a row, the number of recovered cases have been over 1,000, which has brought down the count of active cases marginally. The active cases, which were 13,251 on Wednesday, have come down to 13,108. Barmer reported the highest recovery of 422 cases, followed by Alwar (270), Jodhpur (144) and Jaipur (68). The recovery rate has also increased from 70% to 71% in one day, which means for every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered. The growth rate of new infections has also slipped below 3%. From July 29 to August 5, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.9% daily. Active cases are still a major cause of concern for the health authorities. In Alwar, there are 2,558 active cases, followed by Jaipur (1,663), Jodhpur (1,589), Kota (1,238) and Bikaner (634). Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (204), Jodhpur (140), Jaipur (109), Kota (130), Bhilwara (92), Udaipur (82), Bikaner (71), Ajmer (67), Bharatpur (40), Sriganganagar (36), Chittorgarh (22), Tonk (21), Churu (21), Dungarpur (19), Banswara (17), Rajsamand (16), Jhalawar (15), Bundi (13), Pali (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Dholpur (4), Hanumangarh (3), Dausa (2), Baran (1), Jalore (1) and Karauli (1). Bikaner reported five deaths taking its toll to 47, Dholpur reported two fatalities taking the district toll to 18 and Jodhpur reported its 85th casualty. Bundi reported its first Covid fatality and Jhunjhunu its 6th. Jaipur reported its 213th fatality and Nagaur its 32nd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/infection-count-nears-49krecovery-numbers-improve/articleshow/77406156.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Swift response by SI saves techie’s life||HYDERABAD: Swift response by Uppal sub-inspector J Chandana saved a 31-year-old techie’s life on Thursday. The IT professional is a resident of Ramanthapur. Late on Wednesday, he called his boss and informed he will commit suicide due to financial and personal issues. “Immediately his boss informed Alwal police, who in turn alerted Uppal police. WSI, J Chandana, who was on duty, first attempted to reach out to the victim. When he did not respond, she traced his mobile number and rescued him,” said Uppal inspector, Ranga Swamy. On Wednesday night, the victim travelled from Sangareddy to Ramanthapur on his bike and attempted to overdose himself with an allergy medicine. “The officers reached his house in time and rescued him before he could do anything further. He had disputes with his brother and is facing financial problems,” added the officer. The victim was rescued at 5.30am on Thursday. As instructed by Rachakonda CP, Mahesh Bhagwat, the techie was counselled by a psychologist. Later, the WSI handed him over to his relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swift-response-by-si-saves-techies-life/articleshow/77401295.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Scolded for studies, girl ends life in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: A girl studying in Class XII ended her life at her home in Jamnagar on Wednesday night. Bindra Akbari (17) was found hanging from the ceiling fan by her family members following which her mother Rekha informed the police. The family members told the police that of late she had been scolded by her father regularly regarding her studies. Bindra’s online classes had begun but she was irregular about it, they informed. Police said that the family suspects that because of the repeated scoldings, the girl may have taken the extreme step out of frustration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/scolded-for-studies-girl-ends-life/articleshow/77399947.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 positive SHO who tested negative twice in Shahjahanpur dies in Lucknow||Bareilly: Station House Officer (SHO) of Allahaganj police station in Shahjahanpur district, who was admitted at PGI Lucknow after he tested positive for Covid-19 on August 1, died during treatment on Thursday. The SHO had earlier tested negative twice in Shahjahanpur, according to SSP S Anand.In Bareilly, a deputy SP deployed in the vigilance team with UP power corporation, who is also the father of Bollywood actress Disha Patani, tested positive for Covid-19. District surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said that he is asymptomatic and currently quarantined at home on his request. Meanwhile, the deceased SHO, who was a resident of Lucknow, had recently completed the inspector's training in Meerut and was waiting for a promotion letter when he tested positive a week ago. He joined the UP police at the rank of a constable and resolved several cases during his service. After the news of his demise, the entire police team, especially his team in Allahaganj where he was posted, is in a state of shock. All the officials, including SSP Anand, maintained a moment of silence at the SSP office and paid tribute to the departed soul. Shahjahanpur district has been witnessing an alarming surge as 515 positive cases have been reported since July 31. Overall, 1,456 positive cases have been reported from Shahjahanpur and 11 people have died in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-positive-sho-who-tested-negative-twice-in-shahjahanpur-dies-in-lucknow/articleshow/77398709.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||BSP-Cong merger: Single bench to decide on Aug 11||JAIPUR: The division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Thursday disposed of appeals filed by a BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP against the single bench order which turned down the plea for a stay on the Speaker's order of merging six BSP MLAs with the Congress party in September last year. While disposing of the appeal, the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta directed the single judge to hear and dispose of the stay applications on the Speaker’s order on the same day of next hearing (August 11) in accordance with the law. Earlier, both parties had filed writ petitions challenging the decision of Speaker CP Joshi in September 18, 2019, to allow the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The single bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal had issued a notice to the Speaker and six former BSP MLAs to reply by August 11. When BSP's counsel Satish Misra said that the MLAS were not at their official residences and reportedly staying in a hotel at Jaisalmer and could not be served notices before the next date of hearing fixed by the single judge, the court ordered the appointment of a special messenger to serve the same to MLAs before August 8, said Speaker's counsel Pratik Kasliwal. “The district judge of Jaisalmer is directed to provide all necessary assistance to the special messenger to serve notices, and if required, the district judge may seek necessary assistance of the superintendent of police, Jaisalmer,” said the court order. The court directed the petitioners to publish a notice in daily newspaper 'Rajasthan Patrika', Barmer-Jaisalmer edition. The notice should indicate the directions issued by the single judge, dated July 30. The division bench had issued a notice to the assembly Speaker on Wednesday on the appeal but no reply was filed on his behalf. Appearing for the Speaker, his counsel Kapil Sibal argued that the appeal before the division bench was not maintainable. Sibal also objected to the suggestion that the notices be served through the assembly secretary, arguing that the Speaker's office could not be used as a post office to serve notices to any MLA. All the six BSP MLAs -- Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Singh Gudha -- crossed over to the Congress in September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsp-cong-mergersingle-bench-todecide-on-aug-11/articleshow/77402854.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Let hotels, gyms open: Delhi government to lieutenant governor||NEW DELHI: Delhi government sent a fresh proposal to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday seeking his permission to allow hotels, gymnasiums, yoga centres and weekly markets to reopen in the capital. Asking the LG to reconsider his decision, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot argued that the Covid-19 situation wasn’t as bad as earlier and many activities prohibited earlier could now be allowed. Last week, the LG had rejected the government decision on the resumption of operations by hotels and weekly markets. In many states, Gahlot pointed out, despite Covid cases rising, hotels, gyms, yoga centres and weekly markets were now allowed to function. Stating that the elected government of Delhi had the right to decide the relaxations in accordance with the Centre's guidelines, Gahlot said, “Considering the improved corona situation and the sentiments of Delhiites, we should open up these sectors. Also, it has been a week now since our recommendation was rejected by the LG. We now urge the hon'ble LG to reconsider his decision. The Union home ministry has permitted opening of yoga institutes and gyms in its latest guidelines. These activities should be permitted in Delhi, following the SOPs issued by government of India.” The minister further said, “Hotels and weekly bazaars have been allowed to open across the entire country. States like UP and Karnataka, which are facing a surge in Covid cases, allow their hotels and weekly bazaars to operate. On the one hand, the Centre has issued guidelines allowing opening up of weekly markets and hotels. On the other, it is not permitting them to open in Delhi. This contradictory conduct is not comprehensible.” The proposal cited the number of active Covid cases and deaths till August 5 in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat, Assam, Telangana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Kerala and Delhi, among which the capital had the lowest figures. Gahlot said, “The LG is aware that situation in Delhi is fast improving and economic activities need to be opened up so that those people who have been suffering for the last four months due to imposition of lockdown, can resume their jobs and business, albeit with restrictions.” The minister said that hotels contributed 8% to Delhi’s GDP and employment. “Weekly bazaars provide employment to five lakh poor families. Opening up these two sectors will help in bringing Delhi’s economy back on track,” his proposal said. Gahlot pointed out that the LG’s decision had led to a huge public uproar. “Entire Delhi now wants to work at rejuvenating the economic and they should not be stopped. Delhi showed the country how to tackle Covid and Delhi will show the way to economic recovery also,” he said, adding that hotel and gyms owners were in deep financial distress because their establishments have remained shut for the last four months. Following the LG’s prohibition last week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote a strongly-worded letter to Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday, accusing him of overturning the earlier decision on hotels and weekly markets opening. Watch Let hotels, gyms open: Kejriwal government to Delhi LG||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/let-hotels-gyms-open-govt-to-lg/articleshow/77401388.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 7, 2020||Dehradun||Multi-crore rice scam in Uttarakhand: Audit finds gross anomalies in procurement||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand finance secretary Amit Negi has submitted an investigation report to the principal secretary (food and civil supply) on the multi-crore rice scam unearthed in 2017 in the state. The report has highlighted gross financial anomalies at various levels right from the point of procurement to milling, packing and transporting to warehouses. The investigation during the special audit has also highlighted a loss of over Rs 18 crore to the government, while a payment of several crores was made as compensation to purchase new sacks meant for storing rice. The investigation has also indicated that the nodal agencies or the mandi samitis supported purchase from markets other than the mandi because of which the farmers could not receive the minimum support price (MSP). When questioned about the matter, chief secretary Om Prakash said, “When an audit report comes, we get it examined by the concerned department. In this matter, the report has been forwarded to the food and civil supplies department and the matter will be probed.” He added that “if there has been any wrongdoing, the department will take appropriate action.” The finance secretary meanwhile told TOI, “The audit team has mentioned their observations after due field inspections. If required, the issue would be taken up by a committee headed by the chief secretary. It is too early to say anything further as the matter still needs to be probed further.” To recall, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had formed a SIT to look into the matter in 2017. Thereafter, the issue was raised in the state assembly as well and an audit into the scam was ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/multi-crore-rice-scam-in-ukhand-audit-finds-gross-anomalies-in-procurement/articleshow/77399925.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||China tries raising Kashmir in UNSC, gets no support||On the first anniversary of India’s revocation of the special status of J&K, China tried to initiate a discussion in the UN Security Council (UNSC) on the issue, but failed to find support from the international community. It was Pakistan which had sent a request in the form of a letter for the discussion. India later said it firmly rejected China’s interference in its internal affairs and urged Beijing to draw proper conclusions from such “infructuous” attempts. “This was not the first time that China has sought to raise a subject that is solely an internal matter of India,” said New Delhi. China sought to raise the issue during the ‘all other business’ section. Representatives of the US and other countries though said it was not the right place for this bilateral issue. China was the only country to argue that the UNSC is the right place to discuss Kashmir. “Nothing came of the discussion — no action or report,” said an Indian government source. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of J&K, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a Union Territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. Following India's decision, China made multiple attempts to raise the Kashmir issue in the UN Security Council. However, these attempts were rejected by other member-nations of the global body. Watch China tries raising Kashmir in UNSC, gets no support||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-tries-raising-kashmir-in-unsc-gets-no-support/articleshow/77403921.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||8 mental hospital staffers too test corona positive||Nagpur: A day after a 70-year old patient of the Regional Mental Hospital tested Covid positive, eight staffers of the hospital too were found infected. The hospital authorities conducted tests of over 90 inmates of the ward where the first patient was admitted along with the staffers posted there.None of the other patients has tested positive though. Among the positive employees, four staffers, engaged on contractual basis, were assigned to carry out works like cleaning and feeding the patient. Others include two matrons, who are full time employees, a lab technician and one other staffer. The infected persons have been quarantined, said the hospital superintendent Dr Madhuri Thorat. None of the doctors has tested positive so far, she said.The source of infection could not be traced. It started with 70-year-old woman patient who was admitted after she was found roaming around the city. From Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh, she had reached Nagpur after straying from her home. She was sent to the Government Medical Hospital (GMC) after she was developed jaundice and malignancy was also suspected.Since she was bed-ridden, all personal care had to be done by the attendants. None of those who tested positive have any symptoms, said a source.Now as the patient detected with Covid has been admitted to GMC, one attendant accompanies her round the clock. Three staffers engaged as attendants stay by her side on shift basis. Due to the mental illness, the patient cannot be left alone and a mental hospital employee has to be along with her constantly, said Thorat.The hospital at present has 449 inmates. Other inmates will be tested if they show any symptom, said a source. It may not be possible to get all of them tested in one go as teams have to come from outside and the hospital staffers are not trained to take the samples.Even according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines the tests have to be carried out only if symptoms are reported. Even the team collecting samples does not have the capacity to take more than 100 samples at a time, said the superintendent.The patients are given masks but due to their temperament many of them do not wear it all the time and it is difficult to monitor them, said a source in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-mental-hospital-staffers-too-test-corona-positive/articleshow/77401379.cms||Shishir Arya
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Woman’s pics morphed, gets rape threat||VADODARA: The cybercrime cell arrested a man on Thursday for obscenely morphing a woman’s photos and allegedly threatening her of rape. The 23-year-woman also alleged that the accused Bhargav Parmar, a resident of New Sama Road, sent her vulgar messages on Instagram. Parmar was arrested on Thursday. Parmar and the woman worked in a fast-food chain. He had allegedly tried to touch her inappropriately in January this year following which she complained against him to her seniors. Parmar was then transferred to another branch of the food chain, but he continued harassing her .“As she rebuffed his advances, Parmar got upset. He then morphed her photographs in indecent manner and sent them to the woman and her male friend. He also sent her messages threatening of rape and making the photos viral,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Cops tracked down Parmar from his Instagram id and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/womans-pics-morphed-gets-rape-threat/articleshow/77399338.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Newborn girl found in a bush||AJMER: A three-day-old girl was found in a bush on University Road here on Thursday. Police took the newborn to JLN Hospital and doctors found her in good health. Police registered a case against unknown parents and are searching for them. According to Civil Lines police station, they got information that a baby was crying in a bush and there was no one for her. Police recovered the baby and tried to search her parents. She was then admitted to hospital. Police said they were talking with maternity homes to confirm the parents of the girl. In June last week, a similar case came into light when a mother with a wrong name and identity left her newborn in Janana hospital. The baby is currently with child helpline who are waiting for the mother to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newborn-girl-found-in-a-bush/articleshow/77402859.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee cantt civilians meet collector with woes||Nagpur: Civilian residents of the Kamptee cantonment, many of whom are hemmed in inside, held another meeting with the district collector Ravindra Thakare on Thursday but no immediate solution to their problems was found.After the talks, it was decided to hold a joint inspection of the area in light of their demands, claimed the residents’ association. The civilians have been complaining of high-handedness by the army. Following Covid outbreak, the army has restricted movement within the area and has blocked main roads that were earlier used by civilians for thoroughfare. Even the entry and exit have been restricted to twice a week, they said.The meeting was attended by district collector, officials of the cantonment board, army and the Kamptee Cantonment Nagrik Mandal (association of civilian residents). Officials clarified the restrictions cannot be eased before August 15 as strict security will have to be maintained till the Independence Day.“We had complained that the roads were blocked and had also presented photographs and video clippings of the area to substantiate our claims,” Parmindra Wahie, president of the Mandal, told TOI. He said the join inspection by them and officials would verify the ground situation.A senior official in the district collecorate said they will be going through the maps to demarcate the civil and military areas of the cantonment. When the collector goes to Kamptee the area may be visited too.Wahie said the residents were living under restrictions since last four months. Even as 700-odd passes have been issued to allow movement throughout the week, the number includes outsiders coming to work at the establishments in the area also. There are close to 10,000 residents inside so more passes were needed, he said.Citing the cantonment act, he said even services like milk and washerman could not be restricted. He claimed that according to RTI documents, over 700 acres in the cantonment had been earmarked as civilian area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-cantt-civilians-meet-collector-with-woes/articleshow/77401355.cms||Shishir Arya
August 7, 2020||Agra||Cobra rescued from almirah in Agra house||Agra: A four-foot-long cobra was found in a drawer of an almirah inside a house in Agra’s Murenda village on Thursday. The venomous reptile was safely rescued by a Wildlife SOS team and later released in its natural habitat. Thursday afternoon turned out to be quite unexpected for the family living in Murenda village near Runakta, when they discovered the venomous reptile in their house. The cobra was reportedly seen making its way into the top drawer of an almirah kept in the living room. The panic-stricken family immediately reported the incident to Wildlife SOS on their emergency helpline number. A two-member team from the NGO rushed to the location. After ensuring that the occupants were escorted to a safe spot, they carefully extricated the distressed cobra from the almirah and transferred it into a safe transport carrier. It took 30 minutes to conduct the operation. Baijuraj M V, director (conservation projects) at Wildlife SOS, said, “We’re glad that more and more people are reaching out to us for help, rather than taking matters in their own hands. Snake sightings increase in the monsoons and our teams work ‘round the clock to ensure no call for aid goes unanswered.” India is home to a variety of snake species, ranging from extremely venomous snakes like the cobra and krait to relatively harmless and non-venomous ones like the common sand boa, red sand boa, wolf snake and rat snake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cobra-rescued-from-almirah-in-agra-house/articleshow/77399958.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Instagram ‘friend’ rapes 21-year-old||SURAT: A 24-year-old man from Variav village adjoining the city was booked for allegedly raping a woman whom he befriended on Instagram even as the duo got formally engaged with approval from her family. The accused Ikram Fancy had befriended the 21-year-old woman living in his neighbouring locality and promised to marry her. However, when she asked him to marry her, Fancy told her that he would have to take the consent of his parents. Jahangirpura police said that the woman had also attempted suicide by consuming something poisonous as she got fed up of his excuses. After this, parents of Fancy and the woman accepted their relationship and got them engaged. Later, Fancy used to take her to a hotel in Hazira where they developed a physical relationship several times. Recently, Fancy’s family told the woman’s parents that they don’t wish to get him married to her. On the other hand, Fancy allegedly kept calling the woman and pressured her to meet. The woman felt cheated as he reneged on the marriage promise despite developing physical relations several times. She first contacted 181 Abhyam helpline and later lodged a complaint. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/instagram-friend-rapes-woman-with-marriage-promise/articleshow/77399966.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus claims 3 more cops, Maharashtra toll 111||MUMBAI: Three police personnel one from Mumbai and two from Nagpur succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 111 in the state force on Thursday. A rise of 137 cases was reported in 24 hours, taking the state tally to 10,163, while 8,189 recovered. Khar police station is the most infected in the city with 55 personnel, including a senior, testing positive. Constable Ganesh Juvatkar of local arms division at Naigaon died on Wednesday evening, taking Mumbai’s cop death toll to 56. Juvatkar, from Dadar BDD Chawl, tested positive on July 27, a day after he reported to work and complained of uneasiness and signed off. He had fever and was breathless on reaching home and was taken to hospital. Juvatkar was admitted at Marol Covid Centre on July 27 but his condition deteriorated and he was sent to SevenHills Hospital. “Juvatkar had diabetes and doctors tried their best to revive him,” said a senior officer. Juvatkar is survived by wife, a child and parents. The two Nagpur deaths early on Thursday were the first from that commissionerate. Assistant sub-inspector Bhagwan Shejol (54) from Ajni station tested positive on August 4 and was shifted to ICU at Government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on August 5. He was at Raj Bhavan till July 26 but had breathing difficulty on July 29. His family admitted him to a private hospital on July 31. Dhantoli constable Siddharth Sahare (50) was declared dead at 4.30am at a private hospital after he tested positive a day earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/virus-claims-3-more-cops-state-toll-111/articleshow/77401791.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP assembly’s monsoon session will set new precedents: Speaker||LUCKNOW: The four-day monsoon session of Uttar Pradesh assembly amid corona pandemic would be a trend-setter with special arrangements and members following Covid safety protocols and refraining from disruptions to ensure optimum utilisation of time for necessary legislation. Speaking to TOI after an all-party meeting on Thursday, speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit said, “UP assembly will set example on how to conduct session in challenging conditions to legislate on important matters.” “I am confident that members would set a precedent before the nation by ensuring no disruptions so that the house can address serious public concerns and challenges in the four-day session from August 20. The leaders of major political have promised this to me today,” said Dixit. During last six months of corona crisis, only Madhya Pradesh had called a one-day session, and that too for confidence motion, while UP is going to have a full-fledged regular session, he added. Dixit had called an all-party meeting to discuss how to follow physical distancing and safety protocols during session. Representatives of major political parties attended the meeting, but CLP leader Aradhana Mishra kept away as her private secretary tested Covid positive. Leader of the Opposition, Ram Govind Chaudhary has returned from hospital after battling corona successfully but he sent his representative. The monsoon session has been convened to meet the constitutional obligation of holding a session within six months of last one, which was held in February. The leaders also deliberated on the possibility of approaching the President, if needed in future, to review the constitutional provision of calling a session within six months of last one in the ‘rarest of rare’ circumstances, and if the time could be extended to eight months or beyond. Speaking to TOI, principal secretary of legislative assembly Pradeep Kumar Dubey said, “Special filters will be used in central air-conditioning system to prevent transmission of virus. The central canteen would remain shut to prevent crowding.” “More gates would be opened so that members get enough space for entry and exit,” said Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-assemblys-monsoon-session-will-set-new-precedents-speaker/articleshow/77403426.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 7, 2020||Agra||SNMC in Agra sets up one more isolation ward with 100 beds||Agra: With the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district, SN Medical College (SNMC) in Agra has set up one more isolation ward with a capacity of 100 beds. The multispecialty facility has, at present, a 20-bed intensive care unit (ICU) for critical Covid-19 patients. SNMC is the first in UP to set up a 100-bed isolation ward. Currently, 55 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment here.The new facility — equipped with modern machines — has been set up at the paediatric ward of SNMC. The location to set up the facility was chosen to ensure complete isolation of patients and no scope for the novel coronavirus spread.Talking to TOI, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, ‘All required arrangements have been made to make operational the new 100-bed multispecialty treatment facility for Covid-19 patients. The state-of-the-art isolation centre has a labour room to attend pregnant women who tested positive for Covid-19. It has an operation theatre and an intensive care unit. If required, dialysis can also be done here. The facility has been developed following the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family planning. Besides, it also meets the WHO's standards.” “The multispecialty facility has been developed in a way to ensure the patients do not face any inconvenience and best possible treatment can be provided to them. Adequate arrangements of ventilators and other equipment have been made at the centre. Besides, the facility has all arrangements in place to attend a Covid-19 infected child. The entire premises will be under surveillance of CCTV cameras,” added the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-in-agra-sets-up-one-more-isolation-ward-with-100-beds/articleshow/77399983.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Dairy farmers slam Aavin for reducing procurement||Coimbatore: A group of farmers from Tirupur poured milk on the streets in protest against the Aavin management on Thursday. Six farmers of the Tamil Nadu Vivaisaigal Sangam poured litres of milk in front of an Aavin cooperative office at Veerapandi Pirivu. They were accompanied by 60 farmers. “Aavin has reduced procurement by 50% and also reduced the payment for each litre claiming that fat content in milk is low. Since fat content is low, instead of paying the fixed Rs 31 per litre, they pay us only Rs 21 to Rs 22 per litre,” said district president Eashwaran. “This reduced payment also has been delayed for all farmers. Those who have one to two cows have outstanding payments of Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 and some farmers are yet to receive more than Rs 60,000,” he said. While Aavin reportedly claimed low revenues for low procurement and delayed payments, farmers said that the hundreds of Aavin outlets in the district function as tea shops instead of milk outlets. Another group of farmers petitioned the collector, requesting him to divert the high-tension powerline being laid from Virudhunagar to Coimbatore over agriculture fields. It will affect cultivation and productivity, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dairy-farmers-slam-aavin-for-reducing-procurement/articleshow/77402847.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Civic official among 3 held for taking bribe||Kota: An ACB team on Wednesday night arrested an executive officer posted in Ramganjmandi municipality of Kota district, the son of the board chairman and another person for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 1 lakh. The accused officer had demanded a bribe of Rs 5 lakh for sanctioning approval for construction in the town, but the amount was later settled at Rs 4 lakh. The officer had received Rs 1.50 lakh through the municipality board chairman’s son. A resident of Ramgangmandi town identified as Akhilesh Garg had on July 16 lodged a complaint with ACB Kota rural against the executive officer of the municipality, Pankaj Kumar Mangal, and alleged that he had demanded Rs 5 lakh through Sourabh Sharma, son of municipality board, for sanctioning approval of construction, ACB Kota rural inspector Vasudev Singh said. Garg in his complaint alleged he had paid Rs 1.50 lakh to the EO through Sharma following which he sanctioned the approval for construction but later mounted pressure to pay the remaining amount. The EO then got the construction site marked with ‘red’ and stopped work, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-official-among-3-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77402862.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Five-year-old raped by kin in Jhalawar||KOTA: A 5-year-old girl, who had gone to celebrate Raksha Bandhan at her maternal grandparents’ house in a village under Ghatoli police station area of Jhalawar district, was raped by a relative on July 30. The mother of the survivor approached Ghatoli police station on Wednesday late evening and lodged a case against the minor accused, who is yet to be detained. The medical examination upon the minor survivor was conducted on Thursday and her statements under Section 164 before the magistrate were recorded later in the day. The survivor is a resident of Chandpura village under Dangipura police station of Jhalawar district and had gone to her maternal grandparents’ house with her mother to celebrate Raksha Bandhan in a village under Ghatoli police station, SHO at Ghantoli police station Bannalal said. The mother, along with the minor survivor, approached Ghatoli police station on Wednesday night and lodged a case of rape against the minor accused, who is about 15 to 16 years old and is a cousin of the survivor’s mother, he said. The survivor has alleged in the report that the accused at noon on July 30 tempted her with toffees and took her to his house in the neighbourhood where he raped her, the SHO said. The survivor’s mother did not go to the police for many days because her husband was away and her parents and other family members pressurized her not to lodge a complaint in the matter, he said adding that when she narrated the matter to her husband on his arrival, he asked her to lodge a case in this connection. On the report, the minor accused was booked under Section 376 of IPC and Sections of the Pocso Act, he added. The minor accused is yet to be detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-year-old-raped-by-kin-in-jhalawar/articleshow/77402863.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||RIICO to recruit 238||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO) will be recruiting 238 people for various posts for which the process will start soon, said industries minister Prasadi Lal Meena. He said the corporation has been managing with the affairs for a long time with the vacancies and recruitments will be done to departments like HRD, IT, Infrastructure, etc. He said directions have been issued to RIICO for direct recruitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-to-recruit-238/articleshow/77402865.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rain fury in Rajkot: 57-year-old electrocuted, 60 trees uprooted||RAJKOT: One person was electrocuted while over 60 trees were uprooted as rain accompanied by strong winds and thunderstorm lashed Rajkot city on Wedneday late night. The deceased was identified as Chetan Vagadiya (57) a resident of Hathikhana area. According to reports, a big tree got uprooted and blocked the entry and exit of Vagadiya’s house. The tree collapsed on an electricity wire which caused a short-circuit in his house. Vagadiya asked his family members to go on the terrace in order to protect themselves, but when he was going upstairs, he came in contact with live wire and got electrocuted. The rain fury continued for nearly an hour. On Thursday evening too, fresh bout of rainfall resulted in waterlogging on all the main roads during the peak hours. Heavy traffic was witnessed on Jamnagar Road, Madhapar Chowkdi, Raiya Road, Kalavad Road, Ring Road, Jawahar Road and Yagnik Road due to heavy waterlogging. Meanwhile, a teacher of Kutiyana in Porbandar district got drowned in a causeway along with his bike on Wednesday evening. The 33-year-old teacher identified as Vikram Bakotra was returning to his home at Kutiyana from cluster resource centre when the incident took place. On his way home, Bakotra was supposed to cross the causeway which was flooded. Despite the violent water current, he tried to cross the causeway on his two-wheeler, but got swept away. Another biker who was right behind Bakotra made an unsuccessful attempt to rescue Bakotra. The biker then informed police about the incident. The civic authorities fished out the body of the teacher on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-fury-in-rajkot-57-year-old-electrocuted-60-trees-uprooted/articleshow/77399986.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar: Religious preacher duped of Rs 29 lakh by sect ‘follower’||RAJKOT: A religious preacher in Jamnagar’s Khijadia temple was allegedly duped of Rs 28 lakh from one of the followers of his Pranami sector by luring him to invest in the mutual fund of a private bank. Krishna Shastri, 35, a native of Haryana who works as a preacher and manages 15-room guest house of the temple, lodged a complaint against one Narayan Hakimlal, a native of Auraiya district in Uttar Pradesh Shashtri alleged that a year-and-half ago Hakimlal posed as a follower of his sect and stayed in the guest house for a few days. He identified himself as a government officer working with the agriculture department. Hakimlal convinced him of good returns in the mutual fund and that he would help him invest the money. Between June 2019 and October 2019, Shastri transferred Rs 28.28 lakh in the accused's account to invest in the mutual fund. Jamnagar A-division police station sources said that Shastri trusted the man because he identified himself from the same sect. However, when the mutual fund was to be redeemed upon maturity, Hakimlal stopped taking Shastri’s calls. After Shastri’s pressure, the accused called him to Mumbai in January to visit the head office of the bank. However, Shastri alleged that he was taken to a closed building of a bank and handed a cheque of Rs 50 lakh which bounced due to non-availability of funds in the accused’s account. Shastri then contacted the bank and was told that the amount that he transferred was deposited in the personal account of Hakimlal and there was no money invested in the mutual fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/religious-preacher-duped-of-rs-29l-by-sect-follower/articleshow/77399995.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Cops probing LTTE link in Lokka case||COIMBATORE/ MADURAI: The Crime Branch-CID probing the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore is looking into the possibility of an LTTE link in the case. CB-CID inspector general of police K Shankar said special teams are collecting information about the accomplices of Lokka in Tamil Nadu and other states and people who helped him for the past two years. Addressing reporters at the office of the CB-CID in the city on Thursday, the IG said seven special teams were working on various angles. “We are also checking the money transactions of many bank accounts belonged to Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari. We want to confirm that who are sending money to her bank accounts and whether she received money from abroad," he added. The woman lawyer's father is an LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) sympathizer and he was also booked by Manamadurai police in 2006. “We are trying to establish the link between lawyer's father and the LTTE. One team is working on that," said Shankar. RAW and other intelligence agencies are also gathering information in connection with the case. He added that the viscera of Angoda Lokka had been sent to the forensic science lab in Chennai for DNA analysis. “We are trying to establish if the deceased is Angoda Lokka or not through DNA match and the cause of his death,” he said. “We hope that we would get the DNA report within four days. Once we complete the investigation from our side, we would approach our counterparts in Sri Lanka to confirm the DNA match," Shankar said. He said the CBI-CID would take custody of the Sivakami Sundari, her friend Dhayaneswaran and Amani Dhanji, who had stayed with Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore since February 2020. The three were arrested by the Coimbatore city police on Sunday in connection with the death of Lokka and helping him to obtain Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeepsingh. “The CB-CID found protein supplements in the house of Lokka during the search. The supplements will be sent for test to find out whether it has poisonous substances or not,” Shankar said. Meanwhile, five officials from Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) conducted a meeting with Shankar in the city on Thursday in connection with the death of Lokka and collected documents from the CB-CID. A team of CB-CID police led by superintendent of police M Madasamy searched the house of Dhiyaneswaran at New Ramakrishnapuram in Tirupur. A laptop, a pen drive and two mobile phones were seized from the house. A CB-CID team from Coimbatore led by deputy superintendent of police P Muthusamy seized a total of 60 documents after breaking open the house and office buildings of lawyer Sivakama Sundari at Shanthi Nagar Second Street in Railar Nagar in Madurai. The team seized documents including bank account books, some petty currencies from various countries like Singapore, China and Sri Lanka. Passports belonging to Sivagama Sundari and her mother D Pandiammal were also seized. Earlier, an inquiry was carried out with landlords of four residential houses and one office building, where Sivakami Sundari and her family members stayed in the last couple of years and her office was operated. DSP Muthusamy said they have not obtained any startling documents to establish direct connections between Sivakami Sundari and Angoda Lokka. They will conduct an inquiry with banks to study if there are any suspicious transactions, he said. A couple of people seem to have helped Sivakami Sundari to cremate the body of the man, who was under the identity of Pradeep Singh, he said. CB-CID officials said that their inquiry in Madurai will continue on Friday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-probing-ltte-link-in-lokka-case/articleshow/77410581.cms||A Subburaj
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops probing LTTE link in Lokka case||COIMBATORE/ MADURAI: The Crime Branch-CID probing the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore is looking into the possibility of an LTTE link in the case. CB-CID inspector general of police K Shankar said special teams are collecting information about the accomplices of Lokka in Tamil Nadu and other states and people who helped him for the past two years. Addressing reporters at the office of the CB-CID in the city on Thursday, the IG said seven special teams were working on various angles. “We are also checking the money transactions of many bank accounts belonged to Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari. We want to confirm that who are sending money to her bank accounts and whether she received money from abroad," he added. The woman lawyer's father is an LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) sympathizer and he was also booked by Manamadurai police in 2006. “We are trying to establish the link between lawyer's father and the LTTE. One team is working on that," said Shankar. RAW and other intelligence agencies are also gathering information in connection with the case. He added that the viscera of Angoda Lokka had been sent to the forensic science lab in Chennai for DNA analysis. “We are trying to establish if the deceased is Angoda Lokka or not through DNA match and the cause of his death,” he said. “We hope that we would get the DNA report within four days. Once we complete the investigation from our side, we would approach our counterparts in Sri Lanka to confirm the DNA match," Shankar said. He said the CBI-CID would take custody of the Sivakami Sundari, her friend Dhayaneswaran and Amani Dhanji, who had stayed with Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore since February 2020. The three were arrested by the Coimbatore city police on Sunday in connection with the death of Lokka and helping him to obtain Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeepsingh. “The CB-CID found protein supplements in the house of Lokka during the search. The supplements will be sent for test to find out whether it has poisonous substances or not,” Shankar said. Meanwhile, five officials from Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) conducted a meeting with Shankar in the city on Thursday in connection with the death of Lokka and collected documents from the CB-CID. A team of CB-CID police led by superintendent of police M Madasamy searched the house of Dhiyaneswaran at New Ramakrishnapuram in Tirupur. A laptop, a pen drive and two mobile phones were seized from the house. A CB-CID team from Coimbatore led by deputy superintendent of police P Muthusamy seized a total of 60 documents after breaking open the house and office buildings of lawyer Sivakama Sundari at Shanthi Nagar Second Street in Railar Nagar in Madurai. The team seized documents including bank account books, some petty currencies from various countries like Singapore, China and Sri Lanka. Passports belonging to Sivagama Sundari and her mother D Pandiammal were also seized. Earlier, an inquiry was carried out with landlords of four residential houses and one office building, where Sivakami Sundari and her family members stayed in the last couple of years and her office was operated. DSP Muthusamy said they have not obtained any startling documents to establish direct connections between Sivakami Sundari and Angoda Lokka. They will conduct an inquiry with banks to study if there are any suspicious transactions, he said. A couple of people seem to have helped Sivakami Sundari to cremate the body of the man, who was under the identity of Pradeep Singh, he said. CB-CID officials said that their inquiry in Madurai will continue on Friday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-probing-ltte-link-in-lokka-case/articleshow/77402861.cms||A Subburaj
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SC transfers Jaypee cases from NCLAT to itself||NEW DELHI: In order to avoid further delay in execution of the resolution scheme to allow NBCC to take over Jaypee Infratech and complete construction of over 20,000 unfinished flats, the Supreme Court on Thursday transferred cases pending before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal to itself to settle the issues once and for all. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari passed the order on a plea of homebuyers seeking its intervention for implementation of NBCC’s resolution plan, which was approved by the Committee of Creditors and the NCLAT in March. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta and Gopal Shankarnarayanan said NBCC took the stand that it would not go ahead with the plan till cases pending in NCLAT are decided, delaying resumption of construction work. With all the parties agreed that the apex court should itself decide the issue, the bench transferred the cases to the SC and posted the matter for hearing on August 31. “Accordingly, it is directed that the above-mentioned cases pending before the NCLAT shall stand transferred in terms of this order to this court, to be heard along with the present appeals. In the meantime, we direct the Interim Resolution Professional to continue to manage the affairs of the subject company,” the bench noted. Challenging an interim order of NCLAT, the homebuyers said the tribunal had erroneously directed the Interim Resolution Professional to constitute Interim Monitoring Committee (IMC), which is not there in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. Gupta contended that NCLAT order was without jurisdiction and it became binding on NBCC to implement the plan. NBCC, however, told the bench that the order passed by the appellate tribunal would have major financial implications and it could not implement the plan till all issues were adjudicated. The Committee of Creditors (CoC) of Jaypee Infratech, which includes lenders and homebuyers, had in December approved NBCC to acquire the debt-hit realty firm. NBCC’s proposal received 97.4% of total votes with 39.6% of lenders and 57.7% of homebuyers backing the offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-transfers-jaypee-cases-from-nclat-to-itself/articleshow/77401408.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Ask Delhi govt to help repay loan: Centre to DMRC||NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to approach Delhi government for financial assistance for repayment of soft loan it had taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for construction work. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, in fact, has asked all the metros in the country to write to their respective state governments for assistance on repayment of loans taken from lending agencies. “We have recently received such a communication from the ministry. The same is being examined and processed,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC. DMRC had received loans from JICA at a concessional rate of interest varying from 1.2% to 2.3%, and the total loan of Rs 35,198 crore was repayable in 30 years with a moratorium of 10 years. Although it was DMRC’s responsibility to repay the debt and interest, the loan was taken from JICA by the Centre for the Delhi Metro project. “The primary responsibility of paying back the loan of an external lending agency is with the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), which in Delhi’s case is DMRC. If the SPV is unable to repay, it can approach the respective state government for assistance,” a source said, adding that DMRC was yet to write to Delhi government. Delhi Metro operations have been shut for the public since March 22 as a measure to curb spread of Covid-19. However, it has led to a loss in revenue worth Rs1,300 crore for DMRC. While it has earned no passenger revenue in the past four months, a source said, its income through other sources had also dried up. DMRC might be able to carry on without passenger revenue for some more time, but its biggest trouble currently was to repay JICA, for which it had sought the Centre’s help to bail it out by rescheduling the loan repayment and defer this year’s payment to next. Till now, DMRC has repaid Rs 3,337 crore to JICA, and the balance liability was of Rs 31,861 crore. DMRC has been receiving loans from JICA for all its projects and always repaid the instalments on time. For financial year 2020-21, DMRC was to pay Rs 1,242.8 crore (Rs 434.1 crore interest and Rs 808.7 crore principal) for the loan to the Centre. It had paid Rs 79.2 crore on account of interest during this year, and a balance of Rs 1,163.6 crore was yet to be paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ask-delhi-govt-to-help-repay-loan-centre-to-dmrc/articleshow/77401406.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||2 Covid-19 patients deliver babies at ESI Hospital||Coimbatore: The district recorded 190 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 5,997. With 178 people getting discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,579. The death toll continued to increase with the district recording six more deaths, taking the toll to 96. Of the six deaths, one of them was a 39-year-old man. Of 190 cases of Covid-19 recorded on Thursday, 15 of them were from rural areas. There seemed to be another outbreak of the virus at Selvapuram, where 25 people from Savithri Nagar tested positive for the virus. Another person from neighbouring Telungupalayam also tested positive. Besides this, places like Vellakinar, Ganapathy, Sundakkamuthur, Poonga Nagar in SITRA, all recorded three to five cases each. Thirteen people from Mettupalayam Market tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, prompting officials to shut down the entire market. The market is the main wholesale point for all Ooty vegetables, including potatoes, carrots, radish, among others. Vegetables from here were transported to the entire state. However, unlike last time when all 300 vendors in the market were tested for the virus, after a small outbreak in T K Market, this time, all other vendors have been asked to isolate themselves at home and come forward if they have symptoms. Speaking to TOI, Mettupalayam tahsildar said the Mettupalayam Market association president and one more wholesaler have been hospitalized as they developed symptoms for the virus. It was after trying to trace both their contacts that these 11 wholesalers were found positive. “Besides these 13 wholesalers from the market, another 14 people including their other non-market contacts from the taluk have tested positive, taking the count to 27 cases overall in Mettupalayam,” Shanthamani said. “Now, we will begin testing family members and primary contacts of these 11 wholesalers,” she said. Meanwhile, local administration minister SP Velumani inaugurated a new CT scan machine at ESI Hospital on Thursday. The number of patients in ESI touched 395. With this new installation, ESI Hospital now has two CT machines to take lung CTs of all Covid-19 patients admitted. The hospital besides discharging 46 people, also saw two pregnant Covid-19 patients delivering babies. While a woman who had C-section 14 months earlier, managed to have a normal delivery, also called VBAC (vaginal birth after C-section), and delivered a 2.5kg girl baby, another woman from Udumalpet delivered a 2.7 kg boy baby via c-section. The woman who had a VBAC is the first Covid-19 patient to have a normal delivery so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-covid-19-patients-deliver-babies-at-esi-hospital/articleshow/77402867.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat's pharma companies post net profit growth||AHMEDABAD: Even as several companies in different sectors struggled with their financials due to the lockdown, Gujarat’s top pharmaceutical companies — Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited, Cadila Healthcare Limited and Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited — have not only managed to stay afloat but also registered a good growth in their bottom line. Robust sales in the international market coupled with gradual recovery on the domestic front from June helped these firms insulate their profits in April-June quarter, which saw businesses getting hampered due to the lockdown and consequent supply chain disruption and demand distortion. With a handsome growth of 144%, Vadodara-based Alembic Pharma’s net profit stood at Rs 301 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 as against Rs 124 crore in the same quarter last fiscal. The company’s international formulations business also grew by 70% to Rs 771 crore. Ahmedabad-headquartered Cadila Healthcare Limited, popularly known as Zydus Cadila, saw its net profit surge 50% to Rs 454 crore with its revenues from the US market growing 19% to Rs 1,623 crore and rest of the world clocking 8% growth at Rs 238 crore year-on-year basis. In Q1 FY21, Torrent Pharma’s net profit rose 49% to Rs 321 crore, while Eris Lifesciences Ltd’s net increased 6% to Rs 89 crore. While the domestic market began gradually recovering from June after posting negative growth in April and May due to the lockdown, it was the international market that cushioned growth in pharma industry. “It was an excellent quarter for the company backed by growth in all the international markets,” Alembic Pharma MD Pranav Amin had said while announcing the company’s financial results a couple of weeks ago. “There is a good demand for our drugs, especially Covid-19 related drugs, in the export market, which helped the pharma industry sustain its export growth. This can be seen from the fact that our export growth has bounced back to pre-Covid levels,” said Viranchi Shah, national senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA). Showing strong resilience and sharp recovery in May and June, India’s pharma exports in April-June reached pre-Covid levels. The exports showed 9% in dollar terms to US $5,526 million in the first quarter of the current fiscal from US $5,049 million in the corresponding quarter last fiscal. Even the domestic market started recovering from June by posting 2% growth in that month. The growth had slumped 12% and 9% in April and May respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-top-pharma-cos-post-net-profit-growth/articleshow/77401498.cms||Kalpesh Damor
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Educational institutes can’t be treated as retail outlets: HC||CHANDIGARH: Coming down heavily on the Panjab University (PU) over denial of extension of affiliation for MBA course conducted by the DAV Institute of Management, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that “educational Institutes cannot be treated as retail outlets of a licensed commodity that can be commissioned or de-commissioned anytime.” “Here discontinuation/withdrawal of temporary affiliation of petitioner institute is stated to be on account of overall loss of brand equity of the MBA course, apart from alleged non-compliance of the pre-requisite conditions for getting extension of affiliation. Illustratively, it has been pointed out that the Regional Management Centre of PU at Ludhiana, imparting MBA course, has been a failure. Educational institutes, to my mind, cannot and ought not to be treated as retail outlets of a licensed commodity. It is not a gas station/petrol retail outlet which can be commissioned or de-commissioned, in any manner, as the licensing authority so wishes, depending upon its business exigencies,” the high court observed while setting aside the inspection report of the PU regarding affiliation to the DAV Institute of Management to run the MBA course. The high court was also of the view that for every student, alma mater carries a certain sense of pride for the rest of their life. “In the present case, a peculiar situation has arisen owing to the institutional clash of the country’s two premier institutions, the alumnae of 2nd academic sessions are facing the paradox of no alma mater. If the stated stand of the respondent university (PU) is to prevail, the management institution shall have to shut down. The students who have already graduated would naturally be awarded degrees but, for the rest of their lives, will be products of a defunct institution,” observed the HC. Justice Arun Monga of the HC has passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by DAV Institute of Management, Chandigarh. The management had approached the HC against the decision dated April 10, 2019 of the university syndicate conveyed vide letter dated May 2, 2019 asking the petitioner institute to fulfil the deficiencies pointed out by inspection committee constituted by the university and further directions for grant of temporary affiliation to the petitioner-institute for its academic session 2018-19. The petitioner had applied to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for approval to start the course of MBA, which was granted on April 30, 2017 subject to the obtaining necessary affiliation/permission from the PU. Accordingly, petitioner then applied to the PU for affiliation (temporary), which though was granted, but later denied to extend owing to alleged non-compliance of the contingent conditions/deficiencies pointed out by PU’s inspection committee. Aggrieved from denial of extension of affiliation, the management had approached the HC. The counsel for the management, advocate R D Anand, submitted that the university was still considering the grant of extension of affiliation for the session 2018-19 till May 2, 2019 but the session had already started in July/August 2018. Contesting the plea, the university pleaded that the petitioner had failed to remove the deficiencies pointed out by the inspection committee for extension of affiliation, therefore, the petition should be dismissed. After hearing both the parties, the HC observed that the university allowed the students to take the examination on May 2, 2019, which amounts to implied grant of extension for 2018-19. “It was mandatory for the university to grant or refuse the extension of affiliation by May 15, 2018 for the ensuing session 2018-19. This entire lackadaisical approach/demeanour of the university in such a nonchalant manner does not inspire confidence, to say the least. The university ought to be mindful of the students whose future life and career is at stake,” observed the HC. The HC also set-aside the inspection reports of PU regarding the petitioner management observing that the inspection committees constituted in the present case and their inspection reports forming the basis for refusal of temporary extension of petitioner’s affiliation are not in accordance with law. The university has also been asked to constitute a fresh inspection committee strictly in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 4.6 of the UGC (Affiliation of Institutes by Universities) Regulations 2009 and on receipt/consideration of its inspection report, to decide the petitioner’s case afresh for extension of the petitioner’s affiliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/educational-institutes-cant-be-treated-as-retail-outlets-hc/articleshow/77402896.cms||Ajay Sura
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Number of samples tested drops with reported cases||Coimbatore: People have been cheering the gradual but sizeable drop in number of Covid-19 cases, but what they have not realized is that the number of samples being tested has also dropped. Compared to July-mid, when the district was testing 3,500 to 4,200 samples a day, the district now tests 2,200 people a day. However, health department officials say testing has been brought down based on the state government instructions to maintain a positivity rate of 5% to 10%. Data with the health department shows that from August 1 to 5, 10,860 samples were collected showing an average of 2,172 samples a day. This is 50% of the 4,200 samples they were collecting a day in July-mid. “Sample collection began dropping from July 25 itself on the field to just a little over 2,000 samples a day. On some days, samples collected are as low as 1,800-odd,” said a health department source. In July, 72,345 people’s samples were collected, showing an average of 2,333 samples a day. “As the number of samples being collected began dropping, the number of positive cases also dropped,” he said. The public health department says the possibility of missing out on cases, due to reduced testing, occurs only if the positivity rate is above 10%. “The state government, in a bid to ensure reagents are not being wasted and unnecessary tests are not conducted, has asked to maintain a positivity of 5% to 10%. When we were testing 4,000 samples a day, our positivity rate was 1% to 2%,” said deputy director, G Ramesh Kumar. “Now, after we reduced to 2,000 to 2,300 samples a day, our positivity rate in August so far has been 9%, which is recommended,” he said. In July, our positivity rate was 5.9%, he said. The district’s overall positivity rate is 3.4%. Officials said that this was not because there was a shortage of the reagent required to run PCR tests. “We have adequate quantity of reagents in both ESI Hospital and CMCH to conduct how many ever PCR tests we are required to, but the idea is to stop wasting resources. We are now running tests for samples conducted in Karur, Dharmapuri, Theni and other districts,” said the deputy director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/number-of-samples-tested-drops-with-reported-cases/articleshow/77402876.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Covid tally in Bihar jumps to 68,000, toll 388||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 68,148 on Thursday with 3,416 more people testing positive for the virus. However, with 43,820 people recovering from the disease, active cases stand at 23,938 in the state. With 19 official deaths on Thursday, Covid toll in the state has reached 388. The victims included seven from Patna, including family court judge Harish Chandra Shrivastava. A Muzaffarpur-based physician, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, also breathed his last at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday evening. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said Shrivastava (58) was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday and Dr Sanjeev (35) four days back. Senior vice-president of IMA’s state unit Dr Ajay Kumar said Dr Sanjeev is the 17th doctor in Bihar and also the youngest one to die of Covid-19. AIIMS-Patna reported five more deaths on Friday. Three of the victims were from Patna, including a 57-year-old man from Hajiganj in Patna City, a 67-year-old man from Adarsh Nagar in Phulwarisharif and a 73-year-old woman from Kankarbagh. Two other deceased were a 62-year-old man from Jamui and a 63-year-old man from Sitamarhi. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported two deaths. Hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said one of the deceased was a 78-year-old man from Bhojpur and another a 56-year-old man from Budh Nagar in Buxar who had a medical history of hypertension. As per the data shared by the state health department, seven deaths were reported from Patna, taking the toll to 67 in the district. Two deaths each were reported from Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jamui and Nawada and one each from Khagaria, Madhepura, Rohtas and Sitamarhi. Patna registered fresh 603 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 11,592. However, with 7,599 recoveries and 67 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 3,966. Other districts which reported large number of Covid-19 cases include Katihar (234), East Champaran (190), Vaishali (163), Samastipur (139), Bhagalpur (128), Muzaffarpur (118), Rohtas (106), Nalanda (102) and Saharsa (101). Meanwhile, as per the data shared by the health department, 60,254 samples were tested in the past 24 hours in the state, the highest in a day so far. The increase is at least ten times when compared to previous month’s data. On July 6, only 6,213 samples were tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-in-bihar-jumps-to-68k-toll-388/articleshow/77400577.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to again conduct online mock test from August 13||Vadodara: After the first online test attempt ended in a fiasco, the MS University (MSU) has now decided to once organize an online mock test from August 13 before the final examinations, but in a phased manner this time.University officials said that the decision was taken in a meeting between the vice-chancellor and deans, principals and representatives of Covid-19 cell. The schedule of the tests will be declared by the university next week and later it will also declare the detailed schedule of the online examinations. Moreover, the university also admitted that the mock test questions that went missing from database was because of the server upgrading process. Officials said that the server was being upgraded as there was abnormal traffic on the website that kept server operations on peak just a day before the mock online test. But during that process, certain images and data that were uploaded on July 30 and 31 could not be retrieved and so these weren’t visible in the system. The academic staff has been asked to re-enter the data now in the system so that mock test can be conducted from August 13. Besides the cyberattack attempts, this was also the reason for holding the online mock test and final examination.In a message to the students, university informed that the students who have not received login credentials will have to submit their details in the Google form latest by August 6 and all students will receive the credentials before August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-again-conduct-online-mock-test-from-august-13/articleshow/77399386.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Patna||Power outage in nine north Bihar districts as floods hit 65 lakh people||PATNA: The flood affected population in north Bihar increased by another 2.4 lakh in the past 24 hours, even as the deluge has disrupted power supply in as many as nine districts. According to the disaster management department (DMD), the population affected by floods increased from 66 lakh as of Wednesday evening to 69.03 lakh by Thursday evening. The deaths due to floods have surged to 21. Electric supply has been disrupted in East Champaran, West Champaran, Darbhanga, Madhubani, SItamarhi, Sheohar, Gopalganj, Siwan, and Saran districts, said a statement issued by the Bihar State Power Transmission Company Limited (BSPTCL). “Power is being supplied chronologically through other sources under alternative arrangement. The restoration work on the grid- substation and the attached transmission lines is being carried out on a war-footing. The restoration work in Motihari is likely to be completed in the next three to four days, following which there would be improvement in power supply in the flood-affected areas. The Darbhanga grid sub-stations will also be restored in another 2-3 days,” said Satyanarayan Kumar, chief engineer (operations and maintenance) of BSPTCL, adding more time will be required for restoration at Amnour grid-substation owing to the high level of floodwater. Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy tweeted on Wednesday evening that energy department officials have said power supply will remain disrupted in several blocks in the district owing to the floods. “Engineer of the energy department has informed us that power transmission has been disrupted due to flooding in four power substations- Panapur, Taraiya, Amnour and Parsa. Consequently, power supply has been affected in Marhaura, Amnour, Maker, Nagra, Bheldi and Pojhi areas,” Rudy stated in his tweet. The BSPTCL chief engineer said in his statement that power supply will be restored in Saran as soon as the water level recedes. Sunil Kumar Das, superintending engineer, North Bihar Power Distribution Company at Darbhanga said on Thursday that around 20,000 rural power consumers at Kusheshwar Asthan (East) block and 10,000 consumers at Hanumannagar block getting power from Poraiya power substation and Kusheshwar Asthan power substations respectively are living without electric supply since July 27 last as 5-6 feet water was flowing in both these substations. Locals claimed that the entire Kusheshwar Asthan (east) block has been without power for the past 10 days. In East Champaran, power consumers are getting uninterrupted power supply even in flooded areas of the district as on Thursday. “The electric supply got disrupted from Monday in flooded areas of Areraj subdivision but the supply was restored on Thursday,” said Pradeep Kumar, superintending engineer, Motihari circle. He added that the Raxaul electric division of East Champaran is facing an energy crisis from Tuesday due to closure of Darbhanga transmission line. “Patahi , Dhaka , Adapur and Raxaul grid- substations are getting rotation wise power supply,” Pradeep said. Power disruption apart, major rivers showed a receding trend and rainfall intensity also remained light to moderate on Thursday. Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Khiroi and Adhwara group of rivers continued to flow above danger level at several places in as many as 16 districts in north Bihar. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI on Thursday evening that Burhi Gandak was fast eroding its left embankment at Tanti Tola in Khagaria but it was promptly restored with night- long flood fighting works led by Khagaria district administration. (With inputs from B K Jha in Darbhanga and C B Pandey in Motihari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/power-outage-in-nine-north-bihar-districts-as-floods-hit-65-lakh-people/articleshow/77400641.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tally tops 1 lakh, but 71% recoveries and low fatality rate a big positive||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s (PMR) Covid-19 case count crossed 1 lakh-mark on Thursday, almost five months after the first case surfaced in a couple in Pune on March 9. Hearteningly, as many as 70,904 patients have already been cured, limiting the active patient count to 28,121 in the region. Civic officials said though the number of positive patients had crossed 1 lakh, low death rate of around 2.3% was a ray of hope. So far, as many as 2,290 patients have succumbed in PMR, including 59 on Thursday. The officials said they were focusing on testing to arrest the virus spread. “We are using stratergy of more contact tracing, increasing the number of tests and focus on co-morbid patients. It helps in finding out positive patients early,” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI. Civic health officials said the death rate went gone down drastically in the past few weeks. Early testing is helping in reaching out to the citizens in urgent need of care. It has reduced the amount of critical patients as well, they said. On Thursday, as many as 2,955 new cases took the total tally in PMR to 1,00,264. Among the new cases, the PMC limits added 1,440, the PCMC areas recorded 1,012, stated the press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. Out of 59 deaths, 27 were from the PMC areas, while 21 from the PCMC limits. The 24-hour cured count stands at 2,129. Around 700 tests per day were being carried out during March and April, which rose to around 6,000 by July-end. During July lockdown, the per day tests crossed 8,500. The Union government expert committee, which has visited Pune multiple times since the outbreak has advised PMC, PCMC and district administration to conduct more tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-tally-tops-1l-mark-in-almost-five-months-over-70000-cured/articleshow/77402900.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Sikh, Kashmiri separatists stage anti-India protest in US||Amritsar: Sikh and Kashmiri separatists staged a demonstration against India at Times Square New York City on the occasion of the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodha. Coordinator, Sikh Coordination Committee, East Coast Himmat Singh said the protest was held against the Hindutva regime supported by the BJP. According to intelligence sources here, during the sponsored programme, various Sikh and Kashmiri hardliners spewed venom against India. “Many of those who were trying to instigate others during the demonstration were wanted by India or were trying to grab media attention for publicity to siphon off money from gullible Indians settled in the US with misleading information,” said sources, adding that pro-Pakistan and Khalistan slogans were also raised. Himmat said, “India is a major hotspot for Covid-19, with almost 1.9 million confirmed cases rising at an alarming rate. Instead of building hospitals to save lives, Indian government is building Ram Mandir.” Meanwhile, Gujri Singh of Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF) informed that they had announced the 2020 Racial Justice Series: Demystifying US History and Activating Sikh Action for Black Justice Movements -- a six-part webinar series. She said Sikhs Americans, like most in the United States, were not aware of their true history. “In many cases, we, as a society, need to relearn the history that has been taught and take a hard look at the true reality within this country,” she said, adding that the six-part series would be a substantive analysis of their current situation, beginning with an appreciation of what African Americans had done in the past to fight white supremacy and their victories and defeats that had resonated for all communities of colour. Box: Victims of Wisconsin attack remembered Sikhs in the US held a ceremony to pay respect to the six Sikhs who were killed in a gurdwara attack by a white supremacist. The massacre at the gurdwara in Oak Creek, Wisconsin was the first time when a white man targeted a gurdwara in the United States. “By memorialising this day and remembering the victims each year, all Sikh Americans have an opportunity to reflect and contemplate on ways to not only prevent hate crimes but proactively engage with the larger society around us in order to make a safer tomorrow,” said American Sikh Council (ASC) vice-president Jasbir Kaur. She said hate crimes against Sikh Americans took place in almost every state on a regular basis and had not even spared little children or seniors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikh-kashmiri-separatists-stage-anti-india-protest-in-us/articleshow/77402905.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||UAVs, 3D laser scanners covered in Gujarat police manual||AHMEDABAD: The latest police manual brought out by Gujarat police has decided to do away with the age-old measuring tapes for crime scene documentation and replace them with three dimensional (3D) laser scanners for serious crimes. If the manual draft is approved by the home department, each police station will be given one 3D laser scanner. Gujarat police has already procured six scanners and plan to buy more. The new draft of the police manual allows city traffic police to use unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones for real-time traffic management and surveillance. The 3D laser scanners will measure the topography of the crime scene and record distances and other measurements for the cops to draw up a ‘panchnama’, said a police official. “This will save time and manpower that can be used to maintain law and order,” said a senior police officer. Top sources in the police department said. “The new police manual draft also allows for the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones not only to maintain law and order but also for traffic surveillance, mapping crime scenes and coastal security,” a police source said. The new police manual will be in the form of a “Pocket Cop Application”. “Whenever an amendment is made, one will not need to reprint it but it can just be changed online,” a top police official said. The new manual will also be available in Gujarati and can guide policemen investigating various types of cases, rather than just provide the norms and rules. According to top sources, the new draft also defines coordination between law enforcement and investigating agencies in an ongoing operation. “The new draft is all about using technology in policing. It also lists ways and methods of collecting evidence, including CCTV footage from crime scenes. It also guides investigating officers on how to investigate cybercrime,” added a source. The revised version of the police manual, which was originally drafted in 1975, was handed over to chief minister Vijay Rupani last week by former DGP Shivanand Jha who retired on July 31. Ashish Bhatia, a 1985-batch IPS officer, has been appointed in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/uavs-3d-laser-scanners-covered-in-police-manual/articleshow/77409019.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 7, 2020||Agra||Teenager’s body found hanging from tree||AGRA: A teenager’s body was found hanging from a tree in Mathura’s Govardhan area on Thursday morning The deceased has been identified as Krishna from Deeg, Rajasthan. Raja Man Singh’s murder: Convicted cops admitted in Jail hospital: Three cops, including the then DSP Kan Singh Bhati and station house officer Veerendra Singh, convicted for erstwhile Bharatpur king Raja Man Singh’s murder, admitted in Jail hospital on Wednesday night. They are under observation, say jail officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/teenagers-body-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/77400097.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 21 years after Kargil, martyr’s name on village school||MANSA: More than 21 years after a braveheart from Punjab’s Mansa district died in the Kargil conflict, the government senior secondary school in his native village of Kusla has been named after Naik Nirmal Singh. The district authorities also provided financial assistance of Rs 51,000 to his 80-year-old mother Jagir Kaur who was living a life of penury and forced to take up work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). A TOI report had highlighted her condition. The villagers had earlier proposed that ‘Nirmal’ be incorporated in the school’s name but nobody had paid any heed to them. The director education (senior secondary) has now approved naming of the school after the martyr and a banner with the changed name has been put up at the school gate. Schools of four martyrs of Galwan Valley -- who died during close combat with Chinese troops — were recently named after them.  Mansa zila parishad chairman Bikram Singh Moafar reached the school on Wednesday with the martyr’s mother and said "the state government is for naming schools after martyrs and providing every facility to the families of martyrs". He said the vacant posts in the school will be filled soon, and a community centre, park, library and playground will also be constructed. On coming to know of the plight of the martyr’s mother, NGO Nirvair Khalsa Aid of Yamunanagar started had begun constructing a room for her while philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi had promised her Rs 5,000 per month pension and arranged a helper for her at Rs 2,500 per month. After renaming of the village school, Jagir Kaur said, "I feel happy that the school has been named after my son; he will be well recognized in the area for long." Village sarpanch Manjit Singh lauded the step, saying "better late than never".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/21-yrs-after-kargil-martyrs-death-mansa-village-school-bears-his-name/articleshow/77402915.cms||Neel Kamal
August 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Third jumbo unit for Covid care if needed, Solapur demands facility||PUNE: Work on two jumbo makeshift Covid care facilities is underway at CoEP grounds and Annasaheb Magar stadium in Pimpri Chinchwad, but the third unit at SSPMS grounds will be taken up only after checking the requirement with the local administrators, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told TOI on Thursday. He said private hospitals are giving additional beds so a review meeting will decide the requirement for a third facility around August 10. Cases have reduced in Pune on Wednesday, but the administration will wait at least a week before announcing the overall reduction. The mortality rate has come down to 2.3% but it is a long way to get it below 1%. Pawar will review the two sites on Friday after meeting the local administrators. Meanwhile, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that work is underway at the CoEP grounds and the Magar stadium while Pimpri Chinchwad’s separate facility at the autocluster and at Balnagari will provide more beds. “The agency has already planned the operations and work will hopefully be completed by August 19-20,” he said. Aam Aadmi Party’s Abhijit More told TOI that nearly six hospitals within the Pune Municipal Corporation limits were ready but non-functional. The ICU at Kamala Nehru Hospital needs to be re-started and the 450 beds at the hospital must be put to use, he added. Meanwhile, Solapur district collector has proposed a 500 bed jumbo facility on the lines of Pune district. “We have already got the same agency carrying out the process in Pune to go ahead with the Solapur work,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/third-jumbo-unit-for-covid-care-if-needed-solapur-demands-facility/articleshow/77402909.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Hit by speeding motorcycle, 17-year-old boy dies in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 17-year-old boy, Avdhesh Kumar of Ghungchai village under Ghungchai police outpost of Puranpur kotwali, succumbed to his injuries at the district hospital late on Wednesday night after he was hit by a speeding motorcycle on Ghungchai-Banda road during the evening walk. His two friends, Vijay Verma and Amit Shukla of the same village, who joined him for the walk sustained injuries. Police have sent the body for autopsy and shifted the injured to the hospital. An FIR has been registered. SHO SK Singh said the unidentified rider was booked under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 279 (rash driving on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-speeding-motorcycle-17-year-old-boy-dies-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77396508.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||UAVs, 3D laser scanners covered in Gujarat police manual||AHMEDABAD: The latest police manual brought out by Gujarat police has decided to do away with the age-old measuring tapes for crime scene documentation and replace them with three dimensional (3D) laser scanners for serious crimes. If the manual draft is approved by the home department, each police station will be given one 3D laser scanner. Gujarat police has already procured six scanners and plan to buy more. The new draft of the police manual allows city traffic police to use unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones for real-time traffic management and surveillance. The 3D laser scanners will measure the topography of the crime scene and record distances and other measurements for the cops to draw up a ‘panchnama’, said a police official. “This will save time and manpower that can be used to maintain law and order,” said a senior police officer. Top sources in the police department said. “The new police manual draft also allows for the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones not only to maintain law and order but also for traffic surveillance, mapping crime scenes and coastal security,” a police source said. The new police manual will be in the form of a “Pocket Cop Application”. “Whenever an amendment is made, one will not need to reprint it but it can just be changed online,” a top police official said. The new manual will also be available in Gujarati and can guide policemen investigating various types of cases, rather than just provide the norms and rules. According to top sources, the new draft also defines coordination between law enforcement and investigating agencies in an ongoing operation. “The new draft is all about using technology in policing. It also lists ways and methods of collecting evidence, including CCTV footage from crime scenes. It also guides investigating officers on how to investigate cybercrime,” added a source. The revised version of the police manual, which was originally drafted in 1975, was handed over to chief minister Vijay Rupani last week by former DGP Shivanand Jha who retired on July 31. Ashish Bhatia, a 1985-batch IPS officer, has been appointed in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/uavs-3d-laser-scanners-covered-in-police-manual/articleshow/77409022.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||RAW sleuths collect details of Lankan don’s death||Coimbatore: A team of sleuths from the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) met crime branch-CID IG K Shankar at the office of the CB-CID in Coimbatore on Wednesday in connection with the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka. The five-member team also met senior CB-CID officers and collected documents from them, sources said. Lokka, who was involved in eight murders in Sri Lanka, was a wanted fugitive and Interpol had issued a red notice against him. The 35-year-old man had obtained an Aadhaar card under the name R Pradeep Singh and was staying with Amani Dhanji, 27, a Colombo-based woman, at a house in Cheran Maa Nagar in Coimbatore. He died of cardiac arrest on July 3. Sivakami Sundari, a Madurai-based lawyer, took the body to Madurai, where it was cremated. Coimbatore city police arrested Dhanji, Sundari and her friend Dhiyaneswaran of Tirupur. CB-CID police led by superintendent of police M Madasamy conducted search at Dhiyaneswaran’s rented house in Tirupur on Wednesday and seized a laptop, a pen drive and two mobile phones. Dhiyaneswaran had fabricated documents to help Lokka to obtain the Aadhaar card, sources said On Thursday, a team of the CB-CID along with forensic science experts reached the forensic science office in Chennai with the viscera samples of Lokka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/raw-sleuths-collect-details-of-lankan-dons-death/articleshow/77402893.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Oxygen demand rose 3.5 times in July; units told to boost supply||PUNE: Nine industrial oxygen manufacturers in Pune district and 18 units in the division have been asked by authorities to increase supply of medical oxygen to 80% from 60%. This fresh supply will meet demands of Covid-19 hospitals and the upcoming makeshift isolation centres. On Thursday, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao held a meeting with oxygen supply units from across the district and division. The suppliers said demand rose 3.5 times in July, compared to June. They added that the current numbers are only expected to increase as the region adds more beds with oxygen support. The nine suppliers in Pune district supply around 4,500 metric tonnes of oxygen. The 18 other units in the division manage a total of 8,000 metric tonnes. About 60% of the total supply is used for medical purposes while the rest, 40%, is reserved for industrial units. “We have now told these suppliers to increase their production," Rao said after the meeting. As District officials said hospitals are demanding nearly 10-15 times more medical oxygen than before. The demand for oxygen cylinders too is on the rise. The suppliers have been asked to submit proposals on how they plan to increase production across their units. Many of these units have not been functioning because of the prevailing conditions. But authorities demanded that production start again at these facilities. Rao added that all options are on the table to increase oxygen supply. “We are expecting cases to decrease soon. But we also want to be prepared," he said. "The Covid-19 mortality rate has dropped to 2.3% and we hope to reduce it further. For that to happen, we are going to ensure there are enough oxygen beds for patients. Most of the cases coming into hospitals need oxygen because of low saturation levels." Oxygen support has become key to treating critical patients who require breathing support because of complications in the lungs. Also, some patients appear to have no evident respirator distress despite dangerously low oxygen levels - a condition known as silent hypoxia. Fortunately, only a fraction of the critically ill have needed ventilator support. But general oxygen supply remains vital. “Demand for high-flow oxygen has shot through,” said a health expert. Nationwide too, supply will have to increase. One supplier said hospitals and care centres are consuming nearly 1,300 tonnes of oxygen every day. Before Covid-19, he said, consumption was around 900 tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-demand-rose-3-5-times-in-july-units-told-to-boost-supply/articleshow/77402904.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||UAVs, 3D laser scanners covered in Gujarat police manual||AHMEDABAD: The latest police manual brought out by Gujarat police has decided to do away with the age-old measuring tapes for crime scene documentation and replace them with three dimensional (3D) laser scanners for serious crimes. If the manual draft is approved by the home department, each police station will be given one 3D laser scanner. Gujarat police has already procured six scanners and plan to buy more. The new draft of the police manual allows city traffic police to use unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones for real-time traffic management and surveillance. The 3D laser scanners will measure the topography of the crime scene and record distances and other measurements for the cops to draw up a ‘panchnama’, said a police official. “This will save time and manpower that can be used to maintain law and order,” said a senior police officer. Top sources in the police department said. “The new police manual draft also allows for the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones not only to maintain law and order but also for traffic surveillance, mapping crime scenes and coastal security,” a police source said. The new police manual will be in the form of a “Pocket Cop Application”. “Whenever an amendment is made, one will not need to reprint it but it can just be changed online,” a top police official said. The new manual will also be available in Gujarati and can guide policemen investigating various types of cases, rather than just provide the norms and rules. According to top sources, the new draft also defines coordination between law enforcement and investigating agencies in an ongoing operation. “The new draft is all about using technology in policing. It also lists ways and methods of collecting evidence, including CCTV footage from crime scenes. It also guides investigating officers on how to investigate cybercrime,” added a source. The revised version of the police manual, which was originally drafted in 1975, was handed over to chief minister Vijay Rupani last week by former DGP Shivanand Jha who retired on July 31. Ashish Bhatia, a 1985-batch IPS officer, has been appointed in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uavs-3d-laser-scanners-covered-in-police-manual/articleshow/77401527.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||UAVs, 3D laser scanners covered in Gujarat police manual||AHMEDABAD: The latest police manual brought out by Gujarat police has decided to do away with the age-old measuring tapes for crime scene documentation and replace them with three dimensional (3D) laser scanners for serious crimes. If the manual draft is approved by the home department, each police station will be given one 3D laser scanner. Gujarat police has already procured six scanners and plan to buy more. The new draft of the police manual allows city traffic police to use unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones for real-time traffic management and surveillance. The 3D laser scanners will measure the topography of the crime scene and record distances and other measurements for the cops to draw up a ‘panchnama’, said a police official. “This will save time and manpower that can be used to maintain law and order,” said a senior police officer. Top sources in the police department said. “The new police manual draft also allows for the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones not only to maintain law and order but also for traffic surveillance, mapping crime scenes and coastal security,” a police source said. The new police manual will be in the form of a “Pocket Cop Application”. “Whenever an amendment is made, one will not need to reprint it but it can just be changed online,” a top police official said. The new manual will also be available in Gujarati and can guide policemen investigating various types of cases, rather than just provide the norms and rules. According to top sources, the new draft also defines coordination between law enforcement and investigating agencies in an ongoing operation. “The new draft is all about using technology in policing. It also lists ways and methods of collecting evidence, including CCTV footage from crime scenes. It also guides investigating officers on how to investigate cybercrime,” added a source. The revised version of the police manual, which was originally drafted in 1975, was handed over to chief minister Vijay Rupani last week by former DGP Shivanand Jha who retired on July 31. Ashish Bhatia, a 1985-batch IPS officer, has been appointed in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uavs-3d-laser-scanners-covered-in-police-manual/articleshow/77409020.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Burdened NMC officials dump Mundhe’s plan?||Nagpur: While deciding to home isolate asymptomatic Covid patients on July 27, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had planned to increase testing at local level, trace high risk close contacts, treat them, and recommend home quarantine if they had no symptoms.On Wednesday, even as the city recorded highest ever tally of 467 positive patients, civic chief Tukaram Mundhe directed medical department to continue contact tracing and ensure testing of at least 20 high risk suspects of each positive patient during a meeting.On Thursday, Mundhe and chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai didn’t answer TOI’s queries regarding their ambitious plan to trace 20 suspects of each patient. TOI spoke to a couple of zone officials, who said they were already burdened with other responsibilities and amid the rising cases it may not be possible.This revelation cuts a sorry figure for the civic body, which just two month back had been proactively tracing and testing over 500 persons from just a single area on a daily basis. This was seen in case of Mominpura, Satranjipura and Naik-Talao Bangladesh, where the outbreak has been largely contained now.What made the officials wash their hands of the civic chief’s directives is poor manpower pitted against multiple and time consuming tasks. Beside the tracing of 20 high risk suspects for every positive case, the officials have been entrusted with door-to-door survey for tracing influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Of late, they have also been asked to monitor positive cases surfacing at 21 new testing centres.As per government medical college doctors, ILI and SARI survey have lost steam, which is the main reason behind spike in deaths of positive patients, as they are coming in at a critical stage.Most of the day is spent in coordinating with 21 testing centres, taking suspects there in buses and then arranging separate transportation for those testing positive. The officials are able to do only this much, leaving next stage to fate.NMC has formed rapid response teams (RRTs) comprising three or two members. Each RRT comprises auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), multiple purpose worker (MPW) and medical officer. But, short-staffed NMC has deputed sanitary workers or revenue officials in some teams. Each zone has four RRTs for its prabhags. Each zone has four prabhags, excluding Satranjipura, which has three prabhags. Assuming that each prabhag roughly has one lakh population, though it is likely to be more, just three RRT members have been left to carry out all the Covid management.In each prabhag, the RRTs are finding it difficult to carry out the multiple tasks, to the extent that now positive persons are not even being contacted, leave aside survey to find 20 high risk group members. The RRTs have been asked to shift those testing positive to newly established centres and to MLA CCC for screening. After screening, those home isolated have to be monitored and stickers pasted outside their homes.On Thursday, the city again saw 500 new cases beside 467 of the day before. This means the 120 officials from all zones would have to reach 19,140 close contacts, a task which not only appears irrational but unachievable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/burdened-nmc-officials-dump-mundhes-plan/articleshow/77401537.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 7, 2020||Pune||65 Pune cops contracted infection since August 1||PUNE: A total of 65 personnel of the Pune police tested Covid-19 positive since August 1. A total of 465 Pune police personnel have tested Covid-19 positive so far. Of them, as many as 340 have been discharged from hospitals after recovery and three succumbed to the infection. At present, there are 122 active cases. Additional commissioner of Pune police Ashok Morale told TOI, “A total of 1,334 family members of policemen have been quarantined to contain the spread of coronavirus since April. Relatives of 188 police personnel have tested positive. As many as 26 policemen on leave came in contact with infected persons. ” He said, “Coming in contact with close friends, attending funerals of near and dear ones, residing in containment zones and discharging duties there, doing field jobs and meeting visitors at workplaces are other reasons behind our personnel getting infected.” He said, “We have found that suspects arrested in criminal cases testing positive have come in contact with the investigation teams and others. If an accused develops symptoms of Covid-19, we conduct their medical examination and admit them to hospitals. The swabs samples of the investigation officer, his/her team, lock-up guards and others are taken as preventive measure.” The assistant commissioner of police of Pimpri Chinchwad, R R Patil, said, “A total of 182 police personnel have tested positive since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Three officers and 21 police personnel are currently under treatment.” Patil said, “As many as 21 police officers and 137 police personnel have been discharged after recovery. Most of them have resumed duty. Senior police officers are constantly in touch with doctors where the personnel are under treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/65-pune-police-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-since-august-1/articleshow/77402914.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Gangsters open fire, rob jewellery shop of ornaments worth Rs 17 lakh||PUNE: Five persons, three of them in police uniform, fired seven rounds at a jewellery store and an adjacent garment shop at Kapurhol on Satara highway to deter people from chasing them after they robbed the jeweller of gold ornaments worth Rs17 lakh around 4.30pm on Thursday. Though no one was injured, a couple of glass covers of the two shops were shattered by the bullets. Police said the men with face masks on, who had arrived in a silver metallic hatchback car, fled towards Jejuri in the same vehicle. The incident occurred at Sumit Nikam’s store, Balaji Jewellers. The five men — three of them posing as police officers, and the other two in plain clothes — entered the shop. “The trio in police uniform told Nikam that they had arrested the duo in plain clothes in a burglary case. They told Nikam that the duo had sold stolen ornaments to Nikam. The trio asked Nikam to remove jewellery boxes for inspection and took him to a room inside the shop,” additional superintendent of police Milind Mohite said. “Nikam then saw the duo in plain clothes hurriedly putting ornaments in a bag. He rushed towards them, following which the suspects scurried out with the bag of ornaments. They first opened fire in the direction of Nikam, but it hit a glass cover,” Mohite said. Hearing the gunshot, the attendants of the neighbouring garment shop came out and the suspects fired one bullet in their direction. “All the suspects rushed towards their car and while doing so, they fired another two bullets towards the shops. The suspects fired three more rounds from the car after the villagers surrounded their vehicle,” Mohite said, adding, “Our officers have noted the car’s registration number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangsters-open-fire-rob-jewellery-shop-of-ornaments-worth-rs-17-lakh/articleshow/77402913.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Nursing staff of Chinchwad Covid hospital launch protest||Pimpri Chinchwad: The nursing staff of Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Chinchwad launched a protest against the hospital's administration on Thursday alleging work pressure. The nurses, in a letter to state health minister Rajesh Tope, claimed they were not getting leaves, were being forced to clock extra duty hours and warned by the administration that would have to submit resignations if they did not comply. The staff also asked Tope to intervene in the matter. Their demands included proper duty rotations, insurance cover for nurses, adequate nurse-patient ratio (as per Indian Nursing Council standards) and separate accommodation for staff working in the Covid wards. Protesters also asked the hospital's administration to provide allowance to staff working in the ICUs and Covid wards. They called for meal facilities and the permission to carry their own food to work. Rekha Dubey, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Aditya Birla Hospital said, “They don’t want to work, which is their right. We can't force anyone to work. We are finding out alternatives.” She added, “We were the first hospital to give Covid incentives to the nursing staff this July. All their needs are being looked after, but we cannot force them to work if they are not willing to work."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nursing-staff-of-chinchwad-covid-hospital-launch-protest/articleshow/77402917.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Water scarcity hobbles AIIMS’ Covid-19 fight||AMARAVATI: Severe water shortage has derailed plans of of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mangalagiri, to make the institute fully operational. Work on the 1,000-bed institute is going at a snail’s pace chiefly due to non-availability of water. AIIMS could launch only a 28-bed Covid-care centre as all the blocks and theatres are not ready for patient care. Sources said the state government is yet to respond to the drinking water issue despite repeated requests. “AIIMS could have played a vital role in handling Covid-19 situation had the work been completed on time. We are saddened to confine our services to just a handful of patients,” medical superintendent Dr Rakesh Kakkar told TOI.” While 24 beds were made available in the general ward, an ICU was created with four beds. About 300 people regularly visit AIIMS for Covid-19 screening and support services and doctors are providing in-patient services only to the needy. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the OP wing used to see about 1,000 people each day, said Dr Kakkar. Besides providing full-fledged treatment to patients, they could have started some research work on Covid-19 as well had the work been completed, said Dr Kakkar. AIIMS has already roped in a full-bench of faculty as it launched graduation classes in 2018 at Siddartha Medical College campus in Vijayawada. Many professors and assistant professors say they have missed a golden opportunity to serve the people during the pandemic due to non-availability of the hospital blocks. AIIMS launched out-patient department (OPD) block in one of the completed buildings to give exposure to its students. All the faculty members, staff and students are residing either in Vijayawada or neighbouring towns even after the completion of some hostel blocks and official bungalows in the campus. “Water shortage has compelled us to travel from different locations,” said an associate professor. The contractor of the project is struggling to complete the work as per the timelines fixed by the Centre as groundwater too is not available at the location. The project began in 2015 and was to be completed by 2018. “It is already two years behind the schedule but we are expecting it to be fully ready by next June,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/water-scarcity-hobbles-aiims-covid-19-fight/articleshow/77400117.cms||Samdani MN
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||New industrial policy to be announced today in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani will complete four years in office on August 7 and he will mark the occasion by announcing a new industrial policy for the state to boost business environment. The CM will also dedicate various projects from Gandhinagar via video conferencing. Sources close to the development said that the new industrial policy will offer direct incentives worth around Rs 40,000 crore to industries, along with several other incentives to enhance ease of doing business in Gujarat.  “The industrial policy will offer big relief to the industries in form of long-term lease, as lot of industries have been struggling over the past two to three years to get land,” sources said. “The new policy is likely to focus on electric machinery and equipment, auto and auto components, ceramics, pharma-related sectors, which will be increasingly incentivised. Government has planned to divide talukas under three categories — under developed, developing and developed — and incentives will be given to industries in proportion of the categories,” sources said. Sources added that the incentive policy for large industries already covers concessions in SGST, electricity duty and other discounts and all ongoing concessions will be continued in the new industrial policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-industrial-policy-to-be-announced-today/articleshow/77401533.cms||Kapil Dave
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Collective stock in 4 lifeline dams over halfway mark||PUNE: The collective storage in the four dams supplying water to the city crossed the halfway mark, as heavy rain continued in the catchment of three of these reservoirs during the 24 hours till 8am on Thursday. The four dams have a collective storage capacity of around 29 TMC and at present have a stock of 15.03 TMC (51.56%). During the 24 hours till Thursday morning, the collective storage in the four dams increased by around 2 TMC. Though the rain in the catchment areas reduced to double digits, it remained heavy in three of the four dams till Thursday morning, irrigation department data revealed. Barring an upcoming spell of good rain in the ghats on August 9 to August 10, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday stated that the downpour was likely to be good throughout the state, including Pune city and district, during the next fortnight of August. The extended range forecast showed that after the ongoing spell, the rainfall was likely to pick up once again in most parts of the state after August 14, with possibility of good showers till August 27. An irrigation department official said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) lifted around 18 TMC water from the Khadakwasla complex per year. “The remaining around 11 TMC is used for irrigation and drinking water needs of villages along Daund and Indapur. Though the current 15 TMC storage is sufficient to meet Pune city’s drinking water needs for eight to nine months, part of it will be reserved for drinking water needs of villages along Daund and Indapur,” the official said. Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of the PMC’s water department, told TOI, “The 15 TMC water in dams cannot be used fully to meet the city’s drinking water requirements, as part of it will also have to be used for agriculture and irrigation purposes. The current storage is hence still not sufficient. We expect good rain to continue in August, as per the IMD’s forecast. If similar rain continues for a week or so, the water stock in the four dams is likely to be replenished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collective-stock-in-4-lifeline-dams-over-halfway-mark/articleshow/77402916.cms||Neha Madaan
August 7, 2020||Pune||Masked duo distract elderly woman, steal her ornaments||Pune: Two masked men stole an elderly woman’s jewellery worth Rs23,000 by diverting her attention at her dairy booth in Phursungi on Wednesday. Gaurabai Dole stated in her complaint that the suspects posed as customers and parked their two-wheeler nearby. Inspector Humraj Kumbhar (crime) from the Hadapsar police said on Thursday, “tHEY struck up a conversation with her in Marathi and one of them placed a Rs500 note on the cash counter and convinced her to place her ornaments on it. They told her it would help her gain prosperity.” Kumbhar said, “She believed the suspects and followed their advice following which, they diverted her attention and stole her ornaments before fleeing on their two-wheeler.” “Investigations have revealed that the masked suspects were in the age bracket of 25-30 years. We are checking CCTV camera footage along the route via which the duo fled. We’ll arrest them as soon as we establish their identity,” Kumbhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masked-duo-distract-elderly-woman-steal-her-ornaments/articleshow/77402929.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Red alert in Kerala's Malappuram, orange in 8 districts today||KOCHI: The sudden intensity of rain, accompanied by strong winds on Thursday, brought back memories of floods in August 2018 and 2019. For people in Idukki, Wayanad and Malappuram, rain intensity led to apprehensions of moving to camps in the middle of the pandemic. Landslides, overflowing rivers, caving of roads marked the rain that abated by afternoon and picked up a little later. IMD issued a red alert for Malappuram on Friday along with an orange alert for Ernakulam, Idukki, Palakkad, Thrissur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Kasaragod and Kannur with heavy rain (12-20cm). IMD added that extremely heavy rain is likely on Saturday and issued orange alerts for all districts, except Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. Water from some dams/reservoirs were released, mainly Kallarkutty and Lower Periyar that had more than 90% in storage. Three shutters of Ponmudi dam will be opened at 10am to release 65 cusecs of water into Panniyar River on Friday, officials said. Meanwhile, IMD said there will be strong south-westerly/westerly monsoonal flow over the Arabian Sea with wind speed reaching 50-60km/hr along the west coast till Saturday. Another low-pressure area may develop over west-central, adjoining north Bay of Bengal around Sunday, so heavy to extremely heavy rain is expected till Sunday. Mananthavady recorded maximum rain at 19cm followed by Vythiri (18 cm). Padinjarathara dam area recorded 17cm while Nilambur got 10cm rain. Kuppady (Wayanad) got 9cm, while Munnar recorded 8cm. Following the warning in central and north Kerala, especially hilly regions, Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) put six different teams of national disaster response force on standby mode. Officials said that there is one team each in Wayanad, Idukki, Thrissur, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Palakkad. Of these, Malappuram and Palakkad teams reached on Thursday morning. The other four teams were in Kerala since June 4. A weather warning advisory was issued for Kerala coast by district operations team of the coastguard asking Kerala to recall all fishermen who have gone to sea for fishing. IMD said that under the influence of cyclonic circulation, squally weather (wind reaching speeds of 50-60km/hr) and high waves (3.5-5.5m) are likely along the coast. Fisherfolk are being advised using all available means not to venture into the sea in view of the adverse weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/red-alert-in-malappuram-orange-in-8-districts-today/articleshow/77400140.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Youth slaps girl and boy stabs man||AHMEDABAD: A 38-year-old woman from Gomtipur lodged a complaint against one Hardik Makwana, a resident of her neighbourhood, for allegedly abusing and slapping her minor daughter. According to the complaint, the accused was angry at the girl and asked her why she was maintaining a relationship with another teenager from the neighbourhood. Inspector Chirag Tandel of Gomtipur police station said that they registered offence under Sections 323 (causing hurt) and 294 (b) (using abusive words) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. According to the mother of the girl, at around 7am when her daughter went out to feed stray dogs, she heard a noise. “She went out and saw Hardik Makwana standing before her daughter asking her why she was maintaining a relationship with another boy from the area. He then abused her and her daughter and slapped her daughter thrice. As people gathered, he ran away,” said a police official. In a curious twist, another complaint was lodged by one Jaya Makwana, a resident of the same area, against the teenage boy Hardik was referring to. She alleged that the boy asked her why she had lodged a complaint against him, abused her and stabbed her husband in the back. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-slaps-girl-and-boy-stabs-man/articleshow/77401545.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of raping minor daughter in Pune||PUNE: The Alandi police on Thursday arrested a 38-year-old man on the charge of raping his 13-year-old daughter when his wife and son were not at home. The girl and her mother did not approach the police immediately after the crime because the man had threatened to kill everyone in the family. When the man was not at home on Wednesday, the girl and her mother visited the police station and lodged the first information report. An officer from the Alandi police station told TOI that the girl stayed in a tin-shed house with her parents and younger brother. “On July 31, when the girl and her father were in their home, he threatened her with an axe and raped her. The man told her daughter that he would kill her mother and brother if she spoke about the incident,” the officer said. When the girl confided in her mother, she reprimanded her husband but did not approach the police fearing harm to herself and her children. “When the suspect went out of home on Wednesday, the woman and her daughter mustered up the courage and appraocged to the police station,” the officer said. The man was arrested under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-minor-daughter/articleshow/77402925.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Gurgaon||After 28 years on the run, rape accused caught by cops||HISAR: Fatehabad police arrested Dev Singh alias Deva, a resident of Samana town in Patiala district of Punjab in a 28-year-old case of kidnapping and rape of a girl. Deva’s three companions were sentenced 23 years ago, but he was on the run for the past 27 years. One of the accused in the case is still at large. Fatehabad superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar said in May 1992, Ratia police station registered a case against five persons including Deva for kidnapping and raping a girl. Three accused arrested in the case were sentenced by the court in January 1997, while two accused, including Deva, escaped. They were declared proclaimed offenders by the court in June 1993, the SP said. “During patrolling, Ratia Sadar police station team arrested Deva on suspicion near the bus stand of Kulan village. During interrogation, it was revealed that he was declared PO 27 years ago in the kidnapping and rape case. He said he kept changing places to avoid arrest,” Kumar said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-28-yrs-on-the-run-rape-accused-caught-by-cops/articleshow/77402928.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Amritsar||Locals unleash dog at cops probing molestation complaint||BATHINDA: During investigation of a molestation complaint, a police party led by Bathinda Kotwali station house officer (SHO) inspector Devinder Singh faced a canine attack when a few persons unleashed a dog at them at Bhaleria Mohalla of Bathinda at around 10pm on Wednesday. The dog jumped over sub-inspector Amritpal Singh without harming him but to be safe, he got rabies treatment. Kotwali SHO said they got a call from some person in Bhaleria Mohalla saying that a few persons molested a girl at around 9.30pm. When the police team went to the spot, they had heated exchanges with a few persons who even tore an official’s uniform. Then they unleashed a dog at the cops, they said. A case was registered under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code against Mohan Lal, his wife Sudesh Rani, Sumit, Sahil, Bunty, Seepa and some unidentified persons. Police have rounded up a few people.  (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/locals-unleash-dog-at-cops-probing-molestation-plaint/articleshow/77402918.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH mixes up IDs, wrong family informed of patriarch’s death||Nagpur: In a case of mistaken identity, a Tajabad family went into mourning after learning about the death of their 62-year-old patriarch on Thursday, before discovering to their joyful relief within a couple of hours that he was still alive. While being handed over the body at the morgue, the son had discovered that the body of Covid deceased being handed over was not his father. The body belonged to another man, who had passed away in the Covid ICU at Government Medical College and Hospital on Thursday. GMCH officials said the deceased’s relatives were identified later, and the body was cremated by civic officials. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, who has set up an inquiry into the incident, said the case papers of two patients were inadvertently mixed up during internal shifting of one patient. “The sticker on the body bag carried patient details and relative’s contact number as per the wrong file, which led to the confusion. Though, it shouldn’t have happened,” he said. Dr Mitra said there were a lot of similarities as far as notes regarding condition of both patients were concerned. “Both were critically ill and not in a position to tell their names while being shifted,” he said. The 62-year-old man’s son, Ajju Mulla, told TOI that he received a call at 5am from a doctor in the Covid ward informing him about his father’s demise. “We were asked to come by 9am to take possession of the body. The community volunteers arrived around 2pm and wore the PPE kits. They asked us to see the face one last time before packing the body bag. I was shocked to see that it was not my father’s body,” he said. Mulla’s cousin said he had reached Tajabad cemetery and started preparing for burial and namaz-e-janaza. “The grave (pit) was ready and we had also purchased the kafan (shroud). Then I received a call from my cousin that they were yet to get the body,” the cousin said. The son recalled that around 1pm, he also received a call from the Covid ward, asking where his father was as he was missing from his bed. As they were in mourning, Mulla found the call a bit strange, but ignored it. He grew suspicious, however, when he saw the face of the deceased person didn’t have a beard which his father always sported. “The body bag is transparent above the face. As they unzipped the cover, I became sure it was not him,” he said. He added that initially the doctors said the beard may have been shaved off, and asked him to identify the body from a bit closer. Eventually, they realized Mulla’s father was still alive in Covid ICU. He later said his father’s file is still untraceable. Mulla’s father had been admitted on August 3 after suffering a fall at home followed by paralytic attack. He was later traced to Covid Ward no 3. A video was also shot by doctors and shown to Mulla and his relatives, who gathered in large numbers after the fiasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-mixes-up-ids-wrong-family-informed-of-patriarchs-death/articleshow/77401569.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Murder convict hangs self in Wardha dist jail||Wardha: A prisoner committed suicide by hanging self in the district jail sometime after Sunday midnight. The incident came to light on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Gopichand Dahake, 38.According to sources, Gopichand, a resident of Umarkhed in Yavatmal district, was serving jail term after being convicted in a murder case. He was earlier lodged in Amravati jail from where he was shifted to Wardha district jail. He reportedly hanged self from the window using a scarf around midnight when other inmates were asleep. Gopichand was released on parole a few months ago. As he did not return even after the parole ended, Amravati, Wardha and Yavatmal police were looking for him. Yavatmal police took him into custody from his village and sent him to Wardha jail recently.A case has been registered at city police station and the body was sent to civil hospital for postmortem. Police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/murder-convict-hangs-self-in-wardha-dist-jail/articleshow/77401540.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: 150 doctors ready to join Covid fight still untapped||PUNE: At least 150 young doctors, who can boost staff strength at facilities treating Covid-19 patients, have said they are ready to work, but haven't been approached by the local administration or hospitals in the city. Covid-care facilities have increased the number of beds, but many have reported a severe shortage of trained medical staff. These 150 doctors (all postgraduates) are members of the Academy of Physicians of India (API), the Indian Medical Association and other allied medical groups. Sanjay Pathare, medical director of the Ruby Hall Clinic said, "We need 150 nurses and 40 doctors. The shortage was felt once we increased bed strength. We have already approached district administration. We hope to get help soon." Ruby Hall Clinic has 600 staff who are involved in Covid care. In addition to full-time physicians, it also has over 300 doctors as consultants. "But most of them are over 55. And some of them are specialists in medical branches that are not linked to infectious diseases," Pathare said. Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital said, "We have added more beds as well. We have 520 healthcare staff: 140 doctors, 280 nurses and 100 multipurpose workers (MPW) for Covid-19 patients. We need another 180 nurses and about 80 MPWs." To ease the shortage, Bharati Hospital has had to bring in teaching faculty from its homeopathy college, dental college and nursing college to treat Covid-19 patients. "But these doctors cannot be deployed at ICUs, which need trained doctors and nursing staff. We have also deployed 30 MBBS graduates, who are now working as interns at our Covid-19 hospital," Oswal said. Aniket Joshi, spokesperson for API's Pune branch, said, "We have about 150 young physicians ready to fill gaps wherever needed. But we have not yet been approached by any private hospital." The API's Pune branch has over 350 members. "The rest of the members are over 55 years of age. They are also providing telemedicine services for patients at Covid Care Centres," Joshi said. Joshi said anesthetists and critical-care experts (intensivists) associated with their allied branches have also expressed readiness to work at hospitals who might need their services. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India said, "Hospitals facing a shortage of doctors can come up with their exact need and scope of work so that we can help them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/150-docs-ready-to-join-covid-fight-still-untapped/articleshow/77402927.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 7, 2020||Kochi||NIA: ‘All-in-all’ Swapna Suresh had casual association with Kerala CM||KOCHI: Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, had gone to meet IAS officer M Sivasankar at his flat after her attempts for releasing the consignment seized by customs failed, National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted before the special court on Thursday. ‘Chief minister’ and ‘chief minister’s office’ were mentioned by the agency multiple times during the court’s final hearing on Swapna’s bail plea. The agency told the court, citing Swapna’s statements that she had a ‘casual association’ with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and that she had influence in the CMO. On the basis of the 32-page statement the agency again submitted before the court that the former principal secretary was her mentor. “She used to take advice from him and he used to help her,” NIA said.Additional solicitor general (ASG) P Vijayakumar appeared for the NIA along with NIA prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta. The ASG said Swapna had strong influence over the consulate and the CMO. “She called up a customs officer and commanded him to release the consignment. She sent a short mail to the consulate so that the baggage can be sent back. Thereafter, she goes to the then principal secretary’s flat and asks him to interfere,” he said. But the agency said it needs more clarity on her statement that Sivasankar did not respond to her when he approached him. Swapna had connections abroad as well, NIA said, adding that ‘Arabs’ received up to $1,000 as commission while the prime accused in the case got Rs 50,000 each. However, the agency did not specify who the Arabs were. “She was the all-in-all in the conspiracy…Though she resigned, she continued to work for the consulate for a pay of around 1,000 dollars,” it said. Swapna’s counsel advocate Geo Paul submitted before the court a photograph of Swapna taken during her wedding 20 years ago, in which she was seen wearing 5kg gold. The move was an attempt to demonstrate that the gold seized from her locker belonged to her. Paul said NIA’s accusations are based on speculations and assumptions. He added it is relying on confession statements, which is the weakest evidence that can be presented against a person. The defense counsel pointed out that there could be a political motive for mentioning the CM and the CMO multiple times over the course of the argument. About the money seized from her account, the defence counsel said Swapna used to receive commissions from the consulate for various projects. The order on the bail plea would be pronounced on Monday. Swapna’s counsel played down NIA’s claim while addressing a press meet later in the day. “NIA seems to be saying that Swapna knows the chief minister. But then everyone knows the CM,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-all-in-all-swapna-had-casual-association-with-cm/articleshow/77400153.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Senior citizen loses Rs 95k to KYC fraud||Pune: A cybercrook posing as a bank executive siphoned off Rs95,000 from a retired government employee’s bank accounts on the pretext of updating his KYC details on May 24, police said. “As per the FIR, the complainant (74) received a call on May 24 from a man posing as an executive of a private bank in which the elderly man had two accounts. The caller urged him to update his KYC to avoid suspension of the accounts,” an officer from the Khadki polic said. said. The caller then offered to help the complainant with the process and took down details of his two accounts. “The complainant also shared his debit card details, following which Rs95,000 was siphoned off from his accounts,” the officer added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizen-loses-rs-95k-to-kyc-fraud/articleshow/77402936.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Malabar||KOZHIKODE: Torrential rain and strong winds left a trail of destruction in north Kerala. Many rivers overflowed, inundating low-lying areas in Wayanad, Kozhikode and Malappuram. Strong winds uprooted trees, disrupted power supply in many parts, wreaked widespread damage to crops and damaged several homes. Several areas in Wayanad experienced extremely heavy rain; 1,750 persons from 481 families residing in landslides and floods-prone areas were shifted to 36 relief camps. Extremely heavy rain of 530mm was recorded in the past 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday in Puthumala that witnessed a massive landslide in August 2019. Nearby Mundakai area saw 330mm rain. Meppadi panchayat recorded 258mm of rain. Several low-lying areas like Kottathara, Vengappally, Karattapadi and Valliyoorkkavu in Mananthavady were inundated. Collector Adeela Abdulla imposed ban on functioning of all quarries till further notice and violators will be booked under DDMA Act. She also urged people to avoid travel through Muthanga till Sunday as water level in Muthanga River was rising. Agri department officials said 20 hectares were inundated and 17,500 plantain trees were destroyed as per initial estimates. Overflowing waters of Iruvanjipuzha inundated parts of Pulpparambu in Kozhikode; eight shops experienced waterlogging and 10 inpatients of an ayurveda hospital were shifted. Low-lying areas in Mavoor and Peruvayal were inundated and 12 from Mavoor were shifted to relief camps. Heavy rain in Wayanad and Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu led to rise in water levels in Chaliyar, that cuts across Kozhikode and Malappuram. Janathapadi area in Nilambur was flooded for hours after heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-malabar/articleshow/77400154.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Forget Babri Masjid, look forward, Hussein Madavoor urges Muslims||KOZHIKODE: Mujahid leader Hussein Madavoor said that it is high time that Muslim community changed their agenda and concentrated more on poverty alleviation and education. In the backdrop of a controversy over Ram temple bhoomi puja, Madavoor said Babri Masjid is only an ordinary mosque like any other for Muslims. “It doesn’t have a special place like the mosques in Mecca or Medina,” he said. Madavoor added that Babar was only an emperor and not a holy figure in the religion. “Many mosques are being demolished in Arab countries for road widening and constructing markets,” he said. He said that considering the compelling nature of the situation it will be better to end the controversy by constructing the temple on the designated spot and mosque at the sanctioned place. Madavoor said Sangh Parivar should not be allowed to take over Ram and the temple. “Congressmen who are the devotees of Ram and others should also have a stake. So, what Priyanka Gandhi and others Congress leaders said is the practical position,” he said. He urged the IUML not to end its relationship with Congress over the issue. There was a hue and cry in 1992 when Babri Masjid was demolished and there was immense pressure on IUML to part ways with Congress. But, what prevailed was the mature position of late Panakkad Syed Muhammad Ali Shihab Thangal, he said. Madavoor said masjid demolition was the most-painful thing and it sullied India’s global image. Muslim community had done everything to protect Babri Masjid. There were legal battles and discussions at various levels. But, the final court order went against Muslims, he said. Madavoor said the reaction to his post was positive. “Even those who opposed it do not have another solution. In a democratic set up, mutual discussions are the first step towards problem resolution and when that fails, we approach courts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/forget-babri-look-forward-madavoor-urges-muslims/articleshow/77400168.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||SECR chief’s office shut as 8 staffers test Covid +ve||Nagpur: Panic gripped South East Central Railway (SECR) administrative building and control room after eight employees tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days.“Owing to the spurt in infection cases, all offices in the divisional railway manager (DRM) administrative building will be shut for three days from Friday,” said Anurag Kumar Singh, divisional commercial manager (DCM).Singh added, “Saturday and Sunday are non-working days. We will function from Monday. Till then, all the offices will be disinfected.”Of the eight employees, one engineering department staffer tested positive on Thursday. The last he attended office was on July 29, and had come in contact with several employees, who also have been advised to go for Covid-19 tests.Seven employees working in the control room building adjacent to the DRM offices had tested positive in the last 3-4 days. These included a chief controller, area controller, station masters, office superintendent and an engineer. The Central Railway offices are also situated in the same building.Sources said these patients first approached IGGMC but were told to go for home quarantine. A private hospital too refused to admit them owing to lack of beds.Control room is highly sensitive installation as it controls entire train operations. At least 100 employees work here in each shift. All have been asked to go for Covid-19 tests.“Those tested positive had suffered from fever and cough. While some recovered with medicines, others did not and hence went for Covid-19 test and turned out to be infected. It is now difficult to trace their history,” said sources.Meanwhile, All India Train Controllers Association (AITCA), Nagpur, has urged DRM Shobhana Bandopadhyay to make alternative arrangements for control office and take up sanitization of the premises.The AITCA has also demanded to allow staff to work from home and stop senior employees suffering from chronic diseases like diabetes and hypertension from attending office. “We are working under constant fear of death and our families are also in danger,” said the employees.DCM Singh says, “As key staff at control room has tested positive, we have deployed other officials who will manage the show. As it is, train traffic is low owing to Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-chiefs-office-shut-as-8-staffers-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77401592.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 7, 2020||Pune||Transporters in Maharashtra stare at bleak future with piling losses||PUNE: Every year, the gathering dark clouds bring happy tidings for transporters in the state as most of their businesses come during the monsoon. With tourists flocking to various monsoon destinations such as Bhimashankar, Mahabaleshwar, Trimbakeshwar etc, buses are in high demand during this time of the year. But this year has been particularly nightmarish for transporters with hardly any bookings because of the pandemic and lockdown. TimesViewThe state government should permit inter-district transportation and alleviate the misery of private bus operators, who have suffered hugely since nearly five months. The task force formed to devise ways to restart transportation should work quickly. The government should also approve waiver of all kinds of vehicular taxes till the year end, as proposed.“Almost 70% of our business come during the monsoon,” said Kiran Desai, the secretary of the Pune Bus Association. “With hotels offering discounts during this season and corporates taking their staff for outreach programmes, there were a lot of bookings for our buses. The state government recently announced that the MSRTC buses will ply during the Ganapati festival for the Konkan region but there was no mention of our services,” he said. With no earnings, many are considering switching to other business. Tushar Jagtap, who owns 20 buses and provides them for hire for tourists, office transportation and marriage parties, has been desperately looking for buyers to sell his vehicles. “The pandemic and lockdowns have completely destroyed my business. My losses have exceeded Rs 1 crore. I am toying with the idea of going into oil trading, grocery business or others,” Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-in-state-stare-at-bleak-future-with-piling-losses/articleshow/77402933.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 7, 2020||Goa||Locals lash out about ‘chaotic’ testing experience at North Goa district hospital||PANAJI: While the rate of Covid-19 infections in the state is increasing alarmingly by the day, for many wanting to get tested, the experience has been far from smooth. A local, who wanted to get herself tested for Covid urgently so that she could go ahead with a surgery in a private hospital, said she was first sent from the urban health centre in Panaji to the North Goa district hospital at Mapusa. There, she was tested and charged the Rs 2,000 testing fee, but received her results only after three days, that too, only after pressurising authorities. “I had submitted a letter from the hospital and since I was made to pay, I thought my test would be given priority. In the end, I didn’t even get a PDF file of the result, just an SMS,” Ninoshka Fernandes told TOI. Describing her experience at the North Goa district hospital as chaotic, she said, “Neither was any information put up, nor was there anyone who could guide us on the testing procedure. The police there rudely told us to stay far away from them, so we couldn’t ask them for information either,” she told TOI. There was no priority given to senior citizens and sick people, she said. “We were all standing in the same queue. It was sad to see them awaiting their turn. There were chairs put out for them, but they should have been given preference. After waiting in line for almost an hour, I felt I was about to collapse, just imagine their plight.” Another citizen who went to the same hospital to get his sister, who had a fever, tested, was also frustrated at the treatment meted out to the public. The entire process took four hours, he said. “Getting something as basic as a Covid-19 test done was disorganised. After four months, why is it that we are still trying to figure out the most basic things? The government wants to stop the spread of the virus, but doesn’t make testing comfortably available,” Vikram Acharya said. There are no circles drawn for the public to stand and no social distancing norms being followed, he said, adding that highly symptomatic patients were invariably coughing in the faces of others. “These are basic ground rules that need to be put in place. It is ridiculous how simple markings cannot be made to ensure that people maintain distance,” he said. Acharya said that considering the scale of the disaster, there should be clear-cut information about testing, including private testing options, made available to the public rather than the prevailing ambiguity. Meanwhile, North Goa district hospital medical superintendent Dr Mohandas Pednekar, when contacted, said that the testing process for Covid-19 has been streamlined quite a bit since it began in the hospital. “We are testing according to the SOP. This has reduced our crowd considerably to around 60 people per session,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-lash-out-about-chaotic-testing-experience-at-north-goa-dist-hospital/articleshow/77402935.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur alone accounts for 40% Covid-19 deaths of Vidarbha||Nagpur: Covid-19 death count of Vidarbha is witnessing a major surge in the month of August. In only the first six days, the region has seen over 150 deaths due to Covid. The figure for Nagpur district is worse as it accounts for more than 100 deaths out of the 150 in August. With sudden increase in Covid deaths in the last week of July and first six days of August, Nagpur alone accounts for more than 40% of the total deaths in Vidarbha region.Nagpur, Akola, and Amravati — the three prominent districts in Vidarbha — have 80% of the 512 deaths up to Wednesday (details of Thursday not added in this tally). Nagpur (204), Akola (121) and Amravati (80) have combined 405 deaths out of 512. If 30 deaths in Vidarbha on Thursday (details of which are yet to be ascertained) are added, Vidarbha region’s death toll comes to 542 and Nagpur alone has 229 deaths which is 42% of total toll.The case fatality rate (CFR) in Vidarbha is also increasing due to sudden rise in deaths in August. The CFR was 2.6% on July 20. The same was 2.80% on Thursday. Doctors and administration in Nagpur are already in tremendous pressure after this sudden spike in deaths.While doctors still blame late reporting at critical condition responsible for hospital deaths, senior officials in admin section claimed that the death within 12 hours of hospital reporting cannot be considered as institutional deaths.On the other hand, Nagpur, Amravati and Akola are treating serious patients from neighbouring districts as well. Nagpur is treating patients referred from almost all districts in Vidarbha and from neighbouring states too. As per official figures, more than 100 patients referred from other districts/states are under treatment in Nagpur. The increased number of tests, especially in rural areas, is another reason of reporting serious/critical patients. All districts in Vidarbha are conducting rapid antigen tests of elderly people and patients suffering from different ailments. Many of them have other ailments aggravated at serious levels and Covid-19 triggers their death.While increasing death rate is a major cause of concern, most deaths happening in hospital wards hint that patients are now coming to hospitals. The incidents of patients dying at home and testing Covid-19 positive post death have gone down significantly. Some more streamlined effort by the health administration and cooperation of people by reporting at early stage can definitely bring down the death rate.TOI has details of 498 deaths out of the 512 deaths reported in Vidarbha till August 5. Total 66% of the deceased had been men. In first 500, total 42% are above 60 years of age. People of 50 to 60 years of age account 29% of deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-alone-accounts-for-40-covid-19-deaths-of-vidarbha/articleshow/77401616.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 7, 2020||Goa||‘Once youth earn from agri, they won’t run for govt jobs’||Margao: For the country to become atmanirbhar (self-reliant) on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision, Goa needs to be “swayampurna” (self-sufficient) in the agriculture sector, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. “The various schemes introduced by the state government for farmers are aimed at making Goa swyampurna in agriculture. Currently we have to depend on other states for our everyday requirement of vegetables, fruits and meat. Our endeavor is that all of our needs are met through the state’s own produce. Even cashew production needs to be scaled up. The government intends to bring forward agriculture as an integrated business,” Sawant said while speaking at the inauguration of the new office building of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Margao. Sawant exhorted agriculture officers to work towards attracting the younger generation towards agriculture. “If each agriculture officer aims to train 10-20 new farmers, most of the cultivable land left fallow in Goa could be brought under agro cover,” Sawant said. “If the youth are convinced of getting a secured income through agriculture, say Rs3 lakh per annum, they wont turn their back on the fields. If they gain confidence in making a secured income through agriculture, they wouldn’t run behind government jobs of a peon, etc.” Stating that he has directed all zonal agriculture officers to reach out to farmers in the fields, Sawant said that the results would be visible in the next three months. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar also urged the youth to look at agriculture as an industry for the state to prosper in that sector. Agriculture director Nevil Alfonso said that the focus of the KVK will be on promoting agriculture as an integrated farming model that would also include horticulture, fisheries, animal husbandry, home science, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/once-youth-earn-from-agri-they-wont-run-for-govt-jobs/articleshow/77402943.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Tiger reserve: HC issues notices to govt, conservation body||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Thursday issued notices to the state government and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in a PIL seeking directions to the government to notify a reserve for tigers of the state and adjoining wildlife sanctuaries. Goa Foundation has filed the PIL seeking urgent relief in the wake of the “tragic killing of four tigers in Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in January 2020”. “The purposeful killing has revealed the urgent need for better management of the protected areas in the state and of tiger-human conflicts,” the petition states. The court was informed that no action has been taken by the government to notify tiger reserves despite numerous recommendations made by the NTCA in the same month of the killings, to notify a tiger reserve to protect the animal and its habitat. The recommendation to declare a tiger reserve for the tiger population has been made multiple times by NTCA in 2011 and 2016 . “A recent investigation by a two-member team constituted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to inquire into the four tiger deaths has also unequivocally recommended the declaration of a tiger reserve in the state, failing which, according to it, Goa could become a death trap for tigers,” the foundation stated in its PIL. It was submitted to the court that lack of proper protection and monitoring of tiger habitats in the Western Ghats landscape and unwarranted action of the government to declare tiger reserves has resulted in the death of four tigers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tiger-reserve-hc-issues-notices-to-govt-conservation-body/articleshow/77402949.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Cops register 1 more FIR in case of MLA’s impersonation||Pune: The Kothrud police on Wednesday registered one more offence against three suspects for impersonating state BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on a smartphone and asking people to contribute towards fighting Covid-19.The probe revealed that the arrested suspects had taken Rs1 lakh from a Karvenagar architect on July 20 using the same modus. The 52-year-old architect lodged an FIR on Wednesday.This was the fourth FIR registered against suspects Saurabh Ashtul, Vishal Shendge and Kiran Shinde. Two were registered with the Kothrud police, while one each was registered with the Alankar and the Nigdi police. The trio were arrested by the Nigdi police on July 23.An officer said that a suspect called the architect on July 17, posing as Patil’s secretary and demanded money. Later, another suspect, posing as Patil, spoke with the complainant. “Believing him, the complainant contributed Rs1 lakh on July 20,” the officer said, adding that they were ascertaining how many people the suspects had duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-register-1-more-fir-in-case-of-mlas-impersonation/articleshow/77402944.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hotels housing health workers await Rs 6 crore dues||PUNE: Seventeen hotels in the city have claimed that the district administration owes them Rs6-8 crore in dues for providing accommodation to Covid-19 front-line workers. The district administration, however, said Rs5 crore was due till July 31. Recently, alleging that amounts due were not paid, a city-based hotelier filed a writ petition against the administration in Bombay high court. “As per the rates decided by the administration, the amount he was due was over Rs45 lakh. When the front-line workers were sent to the hotels for accomodation in April, we were not given the government-decided rates at which they were to stay in our facilities. After a couple of months or so, the hotels sent their bills (including expenses incurred) to the administration, which did not accept the rates charged. Later, in the third week of June, the officials sent a fixed accomodation rate. Even at these rates, the unpaid dues amount to around Rs 6-8 crore,” a city hotelier said. Further, he said the fixed rates barely cover the costs incurred, let alone the room rate. “Hotels need to get the unpaid dues as soon as possible because of the financial crisis caused by the pandemic. We feel let down,” he said. A representative of a budget hotel in Pune said several hotels have asked the front-line health workers to vacate the rooms as it had become difficult to bear the cost. A representative of another hotel, which claims to be owed Rs7 lakh, said they accepted the rates fixed by the administration. “We sent them the bills a long time ago, and are still waiting. Around 50 doctors and nurses were staying at out hotel,” he said. A district official said they sent the state a request seeking funds to clear the dues. “The government is cash-strapped. We agreed to reimburse hoteliers, but the government will be unable to pay them the dues quoted on sbasis of room rates, as it does not have funds,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-housing-health-workers-await-rs-6cr-dues/articleshow/77402951.cms||Neha Madaan
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Air India suspends officer who faced fake abuse case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Air India official against whom gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had fabricated a false sexual harassment case, has been suspended from service by the airliner. The suspension has been ordered citing that this officer “had addressed the media on matters related to the company which is in violation of the company’s instructions”. “The suspension order is unjustifiable as my client has never come before the media nor made any comments against the company. The accusation levelled by Air India against my client is totally baseless. Moreover, the suspension order has been issued before taking his version,” said M R Abhilash, counsel of the Air India officer. The suspension has come when crime branch is probing the false sexual harassment case against this officer as per the directive from the Kerala high court. CB’s probe had revealed that the ICC of Air India had recorded the statement of an impersonated witness, without checking the identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ai-suspends-officer-who-faced-fake-abuse-case/articleshow/77400223.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman found murdered in flat locked from outside||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Ramol, Mira Ramswarup Sadhu, 45, was found murdered with stab wounds in her stomach and chest in her flat at Sarita Residency in Ramol on Thursday late afternoon. The flat was locked from outside. Ramol police sources said that the deceased had an inter-faith marriage about six years ago. Her husband works in Kapadwanj and stays there most of the time. K S Dave, inspector of Ramol police station said the body was totally decomposed when found and the murder could have taken place around two days ago. “We don’t rule out the possibility of an insider involved in the murder as the door to the house was locked from outside. We have registered a murder case and a team of crime branch and SOG (special operations group) is also assisting us,” he added. “On Thursday, one Pankaj Dagar, 23, claims to have come to her house on Thursday afternoon to meet Mira. Dagar claims that Mira was like an elder sister to him and he often used to come to meet her. He found the door of the flat was locked from outside and the foul smell coming from inside made him suspicious. He then informed the police control room,” said Dave. After reaching the flat, police called in her husband from Kapadwanj and got the door of the flat opened. The woman’s body was lying in the front room of the house and the cupboard was open. “The deceased had three stab wounds in her chest and stomach,” Dave added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-found-murdered-in-flat-locked-from-outside/articleshow/77401614.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Six die in three separate road accidents in Bareilly region in 24 hours||Shahjahanpur: Three road accidents involving bikers claimed six lives in Bareilly in the past 24 hours.In the first accident, three people, including a man and his daughter, were killed after a speeding vehicle hit their bike in Bisauli area of Budaun on Thursday.In the second accident that happened late in the evening on Wednesday in Khuthar area of Shahjahanpur district, two bikers were killed after their bike was run over by a truck on Khuthar Banda road. Khuthar SHO Jai Shankar Singh said, “The victims, Ved Prakash (28) and his friend Godhan Lal (31), were residents of Saoufari village and used to work together at a cold storage in Silhaua village in Banda block. We have arrested the truck driver and have registered an FIR under IPC sections 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) against him. The bodies were handed over to their kin after autopsy on Thursday.”In a third accident, a 17-year-old boy, who was hit by a speeding bike on the Ghungchai-Banda road while he was out on evening walk, succumbed to his injuries at a hospital late on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-die-in-three-separate-road-accidents-in-bareilly-region-in-24-hours/articleshow/77395344.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mother, brother, cousin arrested over ‘honour’ killing of girl||Kaithal: In a suspected case of honour killing, a 16-year-old girl was allegedly murdered by her family in Badsikari Kalan village of Kaithal district. The police have arrested deceased’s mother Rani (55), brother Parvesh (20) and her cousin, who confessed to the killing. The girl was allegedly in touch with a boy hailing from Jind district for some time, Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said. The deceased and the boy of the same caste were in love, according to him. On Thursday, someone informed the district police about the incident, after which a team comprising Kalayat sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Regan Kumar, nayab tehsildar Hardev, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ravinder Sangwan, medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh and Kalayat station house officer (SHO) Somvir Singh went to the village to probe the incident. When the team reached the village, the body of the deceased was being cremated. Although the body was half-burnt by then, the police said, the officials retrieved the body with the help of villagers after dousing the fire and sent for autopsy. Talking to TOI, SP Sawan said, “Parents of the girl admitted that they had killed her for honour, as they were annoyed at her being in touch with the boy over phone. She was strangled and her body was taken for cremation hurriedly. We have registered a case against the parents and are trying to find out if some others were also involved in the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mother-brother-cousin-arrested-over-honour-killing-of-girl/articleshow/77402941.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Notorious MD dealer dies in jail||Nagpur: Javed Khan alias Bachcha, close aide of gangster Abu, and also a key operator of his business in MD drugs, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday. Bachcha was rushed to GMCH from Nagpur Central Jail with critical health issues. He is learnt to have been injured after a fall. He had been arrested by Nagpur crime branch. His mentor Abu had received bail some time ago. Police said Bachcha was injured while loading a sack at the kitchen. Jail authorities said Bachcha was unwell and hence had to be shifted to hospital, where doctors declared him dead. It was rumoured that Baccha was attacked by few of his rivals in the barrack but it was vehemently denied by Superintendent Anupkumar Kumre. “I had met Baccha on Wednesday and he requested immediate help for his health which was true. As he was not doing well, I immediately arranged an ambulance and a guard for him to go to the hospital,” he said. Kumre denied that there was any fight or such episode in the jail in which Baccha was injured. Dhantoli police have registered a case of accidental death. Post-mortem of Baccha would be conducted on Friday in presence of magistrate at GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/notorious-md-dealer-dies-in-jail/articleshow/77401607.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to SevenStar for taking excess charges from Covid-19 patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has served show cause notice to private SevenStar Hospital (near Jagnade Square), for excess charges levied on Covid-19 patients and violation of 80:20 bed ratio norm among other things.On August 5, TOI had reported that NMC had served show cause notice to Wockhardt Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) for similar violation as it charged one Covid-19 patient Rs7 lakh.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Thursday issued notice to SevenStar hospital director seeking a reply within 24 hours. “Why action shall not be taken against you and your hospital for violations under The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, the Disaster Management Act 2005, Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance (Amendment) Act 2011, Mumbai Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006, Bombay Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006 and Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950,” the show cause notice stated.Following a tipoff, a NMC team visited SevenStar Hospital on August 3 and 4, and inspected and verified records and information submitted by the hospital regarding Covid patients. The team observed that the hospital did not follow guidelines, like accommodating 80% of total operational bed capacity in rates prescribed by NMC, non-prominent display of details of rates applicable, and discrepancies in rates of same type of room in the bill of different patients.Addressing media persons, Mundhe admitted cases were increasing and attributed it to non-cooperation from Nagpurians. “First they opposed quarantine and are now opposing home quarantine. What shall I do now with their non-cooperation,” Mundhe asked.He also cited the fine on citizens for violating Covid-19 guidelines, like not wearing masks, not adhering to odd-even day shop opening formula, to help people stay safe. These steps too are being opposed, the civic chief said. With the current situation, Mundhe stressed the need for Nagpurians to change their social behaviour and lifestyle.Mundhe admitted to shortage of manpower like doctors and paramedical staff, due to which NMC is unable to start more dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the city. He, however, said that the enhanced medical facilities in these hospitals are being used by general public being treated there.He also justified his stand to develop 5,000 bedded Covid Care Centre facility at Radha Soami Satsang on Kalmeshwar Road, and claimed that the measure was taken following a prediction from the central government of spike in Covid-19 cases in May. Though he admitted the place was not suitable, he said cots and bedsheets procured for the Satsang premises were being used at the Covid Care Centres in Pachpaoli and other places.He also ruled out scrapping odd-even day formula for shops and resuming city bus service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-sevenstar-for-taking-excess-charges-from-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77401601.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune tally tops 1 lakh; Covid-19 cases may decline in 20 days||PUNE: The Covid-19 cases surpassed the 1-lakh mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Thursday. Epidemiologists and district authorities said that going by the experience of Mumbai city, Pune is likely to see a downward trend in cases in 20 days and a consistent fall in the tally thereafter. The first case in the city was detected on March 9. The tally has now peaked with the daily count touching 2,300-2,800. Also, the PMR saw its highest single-day death count (66) on July 29. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee told TOI, “Cases and deaths peaked in Mumbai during May-end and early June but began falling consistently after July 18 when the tally had touched one lakh. By this time, Mumbai had tested about 5 lakh people. Similarly, Pune has also reached 1 lakh cases after testing 4.5 lakh people. Going by the disease spread, it is likely that Pune will witness a downward trend in cases and deaths in 20 days and thereafter.” The declining trend that began in Mumbai in early June with intermittent spikes in the initial days of July has remained consistent. The case tally has been going down since July 18 from the daily average of 2,000 cases reported when the active transmission had peaked during May-June. Currently, the metropolis has been reporting an average of 1,000 cases every day. Banerjee pointed out that the daily peak in the death count was also an indicator of what lay ahead for the PMR. Mumbai reported its highest single-day death count (120) on June 24 and the lowest (39) on July 11. “Again, the declining trend in Mumbai began after the cumulative deaths hit 3,425 towards June-end. Extrapolating for the population of Pune, which is much less than Mumbai, the decline should have started by now as the cumulative deaths have crossed the 2,000 mark, or it is about to begin more perceptibly in the next few days,” he said. “The fatality figures for the past six days in Pune appear to show a gradual decline as well. Another encouraging sign is the slow but gradual decline in the test positivity rate. The next couple of weeks will provide clearer indications of whether Pune has crossed the peak and is on the decline. By then, we should have the results of serosurveys, which will make the picture clearer. Real-time results of repeated serosurveys are vital at this stage for accurate predictions,” said Banerjee, the head of the community medicine department at D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital in Pimpri, who is also a member of the task force in the PMR. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram corroborated that the cases would decrease in the PMR in mid-August as per the disease spread in other cities. But Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar emphasized that it would be too early to pinpoint the downward trend. “We shall have to wait for some more time,” he said. Ahead of his retirement, former divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar had said the administration was hopeful that the cases would dip by mid-August. “But we should be prepared for the worst,” he had said. Agreeing, Ram said, “It is estimated that 40,000-50,000 new cases are likely to be added till the end of August and the administration is readying the medical infrastructure facilities accordingly.” The administration is coming up with more oxygenated and ICU beds at both private and government hospitals. Health authorities have made it clear that the future need of hospital beds has been assessed keeping in mind the growth rate, the doubling rate and the recovery rate in the PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-tally-tops-1l-cases-may-decline-in-20-days/articleshow/77403511.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||16,000 intoxicating tablets, 1.5 kg charas, 5.1 kg poppy husk recovered in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Police, in separate incidents, have arrested four persons on the charges of drug peddling in Sirsa and Jind districts and seized 16,000 intoxicating tablets, over 5 kg poppy husk and 1.5 kg charas from their possession. A police spokesperson said a team of CIA, while conducting checking near Asakhera village, signalled a motorcyclist to stop. Instead of stopping, the accused tried to speed off but was nabbed at a short distance. When frisked, 11,000 tablets of prohibited drugs were recovered from the man, identified as Rohtash, a resident of Asakhera. In the second incident, a CIA team was patrolling near Dabwali. A suspicious person appeared who tried to flee away from the spot after seeing the police team. The team immediately nabbed him and recovered 5,000 banned tablets from possession of the man identified as Shivraj, a resident of Pana in Sirsa. The spokesperson said, “In a separate case, Dabwali city police station team arrested Deendayal alias Deena Ram after 5 kg 100 gram of poppy husk was recovered from his possession.” In Jind district, police team, upon getting a tip off, raided a location and recovered 1.5 kg charas from the possession of the accused identified as Rokash, a resident of Bass village. “Cases under the NDPS Act were registered against them in different police stations. They will be taken on remand by producing in local courts so that the names of others involved in drug peddling could be unearthed,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/16k-intoxicating-tablets-1-5-kg-charas-5-1-kg-poppy-husk-recovered/articleshow/77402947.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Political workers detained for unlawful assembly||Aurangabad: Political workers associated with different political parties were taken into preventive detention for gathering at public places to celebrate the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya. To avoid any communal tension, Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad had already restricted gathering of people at public places without prior permission. However, on Wednesday morning, workers belonging to two political parties gathered on the road and tried celebrating the event. But they were stopped by the police. The first incident of political workers coming on the to road to celebrate the event took place at TV centre area. A police team, however, reached at the spot and took seven political workers into preventive detention. Cidco police inspector Ashok Giri said, “The suspects were immediately detained and later released with a warning abstain from gathering at public places without prior permission.” The second and third incidents were from Gajanan temple and Gulamandi areas where all the gathered political workers were taken into preventive detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/political-workers-detained-for-unlawful-assembly/articleshow/77378407.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-hit NMC won’t take up new work this year: Mundhe||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will not take up any new developmental project this financial year, said municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Thursday. Against the projected Rs2,400 crore revenue in the budget for the current financial year presented early this year, Mundhe said the NMC could earn less than Rs1,500 crore due to the Covid pandemic. Of the amount generated, Rs1,100 crore will be spent on establishment and administrative expenses. “Rest of the money will be used to repay the civic body’s liabilities,” he said while interacting with media persons. Mundhe said the Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted the revenue for both central and state governments. Due to less economic activity, even the central government has predicted its revenue through goods and services tax at only 33% thus affecting NMC’s grants from the state government, he said. Against the GST grant of Rs92 crore, the state government has reduced it by around 50% and NMC is getting only Rs40 crore a month. “The NMC’s dependency on government grant has increased manifold as the civic body generates hardly 25% of its revenue through own sources, while it gets almost 75% in the form of government grants including GST,” he said. The reduction in GST grant will definitely hit NMC’s income and revenue expenditure. About the NMC’s move to impose professional tax on shopkeepers and professionals, including lawyers, chartered accountants practising in corporation limits, which has already created an uproar, Mundhe ruled out to revoke the same. “The decision was taken following the provisions of Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act. The move is to regulate commercial activities in the city,” he clarified and said the aim is not to look at it as revenue generation. This will also help the NMC while preparing development plan for the city in the coming years, he added. He also ruled out any possibility of withholding 5% water tax hike annually. Mundhe said he had sent the proposal to the standing committee just for information. As per bylaws, which were approved by the NMC’s general body and state government, the NMC will increase water tax by 5% every year. He also claimed the NMC has started clearing outstanding contribution of the provident fund of the civic employees. According to him, by the year-end NMC will complete the payment of outstanding PF dues, both of the NMC’s and employees contribution. Failure to deposit employees and NMC’s PF contribution is costing the civic body dear as it has to pay the outstanding along with interest. Mundhe also claimed that he has already initiated steps to strengthen NMC’s revenue sources like arrears from property, water and market tax etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hit-nmc-wont-take-up-new-work-this-year-mundhe/articleshow/77401635.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||Minister to officials: Roll out Metro rail in Bhopal & Indore by August 2023||BHOPAL: The state urban development minister Bhupendra Singh on Thursday said that the ambitious Metro rail project in Indore and Bhopal is likely to be completed by August 2023. During a review meeting of the MP Metro Rail Corporation, Singh asked officials to set a target to roll out Metro rail in Bhopal and Indore before the scheduled time of August 2023. “Set a time limit for all tasks, and work accordingly,” said Singh. Singh said that the UAD principal secretary should ensure that all the Metro-related work is completed within the set time-frame. The minister also witnessed a presentation with detailed information regarding the Bhopal and Indore Metro projects during the meeting. The work for setting up AIIMS pillar for Bhopal Metro Rail had started in 2019. So far, 80 pillars have been built in the Bhopal metro project. Phase one of the project in Bhopal is estimated to cost Rs 6, 941 crore, while the Indore metro project is likely to cost about Rs 7,580 crore. Singh said that the remaining tenders for the work related to the project should be issued soon. He asked officials to start construction work in Indore immediately. During the meeting, Singh directed officials to accelerate pan-city smart city operations. Singh said that smart cities should speed up their work. He expressed displeasure at the tardy pace of the work so far. Singh instructed the urban administration development commissioner to submit a report in a week regarding the difficulties being faced in completing the works of smart city. Altogether 13 mini smart cities have been approved in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/min-to-officialsroll-out-metro-rail-in-bhopal-indore-by-aug-2023/articleshow/77400200.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj criticises Punjab CM for opposing MP’s Basmati bid for GI tag||BHOPAL: After the rosogolla war between Bengal and Odisha, it’s battle over Basmati between Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday criticized Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh’s opposition to MP’s attempt to get Geographical Indication (GI) tag for Basmati rice being grown in the state, saying it is “politically motivated”. He has written to PM Narendra Modi, urging him to grant GI status to encourage farmers and Basmati-based industries. “I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab in the matter of GI tagging of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh and consider it politically inspired,” Chouhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-criticises-punjab-cm-for-opposing-mps-basmati-bid-for-gi-tag/articleshow/77401622.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal constructions razed in unauthorised colony||KARNAL: The Karnal municipal corporation (KMC) and district town planning (DTP) department conducted a demolition drive in an unauthorised colony spread over 10 acres of land on Bazida road. They also razed under-construction buildings, road networks and foundations. Karnal deputy commissioner-cum-MC commissioner Nishant Yadav said they razed an under-construction building and 30 structures at the level of DPC and road networks. ATP, Karnal Ajmer Singh was appointed as duty magistrate, he said. Meanwhile, people tried to resist the demolition drive but could not do anything as heavy police force was deployed. They blamed the administration for staying silent when the colony was being developed and asked why such a step was taken despite having registries and electricity connections in the colony. MC commissioner Yadav warned colonisers and appealed to the people of the district not to buy plots in such colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-constructions-razed-in-unauthorised-colony/articleshow/77402956.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Bhor police book 500 revellers in a month for ban violations||Pune: Revellers continue to visit picnic spots in the monsoon despite the ban on entry by the district administration, forcing the police to take action.Over the last month, the Bhor police have booked 500 people from Pune and Satara districts under section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. “We will continue our action,” said senior inspector Raju More of the Bhor police station.To prevent the spread of coronavirus in rural areas, the district collector has banned entry at popular tourist spots. The police too have placed boards to alert people. Regardless, people continue to visit these spots.Recently, the police took action against 24 people at Raireshwar fort. “Most of them are from Wai in Satara district,” More said.“In the last month we have taken action against 500 people, who visited these spots. Many of them were not wearing masks, not carrying proper travel documents or registration documents of the vehicle,” More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-police-book-500-revellers-in-a-month-for-ban-violations/articleshow/77402958.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 7, 2020||Goa||Mauvin calls meet on waste collection||Panaji: Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho has scheduled a meeting on Friday with the director of panchayats and other officials to deliberate on the garbage issue, especially collection of waste generated by Covid positive persons in home isolation. In the meantime, block development officers (BDO) have been directed to contact panchayats and guide them in this regard. “We have discussed the issue. A meeting is scheduled on Friday,” said Godinho when asked how his ministry is dealing with panchayats that are not collecting waste. Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) mayor Uday Madkaikar said that CCP has ensured arrangements are in place to collect waste from people who are in home isolation. Following a stern warning from the directorate of panchayats more than six months ago, all panchayats, even those that were dragging their feet over waste management, were compelled to deliver on their civic duty. However, many panchayats have discontinued collection of garbage. While many villages have persons staying in home isolation, some panchayats are yet to put a waste collection system in place. Verna sarpanch Lorina Fernandes said the BDO informed her that the authorities will have the waste collected. However, Morle sarpanch Vidya Sawant said she was unaware about this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-calls-meet-on-waste-collection/articleshow/77402955.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Members of civic bodies don hats of corona warriors||Panaji: Elected representatives of civic bodies, whether panchs or councillors, are often sidelined when it comes to important roles in favour of their empowered counterparts, the MLAs. However, the pandemic has brought about a change with representatives of civic bodies on the forefront in fighting Covid-19 in their respective jurisdictions. The pandemic has brought them into focus as they have donned the role of watchdogs and offer great help to health officers who face problems in tracing contacts within their respective jurisdictions. They also keep tabs on those quarantined or isolated. Also for a change, these representatives are executing their duties without anticipating any rewards. Some village sarpanches have taken their role so seriously that they are themselves calling up people in isolation instead of relegating the responsibility to their juniors. Calangute sarpanch Francis Rodrigues said he makes calls to those in isolation three times a day to ensure that they remain indoors. “We have managed pretty well so far. We even provide them with groceries if a request is received,” he said. Health officer of Candolim primary health centre, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said that both panchayats — Candolim and Calangute — have been of great help, and that his task of tracing contacts was rendered effortless thanks to active panchayat members. “I don’t know how they do it, but thanks to them my tasks were reduced,” Nazareth said. Candolim primary health has seen its cases increasing consistently during the last few weeks and had 55 active cases as of Thursday. Verna sarpanch Lorina Fernandes said that panch members went an extra mile as their case count rose. It has about 60 cases. “To create awareness and to get people to remain indoors till their test result is received, we walked around the village making announcements using a loudspeaker,” Lorina said. She said their next step will be putting up posters at public places. As panch members work and even go the extra mile to keep people safe in the pandemic, they are displeased that they do not always get correct cooperation from health officials. “We do not receive any list of patients from the health department. The talathi shares the list which she receives from the mamlatdar,” the Verna sarpanch said. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said the health department does not give them information on time about new cases detected. “At times health officials are not willing to answer our calls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/members-of-civic-bodies-don-hats-of-corona-warriors/articleshow/77402960.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Ladoos leave bitter aftertaste for Kerala cops||KOCHI: A packet of ladoos has created a lot of trouble for policemen at Muvattupuzha as a departmental inquiry is on to find out why it was distributed in a police station on the day in which the foundation stone was laid for the construction of a Ram Temple at Ayodhya. According to sources, the pack of ladoos was meant to be distributed to celebrate the Shilanyas for the Ram Mandir. However, the policemen, it is learnt, had the ladoos without knowing what they were celebrating. Though it is unknown whether the policemen were intentionally taking part in celebrating the temple construction at a police station, especially when a CPM led government is in power, the issue spilled into social media, with many having political slants discussing the act of the policemen. According to sources, district police chief (Ernakulam rural) K Karthick has sought an inquiry report from the Muvattupuzha DSP to find out what exactly happened. However, sources within the force say that the policemen just found the packet of ladoos and had it without thinking twice about it. “A BJP supporter who runs a shop near the police station bought a packet of ladoo and kept it on a table in the visitors’ room at the station, to share his happiness. Later, policemen who saw the packet had it without thinking too much about it,” said a source. In the meantime, senior officers, it learnt, are not too happy about the development. “It is Covid time, how can you just eat whatever you find. They should have turned it down. Action would be taken based on the DSP’s report,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ladoos-leave-bitter-aftertaste-for-cops/articleshow/77400235.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Two die of Covid, 199 test positive||Panaji: Two men from Vasco—a 67-year-old and a 73-year-old—with comorbid conditions succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday taking the death count to 66. The active tally of Covid-19 rose to 2,095 with 199 new cases detected. Also, 166 persons were cured and discharged. Mapusa primary health centre (PHC) reported six cases including that of an ESI doctor from Mapusa. There was a massive jump in cases reported under Chimbel primary health centre. It’s tally of active cases is now 120. Ponda PHC, covering about 76,000 people, had a spike since last week as more industrial health workers and their families are testing positive. On Thursday, its tally of active cases stood at 108. Dr Smita Parsekar, health officer at the PHC, said they have detected many positive cases among employees of the MRF unit. Two weeks ago, industrial workers who tested positive were linked to Tulip Diagnostics, a pharma unit in Verna. Similarly, cases in Shiroda have been on rise. Some cases reported by the PHC at Colvale and the urban health centre at Mapusa are of employees of a pharmaceutical company in Colvale. Some of the employees live in Colvale while some in Karaswada and Mapusa. After an initial spike during the second half of June, stray cases were reported in Morle village panchayat in Sattari taluka. On Thursday, 10 persons from one family and two of their neighbours tested positive. Morle sarpanch Vidya Sawant said the family had a birthday party. “Their relatives have also been tested but their reports are awaited. All who tested positive have been transferred to a Covid care centre,” she said, adding that authorities are contemplating converting the Morle community centre into a covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-die-of-covid-199-test-positive/articleshow/77402963.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Bicholim taluka sees 16 new cases||Bicholim: Sixteen new Covid positive cases were reported in Bicholim taluka on Thursday, taking the tally to 99. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit said that 21 patients were from Bicholim, 24 from Mayem and 54 from Sakhali. “Only one patient from Mayem has been admitted to the Covid hospital. Sixteen patients are advised home isolation and 82 patients are being treated at community health centres and Covid care centres,” said Pandit. Swabs of 15 people each from Bicholim and Mayem and 47 people from Sakhali was collected on Thursday and sent for testing, said health officials. The reporting of new cases at Mayem prompted the panchayat to convene a special meeting. Sarpanch Tulshidas Chodankar urged people not to step out of their houses, unless it is absolutely necessary. The meeting was also attended by Dr Siddhi Kasar, health officer of Mayem primary health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-taluka-sees-16-new-cases/articleshow/77402968.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Agency’s submission in court adds to govt woes||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Two days after the NIA counsel appreciated the chief minister for the due diligence shown in seeking a probe by central agencies in the gold smuggling case, the agency spoke about the influence prime accused Swapna Suresh had exerted in the CMO. During the hearing of her bail application, the NIA counsel pointed out the influence Swapna had over police and the space park project of the government. At one point, the counsel referred to her ‘casual association’ with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The arguments put forth by NIA to oppose the bail of Swapna on Thursday will add to the woes of LDF government which maintained that Swapna’s acquaintance was only with suspended bureaucrat M Sivasankar and that too on a personal level. This argument was raised by CM and CPM leaders to defend the government and portray that relation between Sivasankar and Swapna was entirely different from the business of the government. "The contents of NIA’s case diary are startling. It is for the first time in the history that the office of a chief minister is becoming the epicentre of smuggling. CM has taken a stand protecting his former principal secretary M Sivasankar ever since the beginning of the case", said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. He said even the argument of CPM leaders that Sivasankar hadn’t called customs to release the diplomatic manage won’t hold water as it hinted the possibility of Swapna using CMO for smuggling deals in the past. "It is believed that gold worth Rs 200 crore was smuggled recently through this channel," he added. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said chief minister has lost the moral authority to remain in office. "The new revelations have validated our argument that Swapna had deep influence in the CMO. CM said the investigation of NIA was progressing on the right track. In that case, he should quit immediately based on the revelations," he said. BJP state president K Surendran also demanded Vijayan’s immediate resignation. "The country is shocked to hear that a smuggling case accused had strong influence in CMO. Has the CM assigned his principal secretary to be the mentor of anti-nationals?" Surendran asked. Sources in CPM said the influence of Swapna in CMO has been limited to her acquaintance with Sivasankar and there is nothing much serious in NIA revelations. "As far as we understand, what is reported by media is contextual references made during an argument. The written affidavit filed by NIA doesn’t seem to include any such detail," said a CPM leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/agencys-submission-in-court-adds-to-govt-woes/articleshow/77400305.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Mother got news of high-flying sonDeepak Sathe’s death on her b’day||Nagpur: It was Neela Sathe’s 83rd birthday on Saturday when she woke up to the news of her son, Wing Commander Deepak Sathe’s death in the Kozhikode air crash. Sathe was the pilot of the ill-fated flight. His presence of mind is reported to have saved a larger casualty.Neela’s daughter, Anjali Parashar, who lives in Mumbai, had planned to give her parents a surprise, but had to rush to Kozhikode to collect Deepak’s body. The Sathes have been living in the city’s Bharat Nagar since 1950s when the father, Brigadier Vasant (now 87), retired from the army education corps (AEC).The couple lost their older son, second Lieutenant Vikas Sathe, in an accident. He was returning after a training session in 1981. Deepak was Sathe senior’s younger son who had joined the Indian Air Force (IAF) around the same time when Vikas passed away. He later worked for Air India and was piloting Vande Bharat flights.“We got the news about Deepak’s death at night, but we waited till morning to inform his parents. It would have been too harsh as his parents have yet to come to terms with the death of their elder son and now, it’s Deepak. Finally, we had to tell them,” said their tenant.A relative shared the reaction of Sathe’s parents, saying, “The mother said why should God take them both and remained stoic. The father has been blank since then. He hasn’t spoken much and has not even shed a tear.” As soon as relatives and the media reached their home, the couple kept their composure, obliging journalists and asking them to speak in both Hindi and Marathi. “Deepak was a bright student and excelled in everything. He won all the medals in NDA. At the Air Force Academy, he was presented with the sword of honour. The sword belonged to the Nizam of Hyderabad. But then we are helpless in the hands of fate,” said mother Neela. Father Vasant refused to speak and merely repeated lines prompted by a relative.Opening up gradually, Deepak’s mother began talking about past incidents. “He flew MiG 21 and once had landed at the Sonegaon airport. That was long ago. It was only then that I came to know that there is a separate area for the air force at Sonegaon. There I read the lines ‘you will be no more to make another mistake’. My son had the best of everything, right from skill, eyesight, memory and alertness,” she recalled.“When in Air India, he used to often land here for refuelling and send a message to get some snacks from home. Once he had asked for ladoos and the messenger was told where they were kept. His flights would often take-off before we could even reach the airport with the packets,” she remembered.Relative Survana Sathe said, “My sister is an air hostess and she used to say that the crew would rest assured when Deepak was flying. However, in one of the conversations, he had mentioned about problems at the Kozhikode air strip.”His nephew added, “He would mention about the problems at the airports of Kerala saying that at times, the pilots had to land after re-flying.”Just then he showed a message from a relative from Kozhikode saying there were no signs of injury on Deepak’s body.Deepak was an MiG 21 and Mirage pilot. He had flown in the Mirages to India when the first planes were acquired from France. He had been a test pilot for HAL, too, before joining Air India. Around 58, Deepak had settled in Mumbai, and has two sons, say his kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mother-got-news-of-high-flying-sondeepak-sathes-death-on-her-bday/articleshow/77431605.cms||Shishir Arya
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Another IAS official tests positive in Marathwada||Aurangabad: After a zilla parishad CEO tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, another IAS official tested positive for the contagion in Marathwada on Tuesday. “Both seniors officials are undergoing treatemet at a state-run Covid treatment centre,” a health official said, adding that those who came in contact with them have been asked to get themselves tested and the process of identifying the high and low risk contacts is on. Meanwhile, the total number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Marathwada, excluding Aurangabad district, has increased to 10,843 on Tuesday, including 402 deaths. Hingoli district, which is among geographically smallest districts in Marathwada, began its two-week-long lockdown from Wednesday. The lockdown, which will be in place till August 19, will exclude emergency services among a few other essential services. At 671 confirmed cases, Hingoli district has the lowest number of Covid-19 patients among all the eight districts of Marathwada. The distrcit has so far reported a total of 15 deaths due to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/another-ias-official-tests-positive-in-marathwada/articleshow/77378436.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||State wildlife board to discuss tiger relocation, Melghat rail line today||Nagpur: Several members of the state board for wildlife (SBWL) have expressed resentment at the agenda and notes for Board’s 15th meeting at the eleventh hour. While the meeting is slated for Friday afternoon, members were got agenda items and notes just 24 hours earlier. When TOI inquired with PCCF (wildlife) office at 5 pm on Wednesday, it was told agenda was yet to be finalized. PCCF (wildlife) is the member-secretary of the SBWL. “If agenda was not ready a day ago, how a 123-page document was circulated the next day. As decided earlier too, the agenda should ideally be given to the members 15 days before the meeting so they are prepared with critical analysis of every issue. The board is not meant to simply clear projects without analysing issues,” said a section of members. “How can we decide on any issue if we are not informed about it well in advance,” they asked. Among the agenda items are controlling tiger population in Chandrapur district by way of translocating 50 tigers and neutering 20 males, upgradation of Akot-Khandwa railway line through Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), and laying of OFC cables and transmission lines. TOI was first to report about translocation and sterilization of tigers, nod for which will be sought from SBWL before forwarding the proposal to NTCA. The issue of Melghat railway line upgradation will once again figure in the meeting. While the railways is hell-bent on constructing the line through tiger reserve, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who also heads the SBWL, has already said ‘no’ to the proposal and has called for an alternative alignment. “Rejection of the proposal by the state would lead to a legal battle as Centre has put the ball in state’s court now,” said conservationists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-wildlife-board-to-discuss-tiger-relocation-melghat-rail-line-today/articleshow/77401671.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Poles-laden trucks overturns at Borim, kills three power department staff||PANAJI/PONDA: Three electricity department staffers died on the spot at Borim junction around 1.30pm on Thursday after the department’s truck in which they were travelling in turned turtle. The three were crushed to death under the power poles that they were transporting from Margao to Marcel. Three other staffers, who were also trapped under the poles, are undergoing treatment at GMC. Line helper Pranav Naik, from Kumbharjua was operated on and line helper Vinayak Gaude from Bhoma is out of danger. However, the condition of line helper Ganashyam Naik, from Tivrem, was critical. Police have named the deceased as line helper Pundalik Jalmi, 45, from Khandola-Marcel, assistant linesman wireman Sameer Parab, 42, and line helper Sagun Gawas, 28, both residents of Ambeshiwada, Amona. Three of the staffers, including the driver, were sitting inside the cabin. While six were sitting on the open carrier section of the truck with the poles when the driver lost control of the vehicle on the slope after Borim bridge, at the Borim circle, executive engineer Ponda division Deepak Krishna Naik told TOI. The staff driver and another line helper, who were sitting in the truck’s cabin, suffered minor injuries and received treatment at a hospital in Ponda. One staffer escaped with no injuries. “The truck was carrying ten poles, each 7.5m long which were drawn from central stores in Margao and were being transported to Ponda,” Naik said. Naik said the driver was a teetotaller and added that the road engineering at the circle at Borim is flawed. A heavy duty crane was deployed to rescue them by lifting the truck. “However, by the time the vehicle was lifted, three had died and three were critically injured as the poles had fallen on them,” said a Borim local said. The occupants of the cabin linesman/wireman Ladu Canconkar, from Khorlim, line helper Samimulla Khan, from Bethora have been discharged after providing primary treatment, while driver Pradosh Naik, from Shiroda, has been admitted for observation at the Ponda sub-district hospital. Chief minster Pramod Sawant from whose constituency the deceased hail, power minister Nilesh Cabral, chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni, superintending engineers and multiple staff and engineers from the electricity department visited the Goa Medical college. The last rites are expected to be performed on Friday. The incident cast a gloom on the department that has been struggling to restore power in difficult conditions over the past few days following torrential downpour coupled with strong winds. When asked about compensation chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni said the department has a system that will take care of compensation. “It is already in process. We will give it quickly,” he told TOI. Although no announcement of compensation was made, sources said the ex gratia compensation to the families of the deceased could be around Rs 7 lakh each. A staffer said there is no separate vehicle given to them to travel. “We have been travelling like this for many years. Our job is such that we require open tempos. It’s not feasible to carry poles, ladders and tree pruners in closed vehicles,” the staffer said. Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that he saluted all the department personnel who “work in all kinds of conditions to give reliable power supply to the people of Goa” and assured that the government will provide all medical care to the injured personnel. “During this time of grief, my sympathies, thoughts and prayers are with the grieving families. We also stand solidly with the injured personnel and their families. Government will do all that is necessary to comfort and assist the family members, whose loss we will not be able to compensate in real sense. The Government is also committed to providing all medical care and facilities to the injured personnel so that they recovery very fast and resume duties,” he stated. The incident has shocked the entire department, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poles-laden-trucks-overturns-at-borim-kills-three-power-dept-staff/articleshow/77403015.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||830 fresh Covid-19 cases take MP's count to 36,564||BHOPAL: Another politician has tested positive for Covid-19 in MP. Former minister and Congress MLA, Harsh Yadav, was diagnosed with the infection. So far, more than 10 politicians of the state have contracted the virus. Overall, Madhya Pradesh reported 830 new coronavirus patients on Thursday, 157 of them in Indore, which took the case tally in the state to 36,564, the health department said. Yadav is from Deori in Sagar district. He said in a tweet that he had fever for the last few days. After the test, he was found to be Covid-19 positive. “Every person who has come in contact with me in the last seven days is requested get medical investigation done,” he said. Sagar district has reported a spurt in cases over the last month. Yadav has been admitted to a private hospital in Bhopal and is said to be stable. At the same time, 838 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. The state’s death toll due to the pandemic rose to 946 with 17 more patients succumbing. Four Covid-19 patients died in Bhopal district, followed by three in Indore, two in Rewa, one each in Gwalior, Barwani, Ratlam, Vidisha, Hoshangabad, Tikamgarh, Satna and Jhabua, the department said in a bulletin. The number of infection cases in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state, rose by 157 to 8,014 and the death toll to 325. Indore reported the highest number of new cases, followed by 142 in Bhopal, 89 in Gwalior and 77 in Jabalpur. Bhopal has recorded more than 7,600 Covid-19 cases so far, including 201 who died. The case count in Gwalior and Jabalpur went up to 2,748 and 1,641, respectively. Indore has the highest 1,960 active cases now. No new coronavirus case was reported from seven districts. There are 3,195 active containment zones in the state at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/former-min-tests-ve-830-fresh-infections-in-mp/articleshow/77400260.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Gujarat mancontracts virus||Calangute: A person at Calangute who had come from Gujarat tested Covid-19 positive late on Wednesday. Health officer of Candolim primary health centre, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said the person had come on July 30 from Gujarat in search of employment and was tested on arrival. He has been quarantined at the Calangute Covid care centre, said Nazareth. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gujarat-mancontracts-virus/articleshow/77402970.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Ashtavaidyan Narayanan Moos cremated with full state honours||THRISSUR: Renowned Ayurveda expert and Padma Bhushan winner Ashtavaidyan Narayanan Moos (87) was cremated on the compound of his ancestral house at Thaikkattusseery near here with full state honours on Friday. Moos, who breathed his last on Wednesday evening, was the founder of the prominent ayurveda group of institutions ‘Vaidyaratnam’, which include an ayurveda college, nursing college, ayurveda research centre and ayurveda medicine producing unit, apart from hospital. The family of Moos are among the select few practitioners of ashtavaidya tradition of ayurveda, and they are known to be experts in all the eight branches of ayurvedic system of healing like kaya chikitsa (general medicine), bala chikitsa (paediatrics) graha chikitsa (psychiatry), rasayana chikitsa (geriatrics) and vajeekaranam (infertility). Ayurveda expert Dr K V Ramankutty who was associated with the Vaidyaratnam group for near six decades recalls that Narayanan Moos was able to diagnose, with high levels of precision, even complicated ailments, like intestinal cancer just by hearing the symptoms. Late Neelakandan Moos, father of Narayanan Moos, was a legendary figure in the ayurveda field and had won Padmasri. However, it was during the period of Narayanan Moos that the Vaidyaratnam group branched out into ayurvedic research, medicine manufacture and education. Narayanan Moos was also keen to evolve newer combinations of ayurvedic medicines. He tried to ensure that that ayurvedic medicines are available to patients in the consumable form, instead of the earlier practice of merely prescribing the koottu (ingredients), said ayurveda expert Dr Raghunandanan. The British Viceroy had given the title ‘Vaidyaratna’ to the family of Moos in 1942. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his condolence message said the death of Moos was a major loss to the state’s native healing systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moos-cremated-with-full-state-honours/articleshow/77400285.cms||T Ramavarman
August 7, 2020||Goa||Over 100 patients enrolled at Bambolim Covid care centre||Panaji: A day after it was made operational, the 275-bedded Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients at the Dr Shyamaprasad Mukherjee stadium, Bambolim, received 106 cases as of 8pm on Thursday. The patients are currently being cared for by a team of four - one doctor, paramedics and nursing staff. The teams are deployed on a rotation basis. “As of now, everything is under control at the Covid care centre. In case of any emergencies, we can deploy additional medical staff,” nodal officer at the centre, Dr Kedar Raikar, told TOI. The facility is equipped with additional toilets, laundry service and house-keeping staff. To ensure that patients have warm drinking water, a dozen kettles have been provided by the North Goa collectorate office. The water is warmed by the house-keeping staff and provided to patients on demand, Raikar said. Further, he said that the bio-medical waste that was generated on Wednesday and Thursday has been collected and disposed of as per protocol. In the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Goa, asymptomatic patients likely to be admitted at this care centre have been urged to carry their own essentials such as towels, mugs, cups, spoons, plates and fruits. TOI had reported recently that the stadium was converted into a Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients, with the central area of the hall lined with beds. Separate wards have been demarcated for men, women, children and senior citizens. While the venue and maintenance of records is being managed by staff of the Sports Authority of Goa (SAG), the directorate of health services (DHS) is taking care of medical emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-100-patients-enrolled-at-bambolim-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77403004.cms||Nida Sayed
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: HSRP fitting operations to resume on Monday||PANAJI: Fitting of high security registration plates (HSRP) on vehicles, which were suspended as a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid-19, will resume on Monday. “Only a limited number of vehicles will be permitted at each of the centres at a time, to ensure social distancing. Vehicle owners will be informed about their scheduled appointment through SMS,” a transport official said. HSRP operations had been suspended in March owing to lockdown restrictions. They resumed from May 18, with fitting centres permitting only limited installations at brief intervals. However, on June 2, installations at the Vasco-based centre were suspended after a rising number of cases were reported in the port town. Ten days later, seven other HSRP centres in the state also suspended operations as a precautionary measure. Installation of the number plates at Canacona, Quepem, Ponda, Dharbondra, Bicholim, Mapusa and Pernem consequently came to a halt. Soon after, operations at the bigger centres — Porvorim for Panaji-registered vehicles and Arlem for Margao-registered vehicles — were stopped as well. The booking counters of each of the HSRP centres, housed at the respective regional transport offices (RTO) were also shut as a result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hsrp-fitting-ops-to-resume-on-monday/articleshow/77402986.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Travel ban, no visa services halt students in their tracks||PUNE: Students who were to study in colleges abroad from September now have a year of uncertainty. While universities in some countries have told the students to complete the first semester online from the home countries, others have not been that lenient. Those students of universities which have permitted online learning are facing troubles while adjusting to the new set up, the nature of the course and understanding the concepts, especially if the course they have taken is completely new. Some nursing students who are stuck in the country due to stay on visa services by some countries said their course entailed a hospital internship, from the beginning of the term. They would need to bail out of the first semester and join the next year if the visa doesn’t come through in time. Ruchita Vaidya has begun her online classes, creating a new ID for her university according to the guidelines and also got to know the teachers in university since one week. She has taken up a graduate course in Canada for veterinary science. “My admission was finalised in February but travel restrictions were enforced. Ideally, I should have been in Canada by mid-July. But, the university has told all foreign students to join in January and till then we are supposed to attend online classes.” Countries not opening their visa facility for students is also becoming a problem. Many have taken loans to pay their university fees, accommodation and other charges and are now scared that they would lose out on an academic year and also money. A student whose employment for doctoral research started on June 1 and would end in June 2023 at the prestigious Max Planck Institute, said, “Till some time, they were conducting meetings online. But now they have started closed door meetings instead of online and hence I am not able to take part in it. Institutes have started operating in Germany for its students and faculty, hence we are suffering as we are yet to get the visa.” Students who have taken bank loans and do not come from economically sound backgrounds are doubly stressed due to this crisis. “I had enrolled in a practical nursing course in Germany. There is an entire group of students from Kerala in this course which also has practical work at a hospital. My parents have taken a huge loan from the bank so that I can pursue this course. When we contacted the university, we were told that we have to start the course from September 1 failing which we would lose out on a year and would have to start next year. We cannot afford to do that. We have already worked hard to learn the language and cleared the proficiency exams up to b2 level and yet we are getting no priority for visa,” a student from Kerala said. Like Vaidya, another student Sakshi Kulkarni has received admission to a university in Australia for a course in communications. Kulkarni said, “I have been taking classes online and as soon as the travel restrictions are lifted I will join the university. I have paid for the hostel and it has gone waste for almost two months. I have written to the university if they could waive it but I doubt if that would be allowed.” Dilip Oak, founder of Oak Academy that guides and prepares students for admissions to foreign universities said, “Ideally, our students should have been in the US by now and joined the classes. However, with travel not allowed, they have deferred their admissions to January. Except for a couple of students who could afford to join their university online classes, all others have deferred the joining to next season. If they are not able to go in January, then it will be further postponed to the following season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travel-ban-no-visa-services-halt-students-in-their-tracks/articleshow/77402980.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Police illegally stopped Ram Temple festivities: BJP||Nagpur: All top leaders of BJP have jointly alleged that city police illegally stopped their workers from celebrating the bhoomipujan of Ram Temple on Wednesday. They said the cops under Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government were biased against Hindus. Meanwhile, Keshav Upadhye, state spokesperson of the party in a press release alleged the state was under tyrannical Mughal rule as Hindus were not allowed to celebrate Ram Temple’s bhoomipujan all over the state by police. City BJP president Pravin Datke said BJP and VHP had sought permission from police to celebrate the occasion but were refused without any explanation. “They prohibited us from playing Ramdhun, installing saffron flags and posters of Lord Ram. What have these go to do with Covid distancing,” he added. Datke further said a small replica of Ram Temple was not allowed to be erected on Gorewada Road. “Even though we did nothing wrong, several BJP leaders were issued notices by the police,” he added. MLC Girish Vyas said that Shiv Sena had no role in the Ram Temple movement but was falsely claiming credit for it. “This is the reason the party used police to suppress celebrations by BJP and other Rambhakts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-illegally-stopped-ram-temple-festivities-bjp/articleshow/77401683.cms||Ashish Roy
August 7, 2020||Pune||Man ends life a month prior to wedding||Pune: A 27-year-old man was found dead, hanging from a ceiling fan at his residence in Kondhwa’s Yeolewadi on Wednesday afternoon. Police recovered a note, purportedly written by him, stating that he was ending his life as he had committed a mistake and no one should be blamed for his death. His marriage was scheduled a month later. “We have registered a case of accidental death,” senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police told TOI on Thursday.  In another incident, a 40-year-old man, Sachin Suresh Kalbhor, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his house in Yeolewadi around 4pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-ends-life-a-month-prior-to-wedding/articleshow/77403009.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Bail plea of murder accused rejected||PONDA: The additional district and sessions court at Ponda on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of Jaldeep Singh, an accused in the 2019 truck driver murder case. Singh and co-accused Krishn Kumar are presently in judicial custody. After hearing the arguments on the plea, additional district judge Bela Naik rejected the bail petition, public prosecutor Satyawan Raut Dessai said. Jaldeep and Krishn, both truckers from Rajasthan, had allegedly murdered Dinesh Kumar, a container truck driver, and attempted to murder the cleaner of the truck Vijay Mohan Lal on November 20, 2019, near the Shree Satyanarayan Temple, at the Dhavali-Farmagudi bypass road. The murder was for a frivolous reason that the deceased had not woken up Krishn to have lunch. At the bypass road, many interstate truckers halt for rest and even cook and have meals in the company of other truckers. On the fateful day, Jaldeep, the deceased and Vijay were having lunch, while Krishn was asleep inside the truck. When Krishn woke up and found that all three were having food but had not woken him up, he got furious and attacked Dinesh and Vijay with a sharp knife. Dinesh died and Lal was injured. After investigating the matter, Ponda police have chargesheeted the accused Jaldeep and Krishn under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-plea-of-murder-accused-rejected/articleshow/77403006.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra launches Google Classroom initiative to track online learning||PUNE: Maharashtra is the first state to launch the Google classroom initiative under which G Suite for Education and other educational tools would be made available for 2.30 crore students and teachers across the state. More importantly, the platform will provide the state a central monitoring system to track its online education initiative, which was based on teacher testimonials and other analogue means until now. The initiative was inaugurated online by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and education minister Varsha Gaikwad. “I am proud to say that Maharashtra is the first state in the country to launch G Suite for education and Google Classroom ... All of us had questions regarding the future, in terms of education, and we have come a step closer to the answer, due to the pandemic,” Thackeray said during the launch. “Each teacher and student would be given a separate login ID and password and the content would be available in Marathi too. For instance, a teacher will open G Suite and be connected with all the students, who will also have separate ID and password. The teacher can take live classes or upload videos, give and check assignments, share links to other educational content, show graphs and presentations, take attendance and do almost everything that is needed while taking a physical class,” said Vikas Garad, deputy director of State Council of Education Research and Training. Garad added, “Moreover, it can be centrally monitored how long a teacher has taken class, how many students have logged in, for how long, what was the content taught, among others. This will help us get real-time data to track the educational system, whether it is reaching students, how many could use it in each class.” In her video message, head of education, India and South Asia, Google India Bani Paintal Dhawan said, “Maharashtra is the first state in the country to adopt Google technologies in over 1 lakh schools. It will make remote learning easier and allow teachers to teach in synchronous and asynchronous mode. We will also help teachers and parents understand and adapt to the changes. Teach for home is also available in Marathi. We will also offer teacher training and free teacher resources around distant learning purposes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-launches-google-classroom-initiative-to-track-online-learning/articleshow/77403007.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Three of a family buried alive as roof of PHCbuilding caves in due to heavy rain in Budaun||Bareilly: Three members of a family were buried alive after the roof of an abandoned dilapidated primary health care centre (PHC) building — which they had made their home — in Budaun’s Islam Nagar town caved in on Tuesday due to heavy rain in the district. Their bodies were, however, taken out of the debris on Thursday only after locals complained about a foul smell emanating from the PHC building. The victims have been identified as Sushil, a retired nursing assistant, his wife Naseema (55) and their 19-year-old son Sameer. According to police, upon receiving information about a foul smell coming from the abandoned building, they removed debris and found the bodies, which appeared to be around two days old. Islam Nagar station house officer Jasveer Singh said, “The bodies have been sent for postmortem and we are waiting for the report to know the timing of their death.” Budaun district magistrate Prashant Kumar said, “The victim retired as a health department nursing assistant nearly seven years ago. He and his wife along with their son were living in the abandoned PHC building. As it was in a dilapidated condition, we served them notice and they vacated the premises. But, they again moved into the building.” “As the victim had an inter-faith marriage, they were not in touch with their family members. Their relatives refused to accept their bodies, too. After the postmortem, the last rites of the victims will be performed in the presence of police and administrative officers,” added the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-of-a-family-buried-alive-as-roof-of-phcbuilding-caves-in-due-to-heavy-rain-in-budaun/articleshow/77397869.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 7, 2020||Meerut||DMs told to keep check on online classes, basic shiksha activities||MEERUT: With the classes having moved online, the UP government has asked district magistrates to conduct monthly meetings to keep a check on basic shiksha activities, like Mission Prerna, in their respective districts. They have also been told to look into the glitches being faced during online classes. “All the district magistrates are instructed to take monthly meetings for various basic shiksha-related schemes, including mid-day meals and other schemes like Mission Prerna. A list of pointers with agenda should be made and discussed,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, in his order. He added that the details of the meetings should be shared with the state authorities every month. “On the official portal, a link for ‘DM Monthly Meeting’ has been created on which all the details about the meeting should be shared. Special focus will be given to any technical glitches being faced by the officials and Mission Prerna,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dms-told-to-keep-check-on-online-classes-basic-shiksha-activities/articleshow/77398993.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Punjab ministers want Partap Singh Bajwa, Shamsher Singh Dullo expelled from Congress||CHANDIGARH: Two days after Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar sought strict action against party MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, the “entire” state cabinet on Thursday pitched for the duo’s immediate expulsion for their “anti-party and anti-government” activities. Seeking the dismissal of Bajwa and Dullo for attacking their own party’s government in the state over the hooch tragedy, the cabinet ministers in a joint statement said the actions of the two Rajya Sabha members “call for immediate and strict action” against them by the party high command. The ministers, in the statement, called for the whip to be immediately cracked on the two MPs. Indiscipline could not be tolerated at any time, least of all when the assembly elections in the state are less than two years away, they said, pointing to the MPs’ repeated attacks on the government and chief minister Amarinder Singh. Questioning their decision to raise concerns on the hooch tragedy, the ministers said in their Rajya Sabha term, the two MPs had never bothered to raise any issue of interest of the state they represent. “Why did they not press for the completion of the ED probe into the drugs issue during the Akali regime? Why did they not protest in the House against the anti-farm ordinances of the Union government? Why did they never speak about the CBI’s failure to probe the sacrilege cases?” the ministers said. They said by bypassing all party and government forums to protest against the government’s handling of the hooch tragedy and to approach the governor for CBI and ED inquiries into the case, the two MPs have not only attacked the very basis of democratic governance, but also sought to undermine the Punjab Police. They pointed out that a CBI probe is needed only if the police fail to deliver, which is definitely not the case at present. “Instead of doing their job as MPs, both Bajwa and Dullo seem intent on destabilising their own government, either out of their own greed for power or at the bidding of those who want to destabilise Congress in Punjab.” the ministers said, adding that in either case, the duo has rendered themselves useless and of no value to the party, and needs to be shunted out without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-ministers-want-bajwa-dullo-expelled-from-congress/articleshow/77403005.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Three of a family killed as pickup vehicle hit bike head-on in Budaun||Bareilly: Three of a family, including a father-daughter duo, were killed after a speeding vehicle hit their motorbike in Bisauli area of Budaun on Thursday.Police said Shamsher (50), his daughter Fatima (20) and her cousin Jalaluddin (25) — all residents of Mohanpur village under Ughaiti police station in Budaun district — were travelling on a motorbike when a speeding pickup vehicle hit the bike head-on and the trio, who were without helmets, fell on the ground. The driver of the pickup vehicle, however, managed to escape the scene. Bisauli station house officer Pankaj Lavaniya said, “After the postmortem, the bodies were handed over to the family. The family said they would lodge a complaint against the vehicle driver. An FIR will be registered after receiving the complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-of-a-family-killed-as-pickup-vehicle-hit-bike-head-on-in-budaun/articleshow/77397889.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||Youth held for hurting religious sentiments||Vadodara: A 20-year-old youth living in Karelibaug was arrested on Thursday evening for putting a photo as his WhatsApp status allegedly to hurt religious sentiments of people from minority community. The accused Vrushabh Kahar, was booked on Wednesday night based on complaint by Maunish Peerzada, a resident of Nawabwada, for committing malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings. According to Peerzada, Kahar had uploaded an image as his WhatsApp status on Wednesday afternoon. “We have arrested the accused and he is being questioned about his act,” said a police official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-held-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/77399467.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold smuggling case: Central probe team collects evidence from Thiruvananthapuram hotel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: National Investigation Agency (NIA) team, probing the gold smuggling case, took two arrested accused in the case to various places in the capital as part of gathering evidences. The NIA team took Sharafudeen and Shafeeq to a hotel in the city as they received information that both of them were in the capital immediately before the gold was intercepted. Their roles in the conspiracy and pursuant smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram had surfaced in investigation. Also, during custodial interrogation of another accused Ramees K T, it was revealed that he was aided and assisted by co-conspirators Sharafudeen and Shafeeq in collecting the smuggled gold from arrested accused Sandeep Nair and further distributing the contraband among other co-conspirators. The NIA special court, Ernakulam, had remanded both of them to four days in the custody of the agency for interrogation. So far, NIA has arrested 12 persons in the case. Both the accused were also taken to a hotel in Kovalam and the flat near Secretariat where the accused allegedly conspired for smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/central-probe-team-collects-evidence-from-tvm-hotel/articleshow/77400338.cms||Disney Tom
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||KMRC starts building shaft to pull out TBMs||KOLKATA: The construction of the shaft for retrieving the two giant tunnel borers for the East-West Metro corridor at Durga Pithuri Lane, off Bowbazar, has been started by Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC). It will take six months to complete the shaft. This is where the first tunnel boring machine (TBM), Chundi, which was digging the west-bound tunnel, hit an aquifer on August 31, last year, and is now lying defunct 16m below the ground. A 300m radius around the spot came to be known as the cave-in zone ever since. Several houses had collapsed when Chundi hit the sand aquifer. Water gushed into the tunnel, triggering largescale subsidence. The subsidence zone, strengthened with elaborate grouting, has now become an open space since 27 damaged houses in the area either fell or were razed for safety reasons. The retrieval shaft is being built in this open space to pull out both the machines, which were moving from Esplanade to Sealdah for the last leg of 2.5km East-West Metro tunnelling. Rig machines from Austria are being used to build piles for the 22m deep retrieval shaft, 40m in length and 15m wide. The piles will be built for 130 piers of the retrieval shaft being dug directly on the line of the west-bound tunnel. Cutting the damaged TBM (Chundi) into pieces will be a challenge because it its 9m-wide front shield is covered with concrete that was poured into seal the water leakage. Along with the front shield, the first few metres of the concrete rings will also be pulled out of the shaft. And the wall created (in the tunnel) to prevent seepage of water will also be dismantled. A huge crane will be used to pull out the machine parts, each machine of which weighs around 300 tonnes. The second TBM, Urvi, building the east-bound tunnel, is now burrowing towards its destination, Sealdah station, from where it will make a U-turn and dig the rest of the affected tunnel and proceed back towards Durga Pituri Lane. There is a connection between the two tunnels in Sealdah. Urvi will U-turn through it. Urvi should be able to reach Sealdah station by mid-September. It will be disintegrated inside a box at Sealdah station, reassembled and veered in the opposite direction, to Durga Pituri Lane and thus complete the underground link. By this time, the retrieval shaft will be ready. It would take a month to complete the retrieval of the two machines. The 16km East-West Metro corridor will stretch between Salt Lake Sector V and Howrah Maidan and run under the Hooghly river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmrc-starts-building-shaft-to-pull-out-tbms/articleshow/77401700.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Youth accuses kin in video moments before death||MEERUT: Poisoned and gasping for breath, Pankaj Kumar made a last-ditch effort, which was not aimed at saving his life but to bring to book all those who allegedly betrayed him. He took out his smart phone and recorded an 80-second video of “dying statement” naming all those who gave him the poison. They were his family members and the alleged incident took place in Saharanpur. “Pankaj’s aunt, her two daughters and daughter-in-law have been booked. Cause of the death is uncertain and viscera samples have been preserved for further examination,” said Munendra Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Saharanpur’s Kotwali Dehat area. It appears to be a matter of family dispute, he said. Pankaj, in his early 20s, was living in her aunt’s house for the last over four years. According to police, the incident took place on Tuesday. Pankaj’s body was found in a field around the same place he is believed to have shot the video. In the video, Pankaj can also be heard pleading for justice and demanding that his body be cremated only after people behind poisoning him are booked. “I am putting out this video on Facebook. I request the police department to book all those who did this to me before cremating my body,” Pankaj is purportedly heard saying in his hoarse voice, while he struggled to breathe. The video surfaced on social media platforms on Wednesday after which police took cognizance and an FIR was registered at Sarsawan police station in Saharanpur. It was later transferred to Kotwali Dehat police station. Saharanpur’s superintendent of police (SP) Vineet Bhatnagar said, “A case of murder has been registered at Kotwali Dehat police station and a probe has been launched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poisoned-by-relatives-youth-names-all-accused-in-80-sec-video-moments-before-death/articleshow/77406026.cms||Piyush Rai
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Sonneratia alba to be state mangrove tree in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: The state wildlife board (SWBL) is expected to clear a proposal to declare Sonneratia alba, also known as white chippi or sweet-scented apple mangrove, as the state mangrove tree. This is one of the agenda items of the board meeting slated for Friday. Though the proposal must have been brought with good intentions, the move has not gone well with some members who said, “This is the subject of Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) and not SWBL. When there are many key issues to be discussed, why waste time on it.” Maharashtra will be the first state in country to designate Sonneratia alba as a symbol of mangrove conservation and this symbolic recognition will secure a pride of place for the species and mangroves in the hearts of people of coastal region. Earlier, Maharashtra has declared the state tree (mango), state animal (giant squirrel), state bird (green pigeon), state butterfly (blue mormon), state flower (jarul lagerstroemia speciosa) to highlight their ecological importance. Similarly, in order to recognize the importance of mangroves for mankind and conservation of marine biodiversity, besides its role in carbon sequestration, it is proposed to be declared as a state mangrove tree. Mangroves are extremely important for mankind as they protect the coasts from harsh tidal waves and save communities from disasters like tsunami, act as nurseries for breeding of a large number of marine species and help in conserving coastal biodiversity. “Mangroves contribute in absorbing 14% of carbon sequestration by global oceans though they occupy only 1% of the area. Maharashtra has recognized importance of mangroves and, therefore, a special mangrove cell was created in 2012,” said forest officials. “In 2015, a Mangrove & Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation was created to give impetus to conserve mangroves and coastal biodiversity throughout the coast of Maharashtra,” they added. Maharashtra is the only state in India to have such a dedicated cell and a foundation. These efforts have resulted in an increase of phenomenal 82sqkm of mangrove forests in the state as per the latest Forest Survey of India (FSI) report. Maharashtra has a long coastline of 720km having a typical mangrove habitat harbouring a variety of flora and fauna. There are 60 mangrove plant species in the world, out of which Maharashtra has about 20 species. Sonneratia alba is one of the important evergreen mangrove tree species occurring in the coastal districts of Maharashtra. It is known as white chippi in local parlance as it bears beautiful white flowers. Therefore, it is proposed to declare Sonneratia alba as state mangrove tree so as to help create awareness about the importance of mangroves and marine biodiversity among the students and people which will help support its conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sonneratia-alba-to-be-state-mangrove-tree-in-maha/articleshow/77401694.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar meets Amarinder Singh, demands exemplary action in hooch tragedy||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to ensure exemplary action against those behind the hooch tragedy. He said the hooch tragedy had “dented the image” of the state government. Jakhar, who met Amarinder, said suspension or dismissal was not enough but accused officers must be booked and ensured exemplary punishment so that it acts as a deterrent for others in the future. “If involvement of any politician or officer for patronising this nexus was found then severest of severe action must be taken against them also,” he said. Jakhar said the roots of such malpractices were 10-15 years old and needed to be wiped out with a heavy hand. He said that departmental laxity was also responsible for this tragedy and officers found for shielding this nexus must be brought to book. He added that the achievement of the Congress government in Punjab was to establish the rule of law by uprooting the “jungle raj” prevailing from more than a decade. However, he said that the hooch tragedy has dented the image of the state government. Jakhar, while welcoming announcement to book those involved for murder. He said to further win the confidence of people the investigation into the case must be conducted in a prompt and time bound manner. “Suspension or dismissal was not enough but such officers must be booked and ensured exemplary punishment so that it acts as a deterrent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jakhar-meets-amarinder-demands-exemplary-action-in-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/77403014.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||800 Nalgonda villages caught in Covid storm, 29 mandals hit||HYDERABAD: The pandemic is engulfing rural Nalgonda as more than 800 of the 844 villages in the district have reported Covid-19 positive cases. Of the 31 mandals, the virus has so far spread to 29. It was only a trickle of cases in April but now the spectre of community transmission is keeping everyone on tenterhooks. “Every house is being monitored. People are being checked for symptoms of the virus. This is happening at the village level. Due to this strict vigil, we have an idea of how far the virus has spread. Our health staff are lending help to every infected person,” Nalgonda DHMO, Konda Rao, told TOI. Authorities blame it on movement of people. Moreover, two to three Covid-related deaths were recorded in the mandal out of the 24 in Nalgonda district. While six deaths were reported in the district, the rest were in Hyderabad, and the patients belonged to Nalgonda district. A look at the month-wise figures gives an idea of the extent of virus transmission. In April, 15 cases were reported, in May there were only eight and in June it surged to 66 cases. In July, there were as many as 379 cases and in less than a week in August an alarming 173 cases have been detected. “Those who have tested positive with mild or moderate symptoms were advised to be in home isolation and we are providing them the home isolation kits. Those with severe conditions are shifted to hospitals,” DMHO Kondal Rao said. On Thursday, Nalgonda DSP G Venkateshwar Reddy organised a meeting with village sarpanches asking them to identify people with symptoms in their villages and alert the health authorities. District authorities are focussing on the villages. In the 4,257 samples collected from the villages, 747 turned out to be positive when surveillance began on July 17. “We have trained health staff at the village level, therefore, there is no need to panic. People should undergo the treatment and everyone must take precautions,” Kondal Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/800-nalgonda-villages-caught-in-covid-storm-29-mandals-hit/articleshow/77401698.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||New Covid ‘test’: After e-classes, weekly exams keep kids jittery||BHOPAL: After initiating online classes and video-lectures for students during the pandemic, the school education department has now decided to conduct weekly assessment tests to gauge students’ performance and learning outcome. The tests will, however, add to the burden on children, who are struggling to cope with the absence of classroom teaching that has affected their performance and disturbed their study-routine. Parents feel that the assessments could have been done away with this year, especially the students of lower classes must be given some relaxation. “We are trying to assess the impact of online classes on students’ grasping capabilities and locate their problem areas. The weekly tests will be held to check students’ performance. We are aware of the problems being faced by students due to absence of regular classes, but this is just an attempt to locate the problems areas and how much more work needs to be done for their resolution,” said directorate of public instruction commissioner Jaishree Kiyawat. Shrinivas, an educationist, who works for the welfare of underprivileged children studying in private schools under Right to Education (RTE) scheme, said children’s morale is already very low and stress of assessments has further hit their confidence. “After the first test on July 25, I got calls from children, who were not able to do well because of their unfamiliarity with the new online system to conduct tests. Besides, problems like unavailability of mobile smart-phones and Internet connection hampered their studies. The whole idea to bring these children closer to education has backfired as they are now even scared of studying,” he said. Priyanka, a class 7 student in a government school, said, “I scored very low marks in the first test. I like to study, but I do not even have the books for this class. I could not study online as the Internet pack is expensive and my parents cannot afford it. I feel very bad.” Same is the plight of several other students, but they have been told to submit tests on time. On one hand, the education department says that the tests are to assess the outcome of online classes, on the other hand principals are asking students that they need to perform well as marks obtained in online tests will be summed up in the final results. “My teacher said that if I do not perform well, I will fail the exams and lose a year. I don’t know how to study as I am unable to attend online classes because of costly Internet data packs,” said Kajal Kumari, a student of class 8 in a government school. Psychologists say that the added pressure would lead to stress and anxiety among students, which will take them away from studies instead of motivating them. “Despite knowing well about the unprecedented situation we are going through, why are the students being forced to study in circumstances that are entirely unpredictable? Children are sensitive and are already facing several challenges. Their lives have turned upside-down in these last few months. Burdening them with tests is not conducive to their growth,” said Geetanjali Thakur, a psychologist and counsellor in a noted private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-e-classes-weekly-tests-jitters-for-kids/articleshow/77400329.cms||Shuchita Jha
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: DJs in dire straits as live gigs become a thing of the past||PUNE: Disk Jockeys (DJs) are in dire straits as the Coronavirus pandemic has brought live events to a grinding halt. With nightclubs and bars shut, many are feeling the pinch as their income has dried up in the past few months. “I have not been paid since January but have paid my crew till June and told them to start looking for jobs as I can’t afford their salaries any longer,” said DJ Abhishek Mantri. “ Many clubs have not paid our gig fees from events before the lockdown. Some DJs are doing virtual shows, but I doubt if anyone is making money,” said DJ Garry Kumthekar. DJs are live streaming their sets, but the income is next to nothing. “Live streaming has been a new experience for me. It’s weird not to hear the crowd response when I am playing popular tracks,” said Kumthekar. Yogesh Patil, aka DJ Dustin, said many DJs were posting their GPay and Paytm numbers so that the audience could support them financially. “The only way to weather the storm is to take up different jobs for now,” he said. “I work as a training manager at an MNC, so life is not that difficult, but I miss the extra perks I earned from shows. Many have started online tutorial of DJ courses, opened YouTube channels or even ventured into stock trading,” said Patil. “We have other sources of income — I work as an operations manager at a fashion brand, while Christoper Naidu, another DJ, is into marketing. We did a couple of live streams during the initial days of lockdown but realised we don’t enjoy them as much as we love performing in front of a crowd. Club DJs may need to perform at private gigs/weddings in order to survive,” said DJ Rohan Gaikwad. Many of them are already bracing for pay cuts. “At least 30% of the nightclubs in the city have downed shutters, and the rest will have huge budget cuts too,” said Kumthekar. “The pay for resident DJs will also go down by at least 50% during the initial stages of reopening,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/djs-in-dire-straits-as-live-gigs-become-a-thing-of-the-past/articleshow/77403013.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Dehradun||Two arrested, 25 booked after clash in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Two people were arrested and several others booked after tensions broke out during celebrations in Jwalapur, Haridwar, over stone foundation ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya. According to police, a man riding a bike allegedly vandalised several earthen lamps that were lit to mark the occasion on Wednesday night. Two people were also injured in the clash. A case has been registered against two identified and 25 others unidentified residents of Ghosiyan in Jwalapur under sections 147 (punishment for Rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 307(attempt to murder) and 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of Indian Penal Code. SSP, Haridwar, Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “A police force has been deployed to the site to maintain the law and order situation. We are trying to nab the other accused who are still at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-arrested-25-booked-after-clash-in-haridwar/articleshow/77400317.cms||MS Nawaz
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||4 nabbed for Rs 1.2 cr ATM cash swindle||Hyderabad: A group of four employees from a cash replenishment firm having tie-ups with various banks for ATMs, are being questioned by central crime station (CCS) sleuths after the firm found out that funds to the tune of Rs 1.22 crore had been misappropriated from various ATMs since the beginning of the lockdown. CCS officials said the prime suspect Rajasekhar Reddy has been absconding ever since his employer found out about the misappropriation of ATM cash. Following complaints of lack of cash by customers at different ATMs, the firm suspected foul play and conducted an audit of 36 ATMs and found out about the missing cash. CCS officials said that they are still investigating as to how the cash was siphoned off by the prime accused. The suspects in questioning have accused Rajasekhar Reddy of swindling the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-nabbed-for-rs-1-2-cr-atm-cash-swindle/articleshow/77401692.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Meerut||UP: Youth accuses kin in video moments before death||MEERUT: Poisoned and gasping for breath, Pankaj Kumar made a last-ditch effort, which was not aimed at saving his life but to bring to book all those who allegedly betrayed him. He took out his smart phone and recorded an 80-second video of “dying statement” naming all those who gave him the poison. They were his family members and the alleged incident took place in Saharanpur. “Pankaj’s aunt, her two daughters and daughter-in-law have been booked. Cause of the death is uncertain and viscera samples have been preserved for further examination,” said Munendra Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Saharanpur’s Kotwali Dehat area. It appears to be a matter of family dispute, he said. Pankaj, in his early 20s, was living in her aunt’s house for the last over four years. According to police, the incident took place on Tuesday. Pankaj’s body was found in a field around the same place he is believed to have shot the video. In the video, Pankaj can also be heard pleading for justice and demanding that his body be cremated only after people behind poisoning him are booked. “I am putting out this video on Facebook. I request the police department to book all those who did this to me before cremating my body,” Pankaj is purportedly heard saying in his hoarse voice, while he struggled to breathe. The video surfaced on social media platforms on Wednesday after which police took cognizance and an FIR was registered at Sarsawan police station in Saharanpur. It was later transferred to Kotwali Dehat police station. Saharanpur’s superintendent of police (SP) Vineet Bhatnagar said, “A case of murder has been registered at Kotwali Dehat police station and a probe has been launched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/poisoned-by-relatives-youth-names-all-accused-in-80-sec-video-moments-before-death/articleshow/77399021.cms||Piyush Rai
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt seeks clarity on Covid-19 vaccine||HYDERABAD: State government urged the Centre to formulate clear guidelines on development and licensing of Covid-19 vaccine besides decentralising the authority to fast-track testing and approvals. Industries minister KT Rama Rao, in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday, also urged the Centre to constitute a high-level committee with representation from the Centre, key state government officials and industries to formulate a strategic plan to expedite the development of vaccine from India. He also urged the Centre to have a robust procurement policy in consultation with the industry to ensure vaccine availability and its equitable distribution. “FDA and WHO have already published the guidelines on developing and licensing the Covid-19 vaccine. There is a need for similar guidelines in India,” KTR said. The minister said the Centre had allocated Rs 100 crore from the PM CARES Fund to provide funding support for indigenous vaccine development and urged the Centre to expedite the guidelines so that funds could be released to indigenous vaccine manufacturers. He said the industry had been facing issues such as decentralisation of authority for fast-tracking testing and approvals for vaccines, development and licensing of the vaccine, expediting approval for clinical trials, manufacturing and procurement policy. “Presently, all vaccines are sent to the Central Drug Laboratory in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. Due to Covid-19, companies have struggled with logistics and have not been able to send the sample batches of vaccines to CDL. CDSCO has a zonal office along with a sophisticated drug-testing lab in Hyderabad, which can be delegated more powers,” he said. He said there are six different ministries at the central and state level — ministries of health, animal Husbandry, science and technology, commerce, environment and forest, GoI and ministry of health at the state government — that give approvals for vaccines. “India needs to have a regulatory framework that can hold good for global competition and ensure quality with speed,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-seeks-clarity-on-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/77401708.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Khaparkheda fly-ash leaks into Kanhan river, hits pumping||NAGPUR: Mahagenco continues to pollute air and water around the city with abandon. Once again fly-ash from Khaparkheda thermal power station leaked into Kanhan river and forced Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to stop pumping for two hours. Sources in the NMC said fly-ash was observed in the river water early on Thursday morning near one of the intake wells of Kanhan water treatment plant (WTP). “We immediately stopped pumping as the WTP does not have the capability to filter fly-ash, which contains heavy metals and is harmful for humans,” said an official. It took over two hours for the fly-ash to clear from the intake well area after which pumping resumed. As pumping from the other intake well was going on, it did not affect the water supply of the city much. Prakash Khandare, chief engineer of Khaparkheda plant, said his officials had checked the ash bund of the power plant and had found no leakage anywhere. “The fly-ash may have come from other sources,” he told TOI. He however, refused to elaborate on the ‘other sources’. Earlier, on June 29, 2018, fly-ash from Koradi and Khaparkheda plants had leaked into Kanhan river and forced NMC to stop pumping for about 1.30 hours. Water supply to some city areas was affected for a day. At that time too, Mahagenco had denied that fly-ash had leaked from its power plants. In December 2012 and January 2013, fly-ash discharge from the two power plants had assumed alarming proportions and polluted city’s water supply for days. Khaparkheda officials had told TOI their ash bund had become overburdened and that the one for the new 500MW unit was not ready due to land acquisition problem. In spite of evidence being presented by TOI, Koradi officials refused to admit that fly-ash had got discharged from the plant. Even though Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants cause air and water pollution in Nagpur area, successive energy ministers from Nagpur — Chandrashekhar Bawankule (BJP) and Nitin Raut (Congress) — wanted to increase the generation capacity of Koradi plant by a whopping 1,320MW. It was deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who shot down Raut’s proposal due to financial crunch. He instead advised Raut to go for solar power projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khaparkheda-fly-ash-leaks-into-kanhan-river-hits-pumping/articleshow/77401705.cms||Ashish Roy
August 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Inter-state ATM thieves’ gang busted; 2 held||HARIDWAR: An inter-state ATM thieves’ gang was busted by Muni-ki-Reti police in Rishikesh, who arrested two members of the gang of thieves from Haryana, for withdrawing Rs 1.50 lakh using the debit card of a local resident which they had stolen. A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and relevant sections of the IT Act. Muni-ki-Reti police station SHO R K Saklani told TOI, “Local resident Anusuya Rawat filed a complaint on July 5 that a stranger had asked for her help while she was withdrawing money from an ATM near Dhalwala, under Muni-ki-Reti police station, and could have swapped her card there. Later, Rs 1.50 lakh had been withdrawn from her account. We registered a case and managed to nab the culprits — Sanjay Singh and Mukesh Singh of Rohtak, Haryana — professional thieves who mostly targeted old people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inter-state-atm-thieves-gang-busted-2-held/articleshow/77400343.cms||MS Nawaz
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police plan internet-based tools to expand services to citizens||PUNE: The city police are brainstorming to come up with new technology-based systems to expand their suite of services to citizens. Senior police officers said this would come in useful during the current pandemic and also in a post-Covid-19 world. “People will need applications to contact police while reducing physical contact. So, we plan to introduce online tools to help citizens,” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, adding, “The tools would facilitate police functioning and minimize inconvenience to citizens.” “New ways need to be adopted to minimize physical contact without compromising basic policing,” joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said. So far, the police have largely used technology to keep tabs on criminals. “We have already introduced many digital systems for policing, patrolling, and crime and criminal tracking,” commissioner Venkatesham said. These systems include M-Police (for personnel to mark attendance and apply for leave), SPOTTer Kits (to identify criminals in a crowd via CCTVs and software), ExTra (to monitor externed criminals), the Criminal Intensive Surveillance Project (CRISP), smart integration of CCTV network and a QR code-based patrolling system. “Also, police have introduced a system to reduce the response time of the policemen to an emergency by an online mechanism at the control room,” he said. Venkatesham said that police are trying to provide some Internet based tools to the citizens which the citizens can use anytime with an ease. Shisve said they were brainstorming with various companies and individuals and should come up with ideas soon — where possible, police will use technology. “People need different no-objection certificates for various purposes, and should have the option to apply and upload documents online, Right now, the documents are to be submitted physically. Online, the NOCs can be issued without delay,” Shisve said, citing an example. “We are also trying to implement changes in the registration of FIRs, arrest documents, investigation papers, court processes, surveillance, and warning, among others,” Shisve added. “People will always have the option of walking into a police station in case of an emergency,” Shisve said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-plan-internet-based-tools-to-expand-services-to-citizens/articleshow/77403019.cms||Gitesh Shelke
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh too had criticised party, Rahul Gandhi, retort Bajwa, Dullo||CHANDIGARH: In response to demand by cabinet ministers for action against them, Rajya Sabha members Partap Singh Dullo and Shamsher Singh Dullo called it an “afterthought”. They claimed that chief minister Amarinder Singh too had been critical of the party when Bajwa was the state president. “Just like the registration of false FIRs in Punjab during the 80s and 90s which used to be registered after a delay of about 48 hours, the cabinet’s press note has also been issued today (Thursday) for a meeting that took place yesterday (Wednesday). We were informed by cabinet colleagues of the chief minister that no discussion took place regarding the statement made by us. The contents of the joint statement are an afterthought,” claimed Bajwa and Dullo. “Moreover, we would like to remind Jakhar that it was he who had also been criticising Amarinder Singh’s working as chief minister during this tenure and now he is acting as if Amarinder Singh as chief minister has never failed in performing his duties,” the MPs said. “It also needs to be pointed out that if the performance of the party cannot be criticised even if the government is working against the interest of the public which has reposed faith in the party and elected them to power, then this is against the principles of democracy,” said Bajwa and Dullo. “Another interesting thing that we would like to point out is that during the tenure of Bajwa as the PPCC president, it was Amarinder Singh who had been opposing and criticising not only the PPCC but also the party high command. He even had the audacity to criticise Rahul Gandhi who is our esteemed leader,” said Dullo. As regards the allegation pertaining to the drug case, Bajwa had on record been asking for a CBI probe as well as an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate, especially against SAD’s Bikram Majithia, they said. As regards the sacrilege case, it needed to be specifically pointed out that till date Punjab Police did not have the original case file which was still with the CBI, the MPs added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-too-had-criticised-party-rahul-retort-bajwa-dullo/articleshow/77403020.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Standard IX Dastur student designs Covid- 19 care device||PUNE: Viraj Shah of standard IX from Sardar Dastur Hormazdiar High School designed a robotic Covid- 19 war bot and handed it over to Sanjeev Wavare, head of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department at the Naidu Hospital. The device can support doctors as well as the nursing staff by minimising human exposure, specifically at places where positive or likely cases are being treated.nCoV Shah said, “When the news of the Covid warriors getting infected started making the rounds, my father, Rahul, and I thought of how we could help by making use of technology. Since I am well-versed with robotics and coding, we thought of making a robot.” The bot is able to carry around 30kg, can rotate 360 degrees and can move between beds without human intervention. A cellphone with bluetooth is the only requirement to make it function. More features may be added . The initiative was appreciated by the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and his team, and by mayor Murlidhar Mohol. Astronomy honour for Blossom student An autodidact, Shardul Lokapure of standard X from Bloosom Public School, Tathawade was awarded the bronze honour in International Astronomy and Astrophysics Competition recently for scoring 16/40 points. He has been placed among the top 20% of all participants, internationally. The IAAC is an online science competition held every year for students all over the world to hone their interest in astronomy. The exam had three rounds in three months from May to July and required extensive knowledge about astronomy and astrophysics. Young aspirants got a chance to read official scientific papers issued by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the European Organization for Nuclear Research. Virtual collaboration on Covid crisis at ElproElpro International School held its first international virtual collaboration project with Wapping High School, located in Central London recently. Both schools had initiated a virtual discussion on The Impact of Covid Crisis on the World The event was live streamed on Facebook, which was presented by the students as a simulation of an international news conference. Students portrayed the characters of renowned international experts from different organisations and agencies around the world. The discussion encompassed measures taken by the government to limit the spread of Covid-19, breakdown of economies, environmental repercussions and viable solutions, impact on international trade and commerce, decreased prices of oil, job crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-ix-dastur-student-designs-ncov-care-device/articleshow/77403018.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP delegation urges Punjab governor to dismiss Congress govt||CHANDIGARH: A joint delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)–Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) met Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore on Thursday seeking dismissal of the Congress government and a probe into the hooch tragedy by a sitting high court judge or CBI. Delegation members, led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia also demanded a probe by the Enforcement Directorate. They urged the governor to direct officials to confiscate properties of those involved in the illicit liquor trade besides checking smuggling of denatured spirit and extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from distilleries. They demanded registration of murder cases against those named by the victim families, particularly Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki. The delegation members asked the governor to get families of those who were severely affected by the consumption of spurious liquor rehabilitated. The joint delegation, which was accompanied by a victim’s family, said the hooch tragedy was the direct result of state patronage, which was why people across Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur were affected by the same lot of contaminated liquor. Kamajit Kaur, relative of one of the victims, told the governor that she was being threatened ever since she recorded a complaint against the Khadoor Sahib MLA. She said she was even denied Rs 2 lakh compensation for the death of two family members which had been given to other victims’ families. Sukhbir told the governor that no action was taken after two illegal distilleries-cum-bottling plants were unearthed at Rajpura and Khanna. According to him, no action was taken against two Congress legislators despite the fact that they were accused of patronising the main culprits. The state government had also denied ED access to case files despite repeated requests, indicating that it did not want the money trail exposed, he said. Stating that the illicit liquor trade had already caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the Punjab government treasury, delegation members said the former chief secretary had also accused ministers of causing massive loss to the treasury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-delegation-urges-punjab-governor-to-dismiss-congress-govt/articleshow/77403022.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||School denies online education link over non-payment of fees; parents protest||NAGPUR: Aggrieved parents of Narayana Vidyalayam School are protesting management’s move to stop online study link of their wards after they failed to pay the fees. They wrote to the principal asking for up to 50% fees reduction for the academic year 2020-21 in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The parents also demanded implementation of education officer (secondary) Shivling Patwe’s June 3 letter to all schools directing them to charge only tuition and term fees and not for services like library and laboratories which wouldn’t be used by the students due to closure. A copy of the letter, which was also marked to the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court administrative judge Ravi Deshpande and Patwe, claimed the school had stopped providing online classes link to the children whose parents had not paid the first instalment. Like every sector, even the schools are hit hard by the Covid-19 enforced lockdown with many teachers and parents losing out on jobs or facing big salary cuts. Similar protests by the parents were witnessed earlier in front of many leading schools like Bhavan’s and Centre Point with the help of an NGO against alleged fee hike. Denying the parents’ allegations, Chinchbhuwan branch principal Mala Chembath said the school hadn’t hiked fees and instead provided an instalment facility for all. “Some parents are yet to pay last year’s fees. This year’s deadline for first instalment was May 10 but till date about 50% parents are yet to deposit the fees,” she said. Principal said some parents paid up after the link was denied. “We stopped for just three days after they didn’t pay even a penny. We will be starting it again. We are ready to talk to parents having genuine problems. Today also some parents came and talked to me,” she told TOI adding that the school had about 2,800 students from KG-I to Standard XII. According to parents, the lockdown had severely affected them, as many had lost jobs while others’ finances dropped alarmingly leading to constraints. “Some of us are also teachers in other schools and were being paid half salary. We are ready to pay the fees, but considering the situation, we seek your assistance to reduce it on humanitarian grounds. We all are paying regular fees without any break since the last many years,” the letter said. Objecting to the introduction of online classes by the school, the parents said they were facing numerous difficulties in providing facilities to their wards for it. “From having separate devices to providing home schooling, the new system burdened us financially. However, we are comfortable in receiving study material in the form of PDF or video links,” they said while applauding the efforts of teachers and calling them “corona warriors”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-denies-online-edu-link-over-non-payment-of-fees-parents-protest/articleshow/77401731.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown in MP only on Sundays: CM at review meet||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, clarified on Thursday that there would be lockdown in the state only on Sunday and night curfew would be in force from 10 pm to 5 am. If there are exceptional circumstances anywhere in the state, the district collector concerned would be able to put extra restrictions only after permission from the state government. The CM said that of late, there has been a spurt in coronavirus cases in the state, but good recovery rate ensured that the number of active cases didn’t rise. In fact, it has started reducing once again. On Thursday, 838 coronavirus patients were discharged across the state following recovery while 830 new patients were found. Madhya Pradesh has a recovery rate of 73.6% and it now occupies 16th position among states in terms of active coronavirus cases. This is a good sign, he added. He, however, stressed on the need to reduce the coronavirus death rate and said it is 4.32% as of now and best facilities must be ensured at Covid hosoitals to reduce it. If required, advice of non-government experts should be elicited for the purpose, the chief minister added. Chouhan, who was reviewing the coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing, asked the heath deprtment to prepare an elaborate “home isolation” and “home quarantine” policy so that mild patients and coronavirus suspects, who have spacious houses and want to be at home during isolation, could be helped. Citing example of a 100-year-old cancer patient from Khargone, Rukmini Devi, who recovered from coronavirus, he said, “I salute her resilience. If she can do it, why not us? The need is to get teated in time and more testing is key to early detection and timely treatment of patients.” He said 10,294 patients per million people are being tested as of now. It should be further incresed and at the same time, people must be made aware that they need to get medical help as soon as coronavirus symptoms appear in them. Expressing concern over coronavirus cases being found among prisoners, he said there are 137 coronavirus- infected patients and asked the DG, jail, to take all possible steps to check the trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-in-state-only-on-sundays-cm-at-review-meet/articleshow/77400346.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Officials suspect west African link to Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case||KOCHI: NIA would soon expand its probe to UAE with a team of officials set to visit the Arab country soon, seeking further details of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. According to NIA, the original source of gold and network of the racket in the UAE would be probed. During a hearing of the case on Thursday, NIA hinted at a possibility west African drugs and arms cartels being involved in sourcing gold. “The case has transnational importance and that some forces behind the crime exist abroad,” NIA submitted in court. Ramees used to ‘import’ goods from Tanzania. It has to be probed if the gold was sourced from the UAE or from cartels in west Africa, NIA submitted. “The smuggling ring has very long tentacles on both sides,” NIA presented in court. According to sources, Rabins Hameed, a key accused based in the UAE had a major role in procuring and sending the gold to India via diplomatic channel. The role of Faisal Fareed, instrumental in sending the contraband for financing activities of the racket, is also being probed, sources said. NIA, meanwhile, told the court on Thursday that crime of Swapna, who was aware of the co-accused’s intentions and that smuggling would destabilize Indian economy, should be seen in the backdrop of statements against Ramees. Ramees, the mastermind in the case, insisted on smuggling maximum gold quantities during the lockdown. NIA had termed this act as an attempt to ‘fracture’ the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-suspect-w-african-link-to-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/77400390.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board lodges complaint against 20 for illegal connections||HYDERABAD: Sending a strong message to those having illegal water connections, the special team of the vigilance wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) lodged police complaint against 20 flat owners of an apartment in the city. As part of the drive against illegal water connections, the vigilance wing, on Thursday, raided an apartment, located besides Melkote Park, Vittalwadi in Narayanaguda and found that the 20 residents were drawing water illegally. “As per the water board’s records, the apartment already has one water connection but the offenders illegally installed another connection,” said HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer, M Ravi Chandan Reddy. “We have disconnected both the water connections and lodged a complaint with Narayanaguda police station against all the 20 flat owners,” he added. The criminal cases were registered under relevant sections of the IPC. “The punishment for this offence is imprisonment of up to five years,” said Chandan Reddy. It is learnt that the flat owners have urged the CVO to withdraw the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-lodges-complaint-against-20-for-illegal-connections/articleshow/77401722.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Litigation traffic in HC increases in July||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday declared its performance report in July stating that its case clearance rate was nearly 74% last month and the case disposal rate was nearly 30% while all cases were conducted through video conferencing. After the lockdown, when only urgent cases were entertained, the HC witnessed increase in traffic of litigation in July. There were 5,234 cases filed, out of which 4,240 cases were registered last month. Total cases listed before the courts in July were 9,408. Of them, 3,128 cases have been disposed of. Out of total disposed cases, there were 2,562 main matters. In July, there were 313 sittings in the high court. The benches passed 50 judgments. In all, 7,364 orders were passed during these 313 sittings, 6,418 by single-judge benches and 946 by division benches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/litigation-traffic-in-hc-increases-in-july/articleshow/77401736.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||HC restrains NMC from opening traffic park tender||NAGPUR: Restraining Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) from opening its commercial tender for reviving Children’s Traffic Park, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday reserved the public interest litigation (PIL) for judgment. After a marathon hearing, a division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor directed the NMC commissioner not to proceed with the tender for appointing operator to run the park till HC’s verdict. The directives came while hearing a PIL by NGO Civic Action Guild Foundation, which had challenged the civic body’s July 10 tender for restarting the park in Dharampeth. Through senior counsel Anil Mardikar and Tushar Mandlekar, the petitioner termed the NMC’s move to float commercial tender as arbitrary in nature and violative of Dharampeth residents’ fundamental rights. NMC counsel Gemini Kasat admitted that the land was reserved for park but pointed out that commercial operations were conducted by previous operator for nine years and residents didn’t object. Terming the tender illegal, the petitioner contended that NMC failed to obtain permission under Section 253 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act for construction activities there. Moreover, there is no building completion or occupancy certificate taken, said the petitioner. According to the plea, the land is reserved as a garden in sanctioned development plan (DP) under Section 33 of the MRTP Act, 1966, and hence can’t be allowed to be operated for any other purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-restrains-nmc-from-opening-traffic-park-tender/articleshow/77401715.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey Hospital fire: They were close to beating Covid-19||The eight Covid patients who died in the Shrey Hospital fire included five men and three women. The oldest was Navnit Shah, 80, from dholka, while the youngest was arif mansuri, 42, from Vejalpur. Most had been at the hospital for between one and three weeks, and were to be shifted to the general ward. Hubby beat Covid, wife could not beat the fire fateChandrakant Shah, 75, and his wife Leelavati, 72, residents of Vasna, were both admitted to Shrey Hospital about 10 days ago when they were diagnosed with Covid-19. Chandrakant was discharged on August 4 and Leelavati was to be discharged in a couple of days as her health had improved considerably. “But before she could come home and unite with us, the fire consumed her,” mourned Chandrakant’s brother Mahesh Shah. “She was to be shifted to the general ward on Thursday, a first step towards her homecoming. Our family, especially my brother, was so eager to welcome the Covid winner. But she has now departed on a long journey.” The family accused the hospital of not informing them about the fateful event. “We came to know about it from the media reports on Thursday morning and rushed to the hospital. The hospital authorities would call us regularly for the payments, but they did not consider it absolute necessary to inform us about the incident,” said Shah. She was set to be discharged, went to heavenly abode instead Jyoti Sindhi, 51, a native of Kheralu town in Mehsana district, sought medical treatment in the city – the family believing that they would get best possible treatment for the Covid-19 infection. Vishnu Sindhi, her husband, was inconsolable outside Shrey Hospital on Thursday morning. “The lackadaisical approach exhibited by the authorities at all the levels has claimed her life. We were getting calls daily from the hospital to pay bill – we might have paid Rs 6 lakh so far – but it did not save her life,” said Sindhi. An inconsolable Vishnu demanded that a fair probe should be conducted into the issue and they should get speedy justice. “If the government and agencies cannot ensure fire safety in hospitals – that too a Covid-19 designated one – then what a citizen can expect from them?” he asked. AMA loses its walking, talking ‘encyclopedia’ to fire  Manubhai Rami, 65, a resident of Memnagar, had got infected with Covid-19 in the last week of July. Rami was considered to be the brain of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) due to his association with the doctors’ body for four decades as office superintendent. Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, said that the news of his demise is yet to sink in. “A workaholic, he would work tirelessly to further the cause of AMA despite his age. He worked with so many presidents and guided them in their role with the association. He would immediately give you all the statistics and details – earning him his nickname of encyclopedia,” she said, adding that AMA has organized a condolence meet in his honour. A close associate said that Rami had developed fever and cough in the last week of July after which he was advised to undergo Covid test. After testing positive, his condition deteriorated and needed hospitalization, said close friends in AMA. Two generations snuffed out in a few minutes Navnit Shah, 80, and his son Narendra, 61, residents of Kharakuwa, Dholka, were among those who lost their lives in the blaze. His relatives said that the family owns three shops and showrooms of readymade garments and unstitched cloth. A close associate said that a total of four family members had tested positive about 10 days back. “While the two others were advised home quarantine, the two had more advanced symptoms and thus they were advised hospitalization. Their condition was improving, and it was expected that they would have got discharged in a few days,” said an acquaintance, adding that Navnit Shah is survived by three sons. “He was also associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).” Top lawyer’s wife was to be shifted to general ward todayAyesha Tirmizi, 51, a resident of Paldi, was admitted for the past three weeks at Shrey Hospital for Covid-19 infection. Wife of M M Tirmizi, a senior lawyer, a trustee at Ajmer Sharif and social leader, she was also undergoing treatment for renal disease, said family members. “Even before Covid-19 infection, she was getting treated at the hospital. It was the factor when the family decided to admit her at the hospital due to familiarity with the treating doctors. On Wednesday, she had tested negative twice. Thus, she was to be shifted to general ward for a couple of days before her eventual discharge,” said a close acquaintance. Her last rites were performed at Dhudheshwar cemetery, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/they-were-close-to-beating-covid/articleshow/77401880.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong wants FIR for demolishing shrines in sectt||Hyderabad: TPCC minority wing workers on Thursday staged a protest at Saifabad police station demanding registration of an FIR against the demolition of two mosques and a temple in the old secretariat complex. Mild tension prevailed at the PS when cops refused to give acknowledgement or register the complaint. After much persuasion, police officials agreed to make a general diary entry of the complaint lodged by Congress members. The Congress members said the mosques and temple were illegally demolished on the intervening night of July 7-8 without taking the masjid committee or the Telangana State Wakf Board into confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-wants-fir-for-demolishing-shrines-in-sectt/articleshow/77401775.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA Ramalinga Reddy dies at 59||HYDERABAD: Dubbaka MLA Solipeta Ramanlinga Reddy died of a heart attack after a prolonged illness at a private hospital here in the early hours of Thursday. He was 59. The TRS legislator was admitted to the hospital due to health issues a couple of weeks ago and had undergone a knee surgery before that. Family members took his mortal remains to his native village Chittapur to perform the last rites. A four-time MLA, Ramalinga played an active role in the separate Telangana movement after he joined the TRS in 2001. A journalist before he joined politics, Ramalinga was chairman of the assembly estimates committee. He had won from Dommata and Dubbaka constituencies in 2004, 2008, 2014 and 2018. Expressing shock over the sudden death of Ramalinga, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao recalled his association with the legislator during the agitation for separate Telangana state. He offered his condolences to the bereaved family. TRS working president KT Rama Rao condoled the death and paid last respects at Chittapur village. Finance minister T Harish Rao, who was a close friend of the MLA, described Ramalinga Reddy as a “people’s man”. Ministers Eatala Rajender, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, A Indrakaran Reddy, V Srinivas Goud, S Niranjan Reddy, T Srinivas Yadav, Sabitha Indra Reddy, Satyavathi Rathod and others condoled the death of Ramaligna Reddy. He is survived by wife, a son and daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-ramalinga-reddy-dies-at-59/articleshow/77401730.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price further surges to Rs 57,700||Ahmedabad: Riding on global factors, gold price once again surged further up to settle at Rs 57,700 per 10 gram on Thursday. Tracing rally in the international market, gold price rose by Rs 600 against Wednesday’s Rs 57,100 per 10 gram. Gold price marginally rose in the international market on account of the economic uncertainty panning out as a consequence of the Covid-19 crisis, said analysts. “Worries over the worsening global economic situation deepened with the slowed private sector job growth report in the US. This fuelled safe-haven investment in gold as a consequence of which yellow metal prices rose,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). The demand for gold at retail counters has taken a big hit after the stores resumed operations post lockdown, not just in Gujarat but pan India, which is considered to be the second-largest gold consuming market in the world. Industry players fear that rising prices will hit employment in the gems and jewellery sector adversely. “A number of jewellery manufacturing units are just not operating in absence of any job work. While several gold jewellery artisans have fled Ahmedabad for their home towns, most have not returned and are not expected to return as there is barely any work,” said Chinubhai Choksi, president, Manek Chowk Choksi Mahajan. Industry players also said that those who are currently in Ahmedabad are not getting paid full wages as they don’t have much work at hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-further-surges-to-rs-57700/articleshow/77401821.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Police arrest 135 more accused, register 197 new cases||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police has registered 197 new cases and arrested 135 more accused in its state-wide crackdown on illicit liquor mafia. As many as 284 drums of methanol were seized from the godown of key accused Rajiv Joshi in Millar Ganj, Ludhiana. Joshi had sold three drums that led to the death of 113 in three districts. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the last 24 hours saw the recovery of 1,528 litres of illicit liquor, 7,450 kg lahan and 962 litre smuggled liquor in raids at various locations. He said 11 working stills were also seized and 197 cases registered since Wednesday. Amritsar police seized lahan in a special drive. Gupta added that ever since the raids started in the wake of the hooch tragedy, 1,489 FIRs have been registered and 1,034 persons arrested. A total of 29,422 litres of illicit liquor, besides 12,599 litres of illicit liquor and over 5.82 lakh kg of lahan, along with 20,960 litres of alcohol/spirits had been seized and 73 working stills found till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-arrest-135-more-accused-register-197-new-cases/articleshow/77403036.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Politicos upset over delay in Cantt board elections||HYDERABAD: The ministry of defence’s (MoD) decision to extend the term of the elected representatives of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) by another six months has upset almost all political parties’ members . The MoD’s decision is said to have poured cold water over the plans of the political parties that were gearing up for the polls. So far, the elections to eight civilian wards of SCB have never been held on party symbols but the parties are confident of a change in the policy. The TRS had even prepared an internal report on the strategy to be implemented to win the elections. “We are awaiting the MoD’s notification on SCB elections but they got delayed again. Nevertheless, we are ready to contest whenever they are conducted,” a senior TRS party leader told TOI. Party workers in the SCB are raring to contest the polls and there is bound to be an intra-party contest to secure party nomination, added the leader. The BJP is gaining traction in SCB and has strong cadre in some civilian wards. The party leaders have already prepared a preliminary ground report on probable candidates for the elections. BJP had even secured majority votes in three civilian wards during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The party is planning to give youngsters a chance to contest this time. Hyderabad city BJP general secretary T Raja Shekhar Reddy said, “We prepared well for the board elections. So we are ready to fight the elections whenever they are held.” The Congress, however, is facing a crisis as most of its cadre has deserted the party. “Though we are facing issues on the cadre front, we are ready for elections. Now that the elections have got delayed, we got a chance to build the cadre in the cantonment,” said a Congress leader. Exactly a week ago, the director general defence estates (DGDE), Delhi directed all the cantonment boards to suspend the electoral process, such as revising electoral rolls till further orders. SCB had received around 4,000 applications regarding additions or deletions to the voters list. As per the rolls, there are 1.44 lakh voters in the eight civilian wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/politicos-upset-over-delay-in-cantt-board-elections/articleshow/77401784.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 situation in city improving, says govt advisor||Hyderabad: State government advisor AK Khan on Thursday said that the Covid-19 situation in Hyderabad is improving but more care needs to be taken, particularly in the months of August and September when the number of positive cases is expected to spike. Speaking after flagging off round-the-clock Covid-19 emergency service — Medical Emergency and Ambulance Network Services (Means) organised by Al-Hamd Foundation and Mesco, Khan urged people to exercise utmost precaution. He added that the situation in Telangana, particularly in Old City, is improving. Means is an all-round doorstep service system including a fleet of six ambulances and a mortuary vehicle, immunity-boosting medicines for Covid-19 patients, an oxygen support hub to handle medical emergencies and doctor consultation over telephone. It aims at helping Covid-19 patients and their families struggling with finances. Khan said the government will extend its support to these activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-situation-in-city-improving-says-govt-advisor/articleshow/77401817.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Street vendors to get financial aid of Rs 10k||Secunderabad: Hyderabad district collector Swetha Mohanty, accompanied by Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy, visited the Cantonment areas in Secunderabad on Thursday to collect details of street vendors for providing them financial assistance of Rs 10,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi. The collector visited street vegetable market areas including Lal Bazar, Bowenpally and Tadbund and interacted with the street vendors. “Under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi, every street vendor and hawker will get a working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000 with interest subvention,” said Prakash, town mission coordinator, Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA), Secunderabad Cantonment. “During our survey on street vendors, it was found that there are 1,220 street vendors in the Cantonment areas, but we will conduct surveys to get benefits for another 4,000 street vendors under Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. Collector Swetha Mohanty directed the officials concerned to complete a survey and send the details of the street vendors at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/street-vendors-to-get-financial-aid-of-rs-10k/articleshow/77401824.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Heavy winds, over 500mm rain in 72 hrs, but it wasn’t a cyclone||MUMBAI: It was not just an August record that the heavy rain in the city notched up on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba observatory recorded 331.8mm of rainfall in a span of 24 hours between 8am on August 5 (Wednesday) and 8am on August 6 (Thursday), which is the second highest seasonal rain after 575.6mm reported 46 years ago, on July 5, 1974. The 293.8mm of rain recorded in 12 hours on Wednesday had been the most in 24 hours for the month of August since 1974. BMC chief Iqbal Chahal said the over 300mm rain was even more than what south Mumbai had experienced during the 2005 deluge. IMD’s Colaba observatory had recorded 73.4mm of rain in a span of 24 hours on July 26-27, 2005, while the suburbs, then hit very badly, had reported 944mm rain. The weather bureau, however, said reduction in rain activity could be expected from Friday and there would be light to moderate rainfall between August 7 and 9 (Sunday). While several pockets of the city experienced rainfall on Thursday, it was not as intense as in the past three days. The city and suburbs got over 500mm of rain in a matter of 72 hours. Between August 3 and 6, total rainfall reported by IMD’s Colaba observatory was 637.2mm, while the Santacruz observatory reported 515.2mm. Though the rain was accompanied by high-velocity gusty winds, the IMD clarified it wasn’t a cyclone. “August 5 was a windy day in Mumbai and around, with strong gusty winds along with intense rain. There is some confusion among a few that it was a cyclone. I wish to clarify that the severe weather was not a cyclone. Such strong gusty winds are a part of vigorous monsoon conditions,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD. However, BMC authorities said gusty winds of up to 100 kmph had not been forecast. Asked if the new integrated flood warning system (IFLOWS) launched in June this year to provide early warning for floods, especially during heavy rainfall and cyclones, did not help, civic authorities said the system is yet to be developed fully. The development of the system was initiated by the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MOES) by using the expertise of IMD, National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), in close coordination with the BMC’s disaster management department. A senior BMC official said that on Friday, they will hold a meeting with the NCCR on the subject. “Such gusty winds for South Mumbai accompanied with heavy rain have not occurred in the recent past,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/24-hour-downpour-in-city-is-2nd-heaviest-ever-recorded/articleshow/77403525.cms||Richa Pinto
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||Informer arrested for giving false info||Vadodara: A police informer and his accomplice were arrested on Thursday for trying to wrongly frame a businessman in a drugs case. The accused Amit Mistry had provided false information to the special operations group (SOG) of Vadodara rural police last month that Rajesh Patel, who is into agriculture-based business, had stored marijuana at his godown in Desar taluka. Based on his information, cops raided the godown on July 23. Marijuana worth Rs 6,306 was found from the terrace of the godown and along with Patel, Mukesh Gohil, who works with him, got arrested. During interrogation, Patel and Gohil did not admit to the crime and kept saying that they had no information. As the duo kept refusing, police then called Mistry, who lives in Waghodiya, and questioned him. He finally admitted that he provided false information and also told the cops that he had borrowed money from Patel and was not being able to repay which led to spat. As Mistry did not want to give any money after the altercation, he decided to frame him in a false case. Mistry contacted his friend Rakesh Brahmbhatt, who was also arrested on Thursday, and they sourced marijuana from one Rameez Mansuri, who lives in Naswadi taluka of Chhota Udepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/informer-arrested-for-giving-false-info/articleshow/77399522.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: M R Bijulal remanded in judicial custody||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Treasury fraud accused M R Bijulal has confessed to police that he swindled Rs 2.7 crore using the PEN number and password of a former treasury officer, transferred it to his and wife’s account, and spent it. In Bijulal’s remand report, police informed the court that evidence will have to be gathered from Kozhikode and Kottayam where he had worked earlier. Police have requested banks to freeze accounts of the accused. Police have confiscated the hard disk, cheque issue register and other documents. Police have also seized debit cards, credit cards, a discount card from a leading jeweller, bank passbooks, including that of HDFC Bank, SBI Thamarassery branch and Federal Bank, cheque books of treasury savings bank, etc, after arresting Bijulal. Police said in the report that if given bail, there are high chances of Bijulal trying to destroy crucial evidence that will help in case investigation. parallel investigation by the finance department team is also progressing. A JFMC court here remanded Bijulal in two-week judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bijulal-remanded-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/77400414.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||WR staff trained on Atmanirbhar engine||Ahmedabad: The first railway locomotives made under the Atmanirbhar project, WAG-12, arrived in Ahmedabad division for training of staff. Divisional railway manager Deepak Kumar Jha said the Ahmedabad division running staff were given theoretical training online. Now, one such locomotive has been handed over to each zonal railway for practical training. The division received this special class of locomotive on Wednesday and about 100 staff (running and maintenance) were given practical training by the chief loco inspectors. At present, the engine will run on the Botad-Dhola and Geratpur-Surendranagar section and once full fledged permission is obtained it operate between Ahmedabad and Palanpur and Ahmedabad and Gandhidham. Officials said the usual running speed of the engine is 100kmph and it go up to 120kmph. It will be useful for crossing mountain passes. At present two engines are needed to cross passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wr-staff-trained-on-atmanirbhar-engine/articleshow/77401860.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||126kg hilsa from Opar Bangla in BSF net as Epar Bangla starved of catch||KOLKATA: With the Bengali’s favourite Ilish (hilsa) continuing to remain elusive despite initial hopes of a good catch along the West Bengal coast, an enterprising few seem to be making most of the opportunity by smuggling in the fish from Bangladesh. On Wednesday, even as the state observed the first total lockdown of the month, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel stopped a truck at the International Check Post (ICP) at Petrapole in North 24 Parganas, with nearly 126kg of hilsa hidden inside. It was estimated that the fish could have been sold between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,200 per kg to traders who may have charged up to Rs 2,000 per kg from buyers in the retail market, depending upon the size of the fish. It is also suspected that many such consignments may be slipping across the India-Bangladesh border through the porous border with West Bengal. “Around 10pm on Wednesday, troops of the 179Bn of the BSF stopped a truck near the passenger gate of the ICP at Petrapole for a routine search. The fish was packed in nine white bags in a secret compartment inside the cabin of the truck. The driver, identified as Biplab Shil, a resident of Dinbandhunagar in Bongaon, has been apprehended and handed over to the police along with the bags. During interrogation, Shil has confessed that he was on his way back to India after delivering goods to Bangladesh, when one Miraj Chaudhary handed over the consignment for transport to India. Shil was to hand over the bags to Khokan, a security guard at the parking space in Narharipur in Bongaon and receive Rs 5,000 for his effort. Khokan was to hand over the fish to somebody named Pankaj,” said a senior BSF official. Hilsa from Bangladesh is not uncommon in the markets of Kolkata and the districts, but the fish is exported officially by the neighbouring country much later in the season. However, there was a dispute that held up exports from Bangladesh for seven years. This ended in 2019. The Bangladeshi variety normally doesn’t fetch the price that the fresh catch does. Traders, however, said that with a severe crisis in the market, even the Bangladeshi hilsa may have touched Rs 1,800-2,000 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/126kg-hilsa-from-opar-bangla-in-bsf-net-as-epar-bangla-starved-of-catch/articleshow/77401889.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 7, 2020||Bhopal||Experts caution against rapid antigen test with sero survey||INDORE: A technical advisory committee has advised against conducting rapid antigen test along with the proposed sero-survey to know the prevalence of Covid-19 in the district. State government had proposed to conduct rapid antigen test along with collection of samples for sero-survey. The committee members, during a video conference held on August 2, concluded not to collect swab samples for carrying out antigen tests with sero-survey. “The members have decided not to conduct both the tests together in the city because of their different nature. The contrasting results will fail the purpose of the survey,” said a committee member. Sero-Survey is a test based on blood samples for analysing presence of antibodies. The presence of antibodies in population help in evaluating the part of population exposed to COVID-19, said the member. While rapid antigen test is conducted to find out if the person is infected or not. If the test gives positive result then a person is positive but if it comes negative, then the samples are sent for RT-PCR testing to rule out infection. So, these two are entirely different, he said. AIIMS, Bhopal director and chairman of committee Dr Sarman Singh said, “The committee has submitted its recommendation. All these are internal issues and I don’t want to comment on it.” On Thursday, a training session of 43 technical staff was conducted at MGM wherein they were informed about the steps involved in collection of blood samples for the proposed sero-survey. The authorities have sent a proposal to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for its approval to conduct sero-survey on a sample size of 7,000, to be collected from all 85 IMC wards of the district. According to the proposed plan, a team of technical members will collect samples from two wards but only after approval from (NCDC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/experts-caution-against-rapid-antigen-test-with-sero-survey/articleshow/77400426.cms||Antriksh Singh
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Actor Samir Sharma, aged 44, found dead||MUMBAI: Actor Samir Sharma (44), who has starred in the Hindi film ‘Hasee Toh Phasee’ besides popular television shows ‘Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki’ and ‘Woh Rehne Wali Mehlon Ki’, was found dead in his Malad (West) flat on Wednesday night. Police said he had hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his kitchen. Sharma, who had separated from his wife and lived alone, did not leave behind a suicide note. Around 9pm on Wednesday, a watchman of Sharma’s society glanced at his kitchen window and spotted him hanging. He alerted the society’s residents, who summoned the police. “The actor’s flat was untidy when we entered. A strong odour emanated from the body. We suspect he took the drastic step at least a day or two ago. His parents and sister are in Bengaluru and have been informed,” a police officer said. Police will go through the actor’s medical files and financial statements to investigate if he had any trouble. He had moved into the Malad apartment in December last year. Sharma’s suicide, following those of actors Sushant Singh Rajput, Manmeet Grewal and Preksha Mehta, has put the focus once again on mental health. While Malad police are still to ascertain the motive for the extreme step, mental health professionals say several factors during a pandemic and lockdown could push a person to the brink. “These could include financial stress, lack of employment options, major changes in lifestyle and loneliness coupled with fear of the future,” said psychiatrist Avinash De Sousa. “It’s unfortunate that Sharma, who was a regular working actor and whose advances had been cleared resorted to such a drastic step. He was talking to his fellow actors about restarting work this week. We wonder what devils he might have been battling,” said Amit Behl, actor and senior joint secretary of the Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), which had formed an actors’ care group in 2016. Behl stressed that reports of escalating mental health problems in the industry have prompted the association to appeal for help from corporate bodies to set up a round-the-clock helpline. “Our sister concern, Screen Actors Guild—American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, has a hotline. It’s time for us too. Repercussions of the lockdown will remain for a while and we have to start working on finding both human and monetary resources to offer 24x7 help and counselling,” he said. Sharma’s Instagram page describes him as an “actor, writer and poet”. On July 22, he had shared a post on mental health and depression, mentioning Rajput’s alleged bipolar disorder as well. “World Health Organisation says one in three people is depressed. Often, people hesitate to seek help as there is a stigma attached to depression. But every suicide is preventable if help is sought,” said De Sousa. Malad police have recorded an accidental death entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-samir-sharma-aged-44-found-dead/articleshow/77403556.cms||Nitasha Natu
August 7, 2020||Indore||Experts caution against rapid antigen test with sero survey||INDORE: A technical advisory committee has advised against conducting rapid antigen test along with the proposed sero-survey to know the prevalence of Covid-19 in the district. State government had proposed to conduct rapid antigen test along with collection of samples for sero-survey. The committee members, during a video conference held on August 2, concluded not to collect swab samples for carrying out antigen tests with sero-survey. “The members have decided not to conduct both the tests together in the city because of their different nature. The contrasting results will fail the purpose of the survey,” said a committee member. Sero-Survey is a test based on blood samples for analysing presence of antibodies. The presence of antibodies in population help in evaluating the part of population exposed to COVID-19, said the member. While rapid antigen test is conducted to find out if the person is infected or not. If the test gives positive result then a person is positive but if it comes negative, then the samples are sent for RT-PCR testing to rule out infection. So, these two are entirely different, he said. AIIMS, Bhopal director and chairman of committee Dr Sarman Singh said, “The committee has submitted its recommendation. All these are internal issues and I don’t want to comment on it.” On Thursday, a training session of 43 technical staff was conducted at MGM wherein they were informed about the steps involved in collection of blood samples for the proposed sero-survey. The authorities have sent a proposal to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for its approval to conduct sero-survey on a sample size of 7,000, to be collected from all 85 IMC wards of the district. According to the proposed plan, a team of technical members will collect samples from two wards but only after approval from (NCDC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/experts-caution-against-rapid-antigen-test-with-sero-survey/articleshow/77405081.cms||Antriksh Singh
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fraud in lotteries department hushed up||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the government announced a string of measures to plug loopholes to prevent swindling money by public servants in the wake of treasury scam, another financial fraud uncovered two years ago has not yet seen the light of day. A financial inspection wing (FIW) probe into alleged irregularities in lotteries department had found that several officials connived to swindle money under the cover of transporting printed lottery tickets to various parts of the state. Interestingly, the FIW report two years ago, with six recommendations against the culprits (a copy of which has been accessed by TOI), has not been processed for unknown reasons. FIW found that Rs 41.9 lakh was swindled by some lottery department officials by forging documents showing it as travel expenditure for 232 non-existent trips for distributing lotteries, printed at Centre for Advanced Printing & Training (C-APT) in the capital, to various centres across the state. The report named 24 officials ranging from deputy director, junior superintendent, upper division clerk and district lotteries officer, who served in the department from 2013 to 2017, as responsible for the fraud. The probe found several malpractices including in awarding contract for lottery distribution. The contract was awarded to the same person for many years, even when ownership of vehicles used for the purpose were not in the person’s name to whom the contract was awarded, in violation of rules. In one instance, the vehicle’s registration number in records used for transporting lotteries, was registered at a much later date than it was used for the purpose. This would mean that such a vehicle was non-existent during the time it was shown as distributing lotteries, the report found. The probe also found that the same vehicle was recorded to be at two different locations at the same time, clearly showing that the documents were forged. The inspection team made six recommendations to the government. It recommended stringent action against errant officials while also recovering money from them. However, FIW’s report (with file number 1763/FIW-h2/2017/Fin) was never forwarded to higher authorities, as it is learnt that there was pressure from some quarters to exclude some names from the list of those responsible for the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fraud-in-lotteries-dept-hushed-up/articleshow/77400444.cms||KP Saikiran
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Concerns over ammonium nitrate stock in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The explosion in Beirut on August 4 that killed at least 100 people and left thousands wounded has raised concerns about the storage of ammonium nitrate in the port city. The chemical compound, said to be the reason behind the huge blast in the Lebanese capital, is imported to the country from Russia and the Gulf countries through the Visakhapatnam Port Trust. Over two lakh tonnes of the hazardous substance are imported every year through VPT and stored at a warehouse owned by a shipping company. Civil Liberties Committee president T Sreerama Murthy said the area where the warehouse is located is surrounded by industries, including Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited. “If any untoward incident were to happen like the explosion in Lebanon, HPCL will be the first victim. It is a major threat to the city. The collector should immediately review the safety measures being undertaken in the storage of ammonium nitrate,” Murthy said. Former Union energy secretary and activist EAS Sarma, demanded that the government should stop the import of the hazardous chemical compound. “I have written a letter to Union home secretary AK Bhalla to immediately take steps and tighten the rules and procedures relating to the import, storage and transport of ammonium nitrate. Major imports of the substance happen through the Visakhapatnam port,” Sarma told TOI. CPM state executive member Ch Narasinga Rao said the government should reveal the amount of ammonium nitrate currently stocked in the city and the district collector and VPT management should immediately review the status of its imports and safety measures. When contacted, VPT deputy chairman PL Haranadh told TOI that the port doesn’t store ammonium nitrate and it clears the freight from the port premises soon after it is unloaded. “The freight is sent to the warehouse, often owned or leased by the importer,” he added. The MD of Sravan Shipping Services Pvt Ltd (SSSPL), which is the agency that looks after the transport of the chemical compound from VPT to the warehouse, said ammonium nitrate is never stored on a long-term basis. “We only have a transit storage. The nitrate is transported to the importer from the warehouse within days or sometimes within two weeks. All safety measures are followed as per government norms at the warehouse,” SSSPL managing director G Sambasiva Rao said. He added that the security wing of the VPT, besides the police, frequently review the safety measures at the warehouse. “Coal India is a major importer of the compound. We have nearly 19,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in our warehouse as on Thursday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/concerns-over-ammo-nitrate-stock-in-vizag/articleshow/77400130.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Book CM, Congress MLAs for Murder: Punjab AAP chief||PATIALA: Murder cases should be registered against Congress MLAs “involved in illicit liquor trade” and chief minister Amarinder Singh, AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann said raising hooch tragedy in Patiala, the CM bastion. Interacting with mediapersons, the AAP state leader alleged it was known to all that illicit trade in the state was being run by Congress functionaries, “who were being led by the chief minister himself”. Mann said his party had now decided not to that they would not address the chief minister as ‘Captain’ as he had “brought disrepute to the Indian Army rank”. He said if the state government really wanted to crush liquor mafia, a state liquor corporation should be set up on the lines of the Delhi and Tamil Nadu. He alleged that the state government used the Covid-19 situation as an opportunity to collect huge amount of funds, rather than as a crisis. While all commercial establishments remained shut, electricity bills of full amount had been sent to consumer and the petrol and diesel prices were at an all time high, he added. The government failed to release the salary of state employees, no new hospitals had been constructed and the condition of the healthcare facilities was quite bad, he alleged. Multiple special investigation teams (SITs) were now being constituted to give clean chits to the culprits rather than bringing them to the book., he claimed. He said FIR culture was at its peak both at the Centre and in the state as cases were being registered indiscriminately against anyone raising voice against the misdoings of the government. The MP said non-existence of a strong opposition at the Centre was constantly weakening the federal structure, and alleged there were strong indications of the country heading towards a complete anarchy under Modi. He said it was high time that pro-democracy forces joined hands to thwart any such move. Ordinances were being passed by the Union government, while the parliamentary system was in complete suspension. he said, adding that the Centre wanted to control the finances of the state. Replying to a query, Mann also said there had been no talks with cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu to join AAP in Punjab. Mann also questioned the protest being held by SAD in Patiala against disappearance of Guru Granth Sahib from Kalyan village gurdwara. He said Sukhbir Singh Badal had not held any protest in Amritsar where 267 saroops of Shri Guru Granth Sahib had gone missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/book-cm-cong-mlas-for-murder-punjab-aap-chief/articleshow/77403039.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai woman held for ‘offensive’ posts on Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: The cyber police on Wednesday arrested a Navi Mumbai resident, Sunaina Holey, for allegedly posting offensive remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya on social media. A local court granted her bail on Thursday. The remand plea said that amid the Covid crisis, the accused was circulating messages on social media aimed at disturbing the peace. The plea added that she had posted objectionable contents about the Thackerays and the contents have hurt the sentiments of the complainant, a lawyer practising in Mumbai. The complainant has cited her two tweets of July 25 and 28, terming them offensive. Holey (38) has been booked under IPC sections 505(2) for statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes, and 153(A) for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony. Other sections invoked against her include defamation, printing matter known to be defamatory and for breaching public peace. Her lawyer, Chandansingh Shekawat, argued that as a woman there is a special provision for bail and also since her phone has been seized by the police, there was no need for her custodial interrogation. He also argued that there was no case made out under sections 153(A) and 505(2). He claimed that a notice was served before arrest, but in a manner that breached the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Rashmi Karandikar said Holey was produced before the Esplanade court on Thursday and released on a personal bond of Rs 15,000. The court observed that she lives in Navi Mumbai and there appears no possibility of her absconding. The court said, “There is no justified ground to keep the accused behind bars. However, looking at the nature of the offence, it is not a case where she can be released merely on personal bond.” The court then directed Holey to appear before the investigating officer on three Fridays from the date of release between 3pm and 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-held-for-offensive-posts-on-cm/articleshow/77403566.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Ministers accuse SAD, AAP of playing politics over hooch tragedy||CHANDIGARH: Four Punjab ministers on Thursday attacked the Shiromani Akalis Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for “shamelessly using the hooch tragedy to play with the sentiments of the people” with an eye on the assembly elections. They said it was “ludicrous” that the AAP protest against the hooch tragedy was led by a man “notorious for his alcoholism”. “The opposition was so busy playing to the gallery that even the sufferings of the victims and their families seemed not to have affected them,” said the ministers, in a joint statement issued here. The statement was issued by cabinet ministers Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan.  Ridiculing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s announcement that the party would approach the governor to seek the Congress government’s dismissal, the ministers said the gameplan of the party had been completely exposed. “It was clear that, following the pattern of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the Akalis, acting on the directives of their political masters – the Bharatiya Janata Party – were trying to destabilise Punjab’s duly elected government,” he said. “If governments could be dismissed for crimes committed by gangsters and criminal mafias, the SAD-BJP government of the past would have been dismissed in the first year of their rule,” they said, alleging ‘mafia raj’ prevailed across the state under their regime. They said top excise department and police officials had been suspended and were under the scanner for their role in the case, and “challenged” Sukhbir to tell the people how many times their government had dared take such strict action in any criminal case. “Even AAP had no leg to stand on despite being the main opposition party in the state,” the ministers said, alleging gross mismanagement in Delhi, where the party was in power. If the Centre had to step in to help the Arvind Kejriwal government manage the Covid pandemic, one can only imagine what the usual level of governance in Delhi must be, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ministers-accuse-sad-aap-of-playing-politics-over-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/77403040.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||Don’t incite communal strife, India tells Pak||NEW DELHI: After a press statement by Pakistan criticising construction of the Ram temple, India on Thursday warned Islamabad against communal incitement. The government also said Pakistan's position wasn't surprising coming from a nation that practised cross-border terrorism and denied its own minorities their religious rights. The government said Pakistan's comments, nevertheless, were deeply regrettable. "We have seen the press statement by the Islamic republic of Pakistan on a matter internal to India. It should desist from interfering in India’s affairs," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. On Pakistan's new political map, the spokesperson said these type of "absurd claims" showed that Pakistan wanted to take control of more areas by using cross-border terrorism. The official also said India was yet to hear anything from Pakistan for the appointment of Kulbhushan Jadhav's lawyer. "Pakistan needs to address basic issues which pertain to effective review, fulfilment and implementation of the ICJ judgment; these issues pertain to making relevant documentation available to us and providing unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-incite-communal-strife-india-tells-pak/articleshow/77403925.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New consultant to be employed for Rs 120 crore||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government has approved engaging project management consultant (PMC) for the World Bank-funded Kerala solid waste management project (KSWMP) at a cost of $16 million (nearly Rs 120 crore), which is more than the total budgetary allocation for waste management for 2020-21. The budget for 2020-21 allocates nearly Rs 100 crore for sanitation and waste management under heads like Suchitwa Keralam, Suchitwa Keralam for urban areas, state share for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), and the like. The budget allocates Rs 35 crore as 40% state share for SBM for 2020-21 and another Rs 35 crore for Suchitwa Keralam scheme with 12 components. Further, an allocation of Rs 22.3 crore has been done for Suchitwa Keralam waste management scheme for urban areas with 15 components. Suchitwa Mission, the nodal agency for the project, has invited expression of interest (EoI) for hiring PMC and the last date for submission is August 21. KSWMP is to be implemented with assistance of Rs 2,100 crore from World Bank and the total project cost is Rs 3,010 crore. The project is expected to be implemented in 87 municipalities of the 93 urban local bodies. As per environmental and social management framework document, KSWMP is proposed as an investment project financing (IPF) (with development linked indicators (DLI)) operation for 2020-25 period. The project is meant to strengthen the institutional and service delivery systems for municipal solid waste management in selected urban local bodies. The state government will borrow Rs 2,100 crore from World Bank with interest, while nearly 50% of the funds received from Centre, free of interest, under SBM (urban) remained unspent between 2015-16 and 2019-20, as per data available data in February 2020 obtained through RTI. The Centre-sponsored AMRUT scheme was also poorly implemented in the state in sectors like septage and sewerage waste management. Suchitwa Mission, which had empanelled agencies for liquid waste management, came under fire when local bodies failed to implement detailed project reports prepared by the empanelled consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-consultant-to-be-employed-for-rs-120cr/articleshow/77400639.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||First postmortems of Covid-19 positive patients at Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: The fire tragedy at Shrey Hospital led the forensic medicine department at BJ Medical College to perform postmortems on eight deceased persons, all Covid-19 patients who were in the ICU, on Thursday afternoon. Sources said asphyxiation could be the primary cause of death as senior officials said the formal results are awaited.Experts at Civil Hospital said due to the possibility of the Covid-19 infection spreading, they have avoided autopsies of patients so far. “This was an unusual case and knowing the cause of death was important from the investigation point of view, to ascribe responsibility for negligence. Due care was exercised in ensuring the safety of the experts involved,” said a senior official.Relatives who were allowed to see the bodies to identify them said the skin was falling off on touch, due to heat in the ICU. Fire brigade officials earlier said that the fire had caused a lot of smoke which could not escape.Chief fire officer speechlessChief fire officer of the city, M F Dastoor, who has been struggling to deal with fires in Ahmedabad for long, remained tight-lipped and was seen avoiding reporters’ questions for the whole day. Sources said that Dastoor was facing fire from senior bureaucrats as the hospital was run without a fire NOC and people died due to this callousness. Dastoor had earlier invited criticism for staff shortages in the fire department.Paramedical staff sheltered on groundParamedical staff of Shrey Hospital were in shock after eight patients died. The staff were shifted secretly to a ground of the Home Guard, adjacent to the hospital. Some nurses were weeping and talking about how they lost patients they had cared for till Wednesday. "We were in a dilemma on how to save them from the fire. Had we removed them from the ventilators, they would have died and if we left them there, they would die of the fire," said a nurse.Forty firemen will be home quarantinedAs firemen entered Shrey Hospital, a designated Covid-19 facility without PPE kits, they will have to be home quarantined till they test negative. A senior AFES officer said they could not wear PPE kits as it could catch fire and obstruct their operations. "As we were exposed to Covid-19 patients, we will have to remain quarantined. We did not receive any orders from our superiors regarding this," said one fireman.Thirty Congress workers detainedCongress workers held a candlelight protest in honour of the victims at Law Garden Circle on Thursday evening, after which cops took them to Gujarat University police station. The protest, led by city Congress president Shashikant Patel and Gomtipur councilor Iqbal Shaikh, was stopped by the cops as the protesters did not obtain permission from the police. Shaikh said they had a skirmish with cops who manhandled them and pushed them into vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-postmortems-of-covid-19-positive-patients-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/77401987.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||All our workers are safe in Kuwait: Meil||Amaravati: Dismissing speculation about the welfare of its employees working in Kuwait, infrastructure giant Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil) has said that it has booked tickets in the Vande Bharat flights to bring back several of its workers stranded in Kuwait. The company said that the first flight with about 175 workers will arrive in Kolkata on Friday and another in Bengaluru on Saturday. Meil has joined hands with Essar to construct 66 massive storage tanks for Kuwait oil refinery firm, AL Zour. The tankers are believed to be used for storage of LSFO, HPU, EOCENE, ULSD, ATK, DPK and raw diesel, naphtha, raw kerosene. Several hundreds of workers from Srikakulam district have been hired for the work. It was said that many are yet to get confirmed tickets due to shortage of pilots and flights being operated by the Centre through Vande Bharat mission. The company spokesperson, however, clarified that they have made accommodation and food arrangements for all its workers in Kuwait. “There is no truth to the reports that the company has not taken care of its workers. We are providing nutritious food and taking care of their every need,” he said. The spokesperson added that all the workers engaged by the firm are safe and healthy, that they have been constantly monitoring flight statuses with the authorities and trying their best to bring all their stranded workers back. He said the company would take care of the flight tickets and other transport arrangements till the workers reach home. Earlier in the day, Srikakulam MP K Rammohan Naidu urged the Centre to take measures to bring the workers back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-our-workers-are-safe-in-kuwait-meil/articleshow/77400478.cms||Samdani MN
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Spl drive against sanitiser manufacturing units in state||Vijayawada: The state police and the special enforcement bureau (SEB) sleuths have been conducting a special drive to review the manufacture of sanitizers across the state in the last seven days, following the recent deaths of 11 people due to consumption of sanitizer. Speaking to TOI, SEB commissioner Vineet Brijlal explained that there are 41 licences issued by the state government to private players to manufacture sanitizers. “Preliminary investigation of the sanitizer manufacturing units did not show any major discrepancies as such, but we did find small irregularities such as not properly maintained stock registers. We have sent samples from all the manufacturing units to check the composition of the products,” Brijlal told TOI. They are coordinating with DCA on this and based on the test results, they would cancel the licences of the manufacturers. However, officials pointed out that the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a gazette notification on July 27, exempting hand sanitizers from the requirement of sale licence under the provisions of Chapter IV of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945. “Due to this, several sanitizers that are not manufactured in the state are also being sold in the state and we believe that sanitizers from outside the state too could have played a role in the Kurichedu deaths,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-drive-against-sanitiser-manufacturing-units-in-state/articleshow/77400492.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Ashok Chavan meets governor, raises brows||MUMBAI: Eyebrows are being raised over public works minister Ashok Chavan’s marathon meeting with governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on Thursday. While Raj Bhavan described the meeting as a courtesy call, reports said Chavan discussed the political situation and status of statutory development boards for development of backward regions. The tenure of boards for Vidarbha, Marathwada and rest of Maharashtra ended on April 30, but no decision has been taken on extension. “It was a courtesy call. We discussed constitution of statutory development boards. Boards must be set up as early as possible for development of backward regions and removal of regional imbalances,’’ Chavan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ashok-chavan-meets-guv-raises-brows/articleshow/77401813.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga crosses danger mark||Kolhapur: Incessant rain finally made way for intermittent rain in the Kolhapur city and district bringing some relief to the residents, though the Panchaganga river did breach the danger level of 43 feet on Thursday evening. By 8 pm, the water level was 43.9ft. Several major roads in the district are under water. The Kolhapur-Panhala road has been closed. Though the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway (NH4) was open till late on Thursday night, the service road along the highway, which is used to access Kolhapur city, was closed. Traffic, however, was not affected. According to the officials, 1,150 families from 23 villages were shifted to safer places by late Thursday evening. District collector Daulat Desai said 4,413 people from Karveer, Gadhinglaj, Gaganbawda and Chandgad tehsils were shifted. Approach roads to Ambedwadi and Chikhli villages, which were the worst-hit in the floods last year, had again become inaccessible by the evening because of swollen the Panchaganga. A majority of Chikhli residents are moving to the Sontali village, where the government has allotted alternative land. People have erected makeshift shelters. Sunil Mane, a farmer from Prayag Chikhli, said: “Learning from last years’ experience, we had already packed all our belongings once the water level rose to 36 feet. The cattle and livestock were shifted to Sontali village yesterday (Wednesday) where we have made a makeshift shelter. We are shifting now with groceries and essentials to last at least 15 days. Hopefully, the rain will subside soon.” However, residents of Ambewadi are in trouble in the absence of alternative arrangements. Residents are anxious as they fear their relatives or friends would not give them shelter because of the Covid-19 scare. Shehnaz Mujawar, a resident of Ambewadi said, “We are packing essential items now and will be shifting to Kolhapur. Unlike last year, we can’t go to any relatives’ place this time because of the pandemic. The government should help us relocate the way it has done for the residents of Chikhli village”. In Kolhapur city, 20 families from the Sutar Mala area were relocated. Jayanti nullah, which flows through the city, was swollen, causing waterlogging at several places. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti visited the affected areas. Though guardian minister Satej Patil had appealed to the people to avoid going near flooded waterbodies, a large number of people, particularly youths, had gone to Kalamba lake and Shivaji bridge to see the Panchaganga in spate ignoring social-distancing and mask-wearing norms. Heavy rainfall over the past three days had filled Radhanagari dam to full capacity. Two gates of the dam were opened in the evening and water was discharged at the rate of 2,800 cusec. Officials said 102 bunds in Kolhapur district were currently completely submerged. District administration has deployed four teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Two teams have been deployed in Kolhapur city while one each has been pressed into service at Sainik Takli and Murgud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-crosses-danger-mark/articleshow/77401963.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Alarming! Only 91 of 2,022 hospitals have fire NOCs in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In what is an appalling state of fire safety, only 91 of the 2,022 hospitals and clinics of the city have renewed their fire safety audits and secured a no-objection certificates (NOCs), said senior officials of the AMC. The flagrant violation of safety rules is not confined only to private establishments, but a number of public hospitals and health centres also have not renewed their fire NOCs. Shrey Hospital, where a fire claimed the lives of eight patients in the early hours of Thursday, had also not renewed its fire NOC. TimesViewUnsafe hospitals are not just a matter of poor planning or regulation but reflects a deeper malaise prevalent in the sector, where fire safety is trivialized. Many buildings were regularized by the local body even though they violated hospital fire safety codes of the National Building Code and National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). Fire drills and workable disaster plans are still a distant possibility in hospitals. Fire audits are carelessly given a pass and since there is no pressure from government agencies, hospitals give two-hoots. One asks, how many more deaths will it take to ensure safer health care institutions. Things should change now.Officials of the civic body said the issue of fire safety at hospitals and clinics of the city came up for discussion at a high-level meeting held after the Shrey Hospital tragedy. “Officials were told that of the 2,022 hospitals and clinics in Ahmedabad, only 91 had renewed their fire safety certification from the civic body,” said an AMC official. Officials of the civic body, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that while the onus of securing an NOC from the fire department is on the hospitals and clinics, it is the duty of the civic body to issue notices to hospitals that have not renewed their fire safety NOC. “While hospitals and clinics have thrown caution to the wind and the violated rules by not getting their NOCs renewed, the civic body has not issued notices to any of the erring hospitals either,” an official said. The civic body is supposed to issue notices to all establishments – hospitals and clinics included – about the new guidelines that have been announced after the Surat tuition class fire tragedy, listing safety precautions and equipment. “The civic body has not issued any such notices to establishments, including hospitals and clinics,” the official said. According to an RTI petition filed with the AMC, there are 985 registered hospitals in the city with 12,978 beds cumulatively and only 5% of these had bothered to renew their fire NOCs. After the Shrey hospital fire, fire brigade personnel began checking Covid-19 designated hospitals in the city. “We checked 31 hospitals and found that many of them did not either have fire safety documents or their staff members were not aware of how to use extinguishers,” said a fire officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alarming-only-91-of-2022-hospitals-have-fire-nocs/articleshow/77401975.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolhapur||354 cases, 6 deaths in Kolhapur city||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Thursday registered 354 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 152 from the city alone, taking the total number of patients to 8,770. Of these, 4,767 are currently active. In addition, the district also reported five Covid-related casualties while 157 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovery. The district has reported 235 deaths so far. Of the recent deaths, four were above 50 years of age. They were Murgud in Kagal, Gandhinagar in Karveer, Rui and Chandur, both in Hatkanangale and Kasba Bawda in Kolhapur city. The trend of tracing new patients in urban pockets continued on Thursday with other municipal councils recording 100 positive cases. The rural pockets, on the other hand, seem to be reporting lesser patients. Officials said that Karveer tehsil added 46 new cases while Hatkanangale tehsil recorded 16 positive patients. At 949 cases, Karveer has registered the highest number of patients so far. Other tehsils reported patients in single digit while Bhudaargad did not register even a single case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/354-cases-6-deaths-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/77401985.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trustee was accused of molestation||Ahmedabad: Hours after the fire at Shrey Hospital claimed eight lives, a trustee of the hospital, Bharat Mahant, was detained by police. Mahant is a former Gujarat Congress leader and the son of former state minister Mahant Vijaydasji, who defected to the BJP in 2019. He was also accused of molesting a nursing student in 2015. Sources in the police said Mahant was detained at Navrangpura police station and will undergo a Covid-19 test before he is arrested in connection with the case. A police officer said Mahant was an active Congress leader before the 2019 Lok Sabha election. He switched to the BJP before the general election but was not given any substantial post in the saffron party. Mahant was accused of molesting a nursing student at his institute, Shrey Nursing Institute, located near AEC Crossroads in the Naranpura area. “He allegedly entered her room and molested her. A complaint was filed with Navrangpura police in 2015, which is still pending,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trustee-was-accused-of-molestation/articleshow/77401989.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Post-Amphan green drive in New Town||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (PCB) and the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) will jointly launch the post-Amphan Regreening programme in New Town on Friday. “We have a target of planting 10,000 across New Town. WBPCB will be planting 2,000 trees on Hidco land,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Out of a total 4,647 trees that were damaged in New Town due to Amphan, NKDA restored 3,738 trees across the township. The authorities kicked off their ‘Re-Green Earth’ initiative on World Environment Day in June by organizing a token plantation programme. WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra said the tree plantation in New Town is a part of the PCB’s ‘Regreening of Kolkata post Amphan’ scheme in which a large area of within 25km radius of Paribesh Bhavan, including the entire area of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, will be covered. Officials said 24 varieties of trees of short and medium heights like Bakul, Neem, Arjuna, Sishoo, Pipal, Asawtha, Seuli, Amloki have been selected as recommended by experts for the road side plantation. Five different varieties — Kamini, Jaba, Gulancha, Karabi and Rangan — were, however, selected for road-divider plantation. Hidco officials said that the nature of trees, height and after-plantation care has been specified and will be conducted by WBPCB through an agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/post-amphan-green-drive-in-new-town/articleshow/77401978.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Special officers’ rule extended till Dec 31||Amaravati: With the chances of elections to local bodies taking place looking remote due to the spread of Covid-19, the government on Thursday extended the term of special officers’ rule in all urban local bodies till December 31. Although the decision regarding the elections, which were suspended in March, rests with the SEC, the state government has decided to extend the term of the special officers in order to fill the constitutional vacuum. While district collectors are acting as special officers of major municipal corporations, joint collectors manage small municipal corporations. RDO rank officers are holding the position of special officers in other municipalities. The government said that the term of the special officers in 108 municipal corporations, municipalities and Nagarpanchayats ended on April 10, June, 30 and July, 2, respectively. “Since the SEC has postponed the elections due to Covid-19, the term of the special officers has been extended till December, 31 or the elected bodies comes into functioning,” said municipal administration secretary J Syamala Rao. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/special-officers-rule-extended-till-dec-31/articleshow/77400498.cms||Samdani MN
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Team prepares SOP to revive West Kochi||KOCHI: To contain the spread of infection in West Kochi, the health department is charting out standard operating procedure (SOP) to be implemented in 28 divisions in the area. A team of medical officials has been constituted to monitor the containment and testing measures in West Kochi. The team will submit the SOP to district health officials who would then forward it to the collector for concurrence before implementation. The nine-member team will formulate a strategy to be implemented in the region. The SOP will also focus on characteristics of each of the 28 divisions in West Kochi. Demography of each division, most-affected area, influential person, target group and other factors would find a place in the SOP. "We are planning to implement containment measures division-wise. We require local support to carry out door-to-door surveillance. A team leader will be selected from each division. Besides health workers, a team of local volunteers from each division will be constituted and given training in funeral procedures, where a person has to be taken for providing swab samples etc., Apart from telemedicine service, a designated hospital service will be assigned to each area," said a district health official. The department has also been discussing various measures that need to be taken if around 300 of more than 600 samples that were taken for PCR test in the last three days from West Kochi area, are tested positive. The area’s population density is also counted in the strategy formulation. However, the test results were not released till August 5 evening. Besides antigen tests, results of 76 samples taken for PCR tests from a camp earlier were declared till Wednesday. Of the 600 samples, 440 were taken from two places in Kalvathy division alone and the rest from other places. Samples were also taken from divisions 15, 16, 17 and 20, where no cases were reported till Wednesday. The samples were taken to know the reason behind absence of cases. Officials feel the situation in Nellikuzhi is similar to Fort Kochi due to its high population density. Nellikuzhi is also a furniture industrial hub, where a large number of people, including guest workers, are employed at various furniture factories and shops. A team has also been constituted for containing infection spread in the area, where 37 contact cases have been reported so far. “Most cases were related to Nellikuzhi town. Of the 37 cases, two people recovered,” said Renjini Ravi, panchayat president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/team-prepares-sop-to-revive-w-kochi/articleshow/77400481.cms||T C Sreemol
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey tragedy: CM postpones events||Ahmedabad: In wake of the Shrey Hospital tragedy, chief minister Vijay Rupani called off scheduled public events for the day including laying of foundation stone and inauguration of projects worth Rs 800 crore across the city on Thursday. The events will be held on a later date. The CM was to preside over the functions through video conferencing. Meanwhile the leader of opposition in AMC, Dinesh Sharma, alleged that the plan for Shrey hospital was sanctioned in 1996 but the authorities constructed an additional floor where the ICU which caught fire is situated. Sharma said the added construction was regularized by the ruling BJP. He alleged that the BJP has regularized 1.26 lakh constructions that were illegal and this was done in 2012 just before the elections. Mayor Bijal Patel and standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said Congress was just out to criticize the government and there was no substance in the allegations. She said the CM had ordered an inquiry soon after the incident and two officials have already begun their investigations. The AMC office bearers made it clear that the ruling party will not spare anyone responsible in this tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-tragedy-cm-postpones-events/articleshow/77402045.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Rural police form special team to trace contacts||KOCHI: The Ernakulam rural police has formed a special team based at their headquarters in Aluva to conduct effective surveillance of infected people and for contact tracing. According to the district police chief (Ernakulam rural) K Karthik, a team led by two DSPs will function round-the-clock. For creating detailed route maps, infected people would be contacted by the personnel to collect their contact list, from which primary and secondary contacts would be identified. Police would make use of Google Maps, CCTV footage and call data records to conduct effective tracing. Officers would be assigned exclusively for the purpose at every police station and they would coordinate with the expert team at the headquarters. The contact list so prepared will be handed over to the district surveillance officer. Based on this, containment zones will be decided by the district surveillance officer and other authorities concerned. All those in the contact list of infected people, including their families, would be placed under quarantine. Such people would be strictly monitored by police to ensure that quarantine norms are totally followed. Those violating quarantine would face strict actions, the rural SP has warned. Police headquarter is also tabulating data of those arriving from abroad and other states so that their quarantine period can be properly monitored. Police said contractors should ensure facilities for quarantining people they bring from other states for work. If at all such labourers are found violating quarantine norms, contractors would be held responsible, police said. Happy@Home, a locally developed app for monitoring the quarantined, is also being used in Ernakulam rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rural-police-form-splteam-to-trace-contacts/articleshow/77400501.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Church letter fight spills over||KOLKATA: Three former bishops of the Diocese of Kolkata, Church of North India (CNI), and eight others have written an open letter against the Synod, the highest decision-making body of CNI.  The letter blames the Synod of corruption, coercion and high-handedness and seeks justice. The present administration has rubbished the letter. Moderator of the CNI, P C Singh, however, said these allegations were “false”. These people “cannot accept their retirement or the charges that have been levelled against them. We are not bothered about such letters. There are rules we follow and no one is above law. We are not bothered about such open letters,” Singh said from Delhi. Former bishops PSP Raju, Ashoke Biswas and Probal Dutta are among 11 signatories. Incidentally, both Biswas and Dutta had been removed by the Synod from their positions in quick successions. They had then moved court. The letter says that the constitution of the CNI has been “amended by unscrupulous power mongers”. It has become a norm to “unceremoniously” remove bishops, the letter says. “The CNI cannot be treated as the personal property of the Synod,” it has been said. The signatories claimed that those who raise their voices are transferred or forced to resign. The signatories also claimed that church property was being sold for accumulation of wealth and denounced such practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/church-letter-fight-spills-over/articleshow/77402003.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Degree colleges, universities in AP to open on October 15||Vijayawada: The state government has decided to reopen all colleges and universities from October 15. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy took the decision during a review with senior officials of the education department at the camp office on Thursday. The chief minister told the officials that the Covid-19 situation is under control in the state and colleges and universities can restart with due precautions. He also instructed them to conduct all common entrance tests (CETs) from the third week of September and increase the gross enrolment to 90% by encouraging students to join the courses. The enrolment is now at 32.4%, as per the officials. Following the announcement of the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP), the chief minister has suggested a 10-month apprenticeship after three years’ graduation and a year of skill development course to be eligible to receive a degree. This would fulfil the four-year degree course proposed by the Central government under the NEP 2020. However, this skill development course is not compulsory, the chief minister said. Besides, Jaganmohan Reddy, directed the officials to start recruiting assistant professors for government degree colleges and universities, which have been struggling with a faculty crunch. He also directed them to start fee reimbursement scheme once the colleges are reopened. AP Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission chairman Justice V Eswaraiah, higher education secretary Satish Chandra and other officials were present at the review meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/degree-colleges-universities-in-ap-to-open-on-october-15/articleshow/77400513.cms||Gopi Dara
August 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Chandoli dam starts discharge, villages along Krishna on alert||Kolhapur: Irrigation officials have started releasing water from the Chandoli dam in Sangli district putting villages along the banks of the Krishna river on alert. The catchment areas of the dam have been receiving incessant rainfall. Irrigation officials said the Chandoli dam started releasing water at the rate of 4,400 cusec – the first time this monsoon. Villages in Shirala and Walva tehsils, which are situated on the bank of Krishna, have been put on alert and residents have been advised not to go near the river. Irrigation officials did not rule out the possibility of more water release. The Shirala tehsil received 145 mm rainfall on Wednesday, adding 2 TMC water to the Chandoli dam’s storage. The rain subsided on Thursday and the tehsil received 85 mm. The dam currently has 28.1 TMC water against its capacity of 34.4 TMC. ON Wednesday, the water stock was 26.3 TMC. The district administration has made arrangements for boats as a precautionary measure. Two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed to Sangli district. One team is posted at Ashta in Walva tehsil, while the other is in Sangli city. The Koyna dam in Satara district also has been receiving rainfall over the past three days. The dam’s catchment areas have received an average of 200 mm rainfall in the three days. Water storage in Koyna has shot up by 20 TMC in the past five days. Irrigation officials said the current water stock in Koyna dam is 67 TMC while its capacity is 105 TMC. While no water discharge is taking place from the Koyna dam yet, irrigation officials did not rule out the possibility if the rainfall continued. Koyna dam has also been receiving 41,000 cusec inflows. Water stocks in other dams in Satara district, including Dhom, Urmodi, Kanher and Tarli dams too are gradually increasing. The Almatti dam in Karnataka, built on the Krishna river, has 94.37 TMC water storage against the capacity of 123 TMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chandoli-dam-starts-discharge-villages-along-krishna-on-alert/articleshow/77402011.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey Hospital fire: Ward boy got burned trying to save patient||AHMEDABAD: There was only one person injured in the Shrey Hospital fire, which killed eight Covid patients in the ICU in the wee hours of Thursday. This was Gaurav Chauhan, 29, who works as a male nurse in the ICU. Chauhan suffered 21% burns on his chest and lower limbs after his PPE kit caught fire while trying to douse the flames in the hair of a patient on ventilator. Gaurav, reportedly, was one of the two male nurses present in the ICU ward when a table fan placed between two patient beds caught fire and broke in two pieces. With other staff members reportedly on a tea-break and the second male nurse attending to a patient, Chauhan tried to douse the fire from the broken fan by himself. Sparks leapt to the plastic curtains which began burning. The flame from the curtains spread swiftly and the hair of a critically ill patient on ventilator was caught. “Chauhan rushed to the patient and put out the flames in the patient’s hair. Just then, his PPE kit caught fire. Chauhan knew he had to douse the fire fast,” said a source. He ran outside with his PPE kit on flames. Colleagues helped to put out the fire on his kit, but by then the fire in the ICU had gone out of control. As he had sustained severe burns, he was shifted to SVP hospital for treatment. Sources said Chauhan's condition is currently stable. His phone too was lost in the scramble to put out the fire. With no local relatives to support him, Chauhan is being looked after by the SVP staff. He used to work in SVP till January before getting a job in Shrey. “He is relieved to have survived the fire, but wonders if the patient he tried to save is still alive,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ward-boy-got-burned-trying-to-save-patient/articleshow/77402037.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||Losing track: Delhi needs to stretch beyond token steps to boost cycling||NEW DELHI: The Public Works Department built cycle tracks across the city, only to see them taken over by shops and motorised two-wheelers. The Covid lockdown, however, heralded the return of bicycles on the road, to some extent because of the absence public transport. After the capital opened up, Delhiites are still pedalling on short-distance trips, leaving traffic experts to believe that this is the ideal time to induct bicycles and electric vehicles into the public transport system. The capital is slated to have its first elevated bicycle track, a 6-km stretch from the Satpula drain bridge near Press Enclave Road to the Barapullah elevated road at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. “This is one of our most ambitious plans,” a PWD official said. Times ViewEveryone talks about pollution. But environment-friendly behaviour is often effectively discouraged, cyclists being prime examples. Cycle tracks are routinely encroached upon by motorists and hawkers, leaving cyclists to take their chances on the busy road. The need of the hour is not only to build more dedicated cycle tracks, but also to ensure that those that exist are not usurped.In October 2019, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the re-laying of the city roads and the creation of cycle tracks alongside. The plans are to install cycle paths on busy stretches like AIIMS-Ashram, Mother Dairy-Panch Mahal Awas and Mayapuri-Moti Bagh. The deadlines of these projects vary but PWD had earlier claimed that the projects would be ended by mid-2021. The basic problem for Delhi’s cyclists is the lack of protection from faster moving vehicles and condoning of violators enter the cycling lane. Sunita Narain, director general, CSE, noted that global cities not only provided cycling lanes, but also ensured enforcement of the law. “If we create cycling tracks, we need to protect them from encroachment and use by non-cyclists,” said Narain. Mobility experts believe cycling cannot become widespread in Delhi until the state government incentivises it. Amit Bhatt, director (Integrated Urban Transport), World Resources Institute India, points out that developing a few select stretches won’t do any good. “The entire city will need the necessary infrastructure and the government has to offer incentives to encourage cycling,” said Bhatt. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (Research and Advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, suggests that pop-up lanes created by placing soft barriers is the easiest way to provide mobility to cyclists for short-distance trips. “Across the globe, roads are being identified for these soft barriers to be installed and short-distance cycling can be encouraged. This can be a start for Delhi too,” said Roy Chowdhury. The existing cycling network was developed in the run-up to the 2010 Commonwealth Games. In north Delhi, around 7km from Mall Road to Azadpur H Point and in south Delhi, the 3.5 km on both sides of the road connecting Mehrauli with Badarpur via Saket was set aside for bikers. Even the now dismantled bus rapid transport corridor from Ambedkar Nagar to Lodhi Road had 12km of tracks for cyclists on both sides. Today, they have become parking plots for two-wheelers and three-wheelers. Hero Cycles recently launched the #TheCycleOfChange campaign to promote cycling as a form of transport. “Through our campaign, we want to underline the benefits of making Indian cities good for cycling. Increasing the use of cycles on roads will not only help slow the spread of the pandemic, but will also have remarkable environmental and health benefits,” maintained Pankaj Munjal, chairman and MD, Hero Cycles. “Governments and urban planners must create dedicated biking lanes along roads, in municipal parks and in residential areas. Cycling will also prevent the environmentally unfriendly proliferation of personal cars.” Cycle shops told TOI that sales had increased hugely after the Covid lockdown. Saurabh Dutta at sports goods retailer Decathlon in Andrews Ganj claimed to have a shortage of bikes in the store due to heavy demand. “We are meeting much of the demand by bringing bicycles from our retail outlets that are yet to open,” Dutta said. “Some buyers are looking at cycling as an alternative to closed gyms, while others want to avoid public transport.” Kapil Gandhi, who sells high-end products at his Gandhi Cycles store in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, reported a tripling of sales since March. “Most purchasers are first timers. Bicycles in the Rs15,000-50,000 range are selling well,” said Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/losing-track-delhi-needs-to-stretch-beyond-token-steps-to-boost-cycling/articleshow/77402019.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schools, classes await another fire accident?||Ahmedabad: Lack of fire safety measures have cost establishments heavily. While eight Covid patients died in the fire at a private Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad on Thursday, the memories of the horrific incident of fire at a tuition class in Sarthana area of Surat are still fresh in which 22 people succumbed. With a gory fresh reminder, the question still remains whether schools and tuition classes are waiting for another accident to get their fire safety measures in place. Parents and academic experts believe that this is indeed the right time when schools and tuition classes can utilize the down time to bring in infrastructural changes and put fire safety measures in place. Sources said that preventive measures can be undertaken because various schools as well as private coaching centres continue to be non-compliant towards fire safety. In the past, state education department has claimed that the onus of making schools and tuition classes fire-safety compliant is upon the fire department. However, the fire department does not have adequate staff to monitor this and only notices are served but no concrete action is taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-classes-await-another-fire-accident/articleshow/77402040.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||213 booked for breaking lockdown rules||KOLKATA: An actor was among 213 people who were prosecuted on Thursday for breaking lockdown norms. Police said they booked those found chatting at parks and tea stalls, those out on streets without any valid reason and those out on bike rides. Most were let off after cops imposed a fine on them and took down their contact numbers and addresses. “We will move court to seek permission to take action against them,” said an officer. “This was a special drive to ensure people did not forget they were allowed to step out only for necessary and economic activities. The lockdown is not over,” he said. Ninety-two people were also booked for not wearing masks or wearing them improperly and 12 for spitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/213-booked-for-breaking-lockdown-rules/articleshow/77402036.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Photographer arrested in Kolkata for hoax blast call||KOLKATA: The special task force of Kolkata Police has arrested a freelance photographer residing at Eden City complex in Maheshtala for allegedly calling up the Lalbazar Control Room number 100 and claiming that the city was going to witness a bomb blast. Cops said the accused, identified as Arkaprava Ganguly, was only trying to “have some fun” and that he was moderately “drunk” at the time of making the call. According to DCP (STF) Aparajita Rai, said the phone call came late on Tuesday night when the force was making last-minute preparations for implementing the first total lockdown day of August. Sources said that with the Bhoomipujan at the Ram Janmabhoomi site at Ayodhya scheduled for Wednesday, cops were already on high alert. “He had not given any time or place for the blast making it doubly difficult for us to make arrangements. We had to deploy our bomb squads across the city and carry out multiple checks at multiple areas,” said a senior police officer. He has been sent to a one-day judicial custody after being produced at court on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/photographer-arrested-for-hoax-blast-call/articleshow/77402041.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||EC issues notification for MLC polls||Vijayawada: The  Commission on Thursday issued notification for election to one seat in the legislative council which fell vacant after the resignation of Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, who got elected to the Rajya Sabha recently. Though another member, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, also resigned following his election to the RS, the EC did not take this vacancy into consideration due to the short tenure of nine months available for the post. The election is to fill the remaining term ending on March 29, 2023. Nominations will be accepted till August 13 and polling will be held on August 24. The EC also notified that counting of votes, if election is held, would be taken up on August 24, immediately after the polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ec-issues-notification-for-mlc-polls/articleshow/77400536.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Rain fury: 146 people shifted to camps||KOCHI: Fear has gripped people living on the banks of rivers in Ernakulam following heavy rain on Thursday. Revenue officials have opened one general relief camp in Kochi taluk and five in Kothamangalam taluk. Six members of two families were lodged at the relief camp in Kochi taluk as their houses were damaged in sea erosion. A camp for elderly people has also been opened in Kothamangalam. Around 30 families, who face landslide threat, registered with officials for lodging them in the camp. They started to move in the evening. Around eight houses in Kothamangalam taluk were damaged partially as trees fell. Water entered Kothamangalam town in the evening. So far, 146 people were shifted to camps in the district. Kothamangalam taluk officials said they have served notices to 55 families who face landslide threat, to shift to a safer place. “Heavy rain was continuing in the area since afternoon and gusty wind uprooted trees damaging eight houses partially. But rain subsided in the night,” said a revenue official. Officials in Aluva and Muvattupuzha taluks said water level in Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers reduced on Thursday compared to Wednesday. Meanwhile, collector S Suhas said relief camps are ready to open at any time in places which face the threat of natural disaster. He said water level in Kaliyar, Muvattupuzha and Thodupuzha rivers reached warning level of 9.015m. But in some places, the water crossed the warning level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rain-fury-146-people-shifted-to-camps/articleshow/77400511.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Three six-year-old girls get locked in car, die of suffocation||VIJAYAWADA: Three six-year-old girls died of suffocation after being locked inside a car at Remelle village under Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Apsana, Yasin and Praveen. According to Hanuman Junction police, the incident happened around 2.30 pm when the kids were playing near the residential quarters of Mohan Spinteks India Limited.  Cops said that the kids got inside the car parked outside the quarters and accidentally got themselves locked inside. After repeated efforts of trying to open them, they finally felt exhausted and fell unconscious. After an hour of search for the three kids, the parents finally found them to be unconscious in the vehicle and soon managed to get the door opened and rushed the kids to a local private hospital. However, it was too late as doctors declared them to be brought dead. Upon information, cops reached the spot and investigated the scene. Speaking to TOI, Hanuman Junction CI Ramana explained that the car owner had parked the car at the premises and while his wife got out, she forgot to close the door properly. While the car door was locked from the driver’s end, the passenger’s remained unlocked. “Once the children got inside the car and closed the door, the mechanism automatically locked itself. The little kids were unaware of the fact that they should press the button and then pull the door to unlock themselves,” Ramana told TOI. A case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was registered at Hanuman Junction Police Station and the bodies of the deceased children were sent to Vijayawada GGH for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-six-year-old-girls-get-locked-in-car-die-of-suffocation/articleshow/77400562.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teacher moves court after suspension over FB post||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has issued notice to the state government after a primary teacher challenged his suspension over his comment on social media criticizing the education minister and higher-ups in education department about Covid-19 duty. The case involved J G Patel, who is serving as a primary teacher in a government school in Dabhoi taluka of Vadodara district. He was placed under suspension on July 20. He has questioned the decision to suspend him even after his tendering unconditional apology and admitting that his comment on Facebook was a conduct unbecoming of a government servant. The teacher had termed a statement by education minister as “Chinese Statement” and criticized the functioning of the authorities in the education department and the ministry. He was served with a show-cause notice on July 17 asking him to explain his comment on social media. The notice said that he has lowered the honour of the minister, officers and 3,000 teachers who are engaged in Covid-19 duty during the time of pandemic. On July 20, the teacher tendered unconditional apology and requested the authority to drop the departmental proceedings against him initiated under the provisions of the Mumbai Primary Education Act and the Gujarat Panchayat Rules. The education department did not accept his apology and suspended the teacher on the same day. He was posted to a school in another village in Vadodara during his suspension. Before the high court, Patel’s advocates Radhesh Vyas and Bhavesh Patel submitted that the teacher had tendered an apology which ought to have been accepted by the department. The gesture of suspending the teacher is against the right to free speech enshrined in the Constitution and very much against the provisions of law under which the teacher was suspended. Justice Biren Vaishnav issued notice to the government and concerned authorities asking them to reply by September 4, when further hearing has been posted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teacher-moves-court-after-suspension-over-fb-post/articleshow/77402048.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, a temple for Jaganmohan Reddy in West Godavari district||ELURU: Two YSR Congress supporters from a remote village in West Godavari district have decided build a temple where AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy would be the presiding deity! Hailing the CM as the “messiah of the masses”, Kurukuri Nageswara Rao and his wife Dhana Lakshmi, from Rajam Palem village in Gopalapuram mandal of the district, said they have started the project as per the aspirations of local people. Gopalapuram ML3 A Talari Venkatrao of the YSRC also attended the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony of the proposed temple on Wednesday. The temple would be constructed in a 250 sq yard area with an estimated cost of Rs 10 lakh. The cost of Jagan’s statue would be about Rs 3 lakh. Speaking on the occasion, MLA Venkatrao said the temple would be open to people across all faiths. “Temples have been constructed for popular film actors in the past. The chief minister’s family is adored by people of the state. His father, late YS Rajasekhar Reddy, had endeared himself to the masses through his padayatra. Now his son too has done the same,” the local legislator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-a-temple-for-jagan-in-west-godavari-district/articleshow/77400563.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Low-key Independence Day celebrations in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has decided to hold a low-key Independence Day celebration this year. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that due to the on-going lockdown, as advised by the Centre, there would be a small programme, where Covid warriors would be felicitated in the presence of a few people. Everyone would adhere to social distancing norms and wear masks, Nabanna officials said, adding the CM would unfurl the national flag at Red Road and there would be the Guard of Honour. Even the I-Day programme at the Raj Bhavan was likely to be curtailed, sources said. The state has directed minimal gathering for Ganesh Puja on August 22. There should be no crowding on Janmashtami (August 11) and Lokenath Baba’s birth anniversary (August 12), the administration said. August 9, when a tribal festival is slated to be observed, August 16, Parsi New Year, and August 17, Manasa Puja, have been kept off total lockdown list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-key-i-day-celebrations/articleshow/77402047.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district registers 196 new Covid-19cases, 2 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district on Thursday registered 196 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which, Wai town that is considered as gateway to popular hill stations such as Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani, recorded the highest number of Covid-19 patients. In addition, two women — one from Atke village and another from Koregaon tehsil — succumbed to the infection on Thursday. Satara tehsil has registered 4,976 positive cases so far, of which, 2.473 are currently active. The district has reported 154 casualties. According to the official information, Wai tehsil registered 46 cases, including three from Pasrani and 40 from Wai town. Officials of the district administration’a health department said that majority of the patients were from the high-risk category and some from the same family. Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani also recorded one case each. At present, Wai has around 100 positive cases. Meanwhile, Karad tehsil continues to report new patients every day. Karad registered 43 new patients since late night on Wednesday, of which, 16 are from the town. Satara tehsil, on the other hand, registered 29 new cases, of which, 16 are from the town. Solapur city registers 52 new cases Solapur city registered 52 fresh Covid-19 cases till Thursday noon. According to the official information, 106 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovery. Solapur city has witnessed 5,291 positive cases so far. At present, the city has 1,381 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-registers-196-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77402043.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Couple moves HC to talk to grandchild||Ahmedabad: An elderly couple has moved the Gujarat high court with a prayer that it should direct their son-in-law in the US to allow them to talk on video call to their 9-year-old granddaughter, who is not in their contact for over a year. The city-based couple has filed a habeas corpus petition to establish contact with their granddaughter, who is a US citizen because of her birth in Texas. They complained that their son-in-law has snapped all ties with them suddenly more than a year ago after demise of their daughter and after his second marriage. Their advocate Bhargav Hasurkar said that since custody of a foreign national cannot be secured through a habeas corpus petition and this is a family matter, court’s directions were sought. The lawyer said that after hearing the case, the high court on Thursday issued notice to the son-in-law and asked him to remain present along with the girl before the court through video conferencing next week. In this case, the couple got their daughter married to a US-based professional in 2009. The couple had a girl child in 2011. The wife died in 2016 at an age of 30, and the man re-married few months later. The family left for the US in January 2017. The grandparents in Ahmedabad claimed that they last saw the child in 2016. After the family went to USA, they continued to talk on video. However, in April 2019, the son-in-law suddenly snapped all ties with them. They have urged the HC to direct their son-in-law to allow them to talk to the girl on video call because they cannot visit USA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-moves-hc-to-talk-to-grandchild/articleshow/77402066.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||After Guinness, third-party audit of plantation drive soon||Lucknow: Forest Survey of India (FSI) will conduct third-party audit of the plantation drive conducted in July, when 25.8 crore saplings were sown in the state in a single day. The drive entered Guinness World Record for most species planted simultaneously in different locations. The third party audit is done to verify the plantation exercise of the state government. Mission director, Plantation 2020, Mukesh Kumar, said, “The audit team will go to the field and verify the plantation. It will visit the sites mentioned in our records.” The team would prepare the report about the number and species of saplings planted by the forest department and 23 other departments. FSI has also done the audit of the 2019 plantation drive, when 22 crore saplings were planted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-guinness-third-party-audit-of-plantation-drive-soon/articleshow/77403072.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Doctors see stroke due to Covid-19 link to blood clots||MUMBAI: While novel coronavirus is mainly associated with respiratory illness, city doctors are seeing Covid-19 cases with severe neurological complications, including brain stroke. “At any given time, almost 30-40% patients with stroke admitted to my ICU have Covid,’’ said intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit from Fortis Hospital in Mulund who is also a member of the Maharashtra task-force on Covid. KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said his hospital has treated patients with several blood vessel-related complications. “We have had Covid patients with stroke, gangrene, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and heart attack,’’ he added. While Mumbai has registered 6,648 deaths and 1.2 lakh cases over the last five months, there has not yet been time or effort to study various cases and their complications at a city-wide level. In a first effort to study Covid and stroke, Dr Pandit and neurologist Rajesh Benny have compiled details of 70 such patients. “Most of these patients came to hospital with the presentation of stroke and were not aware about their Covid status,’’ said Dr Benny. At Wockhardt Hospital near Mumbai Central station, intensivist Dr Kedar Toraskar has treated 12 patients with neurological manifestations of Covid in four months. In eight months since Covid-19 appeared, doctors noticed that the novel coronavirus has a tendency to trigger clots in blood. Coronavirus causes microthrombi or small clots, which travel to the lung and obstruct blood flow to the lung (pulmonary embolism). The clot can travel to brain circulation and cause stroke. Concurring, Dr Toraskar said, “Among Indians, there is an incidence of thrombosis (clotting) in the arterial segment in form of stroke or peripheral event.” “Coronavirus affects the endothelial lining inside blood vessels, leading to inflammation that results in bleeding,’’ said Dr Toraskar. Western nations noticed the Covid-stroke connection among young people, with the clotting occurring in veins. “But in India we are noticing arterial stroke too. It is not only among people younger than 40 like in the West, but even among older patients,’’ said Dr Pandit. While neurological complications are not considered to be a big subset of the Covid-19 symptoms, local doctors say it could be found in 25-30% patients. “The loss of smell and taste is also a neurological manifestation of Covid-19,’’ said a doctor. Doctors across the world now advise recovered patients to take blood thinners for 15 days after discharge. “We got a patient who developed a clot in his leg after discharge,” said Dr Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-see-stroke-due-to-covid-19-link-to-blood-clots/articleshow/77401819.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Trichy||289 booked in Trichy for Ram temple celebrations||TRICHY: As many as 289 functionaries of the BJP and some Hindu outfits in Trichy were booked for violating Covid-19 restrictions while indulging in celebrations to mark the bhoomi puja of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Cases were slapped for unlawful assembly, disobeying the curfew and acting in a negligent manner leading to spread of an infectious disease under relevant sections of the IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and Disaster Management Act. Cases were booked against several people, including 56 people by the Srirangam police, for distributing sweets flouting social distancing norms. A group of nine cadres of the BJP and VHP who took out a procession of a portrait of Lord Ram in Srirangam were also booked. In Trichy city, police registered cases against 11 functionaries of Hindu Makkal Katchi who hoisted a flag and shouted slogans. Trichy district president of the student wing of the BJP, N Gowthaman, maintained that the cadre observed social distancing while distributing sweets. Trichy police booked 23 members of SDPI for staging a demonstration against the construction of the Ram temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/289-booked-in-trichy-for-ram-temple-celebrations/articleshow/77403079.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Meerut||Chargesheet filed against ‘godman’, disciple in Muzaffarnagar ashram child abuse case||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In 25 days since the sexual exploitation of 10 children at a Muzaffarnagar ashram surfaced, a chargesheet has been filed against the godman and his assistant who ran the ashram, retaining the stringent sections under the FIR had been filed and adding two more. “The chargesheet was filed in court on Tuesday with two additional charges under the Juvenile Justice Act and the SC/ST Act,” Bhopa station house officer Sanjeev Kumar said. The godman, Bhakti Bhushan Govind, and his assistant Mohan Das, had earlier been arrested with charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the IPC (unnatural offences). The maximum terms for these charges range from seven years to life. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had last week, citing the TOI report, asked the state department of woman and child development to file a report on the case. The children, between the ages of seven and 16 and one 18-year-old, had been sexually exploited by a self-styled godman for years at an ashram he ran in Shukratal, 30 km from Muzaffarnagar. The children would be brought to the ashram by his disciple who would promise their parents, with limited financial means, a good subsidised education. An older inmate had tipped off Childline about what the children were being subjected to. The ashram was raided, the children rescued and the godman and his associate arrested. The children, in statements before the Child Welfare Committee, had said Govind would force them to have alcohol, calling it “coronavirus medicine”, sexually abuse them and beat them up if they refused. “All allegations levelled by the children were found to be true in the course of the investigation,” a police source said. District child protection officer Mohammad Mushfakeen, who is also overseeing the rehabilitation of the children, said the children will stay on in Muzaffarnagar until their statements are recorded before the magistrate. “We have spoken to the administrations of districts the children are from (about sending them home).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/chargesheet-filed-against-godman-disciple-in-muzaffarnagar-ashram-child-abuse-case/articleshow/77399284.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Chargesheet filed against ‘godman’, disciple in Muzaffarnagar ashram child abuse case||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In 25 days since the sexual exploitation of 10 children at a Muzaffarnagar ashram surfaced, a chargesheet has been filed against the godman and his assistant who ran the ashram, retaining the stringent sections under the FIR had been filed and adding two more. “The chargesheet was filed in court on Tuesday with two additional charges under the Juvenile Justice Act and the SC/ST Act,” Bhopa station house officer Sanjeev Kumar said. The godman, Bhakti Bhushan Govind, and his assistant Mohan Das, had earlier been arrested with charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the IPC (unnatural offences). The maximum terms for these charges range from seven years to life. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had last week, citing the TOI report, asked the state department of woman and child development to file a report on the case. The children, between the ages of seven and 16 and one 18-year-old, had been sexually exploited by a self-styled godman for years at an ashram he ran in Shukratal, 30 km from Muzaffarnagar. The children would be brought to the ashram by his disciple who would promise their parents, with limited financial means, a good subsidised education. An older inmate had tipped off Childline about what the children were being subjected to. The ashram was raided, the children rescued and the godman and his associate arrested. The children, in statements before the Child Welfare Committee, had said Govind would force them to have alcohol, calling it “coronavirus medicine”, sexually abuse them and beat them up if they refused. “All allegations levelled by the children were found to be true in the course of the investigation,” a police source said. District child protection officer Mohammad Mushfakeen, who is also overseeing the rehabilitation of the children, said the children will stay on in Muzaffarnagar until their statements are recorded before the magistrate. “We have spoken to the administrations of districts the children are from (about sending them home).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chargesheet-filed-against-godman-disciple-in-muzaffarnagar-ashram-child-abuse-case/articleshow/77409088.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district reports 9 deaths, 49 Covid-19 cases||AURANGABAD: The district on Thursday recorded nine deaths due to Covid-19, including six at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) and three at private hospitals, taking the total number of deaths so far to 503. A total of 49 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, including 38 in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation area. With this, the total number of cases rose to 15,540, out of whom 11,521 have recovered from the contagion. The district has 3,516 active cases. The six deaths at GMCH include a 53-year-old patient from Sangharshanagar Mukundwadi of the city, an 82-year-old from Shiur in Vaijapur taluka, a 51-year-old from Padali in Borgaon, Phulamri, a 74-year-old from Langote Mahadeo road, Shivnagar Kannad, a 68-year-old from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Chowk area in Chalisgaon, Jalgaon, and a 43-year-old resident of Gajanan Nagar in Beed A 61-year-old from Arihantnagar, a 52-year-old resident of N 12 Hudco and a 49-year-old from Jadhavwadi died on Thursday while undergoing treatment at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-9-deaths-49-cases/articleshow/77402063.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM warns against fake Covid tests||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday cautioned against fake Covid-19 tests and hinted at stern action against any organization carrying out such a procedure without authorization. “There are three or four organizations against whom we have received complaints. They are collecting swab samples without any authorization. Don’t entertain them. Please check government authorization on their papers and make sure the stamp is not fake,” Banerjee said. The death of a 55-year-old bank employee from Naktala last week had blown the lid on a racket involving two contractual laboratory assistants at two big government hospitals in Kolkata and some youths, who posed as sample collection agents, duping suspected Covid patients with fake reports. Three persons were arrested. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “We had two or three cases and they were identified and proper actions were taken against them.” Government sources said a multi-agency investigation was being carried out to nab the culprits. Some unaffiliated labs are carrying out tests without any authorization and similar cases were reported in Delhi. It should not happen here, said Sinha. “They are posing as pathologists, claiming to be agents of a particular lab. We are on a strict vigil,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-warns-against-fake-covid-tests/articleshow/77402069.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Bajwa Developers managing director in police remand||MOHALI: The Managing Director of Bajwa Developers, Jarnail Singh Bajwa, was on Thursday produced before Kharar court, which remanded him to seven-day police custody. On Wednesday, the Kharar police had arrested the real estate developer in connection with a cheating case registered against him in 2019. A day earlier, he was also booked in several other cases of cheque bounce. Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police (Mohali Rural), said Bajwa was produced before a court, which sent him to seven days’ police custody. “We will interrogate him regarding the case registered against him on the complaint of Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Sector 39, Chandigarh. The accused had sold the plot of the complainant to a third party in violation of the agreement. The case was registered in November last year under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station. There are around 58 cases registered against him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bajwa-developers-md-in-police-remand/articleshow/77402064.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman, daughter attempt suicide, girl dies||MOHALI: Facing depression due to the death of her brother, a 32-year-old woman and her daughter, 8, on Thursday evening attempted suicide at their residence on VIP Road in Zirakpur area. While the woman is undergoing treatment, the girl succumbed at a hospital, the police said. According to a police official, their family members said they tried to kill themselves when they were alone at home. The woman is being treated at GMCH-32, Chandigarh. “The woman was in depression as her brother, Deepak, who was a drug addict, had died recently. She is in a critical condition and currently on ventilator,” said Zirakpur station house officer inspector Gurwant Singh. The police are further investigating the matter to find out whether there was any foul play behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-daughter-attempt-suicide-girl-dies/articleshow/77402054.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Haunted by Covid-19, debt-ridden hosts leave Fort Kochi homestays||KOCHI: More than 250 homestays in Fort Kochi, the tourism hub of the city, are on the verge of closure as there has been hardly any business for the past five months since the outbreak of Covid-19. Though more than 80% of homestays remained shut, those which kept their doors open with little ray of hope are also struggling to meet expenses, including paying the rent. Homestay owners have been seeking government’s help like waiver of taxes, low-interest loans, revival packages etc., but no announcement has come from government so far. Though many have thought of renting out homestays as Covid-19 quarantine centres, residents nearby have opposed the proposal fear infection spread. It is no secret that tourism and hospitality sectors rely on each other for their growth. Kochi’s tourism industry, the most thriving in Kerala, is now facing its worst-ever deadlock with the closure of tourist spots, prohibition of tourism activities and restrictions on international air travel. Homestay owners said the hospitality sector would not able to overcome the impact of the pandemic anytime soon as more than 70% of their customers who depend of homestays in Fort Kochi are foreign tourists and their inflow has stopped since the lockdown started. "Fort Kochi has largest number of homestays in state. I closed my homestay in March even before lockdown was announced. It is my 11th year in the hospitality industry and it is the worst season ever. This year’s tourist season passed with zero business. Usually business during this period helps homestay owners to survive the off-season. Even though the homestays are closed, the rents need to be paid. Many landlords gave concessions in the initial months but not anymore. Many of the homestay owners have decided to vacate the building as they could not pay the rent," said Sree Kumar, who runs Travellers’ Inn in Fort Kochi. Antony Kureethra, president, tourism promoters’ association, said the government should interfere in the issue as if not for hospitality sector, Kerala cannot be revived even after the Covid-19 and its related fear subsidizes. Government should come up with a special package and interest-free loans to aid homestay owners. "The business has been hit mainly as no foreign tourists visit the state now. It will remain grim until international travel restrictions are lifted. But even then, the economic dip caused by the pandemic across the world will reduce the number of tourist inflow. Waiver of taxes was promised by the government but it has not been implemented yet," he said. Joseph Dominic, general secretary, homestay owners’ welfare association Kerala said though some homestays in Fort Kochi started functioning after lockdown restrictions were lifted, they also are now closing down as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing. The government should consider their financial constraints and support homestay owners by giving low-interest loans and tax reductions," he said. Hundreds of people who were employed at these homestays are now struggling to make ends meet as they lost jobs after their employers discontinued their services to cut expenditure. "Now we don’t have any guests at our property. So, there is no point employing cleaning and reception staff. We asked them to go on leave without pay as paying their salaries is not affordable anymore," said a homestay owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/haunted-by-covid-19-debt-ridden-hosts-leave-fort-kochi-homestays/articleshow/77400554.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Kallikudi shops shut a day after opening over poor patronage||Trichy: The euphoria of residents over the inauguration of a section of shops for farmers in Kallikudi integrated vegetable market here on Wednesday appears to have been short-lived as the shops remained closed on Thursday due to poor patronage. “Without understanding the ground reality such as suspension of public transportation, authorities rushed through the inauguration. Since consumers fearing Covid-19 are not visiting the market, we did not open our shops,” a farmer allotted shops in the market said. The district administration had been mulling to open the market situated on the Trichy-Madurai NH spread over 10 acres since 2017. The wholesale vegetable traders in Gandhi market had refused to occupy the new market which was built exclusively for them so as to decongest Trichy city. In February this year, the district administration tweaked the regulations to earmark shops to farmer producers organisations (FPOs) for selling their products. A total of 207 shops were identified for FPOs to sell value-added products, vegetables and fruits directly to consumers, of which 104 were handed over on Wednesday. In all, 52 FPOs from Trichy, Perambalur and Pudukkottai were allotted shops at the rate of two per FPO. But the FPOs who did token sales on Wednesday did not reopen on Thursday fearing poor sales. A farmer who had brought 1,200 limes for sales went back with them all unsold. FPOs said they have postponed their sales plan till public transportation and inter-district travel became normal. It is alleged that the hasty inauguration was intended to avoid judicial rebuke for keeping the market shut ahead of a hearing in the market’s case in Madras high court. “We will publicise the allotment of shops to farmers. Once the bus services resume, the market will gain the attention of traders and residents,” a senior official with the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kallikudi-shops-shut-a-day-after-opening-over-poor-patronage/articleshow/77403101.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Antigen testing for Beed traders, asked to keep shops shut||Aurangabad: Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar on Thursday ordered all shopkeepers, vegetable and fruit vendors and other such establishments to keep their businesses closed for three days from August 8 and undergo the antigen testing. Rekhawar has named 21 different traders’ organizations in Beed who have provided a list of their members to undergo the antigen testing. The traders are expected to call their organisation’s representatives to fix the date and timing for the testing. Shopkeepers, traders and vendors will not be allowed to operate their business until the antigen testing is done, he said. Though the citizens have cooperated in checking the spread of the contagion and followed the norms, the number of cases continues to increase, he said.  In order to take stricter measure to contain the spread, the administration has decided to follow Bhilwara pattern, which is to examine the ‘super spreader’-someone who meets many people daily. The traders, however, had a mixed response. Some find no option but to follow and some traders supported the move stating that this would eliminate the fear among the trading community “We hope after these three days, we will finally be allowed to do business as usual,” said a grocery shop owner.  Bhaskar Jadhav of Mahatma Phule New Bhaji Mandai Sanghatana said this was a good decision. He also pointed out that though there are over 35 different organisations, the collector has issued a list of 21. “We will also get our non-members, who belong to other organisations, tested too,’’ Jadhav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/antigen-testing-for-beed-traders-asked-to-keep-shops-shut/articleshow/77402099.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Bus with 30 passengers stolen from Sirsa bus stand, 3 held||Hisar: Three men stole a bus with 30 passengers from the bus stand in Sirsa on Thursday afternoon. However, conductor and passengers managed to overpower them. According to the information, the bus going to Rania via Otu was standing at the Sirsa bus stand and the 30 passengers were also sitting in the bus. The bus driver went to drink water. Meanwhile, three young men got into the bus and started the bus and pulled it out of the bus stand. The conductor realised what was happening and called the owner of the bus and the police. Later, with the help of the passengers, the three were overpowered and the bus was brought back to the bus stand. The accused were handed over to the police. Civil line station in-charge Amit said he accused are being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bus-with-30-passengers-stolen-from-sirsa-bus-stand-3-held/articleshow/77402090.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Gujarat adds 1,034 Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,034 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 67,811. It was 16th consecutive day for the state to record 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara and 90 from Rajkot. With the update on Thursday, Junagadh became the seventh district in Gujarat to cross 1,000 cumulative cases at 1,036. So far, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar have recorded more than 1,000 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 27 patients, taking the state death toll to 2,584. The deaths include nine from Surat, five from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, three from Vadodara, two from Kutch, and one each from Jamnagar, Mehsana and Valsad. A total of 917 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 50,322. The discharges include 287 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 80 from Gir-Somnath, and 39 each from Vadodara and Valsad. Analysis of the discharges reveals that 24,000 or 47.7% of the discharges took place in the past 31 days at the rate of 774 discharges daily. For the past 31 days, the state’s discharge rate was 77.5%. With the update, the state now has 14,905 active cases, which consists of 22% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-adds-1034-cases-27-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77404533.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat adds 1,034 Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,034 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 67,811. It was 16th consecutive day for the state to record 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara and 90 from Rajkot. With the update on Thursday, Junagadh became the seventh district in Gujarat to cross 1,000 cumulative cases at 1,036. So far, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar have recorded more than 1,000 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 27 patients, taking the state death toll to 2,584. The deaths include nine from Surat, five from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, three from Vadodara, two from Kutch, and one each from Jamnagar, Mehsana and Valsad. A total of 917 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 50,322. The discharges include 287 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 80 from Gir-Somnath, and 39 each from Vadodara and Valsad. Analysis of the discharges reveals that 24,000 or 47.7% of the discharges took place in the past 31 days at the rate of 774 discharges daily. For the past 31 days, the state’s discharge rate was 77.5%. With the update, the state now has 14,905 active cases, which consists of 22% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-adds-1034-cases-27-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77404531.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat adds 1,034 Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,034 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 67,811. It was 16th consecutive day for the state to record 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara and 90 from Rajkot. With the update on Thursday, Junagadh became the seventh district in Gujarat to cross 1,000 cumulative cases at 1,036. So far, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar have recorded more than 1,000 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 27 patients, taking the state death toll to 2,584. The deaths include nine from Surat, five from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, three from Vadodara, two from Kutch, and one each from Jamnagar, Mehsana and Valsad. A total of 917 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 50,322. The discharges include 287 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 80 from Gir-Somnath, and 39 each from Vadodara and Valsad. Analysis of the discharges reveals that 24,000 or 47.7% of the discharges took place in the past 31 days at the rate of 774 discharges daily. For the past 31 days, the state’s discharge rate was 77.5%. With the update, the state now has 14,905 active cases, which consists of 22% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-adds-1034-cases-27-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77404530.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Tailor-made masks to match your outfit in Kochi||KOCHI: As wearing mask has become the new normal, most stitching centres in the city are now offering free custom-made masks to their customers. Making mask that matches with the stitched dress is a marketing technique of many tailors now. They use the cloth that remains after stitching the dress to make the masks and often customize them with designs and patterns. “Many of our customers have been asking us if we could stitch masks that would match their dress. So, we thought of offering free masks to our customers when their work order is delivered. We make masks using the same cloth they give for stitching their dress. For brides and grooms, we design it to match their bridal costumes. These masks are given as complementary to our customers and for others, it comes with a price. Also, if the customers want more masks, we charge them,” said Annie Jose, owner of Ann Ladies Tailors, Banerji Road. After lockdown restrictions were lifted, there was a huge decline in the number of customers. Many shops either terminated their staff or asked them to take leave without pay. “Weddings and engagements constituted a major part of the business but due to the pandemic, the number of such functions too reduced,” said M Basheer of B N Land Tailors, adding that while taking the order we also ask them whether they need custom masks too. Meanwhile, many stitching centres are now making and selling cloth masks as a source of revenue due to poor demand for stitching new dresses. “As masks have good demand now, we make cloth masks in bulk quantity and supply it to shops. People prefer cloth masks as prolonged use of clinical masks causes discomfort. So, there is good demand for cloth masks we make out of the unused cloth pieces. It is a source of revenue now,” said Biju Kumar, a tailor in Kaloor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tailor-made-masks-to-match-your-outfit/articleshow/77400568.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman loses gold chain to snatchers||CHANDIGARH: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants on Thursday snatched a gold chain from an elderly woman barely 20 meters away from the Sector 19 police station. The incident was recorded in a CCTV near the crime scene, but no arrests have been made so far. In a police complaint, Janki Devi, 72, a resident of Sector 19, stated that she was sitting outside her house when the two criminals on a bike came near her. The pilling rider got down and enquired about some address. As she started telling him the address, he grabbed her gold chain and fled along with his accomplice on the two-wheeler. In a separate incident, Sarabjit Kaur, 42, of Sector 46 has reported that two persons on a bike tried to snatch her gold chain. But, as they tried to get hold of the chain, it fell on the ground and they could not pick it up. She has reported the matter to the Sector 34 police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatchers/articleshow/77402076.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Rural Trichy has more asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in home isolation||Trichy: As home isolation is advised for asymptomatic young Covid-19 patients for the past one month, the number of active cases remained high in the rural areas in Trichy district. Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients below 35 years of age have been advised home isolation for the past one month. Compared to the active cases in the urban areas, many more active cases are undergoing home isolation in the rural areas at present. As per the latest data released on Wednesday, Trichy district has 1,151 active cases, which include 257 people in home isolation and 894 cases in hospitals. Out of the 284 active cases in the rural areas, 111 cases were in home isolation and 173 patients were hospitalized, 39% of the active cases. In the urban area, only 146 cases out of 848 active cases were in home quarantine, while 702 patients were undergoing treatment at hospitals. The number of home isolation is only 17.22 %. The hospitals included Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, private hospitals. “Several asymptomatic cases reported in rural areas are below 35 years, which is also a reason for the increase in the numbers. Another reason is that they are adhering to the home isolation norms very strictly,” he said. The collector said that the patients under home isolation are declared recovered nine days after them testing positive. Yet, they will be advised to be in home isolation for next seven days, he said. In the case of active patients in the urban areas, the collector said the district administration refers them to Covid care centre (CCC) on the Bharathidasan University Khajamalai Campus. “Violation of home isolation by asymptomatic patient in the city is a worrying factor. So, we allow only selected patients to go for home isolation in the city,” said the collector. The collector reiterated that they would not refer Covid-19 patients with other health complications for home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rural-trichy-has-more-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/77403089.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Mission Zero Mortality’ launched in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Different government authorities have jointly planned 'mission zero mortality' in Aurangabad to bring down Covid-related deaths to zero. A large-scale public participation coupled with intensive testing will be a two-pronged strategy to reduce the mortality rate during the current pandemic in urban and rural parts. Additional deputy collector Annasaheb Shinde said that private doctors, cured patients, social groups, NGOs, self help groups and volunteers, among others would be roped in for effective execution of the new mission. “Aurangabad has considerably improved its recovery rate among Covid-19 patients. Taking the momentum forward, we have planned concerted efforts to bring down coronavirus-related deaths to almost zero. It can be achievable through collective efforts and, therefore, all stakeholders are involved,” he said. As per latest data, Aurangabad currently has recovery rate (RR) of 78% among Covid-19 patients whereas the case fatality rate (CFR) is 3.8. The RR of Aurangabad is better than the present state average (65.25%), but CFR is slightly higher than the average mortality rate (3.52) for Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mission-zero-mortality-launched-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77402078.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Emotions ran high at Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: Relatives of the eight persons who died in the Shrey Hospital fire first had to fight the police and administration for access to the hospital where their loved ones were kept before they were shifted to Civil Hospital. At the hospital, only one of the member from each family was allowed to go inside the morgue and identify the person. The realization that they would never be able to see their loved ones’ faces caused many relatives to break down. As the victims were Covid-19 patients, their bodies were packed in body bags and were handed over to families for the last rites. One woman bowed to the mortuary van carrying her mother’s remains ahead of the last rites and several family members tonsured their heads before the bodies were handed over. Waves of weeping relatives arrived at Civil Hospital after learning about the incident and anger was directed at the administration for the deaths. Nitin Shah, a relative of a victim, said it could well be one of the biggest fire tragedies in recent times for the city. “They were admitted for Covid-19. The infection didn’t kill them, but a man-made disaster and carelessness did. The compensation doesn’t matter after the death,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/emotions-ran-high-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/77402104.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Why one year’s passport for Borivli sailor, asks Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court questioned why regional passport officer (RPO), Bandra (E), renewed a merchant navy sailor’s passport for a year instead of 10. “Why for one year?” asked a bench of Justices Suresh Gupte and Abhay Ahuja on August 3, while hearing a petition by Roshan Menezes (28) from Borivli (W). He was booked for rash driving in 2015 and the case is pending before a Borivli magistrate. The magistrate permitted him on December 4, 2019, to apply for renewal of passport and directed RPO to consider it according to Passport Rules, 1980. RPO on January 30 renewed it for a year. Roshan’s petition said each sailing contract was for nine months and most countries require long-term validity passports as a pre-condition for granting visa. RPO’s advocate Y S Bhate said a 1993 circular was issued under section 22 (power to exempt) of Passport Act, 1967, which states that if a magistrate had not specified number of years a passport must be issued, RPO will issue it for a year. Bhate said the circular was upheld by Delhi high court and a challenge to it by advocate Prashant Bhushan is pending before Supreme Court. Roshan’s advocate Neeta Karnik argued that Bombay high court, in an identical matter, issued guidelines which apply to each and every passport office. She explained that when a magistrate directs a passport to be issued as per rules, it has to be read as per guidelines which refer to the rule where an adult has to be given a passport with at least 10 years’ validity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/why-one-years-passport-for-borivli-sailor-asks-hc/articleshow/77401823.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,034 Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,034 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 67,811. It was 16th consecutive day for the state to record 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara and 90 from Rajkot. With the update on Thursday, Junagadh became the seventh district in Gujarat to cross 1,000 cumulative cases at 1,036. So far, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar have recorded more than 1,000 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 27 patients, taking the state death toll to 2,584. The deaths include nine from Surat, five from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, three from Vadodara, two from Kutch, and one each from Jamnagar, Mehsana and Valsad. A total of 917 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 50,322. The discharges include 287 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 80 from Gir-Somnath, and 39 each from Vadodara and Valsad. Analysis of the discharges reveals that 24,000 or 47.7% of the discharges took place in the past 31 days at the rate of 774 discharges daily. For the past 31 days, the state’s discharge rate was 77.5%. With the update, the state now has 14,905 active cases, which consists of 22% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-adds-1034-cases-27-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77402095.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to conduct walk-ins for doctors||KOLKATA: The state government has decided to hold walk-in interviews to recruit doctors, bypassing the usual process followed by the West Bengal Health Recruitment Board (WBHRB) or the Municipal Service Commission (MSC). The process will be conducted by the MSC that will appoint 53 doctors and 18 medical technicians for Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The decision of launching the special walk-in recruitment was taken with chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying there was an urgent need for doctors to tackle the Covid-19 situation. WBHRB usually recruited doctors and nurses, but given the critical times, dates of walk-in interviews would be announced soon, the CM said. She said some Calcutta University PG students were being used to handle calls of Covid-19 patients and advise them. “Psychology students are counselling patients, 1,144 of whom have been counselled since August 1,” said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. The CM asked Sinha to set up a website where willing youngsters and students can register to volunteer. The state health department has also decided to recruit 500 house staff to cater to the demand of junior doctors as a section of medical graduates, after completing internship, opt out of working as house staff to prepare for post-graduate entrance exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-conduct-walk-ins-for-docs/articleshow/77402096.cms||Debasis Konar
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Deaf, speech-impaired people deployed to disinfect houses||Trichy: A startup in Trichy, which is into private disinfection service, has employed two hearing and speech-impaired men, who will help in disinfecting houses and commercial spaces as part of measures to prevent Covid-19. ‘Spray4Safety’ launched its service in July after witnessing a demand for such services in private properties where the local body doesn’t cater to and is now planning to recruit more such persons with disabilities (PwDs) as and when the demand arises. L Ashok Kumar and K Senthilvel hailing form Thuraiyur and Uyyakondan Thirumalai, had lost their odd jobs they were doing before Covid-19, were recruited by the startup. “Both of them will be given personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for spraying the disinfectants every day. We are not serving properties falling within containment zones to ensure our workers’ safety,” S Magdoom Mohideen, founder, Spray4Safety told TOI. Through sign language and video calls, the employer conveys the location to these employees. The company said that PwDs were professional in executing the tasks and show punctuality at work. “Workmanship displayed by the two employees was impeccable, they are quick to grasp the techniques,” Mohideen said. They are paid Rs 9,000 per month as salary. “More such private organisations should employ PwDs to boost their self-confidence. We will guide private companies keen to employ PwDs,” R Ravichandran, district differently-abled welfare officer said. Spray4Safety can be contacted at 63830-61678.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/deaf-speech-impaired-people-deployed-to-disinfect-houses/articleshow/77403105.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||40 public representatives support extension of Marathwada Development Board||Aurangabad: A total of 34 MLAs and MLCs along with six MPs from the region have supported the demand for revival of Marathwada Development Board. These public representatives have formally endorsed the drive planned by the advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad (MJVP) to offer extension to the statutory body, whose term expired by end of April. MJVP general secretary Sharad Advant said the Maharashtra government must listen to the voices of public representatives from the region and revive Marathwada Development Board at the earliest. “The MLAs and MPs cutting across partylines have endorsed our demand. It signifies public aspirations for giving a new lease of life to Marathwada Development Board. The statutory body could prove instrumental in charting out development plan for the region,” he said. He added that the state government has not yet submitted any proposal for revival of Marathwada Development Board to the governor. Meanwhile, MJVP president Vyankatesh Kabde said government was contemplating separate development boards for Konkan and North Maharashtra, which has delayed the process of revival of existing statutory bodies in question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/40-public-representatives-support-extension-of-marathwada-development-board/articleshow/77402108.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Most cases from 20-40 age group in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: People in the age group of 20-40 years have emerged most vulnerable to Covid-19 in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, accounting for about 40% of total cases, health data from both the civic bodies has revealed. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), as per its report till July 28, had 42% case burden in the 20-40 age group, while the caseload was about 40% in the same age group in the PCMC limits (see box). Activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More said people in the age group of 20-40 involved students or those beginning their professional life and the experienced ones. “This age group is economically productive and has active social circle, which reflects in the number of positive cases as well,” he said. The cases in the younger age group started to rise mostly after the unlock process began, allowing private establishments to open. If safety guidelines, social distancing and personal hygiene norms are followed, the cases will certainly reduce, experts said. Additional commissioner of PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI that most of the patients from the 20-40 age group were asymptomatic. In the current times, we cannot keep them inside their homes as financial responsibilities also need to be taken care of, he said. “What we have to make sure is that the vulnerable age group of 60+ should not get exposed to the contagion and so far we have managed to do that,” Patil said, adding that since the number of positive patients in the 20-40 age group was higher, there were more recoveries as well. “This is vital for plasma donations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-cases-from-20-40-age-group-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/77402123.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Custodial murder case: CID to probe||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court transferred the investigation into the Vadodara custodial murder case to the state CID (crime) and ordered that it be probed by an officer of the rank of district superintendent of police (DSP), apprehending that the that accused cops could be expert at thwarting the probe. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria noted that none of the six policemen accused of the alleged custodial murder of Telangana-resident Shaikh Babu Nisar have been arrested even a month after the FIR was registered. An ACP of Vadodara police was investigating the case. Nisar went missing mysteriously after December 10, 2019, when he was taken to Fatehgunj police station for interrogation in connection with a case of theft. The judges feared that the lapse in time would result in evidence being lost. They observed, “Much time has already lapsed and as more passes, there is a likelihood that evidence would be destroyed. Moreover, the court cannot be oblivious to fact that it is dealing with persons who are veterans of investigation and may also have mastered the art of counteracting the process… There are shocking details emerging as to how for days and months, no clue is received of a missing person about whom inquiries were made incessantly.” The HC ordered that all case documents be immediately sent to CID (crime) through a “special messenger”. While the state government has been ordered to render all possible assistance, the DGP was asked to choose a DIG to supervise the case, which will be investigated by an officer of DSP rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/custodial-murder-case-cid-to-probe/articleshow/77402111.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Two bikers rammed by a speeding truck||Shahjahanpur: A road accident in Khuthar area of Shahjahanpur district claimed the lives of two bikers who were returning from work late night on Wednesday. Khuthar SHO Jai Shankar Singh said, “The victims, Ved Prakash (28) and his friend Godhan Lal (31), were residents of Saoufari village and used to work together at a cold storage in Silhaua village in Banda block. They had finished work at around 9pm and were returning home, when their bike was rammed by a speeding truck coming from opposite direction. The driver had fled the spot, but we managed to arrest him. An FIR has been registered under IPC sections 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) against him and he will be sent to jail. The bodies were handed over to their kin after autopsy on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-bikers-rammed-by-a-speeding-truck/articleshow/77395759.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Recovered patients refuse to leave hospital without negative report||KOLKATA: Scores of Covid patients across private hospitals have been reluctant to accept a discharge despite being symptom-free. They are insisting on testing negative before the release even though it’s no longer mandatory as per government guidelines. While some have been pleading for a transfer to satellite centres fearing ostracization at their neighbourhoods, others are citing lack of quarantine facilities. The result: beds remain occupied at the hospitals. Hospital authorities and doctors say they have been finding it difficult to get patients to follow the government directive that says a Covid patient can be released if s/he remains afebrile (not feverish) for three days and once 10 days have passed from the onset of symptoms. “Almost every patient has been refusing to accept discharge without a negative report. In case they are agreeable, their kin are reluctant to take them back due to transmission and ostracization fears. We are telling them that the beds are needed for more serious patients. But many are refusing to leave,” said AMRI Hospital CEO Rupak Barua. TimesViewTreatment protocol must be followed. Wrong diagnosis happens and the pressure on hospitals may contribute to that. But not listening to medical advice and disregarding protocol, especially during this crisis, is not the solution.Medica, too, has a long list of patients who have refused discharge without a negative report. “We have 129 beds at the main Covid unit and there has been a sharp spurt in the number of serious patients waiting for admission. We need to get them admitted but many beds are being occupied by those who have recovered sufficiently to go home. We have been showing them the government directive but on most occasions, it isn’t working,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. Introduction of satellite centres and safe homes were expected to unclog the hospitals but they haven’t served the purpose as yet. A Covid positive couple admitted to a safe home refused discharge after being symptom-free for a week. “They said they were better off at the centre since they wouldn’t have domestic helps at home and were reluctant to do all the household chores themselves,” said Barua. Lack of room for quarantine and presence of elderly kin at home were also responsible for patients demanding a negative report, said doctors. “Over the last three weeks, at least six of my patients have refused discharge, fearing they will infect family members if they return while they are still positive. While the risk can’t be ruled out, we have been trying to convince them that they should act responsibly and prevent transmission rather than denying treatment to a serious patient,” said a Covid unit doctor. Despite the addition of satellite centres, the turnover time for patients is not sliding down, said Belle Vue Clinic CEO P Tondon. “Many fear that they would be ostracized in their neighbourhoods unless they have a negative report,” said Tondon. It was a genuine apprehension, felt Apollo consultant Shyamashish Bandyopadhyay. “Patients are indeed under pressure to return with a negative report. Even the patients’ kin are reluctant to take them back. But there is a limit to which hospitals can accommodate and serious patients must get a priority,” said Bandyopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/recovered-patients-refuse-to-leave-hospital-without-ve-report/articleshow/77402167.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Weddings caused 50 Covid-19 cases in Trichy, but violations continue||TRICHY: Public gatherings held since the Covid-19 outbreak have caused more than 50 positive cases so far in Trichy city, but the number is poised to rise as such functions continue to be hosted in violation of norms right under the nose of the authorities. More than hundred people participated in a wedding at a hall in the city on Thursday, but the Trichy corporation came to know of it only on being alerted by local people. The civic body’s permission is mandatory to host events, but it was not secured. The wedding was organised at a marriage hall at Kallukuzhi in Ponmalai zone which was thronged by more than 100 people. “Many of the attendees were not wearing facemasks and dozens of vehicles were parked on roads,” M Vignesh, a resident of Kallukuzhi, told TOI. Children and elderly were seen communicating at a close distance without facemasks. The corporation was completely unaware of the event and officials were shocked to note the number of people gathered. Though the district administration had instructed wedding hall owners to report to the civic body about event organisers deviating from the relaxations given for hosting weddings amid the lockdown, the corporation was not alerted. “There were more than 50 people gathered at the time we inspected the venue. Although the wedding hall management apologised for their mistake, we levied a penalty of Rs 10,000 for the violations,” a health official with the city corporation said. In June, an engagement organized near Big Bazaar street had become a cluster and spread Covid-19 to more than 50 people. Thereafter, the district administration urged event planners to avail prior permission from local bodies to host events. Only 50 people are allowed to attend weddings following social distancing and use of face masks. Though the civic body has to inspect the venue on receiving the request, most planners fail to inform it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-100-attend-trichy-wedding-flouting-norms/articleshow/77403113.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 7, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Traders against total lockdown||KOCHI: Over the past five months, streets of Fort Kochi and Mattancherry, which are usually swarmed by tourists, have been wearing a deserted look with only a countable number of shops functioning. With the district administration enforcing complete lockdown in the area from Monday by partially closing down the Thoppumpady BOT bridge, even the shops and establishment which had been functioning bearing the financial loss had to be shut. However, most of the merchants and businessmen are not supporting the government’s decision to implement complete lockdown in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry. If the government keeps enforcing more such lockdowns, how can the concept of living with the virus be practical, asked the traders. Moreover, they demanded usage of term ‘Fort Kochi cluster’ in reports related to Covid-19 by the district administration be stopped as it would further affect Fort Kochi’s tourism revival hopes. They suggested authorities could provide division-wise Covid-data of West Kochi instead of considering it as a single cluster. “The commercial sector of Fort Kochi and Mattancherry, which is closely associated to the tourism industry, will take at least a year to revive from the impact caused by the pandemic. If the lockdown continues, it would further worsen the situation leaving no hopes for merchants to revive their business. Restrictions in containment zones are acceptable but closing down Fort Kochi and Mattancherry as a single cluster will further tarnish its tourist spot image. Tourists will hesitate to come to the region. We have raised the issue with the collector,” said Antony Kureethra, president, tourism promoters’ association. On Sunday night, Kochi police declared that ward number 1 to 28 under the Kochi corporation limits — comprising Thoppumpady, Palluruthy, Perumbadappu and Edakochi — will also be under complete lockdown. Those shops selling essential items in the region are allowed to open only from 8am to 1pm. Meanwhile, shop owners said they will not survive another lockdown. "For three months I had to keep my shop shut due to the lockdown. Business had slowly started to increase after restrictions were lifted. Now, they are implementing another lockdown with severe restrictions. If this continues, we would be left with no options of livelihood," said Jibin Peter, who runs a spices shop near Jew Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traders-against-total-lockdown/articleshow/77400620.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||IAS officer Zade is UT choice for new finance secretary||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration has forwarded to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) the name of 2002 batch Punjab cadre IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade for appointment as the new finance secretary in the UT administration.The Punjab government had recently forwarded names of three IAS officers to the UT administration to be considered for the post. The exercise to appoint a new officer was initiated as the three-year deputation period of finance secretary A K Sinha gets over in August-end.The officers on the Punjab panel were 2000 batch IAS officer Kumar Rahul, who is currently posted as secretary, health & family welfare; 2002 batch IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade, posted as secretary, expenditure (department of finance); and 2004 batch IAS officer Arun Sekhri, at present posted as secretary, home affairs, justice & jails.Sources revealed that though Kumar was the senior most officer on the panel and a front-runner for the post, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore recommended Zade’s name. While forwarding all the three names to the MHA, he recommended the 2002 batch officer’s name. Finance secretary is the third-most important post in the UT administration after adviser and home secretary, and the post is reserved for Punjab cadre IAS officers. The officer looks after the entire engineering department and the issues related to urban planning. Besides, he also looks after several other departments allocated by the UT administrator from time to time.BOX: New UT SSP soonThe department of personnel and training (DoPT) is likely to issue orders for the appointment of UT’s new senior superintendent of police (SSP) in the coming days. Last month, the administration had recommended 2011 batch IPS officer Vivek Sheel Soni (currently SSP, Ludhiana Rural) for the post, though in the panel of three officers sent by the Punjab government, 2009 batch Kuldeep Singh Chahal (SSP, SAS Nagar) was the senior most. The third name in the panel was of 2010 batch IPS officer Patil Ketan Baliram (AIG, counter intelligence, Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ias-officer-zade-is-ut-choice-for-new-finance-secretary/articleshow/77402119.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to bring ordinance for land registration to curb frauds||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government is going to bring an ordinance to amend Section-7A of ‘Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975’ (which was amended under Act No. 11 in 2017) related to registration of lands to curb fraud to check irregularities of registries. Confirming this, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said there were some provisions in the Act that were misused by corrupt individuals and it affected the government revenue. This ordinance will help keep a check on fraudsters. He said due to Covid-19, the monsoon session of the legislative assembly has been delayed and it was necessary to open the registry for appropriate people, and so the need to bring an ordinance soon to amend the Act. The deputy CM gave this information after presiding over a review meeting with senior officers of revenue, urban local bodies department and town & country planning departments regarding an online system of land registries on Thursday. He directed the officers that the departments concerned with the land registry should coordinate among themselves and create an online system so that there is no theft of revenue and people are not duped. He said that while preparing the system, it should also be kept in mind that once after all the documents are ready as per the state government regulations, the registry should not be delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-bring-ordinance-for-land-registration-to-curb-frauds/articleshow/77402162.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Woman cop accuses constable, son of outraging her modesty||NASHIK: Sarkarwada police have booked a constable and his son after a woman constable accused them of outraging her modesty by verbally abusing and assaulting her recently. Police said the complainant and the constable are neighbours and their families reside at the residential quarters of police. “Tension prevailed between the accused constable’s family and the woman’s family for quite some time,” said police, adding that no arrest has been made as preliminary investigation is under way. According to the woman constable, around 7am on August 6, the accused constable and his son allegedly barged into her house and verbally abused and assaulted her in front of her family members. A senior officer said, “As per preliminary investigation, it seems to be a fight between two families. Investigations related to outraging modesty of the woman are being carried out. If the policeman and his son are found guilty, they will be prosecuted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-cop-accuses-constable-son-of-outraging-her-modesty/articleshow/77531405.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Travel agents see hike in queries as vacation fever runs high||PUNE: Queries for vacations and short getaways are trickling in from people looking to venture out of the confines of their homes around four months after the nationwide lockdown was first imposed in March. Travel agents in Pune are mostly getting the queries from people seeking to go on domestic vacations to break the rut of the monotonous lockdown. The inquiries are largely for the upcoming year to avoid quarantine restrictions, but some are even considering the fag end of this year to travel. “The number of vacation-related queries has increased in the past month as against only emergency-centric travel requests in the preceding months. We have started getting calls from people seeking hotel deals in places like Goa, Mahabaleshwar and Udaipur, among others, for the upcoming year,” said Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune. Bhansali said hotels in different tourist spots have come up with some attractive and unique offers. “There are hotels offering customers the option to pay and book now which would enable them to avail travel benefits anytime till June 31 next year or more. We have already accepted bookings for places like Goa and Mahabaleshwar, while queries related to places like Jaipur, Coorg and others have slowly been coming in,” he added. Sahilesh Patil, director of Kesari Tours, said the queries were several. “A lot of people want to travel to places like Shimla, Manali, Kerala and others. Customers are ready to take a vacation even now, but with varying quarantine regulations, no one wants to go on a holiday and spend half their stay in quarantine. Thus, they are enquiring about the prevalent government regulations and hotel availability in October or November,” Patil told TOI. Santosh Khawale, a senior official of the Pune and Maharashtra chapter of the Enterprising Travel Agent’s Association told TOI that though queries were increasing, more clarity was needed. “We expect to have more information soon to properly address all queries. There are many who want to know about the chances of rescheduling their trip which had been cancelled earlier as they were slotted during the lockdown period,” Khawale said. Businessman Rohit Badve told TOI that he had contacted quite a few travel companies about vacation plans. “With malls and movie theatres shut, it is frustrating and we desperately need a vacation. Each year my family and I go abroad but we haven’t been able to go anywhere this time around. We had plans to go to Dubai this year which were cancelled. I have been told to wait for a fortnight for more information regarding this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travel-agents-see-hike-in-queries-as-vacation-fever-runs-high/articleshow/77402150.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Road trips, offers by hotels help to revive local tourism||AHMEDABAD: Cooped up within four walls and stuck in the same routine of work from home and drudgery, people from the city have slowly begun venturing out on road trips, looking for a break. Taking advantage of offers rolled out by hotels and resorts, tourism has gradually begun bouncing back. Estimates by travel agents, however, suggest that barely 30% of the business has revived through road trips. “After the restrictions on night curfew were lifted from August 1, people have finally begun moving out and this is a good sign for tourism industry, where the business had dried up for four months. Destinations including Mount Abu, Udaipur and Kumbhalgarh have seen a good traction around Rakshabandhan, when people booked their stay at heritage properties and resorts and enjoyed their time away from home,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Travel agents’ and Tour Operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG). Pathak also said that unlike a weekend stay, travellers are now moving out for a longer stay. “Most people are as such working out of home and therefore, they take a break for four or five days including the weekend and work remotely on their working days. They seek a change of place and environment. Hotels have also begun offering high-speed complimentary WiFi to aid work from home. That apart, several resorts and heritage properties are offering discounts to the tune of 50% and people want to take advantage of the same,” he added. Daljeet Singh, director, sales, at an Udaipur-based resort said, “We have begun getting inquiries from tourists in Gujarat and some have already spent a weekend on Rakshabandhan. The business has gradually begun reviving and we’re taking all precautions for cleanliness and hygiene to ensure people have a comfortable and safe stay.” Tour operators also said that while road trips are getting popular, travellers are still apprehensive of long-distance tours. “Long-distance trips either involve train or flight travel, in which case people don’t want to take a chance. At the same time, different rules for lockdown in different parts of the country have also proven a deterrent for travellers and therefore, as a safer bet, people travel to nearby destinations,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI). Hoteliers in Ahmedabad are also making an effort to woo tourists with staycation packages. Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel, said, “We have recently launched a staycation package, and within two days, inquiries have begun pouring in from people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/road-trips-offers-by-hotels-help-to-revive-local-tourism/articleshow/77402158.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Biometric system comes into force in all ration shops in Trichy district||Trichy: Biometric authenticated public distribution system has been launched at all the 1,224 ration shops in Trichy district. Fingerprint scanners have been provided to all the ration shops in the district to verify the fingerprint impressions of the family cardholders when they draw commodities. Cardholders listed in the smart cards linked to Aadhar cards can draw the ration after biometric authentication on the machine kept at the shops.Earlier, the biometric system was introduced at fair price shops in Mannachanallur taluk on July 28 on a trial basis. Considering the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, ration shop employees have been asked to follow certain norms while distributing the commodities to customers. All the fair price shops have been provided with sanitizers to sanitize the hands of the customers at the shop before they place their fingers on the scanners. Also the staff have been instructed to clean the equipment using sanitizer-soaked sponges every time a customer’s finger print is scanned. “Salesmen should first scan the card. It shows the list of names included in the card. The fingerprint impression is then taken. Only after matching and confirming the fingerprints with the already registered details of the cardholders can the staff distribute the essentials. This will prevent duplication,” a senior official from cooperative department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biometric-system-comes-into-force-in-all-ration-shops-in-trichy-district/articleshow/77403118.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Trichy||More than half college students continue to skip online classes||Trichy: As colleges began online classes on Monday, a large section of students continue to be left out of them because of connectivity issues and absence of gadgets. Students had started attending the online classes started by colleges after the higher education department made it mandatory. Teachers said students who are in rural areas have been bearing the brunt as they face network issues as well as problems in accessing gadgets. Less than half the students in government arts colleges could attend these online classes and, in some cases, it was further less. Almost 25% of students in self-financing colleges remained absent for these online classes so far. A Gopalakrishnan, economics faculty member of Periyar EVR College, a government college in Trichy, said that while 50-60% of post graduate students are attending online classes, it is 30-40% in the case of undergraduate students.Among the absentees, some did not have smart phones while those in rural areas had connectivity issues despite having gadgets. “Some of the students log in during the middle of the class over connectivity issues. I have seen students coming under trees near their house to access network to attend classes,” he said. Most colleges say that the six to seven classes mandated by the higher education department was practically impossible. Engaging students for a minimum four hours appeared to be a Himalayan task. “We are sticking to a maximum of 4 fours which is feasible for us,” said V Sujatha, principal of Cauvery College for Women. However, they could see an increase in the number of students attending the classes and the absentees have come down to less than 10%, she said. Bharathidasan University registrar G Gopinath said he had received a few mails from students saying they could not attend online classes because of connectivity issues. They are worried as colleges have started taking attendance of online classes. “We expect the state government to come out with some solution at the earliest in terms of the connectivity issues,” he said. While it was anticipated that e-seva centres will be open for students, Gopalakrishnan said higher education department officials are working on addressing the issues of students who don’t have access to gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-than-half-college-students-continue-to-skip-online-classes/articleshow/77403125.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 7, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Dalit family offered first bhoomi pujan prasad||AYODHYA: The first ‘prasad’ of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony at Ramjanmabhoomi was offered to a Dalit family in Ayodhya on Wednesday in keeping with the Sangh’s thrust to bridge the caste divide. The family of Mahabir Prasad, a mason by profession, was taken by surprise when volunteers of the temple trust knocked on their door with ‘prasad’ along with a copy of ‘Ram Charitmanas’ and ‘tulsi mala’ (rosary). ‘Prasad’ was distributed in Ayodhya only after it was offered to the Dalit family, confirmed sources in the temple trust. Mahabir, a beneficiary of the ‘Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana’, shot to limelight at the peak of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when chief minister Yogi Adityanath shared a meal with his family after offering prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi. Talking to TOI, Mahavir's daughter, Sima, a postgraduate student of Ayodhya’s Saket Degree College, said, “We are fortunate to receive the first ‘prasad’ of bhoomi pujan. We were offered two boxes of prasad, a Ram Charitmanas and a rosary of basil plant.” While Mahabir, a Dalit, received the first ‘prasad’ of Lord Ram, Babri litigant Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim, was also one of the first to receive the invite to attend the ‘bhoomi pujan’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dalit-family-offered-1st-bhoomi-pujan-prasad/articleshow/77403136.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt staff to hoist black flags on houses on Independence Day||CHANDIGARH: Various unions of the Punjab government employees and pensioners have decided to hoist black flags on their houses across the state on the Independence Day to protest against the government’s “anti-employee policies”. Gurmail Singh Sidhu, the state convenor of Sanjha Mulazim Manch, Punjab and Chandigarh, said the employees and pensioners have been forced to take this decision since they have got no positive response from the state government despite submission of their memorandum of demands at various levels. He said both employees and pensioners are still waiting for the pay commission award, which was due in 2016. “Four instalments of the dearness allowance are still pending, mobile allowance of the employees has been cut to half, the government is resorting to restructuring of various departments by doing away with various lower-level posts and it has been decided to recruit new employees on the basis of the central pay commission. On the contrary, MLAs are entitled to Rs 15,000 mobile allowance per month, but there is no reduction there,” he said. “We are unable to make out why the government needs to take such anti-employee decisions during the Covid-19 pandemic when it is expected to focus on many other important issues,” Sidhu said. Meanwhile, various employees’ unions have already started holding protests across the state beginning August 3 by burning effigies of the government. “Employees are observing a pen-down strike from August 6 to 14. On August 15, all employees and pensioners will hoist black flags on their houses. In case our demands are not met, then from August 18 we will resort to full-fledged strike across the state,” declared Sidhu. He also informed that the state government released the salary for the month of July to Group C and D employees on August 5, while Group A and B employees were still awaiting their salaries. Sidhu added that the employees of various government departments have already submitted their memorandum to the chief secretary, all the deputy commissioners, and various MLAs, but they have not got any response from the government to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-govt-staff-to-hoist-black-flags-on-houses-on-i-day/articleshow/77402211.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Class X: Call to pass pvt candidates sans exam||Trichy: Though Class X students have been declared all pass and those who studied in schools expected to get their marks based on their quarterly and half-yearly performances, the future of private candidates is at stake as the school education department has mandated that they must write the exam later, as they don’t have term exams. P Adhil, 16, from KK Nagar in Trichy dropped out of Class X in 2018 for personal reasons. But, he regretted his decision after seeing his elder brother and younger sister go to school. He decided to join school again for which he must clear the Class X board exams as a private candidate. But, with no assurance or announcement regarding private candidates, Adhil’s goal has been put on hold. Officials from the regional joint director of government examination in Trichy said that a total of 1,186 private candidates had registered for Class X examination from Trichy district this year. They are among 10,700 candidates across the state besides 23,500 candidates, who have registered to appear for arrears. Conducting exam for private candidates alone will be discriminatory, said educationist Prince Gajendra Babu. “When you have withdrawn the examination and said all pass, private candidates are also included,” he added. The government must come forward and declare private candidates as pass, he said. The government must realize that private candidates will also be under psychological pressure. If they clear the exam, they will be able to join Class XI or polytechnic or any other higher studies. They will lose the opportunity if their results are delayed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-x-call-to-pass-pvt-candidates-sans-exam/articleshow/77403131.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 7, 2020||Trichy||Class VI, IX students of govt schools in state yet to receive textbooks||Trichy: High schools and higher secondary schools in the state are yet to distribute textbooks to the class VI and IX students even after receiving the books from the government. It is learnt that the schools are waiting for a directive from the school education department in this regard. While distribution of free textbooks started on Monday in the government and government-aided schools across the state, the school education department has asked schools to not distribute books to class I, VI and IX. Admissions are yet to begin at government schools, and there are no students in class I of elementary and middle schools, class VI in high and higher secondary schools. Considering the fact that students passing out of class VIII from middle schools, which have classes up to VIII, will join nearby high and higher secondary schools, the government has asked to stop distribution of textbooks to students of class IX in high and higher secondary schools. However, this has left the existing class IX students in high and higher secondary schools study without textbooks. “Ideally, the government should have ordered high schools and higher secondary school students to give their books to students of class IX,” said a teacher from a government higher secondary school. Same is the case with students who have elementary and middle schools on the same campus. Students who passed out of class V of the elementary schools automatically join class VI in the middle school in the same campus. But, they are not been given books. Speaking to TOI, S Shanthi, Trichy district chief education officer (CEO), said that as soon as they receive orders from the government, they will distribute books to class VI and IX.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-vi-ix-students-of-govt-schools-in-state-yet-to-receive-textbooks/articleshow/77403144.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Parents protest against ‘removal’ of students from online education||Pilibhit: Some parents of Puranpur tehsil protested against the management of a prominent local school on Thursday for the alleged removal of some students from online education for not paying fees on time.The parents alleged that the school management was adamant on charging the full fee while they were inclined only to pay the tuition fee as it has been closed for the past few months due to Covid-19 pandemic.Puranpur SDM Rajendra Prasad, who had reached the spot following the directions of the district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, has given two days for the school management to redress the parents' grievances. The SDM said that the school manager had been directed to provide online education to all students without any discrimination following the concerned government order. Strict action will be taken if the directives are not followed, he added.According to a lawyer and father of a Class VIII student of the school in question, the school manager had deprived around 60 per cent students of the online education facility. "We have been trying to hold a meeting with the school management for the past three months over a relief mechanism in the fee structure. But, despite our repeated efforts, the school manager did not allow any mutual discussion on the issue and deprived the students of online education," the lawyer said.Another parent said that the school management had turned "stubborn and was spoiling the academic career of students".Dismissing the allegations, the school manager said that the school had neither removed any student from the online education network nor had introduced any hike in fee structure. The parents seemed to have been provoked by some outsiders, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/parents-protest-against-removal-of-students-from-online-education/articleshow/77397139.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Trichy||‘Less than 20% active cases in hospitals’||Trichy: Early identification and effective treatment have ensured that only less than 20% active Covid-19 cases are under treatment in hospitals across the state, health secretary J Radhakrishnan has said. He was at Viralimalai in Pudukottai district for a surprise inspection at the government hospital along with health minister C Vijaya Baskar on Thursday. He said the death rate has been 1.6 so far, but only 19.2% of the total positive cases are in hospital and the rest have gone home after treatment. The state has reported 2.8 lakh positive cases till Thursday and 53,486 are presently under treatment in hospitals. So far, 4,571 people have lost their lives due to the disease, according to the state media bulletin. Radhakrishnan stressed on the need to overcome the fear of increasing Covid-19 numbers. He said increasing cases are the result of aggressive testing which has helped identify them and provide effective treatment. Minister Vijaya Baskar said that 1.2 lakh beds have been kept standby for treatment in the state. Right from government medical college hospital, district government hospitals, even village level hospitals in the state have been equipped with Covid-19 treatment facilities, said the minister. The minister added that all collectors have been informed about the measures to be taken to avoid spread of infectious diseases during rainy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/less-than-20-active-cases-in-hospitals/articleshow/77403149.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Extra stoppages for Sachkhand Exp||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has increased the stoppage of Nanded-Amrutsar (02715) Sachkhand Special Express train at Parbhani and Jalna stations to facilitate handling of parcel traffic from Friday. As per the revised timings of the train, the train will arrive at Parbhani station at 10.32 am and leave at 10.37 am. At Jalna station, Sachkhand Express will arrive at 12.10 pm and proceed for further journey at 12.15 pm. Public relations official of SCR for Nanded division Rajesh Shinde said the train will not have change in arrival or departure timing at any other stations in Marathwada except Parbhani and Jalna. Currently, Sachkhand Express is the only passenger train operating from Nanded division with all other trains suspended amid outbreak of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/extra-stoppages-for-sachkhand-exp/articleshow/77402246.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Masjid Trust members welcome ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi||AYODHYA: Members of the masjid Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board have welcomed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi, saying Supreme Court's Ayodhya verdict has many positive aspects for Muslims. Athar Hussain, secretary of Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, the newly constituted Trust for construction of mosque in Ayodhya, said “We welcome the bhoomi pujan at Ramjanmabhoomi and hope it’s the beginning of the end a centuries-old conflict. We have accepted the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya verdict, which clearly states that no temple was demolished to build the mosque. Also, it invoked the Places of Worship Act, 1991, to mandate that the character of a place of worship shall not be altered in future. There’s much to cheer.” Imran Ahmad, another member of mosque trust, said, “We offer our good wishes to Hindu brothers. We have no differences with them and will follow the court verdict in right spirit and build an alternate mosque.” Mohammad Rashid, another trust member said, “It’s the beginning of the making of new India in which both Hindus and Muslims will live in harmony. My best wishes for the Ram Mandir.” The Supreme Court in its Ayodhya verdict of November 9, 2019, mandated that 5acre land be given to Sunni Waqf Board in lieu of Babri Masjid and the Uttar Pradesh government allotted the plot in Dhannipur village, 25km off Ramjanmabhoomi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/masjid-trust-members-welcome-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77403157.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad: Man shot dead over ‘land dispute’||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by unidentified men over a ‘land dispute’ in Daudbhag village under Katghar police station in Moradabad on Thursday morning. The incident took place when the victim, Mohammed Amir, a farmer, was on his way to fields. The accused are at large, said police. According to police, the victim had a land dispute with residents of nearby areas, and his elder brothers were previously lodged in jail as well. After informed by locals, a police team led by Katghar circle officer reached the spot and sent the body for postmortem. Superintendent of police (city) Amit Anand said, “The accused fled the spot. Police learnt from villagers that in the past, Amir had brawls with some locals. And now, he was shot dead by a few unidentified men, who ran away. No arrest has been made, so far. An FIR has been registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC.” The combing operation to nab the accused begun and they would be arrested soon, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute/articleshow/77395811.cms||Maria Khan
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Pregnant woman electrocuted in bid to savebrother who came in contact with live wire||Bareilly: A nine-month pregnant woman was electrocuted when she tried to save her brother who came in contact with a high-tension overhead exposed cable on the terrace of her residence in Nayagaon area under Majhola police station in Moradabad on Wednesday. Upon hearing her brother screaming, who came in contact with the live wire while removing hanging clothes as it had started raining, Mithilesh (26) got electrocuted in a bid to save her brother. Both were rushed to a hospital where doctors proclaimed the woman dead upon arrival, while her brother Adhaar Singh was admitted there. Police said Adhaar, who had come to Moradabad for Rakhsha Bandhan, sustained minor burn injuries. Majhola police station SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said, “The woman was proclaimed dead by the hospital authorities, while her brother was given first aid. He is stable now.” The victim is survived by her husband Shivraj, a three-year-old son and one-year-old daughter. The woman’s body was handed over to the family, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pregnant-woman-electrocuted-in-bid-to-savebrother-who-came-in-contact-with-live-wire/articleshow/77397164.cms||Maria Khan
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||‘SGPC can only lodge complaint or move court in sacrilege cases’||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been instrumental in investigating the incidents of desecration of saroop of Guru Granth Sahib, but it hands are tied and role limited to lodging a police complaint against the suspects or take legal action against them. SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta tells Yudhvir Rana of TOI how it begins investigations and reach a ‘logical conclusion’.What is the first reaction of SGPC to a complaint of sacrilege of a holy book?When we receive any report of sacrilege, the matter is immediately brought to the knowledge of the SGPC president, who directs the line of action that often includes formation of a subcommittee to investigate the matter. If the president himself receives any report, then he issues direction on the spot. The subcommittee is rushed to the spot to verify the facts, collect relevant details and submit its report to the SGPC office. If the incident is of criminal nature, the SGPC files an FIR in a police station concerned or moves the court and follows up the case. This is all SGPC can do. How does the SGPC ensure that an incident is of sacrilege and not an accident or out of negligence?There is a difference between the two. The first indication lies in the complainant’s behaviour and attitude, which is judged by our experienced staff — whether it is a serious reporting of an incident of desecration of a holy book or an attempt to provoke sentiments or take settle scores with others. No doubt accidents happen, like a fire due to electricity short circuit damaging the holy book or some other reason, which is understandable. In that case, the management of the gurdwara concerned is held guilty of negligence and issued warning to remain more vigilant in future. In case it was a deliberate action taken to provoke sentiments, the investigation committee establishes its veracity. Why do incidents of desecration of holy book happen?We have noticed that there have been waves of incidents of desecration, as it happened in 2015. Either they are politically motivated or the genesis lies in settling personal scores. The pages of holy books were torn and strewn across streets, submerged in water or burnt etc. During the first year of Congress government in Punjab, more than 80 incidents of sacrilege happened, which was also a wave. However, there is no such wave now but we have to keep vigil against the designs of insane and irresponsible persons. Has there been any incident of selling old saroop or handwritten manuscripts to collectors?Such tragic incidents could have been possible before the advent of social media, but not now. Then, such incidents hardly came to notice, that was the time when private publishers also used to sell saroop of Guru Granth Sahib. Now, people are more aware and wherever any such malpractice is noticed, it is immediately made viral on various platforms of social media and action taken. Look at the case of theft of nearly a 100-year-old saroop from Gurdwara Aradspur Sahib at Kalyan village in Patiala. It has been noticed and both SGPC and SAD(B) have launched an agitation for its recovery. Even the common Sikhs have joined it. What precautions are taken to avoid any disrespect to saroop during its printing or research by non-Sikhs?Scholars of comparative religion have the right to study the Sikh literature at various universities, including Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, or universities having specific departments. It cannot be denied, as Sikh students of comparative religion also go to study other religious scriptures. But it is the duty of the university concerned or the institution to ensure that no disrespect is shown to saroop during studies. We have many non-Sikhs who work in SGPC’s printing press for various procedures like printing, binding etc and we make sure that rehat maryada is not violated at any step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-role-limited-to-lodging-police-complaint-or-moving-court-in-sacrilege-cases/articleshow/77402253.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 7, 2020||Nashik||No. of containment zones in Nashik doubles in 11 days||Nashik: The rise in the number of Covid-19 patients has pushed up the number of containment zones in Nashik city from 266 on July 25 to 635 on Wednesday, civic officials said on Thursday.A total of 1,784 containment zones have been drawn across the city, out of which 1,149 are no longer hotspots as no new cases have been reported from there for quite some time and those infected have been cured.In the past 11 days, the city has recorded 4,535 new positive cases, taking the tally of Covid-19 positive patients from 7,505 on July 25 to 12,039 on Wednesday. Interestingly, the number of cases in slums has reduced while the number of residential buildings affected due to Covid-19 has increased. Of the total 635 containment zones, 621 are building zones that have been sealed after the residents tested positive.“We are taking all the necessary precautions to contain Covid-19. Apart from conducting regular survey in containment zones, we have also deployed teachers of municipal schools to find patients with co-morbidities and conduct rapid antigen tests for early detection,” a civic official said.“We have also increased testing from 250 per day in the first week of July to 3,000 tests as of now. This includes around 700 RT-PCR and around 2,300 antigen tests. We could detect more patients because of the tests,” the official added.According to him, early detection was also the reason why civic body could provide immediate treatment to patients. “The Covid-19 death rate, which was 4.81% by June 30, has now reduced to 2.58% due to early detection of patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-containment-zones-in-nashik-doubles-in-11-days/articleshow/77399417.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Remdesivir samples sent for forensic examination||AHMEDABAD: A team of city crime branch collected samples of remdesivir drug, which were sold to some medical shops in Surat, and sent them for forensic examination. The cops wanted to verify that the drug which was imported from Bangladesh illegally by Nilkanth Elixir LLP located at Makarba in Ahmedabad, was duplicate or original. The drug was sold in Surat, according to crime branch sources. Police have recorded statements of some medical shop owners in Surat. The city crime branch is also probing whether there is a link between remdesivir drug scam busted by Mumbai crime branch and the food and drug department on July 18 in which seven persons were arrested and the one registered in Ahmedabad in which four persons have been arrested till now, out of eight accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remdesivir-samples-sent-for-forensic-examination/articleshow/77402241.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad 3rd from bottom in state in early initiation of breastfeeding||Aurangabad: At 43.4% rate, Aurangabad district is placed abysmally third from bottom in breastfeeding infants within one hour of birth, the latest report of Maharashtra for Breastfeeding and Infant and Young Child Feeding Practices by the Centre shows. Among other districts from Marathwada, Osmanabad has impressive rate of 69.9% in early initiation of breastfeeding and is placed at second place from the top in Maharashtra. Also, Nanded district from Marathwada is at fourth place with 65.3% rate. Coinciding with the ongoing world breastfeeding week (August 1-7), health experts stress upon the need of more awareness among mothers and society at large about the importance of breastfeeding. Government medical officer Dr. Pashant Kondekar said that many mothers still do not have knowledge that breastfeeding needs to be initiated within around one hour after birth of child. “Almost every mother releases colostrum, a nutrient-rich fluid, immediately after giving birth. This milk is highly important for boosting the immunity of child and further growth. Many newborns are deprived of colostrum due to lack of knowledge or misconception that it has to be drained out from the breasts before actually breastfeeding the child,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-3rd-from-bottom-in-state-in-early-initiation-of-breastfeeding/articleshow/77402258.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Two youths allege police inaction despite complaints||LUDHIANA: Two youths of Mundia Khurd village have levelled allegations against the police of not taking action after repeated attacks on them by their neighbours after they complained against them for using ‘kundi’ connection (power theft). Gagan Malhotra and Robin Kumar have also alleged that Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials too deliberately revealed their identity to the three neighbours who were involved in power theft. According to both of them, an attempt was made to attack them with bricks, which was also orchestrated on Thursday by their neighbours, including some women, but despite their repeated calls the police did not come to help them. Narrating his ordeal to TOI, Gagan said, “Some of our neighbours have been stealing power for their homes in our area under the garb of using this power for streetlights. We complained about this loss of government revenue to chairman of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on July 3 and 31. Following this, the chairman gave instructions to the local PSPCL officials, who swung into action and they snapped these connections. Some of the officials later disclosed our identity to the people indulging in power theft and ever since these people have started openly threatening us and also attacked us several times.” He continued, “On Thursday also, several of our neighbours, including women, gathered outside my home with bricks and tried to attack us and despite our repeated calls to the police and even the police commissioner, we did not get any help. It was just by chance that after the crowd realised that I am recording the entire incident in my mobile phone that they left the spot.” Meanwhile, contradicting Gagan’s claim, Bhupinder Deol, sarpanch of the area, said, “According to the residents of the area where the complainant lives the allegations of power theft for use of electricity in anyone’s home are false. In fact, the residents were using the power supply for lighting newly installed streetlights as for the past sometime they were fearing for their safety in absence of proper lighting in the streets. As of now, the incident of attack on Gagan and Robin is concerned, I am not aware about any such incident.” Box – ‘Went twice to complainant’s home According to sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh, incharge of, Mundia Kalan police chowki, “On Thursday, upon getting the call from the complainant, Gagan Malhotra, we went twice to his home. Later in the day, a compromise was reached between the complainants and their neighbours in the presence of the sarpanch Bhupinder Deol. The entire incident turned out to be a misunderstanding between both sides and it has been resolved now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-youths-allege-police-inaction-despite-complaints/articleshow/77400739.cms||Mohit Behl
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Consumption of water rises in city after Covid outbreak||Nashik: The water consumption of the city during the reservation period from October 15 last year to July 31 this year has increased by 214mcft due to rise in demand following the outbreak of Covid-19.According to officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the consumption of water increased as citizens were at home and used water for sanitising and washing hands frequently. “By February end, the daily consumption of water in the city was around 500 million litres per day (MLD). The demand increased to 560 MLD per day from March onwards following the outbreak of Covid-19,”said officials. Gangapur dam complex, Mukane and Darna dams are the major source of water for the city. NMC’s reservation of water from the dams was 5,000mcft water during the 2019-20 reservation period (Oct-July), of which 3,600mcft was reserved in Gangapur dam complex, 1,000mcft in Mukane and 400mcft in Darna dam.But, approximately 5,214.32 mcft of water has been used during the reservation period—3,649.22mcft from Gangapur dam complex, 1,245.70mcft from Mukane dam and 319.22mcft from Darna dam.The rise in consumption of water and inadequate rainfall in the catchment areas of these three dams has put the civic administration in a spot.All the three dams were 90% full of the total capacity during this time last year. Now, the water levels in the dams have dropped to 40% due to inadequate rainfall. NMC has already warned of alternate day water supply if the catchment areas of the dams don’t receive adequate rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/consumption-of-water-rises-in-city-after-covid-outbreak/articleshow/77399430.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Locust swarms caused no crop damage due to timely cane dept action, claims cane secy||Pilibhit: UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry Sanjay R Bhoosreddy on Thursday claimed the support extended to farmers against the locust outbreak in the state has ensured zero damage to the sugarcane crop, while releasing a note on the cane department’s efforts to prevent damage to crops. He said the cane department in coordination with district administration had provided farmers with 6,847 spray tankers and heavy stock of prescribed insecticides, and deployed 538 field monitoring teams from the cane development department. He further said the maximum energy, manpower and resources were exerted in Meerut division, after the locust swarms arrived in Bulandshahr. The department deployed 196 teams with 1,568 spray tankers, who sprayed 4,000 litres of insecticide in affected areas to kill locusts and force the swarms to migrate. The department ensured full protection of the crop with 780 spray tankers in Moradabad division, 22 field teams and 1,034 tankers in Bareilly division, 88 teams and 1,217 tankers in Lucknow division, as well as 110 teams and 121 tankers in Ayodhya division, he said. Similarly, 46 teams with 278 spray tankers and 12 teams with 25 tankers were deployed in Devipatan and Gorkhapur divisions respectively, while in Deoria division, the department had deployed 62 teams with 39 tankers, said Bhoosreddy. Sugarcane growers in Puranpur and Madhotanda areas of Pilibhit told TOI that during the locust attack on July 16, prompt action of the cane department who sprayed insecticides on fields prevented the pests from staying for long on the plants and laying eggs on them, in which case, the situation could have gone out of control, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/locust-swarms-caused-no-crop-damage-due-to-timely-cane-dept-action-claims-cane-secy/articleshow/77395848.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-MLA Nirmal Singh joins Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, says Sukhbir Badal ‘dictatorial’||PATIALA: Former MLA from Bassi Pathana justice Nirmal Singh (retd), along with some of his supporters, joined Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Thursday at Bassi Pathana town of Fatehgarh Sahib district and alleged that there is “caste-based discrimination” in SAD (Badal) and its chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s behaviour is “dictatorial”. Speaking to TOI, he also criticised the BJP’s policy of interlinking of rivers and said he would never support it, as it can prove disastrous for Punjab and was against the riparian principles. “On January 29, 1955 the central government allocated 8 MAF (million acre-foot) water to Rajasthan from Punjab’s share without any right of Rajasthan under the internationally accepted riparian principles. Punjab was not given even any royalty, and the state has failed to hold any meeting with non-riparian states to get any royalty”, said Nirmal Singh, who in May 2000 was elevated as judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court and in December 2009, he joined as a member of the Interstate Water Disputes Tribunal and then resigned in January 2012. Nirmal Singh, 73, who was elected as SAD (B) MLA from Bassi Pathana in 2012 and had also contested unsuccessfully from Chamkaur Sahib in 2017, said he was inactive for over two years. “Now, I have joined Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s new political party ‘Shiromani Akali Dal’.” On Tuesday, SAD (B)’s Fatehgarh Sahib unit had also expelled Nirmal and his few supporters from the party's primary membership for their alleged anti-party activities. On Thursday, the SAD (B) unit held a press conference and termed both Dhindsa and Nirmal Singh as traitors. Meanwhile, S S Dhindsa who was accompanied Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, Bir Devinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur Gulshan and others, addressed the gathering on Thursday and exhorted the traditional panthic families to join the movement and liberate SGPC and SAD from Badals, who he said had remained silent spectators to the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and ruined the party for petty family business interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-mla-nirmal-singh-joins-dhindsa-says-sukhbir-badal-dictatorial/articleshow/77402281.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Sainki Kalyan guidance camp for ex-servicemen||Aurangabad: The Sainik Kalyan office, Aurangabad, has organised a camp for ex-servicemen on August 9 to guide them on joining the police department. In a statement issued on Thursday, the Sainik Kalyan office said the meet was being organised to guide the ex-servicemen on different difficulties they would face or have to tackle to join the police department. The meet has been organised at 10.30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sainki-kalyan-guidance-camp-for-ex-servicemen/articleshow/77402272.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Lukewarm response to ‘Donate a Device’||Nashik: The Nashik Zilla Parishad’s appeal to the citizens to ‘Donate a Device’ for students in rural areas to help them get access to online education amid the current crisis has received a lukewarm response from citizens. A senior officer from the education department said, “So far, we have only received 54 devices from the people and they are being sent to the students across various talukas.” Leena Bansod, the Nashik ZP CEO, had appealed to the people to donate their used devices like smartphones and tabs so that students in rural areas can get access to online education amid the outbreak of Covid-19. “The 54 devices received so far include mobiles, televisions (also smart TVs), pen drives and books. There are four new phones that people have donated to the ZP,” the officer added. According to Bansod, there are about 2.67 lakh students of ZP from Class 1 to Class 8, of which 1.6 lakh do not have access to the online facilities, mostly because of not having a device and partly because of the internet connectivity. ZP teachers have started going to the students’ houses, assembling all of them at one place and teaching them maintaining social distancing. If they get the devices, the children can form groups of less than four at a time and circulate this device for the content in it, said the officer. The officer said they are now approaching companies and individuals to draw their attention towards the importance of such devices to help the students. The officer also pointed out that people could go to https://bit.ly/nashikdonateadevice to register themselves for donating their device.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lukewarm-response-to-donate-a-device/articleshow/77399446.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Seers to catalyse crowd-funding of Ayodhya's Ram temple||LUCKNOW: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram Temple, the Ayodhya Sant Samiti toyed with the idea of reaching out to seers across the country, asking them to send out an appeal for funding construction of a grand temple in next few years. Speaking to TOI, president of Ayodhya Sant Samiti, Mahant Kanhaiyya Das said, a formal decision to reach out to people through seers would be decided soon. “But, people across India would have to come forward to finance the temple construction,” he said. Mahant Das said, the samiti would soon be convening a meeting to decide its course of action. “Funds have to be drawn from Ram Bhakts. There will be no government role in financing the project,” he said. Sources said, the Ayodhya Sant Samiti would act as a catalyst in mobilising seers to convince people to donate. This comes close on heels of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) plans to coordinate with Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust in crowd-funding the project. BJP national general secretary, Milind Parande told TOI the trust is authorised to collect funds. “But VHP would also throw its weight behind the trust in mobilising people,” he said. Parande said, VHP is expected to announce its plan of coordinating with the trust in next two or three months. “Our cadre is ready to launch a nationwide movement,” he said. The right-wing outfit is planning to reach out to more than 3 lakh villages and 7,000 cities in the country to raise funds for the temple. VHP sources said, the plan was prepared after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the Ram Temple. It was in fact, VHP functionaries, who collected soil and water from more than 3,000 places for construction. The VHP leader, who was in Ayodhya to attend a meeting of organisation functionaries, said the idea was to expedite construction of the temple. “We hope the structure would be ready in next two to three years and Ram Lalla would be placed in the sanctum sanctorum,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/seers-to-catalyse-crowd-funding-of-ram-temple/articleshow/77403161.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Animals at tiger safari await adoption||Ludhiana: The tiger safari near Jalandhar bypass is facing problem as far as the adoption of animals is concerned, especially for the two Royal Bengal tigers. There are policies in this regard for people, who can adopt any animal at different rates, depending whether they wan to do so on daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis. These plans have been introduced by the government of India, which include adoption of four birds at least or a single tiger. One of the tigers in the zoo is aged 12 years and is named Chirag, A male tiger and a tigress whose name is Inchra is 14 years old. These tigers could not be adopted as they came n January and after a while lockdown started because of coronavirus. District forest officer (DFO) Khuswinder Singh said, “We want people to come up and start adopting the animals. There are some duties of as being the citizen of India and they can follow these by adopting the animals in the zoo. Proper certificates will be given to the person who will adopt any animal from the zoo, be it birds, deers, emus, jackal, tiger, etc.” To do the adoption of any animal a person has to go to the Tiger Safari near Jalandhar bypass and can get the adoption form and fill it and submit it with the amount of money for the adoption. “We should try to help the animals at the zoo as much as we can. They are part of the world and they need to be taken care of. These animals are a very important part of wildlife which we should preserve by taking a step forward and adopt them. Even a week’s adoption can change so many things,” said Amit Kapoor, a private employee from Haibowal. “I wanted to adopt the animals from zoo but I am not able to because of coronavirus. My financial condition is not so good but I think of all those who can help as they should come forward and adopt any animal,” said a person who requested anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/animals-at-tiger-safari-await-adoption/articleshow/77400760.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Aurangabad||MASSIA demands govt’s attention to problems faced by tiny industries||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (MASSIA) has demanded the government to look into problems faced by as many as 200 tiny and minor industries, including lack of proper infrastructure, in Chikalthana industrial area. In a statement issued on Thursday, Abhay G Hanchanal, the MASSIA president, said the Chikalthana industries have been facing problems for over 10 years but the departments concerned have chosen to ignore their issues. The area does not have a proper road as it is filled with potholes and it has no proper drainage system which leads to frequent waterlogging, and the water enters the units.  Massia pointed out that the industry body has launched a drive to connect with entrepreneurs amid the current situation and raise their issues with the authority concerned. As a part of the drive a team including Hanchanal and Bhagwan Raut, the Massia’s Chikalthana unit secretary, visited the area to take stock of the situation and report it to the authorities. The office bearers found that the roads were not repaired for the last 10 years, there were no proper street lights and people find it difficult to commute in the dark. These issues are increasing as they have not been attended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/massia-demands-govts-attention-to-problems-faced-by-tiny-industries/articleshow/77402283.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Missing swaroops trigger slugfest||PATIALA: Even as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is yet to sort out the issue of missing 267 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib from the publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in Amritsar, the matter of disappearance of a rare miniature saroop of Guru Granth Sahib from Ardaspur Gurdwara in Kalyan village of Patiala has now taken a political turn. In 1920, two miniature saroops Shri Guru Granth Sahib, measuring 1 inch by 1.5 inch, which can only be read using a lens had been instated at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib and at Shri Ardaspur Sahib Gurudwara in Kalyan village. According to Baba Nichabar Singh, chief sewadar of Ardaspur Gurdwara, the miniature Shri Guru Granth Sahib had been brought here in 1920 by Baba Kirpal Singh. The holy scripture was covered with gold. Devotees from across the globe visited this gurdwara to pay their obeisance. It has been learnt that the rare miniature Shri Guru Granth Sahib had been kept in a showcase away from public view and for the last two months no one had been allowed ‘darshan’ of the same. It was only recently that gurdwara committee opened the showcase to find the gold covered rare miniature Shri Guru Granth Sahib missing. Initially, an attempt was made to trace the rare scripture within the gurdwara premises, but after it became clear that was no longer there, the matter was reported the SGPC, which constituted a five-member committee to investigate the matter. However, till date, there has been no headway in the case. Now, SGPC chief Govind Singh Longowal has demanded a police investigation into the matter. While the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has planned a protest outside the office of Patiala senior superintendent of police on Friday, leader of the Akali splinter group, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, on Thursday visited the gurdwara and raised several questions against SAD and the SGPC. He said it was shocking that 267 saroops went missing under SAD’s watch. Dhindsa said the disappearance of 267 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Amritsar was in itself a huge issue but the SAD and the SGPC were trying to4  cover up the matter. He said instead of looking within, the SAD was demanding a probe from the administration into the disappearance of the miniature Shri Guru Granth Sahib at Kalyan village. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Samana Kaka Rajinder Singh also visited the gurdwara on Thursday. He said it was unfortunate that one of the rare scriptures had gone missing from a gurdwara but what was more shocking to know is that, for more than two months no one from the gurdwara committee came to know about the missing Shri Guru Granth Sahib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/disappearance-of-rare-miniature-saroop-of-guru-granth-sahib-given-political-hue/articleshow/77402292.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We have reached the pandemic peak; will remain for 4-6 weeks’||As the number of cases of Covid-19 is surging and fatalities are being reported from the district, there is one officer who shoulders the responsibility to coordinate the care and treatment of such patients in the district from the time they test positive to eventually being declared cured or dead. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19 management in Ludhiana talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the current Covid-19 scenario in the district. Q: What is the latest scenario in Ludhiana district so far as Covid is concerned? A: I feel that we have reached the peak of this pandemic and it generally remains for four to six weeks as has been the case with developed world, including UK, Germany, etc. In case of Delhi also the peak started around June 15 and now it is witnessing a downtrend. The surge comes immediately and management at that particular time is very important. We had marathon meetings with private hospitals, wherein around 50 private hospital representatives participated. Everyone agreed that it is the time to help as it is a social cause. Q: What about the status of beds in hospitals as there have been reports about shortage of beds? We have increased the number of beds in levels three, two and one. We have 120 beds in level three and thirty more are in the pipeline and 70 more will be added. So, we will have 220-250 beds for level three in Ludhiana. At level two we have 500 beds in the government sector as in such cases we need oxygen occasionally. We have beds in government medical college, Patiala, also, so I think we will be able to tide over the issue which we are going to face in the coming one month. Q: What about the recent increase in fatalities in Ludhiana? A: Ludhiana receives patients from all over the state and from other states as well. Those patients which are referred from other areas, by the time they reach here their condition becomes critical. To generalise that things are very serious is not right. We also face the problem of late reporting as when patient comes to hospitals he doesn’t have more than five to six hours as oxygen saturation level is low and it becomes very difficult to try to revive a patient from that saturation level. In most of the cases, the golden period is lost. We have started community participation in Covid management, wherein people guide persons to go early for treatment. Q: What is the strategy to bring down such fatalities? A: There are many components of our strategy to fight the disease. We are running mass media campaigns, wherein we are creating awareness among people about the disease, the prevention part and early reporting. We want to give available information to people every hour and have developed an app also, which will become live in some time and feed data from private hospitals. Next, we are giving a bulletin after every two hours and have started it recently. We are putting the availability of beds in various hospitals on our NIC website. We have also put a guide at bigger hospitals, who will tell people about the hospital where they can get beds. Q: There are certain complaints, wherein family members and relatives of patients allege that the private hospitals didn’t admit them? A: In every hospital we have made a system that if a patient comes they have to start the treatment and after stablising him they have to guide him to another hospital if they don’t have bed available. They will have to stablise the patient first. Q: There are complaints that even in posh areas many people are not following norms. What is your message for them? A: The commissioner of police has made it clear to everyone to follow norms. We are issuing challans and we are motivating people through mass media and other campaigns that only a few weeks are left in this war. We can save ourselves and others if we follow these norms. It is an invisible enemy and we all have to fight it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-have-reached-the-pandemic-peak-will-remain-for-4-6-weeks/articleshow/77400801.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Kashi, Mathura next, says Akhara Parishad||Prayagraj: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) has said that the saint community is happy over its long-pending dream of having a grand temple of Lord Ram at Ayodhya being fulfilled finally, and wants Kashi and Mathura to be next on the agenda. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “It is a matter of solace and pride that the bhoomi pujan for the construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has been done after a long battle. We demand that the flag of Sanatan Dharma should be hoisted in Kashi and Mathura also for which the Akhara Parishad would do everything possible, remaining within the constitution limits.” “The bhoomi pujan ceremony in Ayodhya was a wonderful and unique event. Seeing Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeting the saints before the auspicious event by bowing to them shows how humble and down to earth he is. The foundation of fulfilling the pledge taken by Sanatan Dharma has been laid. The sacrifices of those associated with the cause for years have borne fruit,” Giri said. Parishad general secretary Hari Giri said the construction of a grand Ram temple will mark a new dawn for those who believe in the establishment of Ram Rajya in the country.“It is a matter of pride for those who believe in Sanatan Dharma,” he added and applauded the efforts of PM Modi for fulfilling his promise on coming to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/seers-body-wants-kashi-mathura-next-on-agenda/articleshow/77403184.cms||Rajeev Mani
August 7, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC starts buses from rural areas to city||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) started running buses from the rural areas of Nashik taluka to the city — only in the non-containment zones and on an experimental basis — from Thursday onwards. The bus service will originate from and terminate at the Nashik Mahamarg bus depot. According to Nashik divisional controller of MSRTC Nitin Maind, the services have been started to benefit the movement of passengers from the rural areas to the Nashik city and back on a daily basis. The services have been started by the MSRTC as according to the new guidelines issued by the state government, bus operations have been allowed barring to and from places that come under containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-starts-buses-from-rural-areas-to-city/articleshow/77399466.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Do you think I would be invited for mosque function, asks UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Hours after the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple on Wednesday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, when asked if he would attend a similar function for the construction of the mosque in Ayodhya, turned the question on its head, wondering whether he would even be invited for it in the first place. “Aapko kya lagta hai, ki koi masjid ki shilanyas mein mujhe bulayega? Koi mujhe bula payega? Mujhe lagta hai mere liye sankat nahin, sankat to unke liye hai. Isliye yeh duvidha na main paalta hoon na woh palte hein. Isliye kisi ko bhi iss prakar ki duvidha nahin palni chahiye (Do you think I will be invited for a ground-breaking ceremony for the mosque? I don’t think it is a problem for me as much as it is for them. Therefore, I don’t have any dilemma about it),” he said in separate interviews given to three different television channels. He later clarified that as a CM, he did not distinguish between religions, castes and communities but as a yogi, as a Hindu, he would not go for such an event since he had the right to express himself in following his religion. Ram temple in Ayodhya: Complete coverageThe CM praised Iqbal Ansari, one of the main litigants from the Muslim side, for having accepted the SC’s decision on the Ayodhya dispute. “People should take inspiration from him. He fought the case with all his might but also accepted the court’s decision. It is a reflection on our democratic system that as a Muslim, he felt safe in Ayodhya while fighting his case. Would a Hindu feel safe in Pakistan or Afghanistan if he was fighting for a temple?” He said that “pseudo secularism” had become the basis for terrorism, riots and naxalism in the country and for opposing Hindus and added that the temple movement had unmasked “pseudo secularism”. Holding Congress responsible for the prolonged dispute over the Ram temple, Yogi said the “divisiveness” it had created suited the party. “During elections they run to temples but on other occasions, they curse Hindus. This was not a matter of a temple but of the janmabhoomi where only Lord Ram will stay. The issue was of Lord Ram’s birth place and we wanted that place. Congress never wanted it there and saw advantage in dispute,” he said. Yogi said one may change one’s way of worshipping but cannot change the ancestor. The CM said that critics in India needed to learn from foreign nations like Muslim-dominated Indonesia, whose people actively participated in the Deepotsav programme in Ayodhya every year. "Majority of the performers are also Muslim and when I asked them about it, they said that they have the right to practise their religion but whatever religion they might follow, they cannot change their ancestors," he said. The CM revealed Prime Minister Modi never visited Ayodhya in the past six years as the court case was on. “He had also given strict instructions that nobody from the party should speak on the matter and if someone did, then an explanation was sought from them,” he said. When asked whether the government would consider changing the name of Babar Road in Delhi, he said: "We have already changed the name of Faizabad and Allahabad. Things will be done at the right time. Wait and see."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/do-you-think-i-would-be-invited-for-mosque-function-asks-yogi/articleshow/77403196.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Asstt town planners to face action for any illegal construction||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation officials finally woke up to take action on the orders of the lokpal, which were issued in February against illegal buildings at the initial stage, that too when the complainant had raised the matter with senior officials in Chandigarh. Now, the assistant town planners will be held responsible for the illegal construction in their areas. City-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had made six complaints to the lokpal in 2015 and 2016 and most of the complaints were related to illegal buildings and attitude of civic body officials in this regard. He had complained that officials of the building branch did not pay attention towards the illegal structures when the construction work was in the initial stage and when the building was complete, they started creating drama of sealing or demolition. The lokpal had come here for hearing of cases as well and in February this year he had directed the MC commissioner to look into the matter and ensure that this did not happen in future. The activist claimed that even then officials did not act on the orders, so he made a complaint to the senior officials in Chandigarh for action. Now, after getting directions from senior officials twice, finally a letter has been issued to all assistant town planners to keep a tab on the illegal construction work in the initial stage. In case any complaint is made with regard to any illegal construction work going on, then the assistant town planner concerned will be held responsible and strict action will be taken against him. It took almost six months to get these orders implemented. The issue of illegal buildings is not new in the city and building branch officials have always remained under scanner for not paying attention towards the same. The lesser number of building plans are being approved since there is hardly any strictness at their level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/asstt-town-planners-to-face-action-for-any-illegal-construction/articleshow/77400855.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Will bear cost of bringing Afghan Sikhs to India: SGPC||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Gurwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has decided to bear the cost of bringing the Sikhs facing threat to their lives in Afghanistan to India. The decision was taken during the SGPC meeting, chaired by its president Gobind Singh Longowal, at Chandigarh on Thursday. It was observed that Sikhs living in Afghanistan were under constant attack and their lives and dignity were not safe. The SGPC will provide the Afghan Sikhs support to meet their needs once they arrive in India and help them settle here. During the interim committee meeting, the members strongly condemned the alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the Punjab Police to harass Sikh youth and asked the Punjab government to stop the misuse of the law. Longowal said that it was unfortunate that Sikh youth were being “deliberately targeted”. The committee will provide legal assistance to the Sikh youth facing UAPA cases, it was decided. The SGPC president also condemned the “fabricated statement” on social media about the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib from the publications department of the SGPC. He said the SGPC interim committee had taken notice and had decided to take legal action against such persons. A baseless allegation had been levelled against the SGPC by a person on the social media and the SGPC would take legal action against the person, Longowal said, adding that the matter was being investigated under the leadership of Akal Takht jathedar. Longowal targeted the Punjab government stating that even after several weeks, the perpetrators who had stolen a 100-year-old miniature ‘swaroop’ Guru Granth Sahib from Gurdwara Ardaspur Sahib in Kalyan village of Patiala district could not be identified. He added that he would lead a protest on this issue on Friday and Saturday. The SGPC president also condemned former jathedar Giani Iqbal Singh for calling the Sikh Gurus as descendants of Lord Rama’s sons. He said spoiling the history did not befit a former jathedar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-bear-cost-of-bringing-afghan-sikhs-to-india-sgpc/articleshow/77402364.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents continue to flout Covid norms in cit markets||LUDHIANA: People continue to flout the norms for Covid prevention as many of them can still be seen without masks in busy markets while some of them even ignore social distancing norms. This is at a time when the number of Covid cases and fatalities due to the disease have witnessed a surge in recent times in the district. TOI conducted an on the ground assessment of the situation, especially the compliance of norms for Covid prevention and checked whether people were wearing masks and following social distancing norms in busy markets. At Chaura Bazar market, which on normal days brims with human activity, there was not much rush in the area during the day but more people were visible in the evening. In the market during the day many people were seen roaming around without masks, while in the evening many persons were not following social distancing norms. Similarly, even as Sarabha Nagar market does witness some rush in the evening, there were fewer people in the market during the day. At this market, a sizeable number of people were not either wearing masks or were not wearing it properly. Ghumar Mandi, which normally has a good number of people coming for shopping, the rush was missing. However, in the market it was not difficult to spot a person without a mask. Another market, Jawahar Nagar, which recently had been in news for wrong reasons, doesn’t have much rush during the day but still had people without masks or not wearing these properly. In this market, norms like wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing go for the toss in the evening hours as it witnesses huge rush around that time. Many residents said that though the law enforcing agencies were acting tough in many old city areas, it has not been able to ensure full compliance of norms in posh areas and markets like Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Dugri, Ferozepur road, Pakhowal road, Dandi Swami road and BRS Nagar, etc. Ram Lal, who runs a shop at Mata Rani Chowk said that the authorities were enforcing norms like wearing of masks and social distancing in the old city area and it was good that they were doing so as it was for the benefit of people. However, he said many educated people in posh areas were not following the rules and the authorities should ensure that they do. However, there are people who say that even as a large population are following some norms and are wearing masks, but even they remove these at food joints. “We people have deep love for food, especially street food, so no wonder people risk lives for it. I have seen many people continue to throng the food joints in many markets of the city, especially on Dandi Swami road. Though there is no problem if people follow social distancing norms at such street food joints, on many occasions I saw people standing close to each other and that too without masks,” said Ravi Kumar, a city resident. He added that the authorities should implement the scheme which they had executed at the start of curfew and should ask shops and joints to have spaces marked for customers. Meanwhile, the district administration said that a large percentage of people were wearing masks. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who was returning to office after meeting private hospitals’ representatives, said that he could see 90% people wearing the masks. He added that they were creating awareness among people with regard to following norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-continue-to-flout-covid-norms-in-cit-markets/articleshow/77400822.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 7, 2020||Hubballi||Rain hits people in low-lying areas, spells loss to bizmen||Hubballi: Hubballi has been witnessing incessant rain for the last four days, and the same has become a cause of worry for the residents as many roads have become non-motorable. People in low-lying areas are facing difficulty, while business establishments are incurring loss owing to less footfalls. Vegetable vendors are also bearing the brunt of the rain with no shetlered place to trade. HDMC is being bombarded with complaints of overflow/ choking of drains and water gushing into houses. The administration has requested those living in mud houses to move out to safety as a precautionary measure. According to the taluk administration, six houses were partially damaged in Old Hubballi and another at Sutagatti village in the last three days. In Hubballi Rural taluk, five houses — one each in Kiresur, Katnur, Mavanur and two in Noolvi village — have been damaged. Many shop owners here have said that their business has witnessed a sharp drop, “and rain is adding to the blow dealt by Covid-19 lockdown”. “ Everyday I used to make at least Rs 30,000 business. It has come down to Rs 5,000 because of rain. People are not coming out of their houses,” said Deepak Adhoni, seller of hardware and household equipment. Two rescued from floods Morab villagers in Navalgund taluk have rescued two persons — Mallappa Immadi, 35, Kiran Vattanur, 20 — from being washed away in a flash floods of Tuppari Halla on Wednesday evening. The incident happened when the duo was crossing the bridge on a bike, and the sudden surge of water threw them off the two-wheeler. While Kiran clung on to a milestone, Mallapa held on to a tree branch. Around 15 villagers rescued them using a rope, said an eyewitness. One bridge in Hirekoppa and Chikka Nargund in Nargund taluk in Gadag district has submerged due to the overflowing of Benni Halla. The bridge in Yavagal has also been inundated as Benni Halla is in spate following incessant rain in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rain-hits-people-in-low-lying-areas-spells-loss-to-bizmen/articleshow/77399499.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||‘If govt can monitor Tasmac shops, it can monitor typewriting centres’||Madurai: The district administration and police officials, who are able to maintain law and order and social distancing norms when Tasmac shops are functioning in a full-fledged manner, are equally capable of maintaining the same if typewriting institutes are allowed to function in a staggered manner with limited students on shift basis, Madras high court said on Thursday. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam also directed the state government to file a status report on a plea filed by L Senthil, state president of the Tamil Nadu Typewriting - Computer Institutes Association , seeking relaxation for the functioning of typewriting and computer institutions in the state. Earlier, during the course of hearing, senior counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had ordered the closure of typewriting institutions and the same has been extended till August 31. He said that the state had permitted hotels to function with 50% capacity and had granted relaxation for the functioning of gyms. The state had also permitted the functioning of Tasmac shops with full capacity, but typewriting institutes which function on a shift basis have not been allowed. He further said that the government did not extend any financial assistance to those running such institutes. If the institutes are permitted to function, then all norms, including social distancing would strictly be followed and if there are any infractions, the authorities can take appropriate action, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/if-govt-can-monitor-tasmac-shops-it-can-monitor-typewriting-centres/articleshow/77402429.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bengaluru||In undivided DK, teachers go extra mile to reach out to students||Mangaluru: With the pandemic disrupting schooling, plantations, orchards, verandahs and some public spaces have all turned into classrooms in Dakshina Kannada district. This is because a survey found that not all students have access to the internet, television or even radio and in an effort to ensure every student is on the same page as far as lessons are concerned, hundreds of government school teachers are going the extra mile. Although the government has commenced online classes for lakhs of primary and high school students under its ‘Vidyagama’ programme, not all have access due to the digital divide. Data shows that of the 3.3 lakh students in Class 1 to 10 in Dakshina Kannada, between 40% and 50% students — regardless of whether in government, aided or unaided schools — have no access to the internet. About 7-8% of students have no TV or radio at home about 5% have no cellphones. There are 94,608 students enrolled in government schools across the district. In Belthangady taluk alone, parents of only 24,443 of the total 40,403 students have smartphones with internet facility. As many as 5,325 students have no TV or radio at home. The picture is similar in other taluks of undivided Dakshina Kannada. In Puttur BEO limits, as many as 40% parents have no smartphones with internet. Shambhu Shankar, coordinator, BRCC, Belthangady, said students are categorised into three groups depending on access to technology: Intelligent Room (students with smartphones/PC/tablets and internet); Brilliant Room (having phones but no internet) and Genius Room (no cellphone or any gadgets). Shankar said students in the Intelligent Room are sent notes and homework through WhatsApp on a regular basis, while those in the second category are briefed whenever their parents are at home (usually before 8am and after 6pm). “The last group, which has no access to gadgets is the focus. Teachers play a major role in keeping them in the loop,” Shankar said. Explaining how students in the Genius Room are reached, an official said teachers visits a cluster of students —comprising 9 or 10 — and gives them homework. The teacher visits them on alternative days. “The interaction between teacher and student takes place in a neutral environment such as a garden, house verandah, community hall or a public space,” the official said. “Even physical education teachers are involved. They visit houses of students and spread awareness on Covid-19 as well as personal hygiene.” In Dakshina Kannada, the digital divide is comparatively less in urban areas. In Mangaluru South limits, 66,167 of the total 68,926 primary and high school students have access to cellphones and about 54,052 have access to the internet. In Sullia, out of 20,154 students, 655 students have no cellphones and 12,350 have access to the internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-undivided-dk-teachers-go-extra-mile-to-reach-out-to-students/articleshow/77380653.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Work on Buddha Nullah floating barriers starts||LUDHIANA: The work to install floating barriers in Buddha Nullah was started on Thursday with the support of some active NGOs and organisations under CSR activities while the civic body gave its labour for the task. Under this project floating garbage barriers are being installed near Kundanpuri bridge for arresting and channelising the garbage and continuous cleaning system will be installed that will work on electrical power to pick up the accumulated floating garbage and load it on to trolleys and tippers. This project is being undertaken with active support of Col Jasjit Singh Gill, who had done similar thing at Sidhwan canal to curb garbage as part of Sidhwan canal cleaning project. He is a member of the special task force formed for the cleaning of Buddha Nullah. Colonel Gill claimed that a major issue which was noticed in Buddha Nullah was of the floating garbage thrown by residents and garbage collectors into this water body, which besides choking the free flow of the water was adding to solid waste problem and almost choking the flow at certain bridges. After many rounds of discussions, a plan emerged based on the thorough reconnaissance of the Buddha Nullah and after ground visits with the MC commissioner after which a place was selected to run the pilot project near the twin railway bridges upstream of Kundanpuri bridge. Till the time stage two of this project is in position in around two to four months, the clearing of the accumulated floating garbage will be done with the help of loaders of the municipal corporation, sLudhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/work-on-buddha-nullah-floating-barriers-starts/articleshow/77400862.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||CHB okays PG accommodation policy in independent houses||Chandigarh: The board of directors of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), in its meeting held on Thursday, approved a policy for PG accommodation in independent residential houses allotted by it. The board clarified that before implementing the policy, approval from the UT administration will be obtained.The draft policy was initiated after a fire broke out inside a congested PG accommodation in Sector 32-D in which three girl students lost their lives on February 22 last. The decision was taken to allow licensed PGs in more houses to discourage unauthorised PG accommodations. At present, PG accommodation is not allowed in CHB dwelling units. Now, it has been proposed to allow it in seven-and-a-half marla or above independent CHB houses. It is on the lines of the policy of the UT Estate Office. House that Key features of the policy are as follows:House owner/lessee or member(s) of his/her family should be residing in the house The minimum usable area for one paying guest should be 50 sqft with adequate toilet provision A register should be maintained as a permanent record of the PGs under intimation to the police along with the permanent addresses and contact numbers of the guestsThe area of independent house for PG accommodation should not be less than seven-and-a-half marla The facility will be permitted only in properties sanctioned as per building bylaws and wherein no unauthorised construction has taken place A physical inspection will be carried out by the CHB prior to the registration No extra or new kitchen should be erected beyond the approved building plan The owner/lessee will display the available and occupied accommodation along with the tariff plan The list of paying guests should be displayed on the premises The house owner or lessee should register with the secretary, CHB, so that the information of the PG accommodation can be made available on the board website NOC from the UT chief fire officer is mandatory The owner should renew the PG facility annually The record should be open to inspection by estate officer or any authorised officer The estate officer may, in case of breach of any of the terms of conditions, stop such facility any time and pass appropriate orders of resumption/cancellation of the allotment of the site ----Costliest housing scheme to be reworked The CHB will again rework the city’s costliest housing scheme. As the UT administration had rejected CHB’s proposal to increase floor area ratio (FAR) of the scheme in Sector 53, the board on Thursday decided to once again take up density and additional FAR issue with the UT administration. The board members directed officials to rework the scheme and again present it to the board members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chb-okays-pg-accommodation-policy-in-independent-houses/articleshow/77402453.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||57 catch the infection in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh recorded 57 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. With this, the city case count has increased to 1,327, including 529 active ones and 20 deaths. As many as 62 patients were discharged on the day. The positive cases are from Manimajra, Burail, Behlana, Dadumajra, Ramdarbar, Dhanas, Bapudham Colony, Maloya, sectors 45, 34, 46, 22, 41, 38, 52, 32, 24, 43, 19, 63, 40, 30, 63, 8, 26, and 44. UT’s singing traffic cop down with the diseaseUT traffic assistant sub-inspector Bhupinder Singh, who created awareness about the use of masks and sanitizers by singing Punjabi songs, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The ASI, who is deployed at the Children Traffic Park (CTP), Sector 23, has been quarantined at home and his condition is stated to be stable. Manoj Meena, SP (traffic), said, “Bhupinder had been on training at Police Lines in Sector 26 since July14 and was not going to CTP. However, the police department has sanitized the entire premises of CTP as a precautionary measure.” Four cops, who came in his contact, have been put under isolation. The ASI was part of the Road Safety Education Team of Chandigarh traffic police and organised 119 exhibitions and made more than 23,000 city residents aware about the Covid-19 preventive measures by singing Punjabi songs in different sectors since May. A traffic police team led by Bhupinder, who is also known as the singing cop of UT police, has visited almost every sector and housing society to create awareness. Talking to the TOI, Bhupinder said he himself wrote Punjabi songs on coronavirus. Fourteen UT cops have tested positive till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/57-catch-the-infection-in-chandigarh/articleshow/77402431.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Leading from front, Capt Mandeep braved first wave of fidayeens||Chandigarh: Had the Kargil War not cast its long shadows on Kashmir, Capt Mandeep Singh serving on an attachment with the 4 Rashtriya Rifles (The Bihar Regiment) in Kupwara, may well have been back home in Jalandhar as he had served out his tenure. But the Army had pulled out the crack 8 Mountain Division from the Valley to evict the Drass intrusions and this had left gaps in North Kashmir’s counter-terrorism grid necessitating over-retention of remaining officers. These gaps were occupied by an influx of fidayeen leading to the attack on Capt Mandeep’s Singh outpost near the LOC. That attack marked a watershed moment in fidayeen attacks, which went on till 2004.At just past midnight on August 6, 1999 - 10 days after the Kargil War ended - fidayeen took up position in houses or hillocks hemming in the 4 Rashtriya Rifles Delta Company’s outpost at Chak Nutnus village. The outpost, housed in a school, was located at a tactically adverse position. Unknown to Army intelligence, fidayeen had infiltrated the village. The fidayeen had watched the outpost for two weeks and informers had provided precise information on the Army’s drills by playing cricket with soldiers, providing milk etc. The devastating attack on Delta Company left six soldiers dead. The attack left the 15 Corps HQs shell-shocked.The fidayeen opened fire at virtually point-blank range of about 25 metre to 30 metre with rocket-propelled grenades (RPG), Pika machine guns, AK-47s, rifle-grenades etc. “Only sentries at the outpost had weapons. The rest had to deposit their weapons at the armoury every night under a standing order. Neither did the soldiers have night-vision devices. The outpost had conveyed over radio sets to 4 RR HQs that they were under intense shelling, but a rescue party of the 24 Rashtriya Rifles would take two hours to Chak Nutnus village. Capt Mandeep, who always led from the front, got out his barracks and made a daring bid to evacuate the JCO manning the LMG post, who had been wounded by a RPG hit. But Capt Mandeep took a hit through his chest. He bled to death, but till his last moment, he was giving orders on how to repel the fidayeens. Though wounded, he fought till the last. The year before that in 1998, my brother had taken part in the Jaggerpora encounter in which 16 terrorists, including Afghanis and Sudanese, had been killed. He had himself shot an Afghani in that encounter just before the latter could throw grenades into an Army vehicle,” Davinder Deep Singh, his Jalandhar-based younger brother, told TOI.Father of a well-known peace activist Gurmehar Kaur, Capt Mandeep had been commissioned into the 49 Army Air Defence Regiment and was serving on an attachment with the 4 Rashtriya Rifles at the time of his death.Two factors went in favour of the Army and prevented a holocaust. “'One of the Adivasi soldiers at the outpost (4 Rashtriya Rifles’s soldiers were drawn from Bihar Regiment and the Armoured Corps) had a Carl Gustav 84 mm anti-tank rocket launcher (RL), with which he opened fire. Since the shock and devastation from RL fire is tremendous, the fidayeen got rattled. However, three fidayeen managed to get to the barracks and one of them was carrying two grenades. Fortunately, one of the safaiwallahs of the outpost had not deposited his AK-47 rifle at the armoury. So, when the fidayeen broke the door and came in, the safaiwallah shot him. His grenades went off and the two accompanying fidayeen were also killed,” a senior Army officer told TOI.The very next morning, the Commanding Officer of 4 Rashtriya Rifles, Col Balbir Singh, drove out of his HQs at Keygam village. His vehicle was stopped by the road-opening party (ROP) comprising men of the Armoured Corps. One of them, Ram Niwas, opened up with his AK-47 and killed the CO, the Subedar Major, the radio operator and the driver in a classic fragging incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/leading-from-front-capt-mandeep-braved-first-wave-of-fidayeens/articleshow/77402445.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks state response in alleged custodial torture case||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on a plea moved by a man seeking action against policemen who had allegedly torture d him in custody.Justice R Pongiappan passed the order while hearing the petition filed by B Raja, a resident of Periyakulam taluk in Theni district. The petitioner, who owns a tea shop stated that policemen attached to the Periyakulam police came to his house and asked him to come for an inquiry on May 28. When he went to the police station, they allegedly stripped him naked and assaulted him using batons. Based on a complaint given by a person belonging to the ruling party, a false case was registered against him, he alleged. When he was taken for remand, the Periyakulam judicial magistrate who noticed his injuries directed the police officials to take him to the hospital for treatment. Police officials took him to the government hospital at Periyakulam where he was given first aid without admitting him. He further stated that when he was taken to the Dindigul district jail, the superintendent refused to lodged him on seeing the injuries. Due to this, he was taken to the government hospital in Dindigul. While he was undergoing treatment, the police officials forcibly discharged him during the early hours of May 29 and lodged him in jail. Subsequently, he obtained bail and since he suffered severe injuries he got admitted at the Periyakulam government hospital for treatment. Though he had submitted representation to the authorities seeking action against the policemen, no steps were taken. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking CB-CID probe. He also sought action against the doctor who had issued a medical fitness certificate before he was remanded and also sought compensation. The case was adjourned to August 18 for further hearing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-state-response-in-alleged-custodial-torture-case/articleshow/77402433.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University to start online placements this year||LUCKNOW: Having created a record of sorts by uploading over 3,000 lectures to provide online education to over three lakh students, APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University is set to start online placement of students this year. This was stated by AKTU vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak, who completed five years in office recently. Pathak said the university has already launched a mobile van for recording lectures of academicians. The van was donated to the varsity by BJP Rajya Sabha member Sudhanshu Trivedi. On the online placements of students, the VC said, “At a time when the job market is slow and companies are avoiding physical interaction, the online placement platform would be of immense use for students as well as companies.” In the Covid times, the AKTU, under Pathak, has launched a ‘Shuddhi Surang’ (sanitization tunnel) besides developing robotic sanitizers and other sanitization machines. During the pandemic the university has facilitated online learning through a learning management system in over 750 affiliated institutes, said Pathak, who is credited to have become the VC of a university at Kota at the age of just 39. Under his leadership, AKTU became the first university in the country to develop an artificial intelligence based Covid-19 diagnostic tool. It also developed devices like faceshield, 3D ventilator splitter adapter, purifying, portable file sanitizer, currency sanitization machine, multipurpose robot in the lockdown. Along with research and innovation, said Pathak, successful efforts were made by the university for social uplift and rehabilitation of the needy. In the last few years, the university has worked with the commitment to ensure quality technical education in the field of positive progress. Regulating service of 72 employees of the university was a historic decision, claimed Pathak. Teachers were also given the benefit of Career Advancement Scheme. The VC further said that the facility of e-consortium, where over 5,000 international research papers and books are available at one click, will be available at Re 1 per day. Access to e-resources like IEEE, Elsevier Science direct and Springer Nature is also available. AKTU became the first university in the state to implement e-office and for the development of rural areas, the university directed all institutions to adopt two villages at least for their socio-economic developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-to-start-online-placements-this-year/articleshow/77403203.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 7, 2020||Hubballi||Inflow rises in dams, authorities prepare for floods||Belagavi: Due to heavy rain, inflow into dams has increased suddenly, prompting the authorities to be on alert to tackle floods. At the Almatti dam, inflow is currently pegged at 1 lakh cusecs, taking the storage level to 96 TMC as against the total capacity of 123 TMC. The storage has also increased in Basava Sagar dam in Siddapur village of Yadgir district, while announcements are made for the people living near the river banks to be ready to move to safe places. These dams are built across the Krishna River. Koyna and Warna dams in Maharashtra, according to chief engineer (north), Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited (KNNL), Aravind Kangil, are filled up to 60% of their total capacity, and so far there is no outflow. However, there would be an exponential increase in the flow into the dams, if the rain in the border region of Maharashtra continues for three days, measuring up to 200m-300m. Venkatesh Bulla, a district disaster management official from Raichur district, said, “Rain has receded to an extent, which is a breather. Last year villages in Devadurga and Lingasugur taluks started to get flooded after Almatti dam got inflow above 4 lakh cusecs. This time around, release of water is monitored by keeping floods in mind.” Tungabhadra dam at Hosapete in Ballari is receiving 17,858 cusecs of water with the dam filled to a level of only 40.3 TMC, as against total capacity of 100.9 TMC. Venkatesh said only if inflow surpasses 2.5 lakh cusecs, then flooding can happen in parts of Kalyana Karnataka. To maintain both the health of the dam and protect the villages on the banks of the Krishna and Tungabhadra river basin, 49,000 cusecs of water is being released presently from the Almatti dam. R P Kulakarni, chief engineer, Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama Limited, said, “There is no immediate threat of flooding from the dam, as inflow is below the danger level. However, villagers have been asked to be on alert in case the inflow increases.” It should be noted that Almatti dam, Tungabadhra dam and Basavasagara dam can cause flooding in Bagalkot, Raichur, Yadgir, Vijayapura and other Kalyana-Karnataka districts in the rainy season. Both Venkatesh and R P Kulakarni said announcements are being made in respective areas, to be prepared in case of the worst case scenario. In Belagavi district as many as 6 bridge-cum-barrages in Nippani, Chikkodi, Kagwad and Athani have been submerged due to heavy rain along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border. This is the fifth time these bridges have got submerged this rainy season. Ghataprabha and Malaprabha dams have reached levels of 33.8 TMC and 22.5 TMC, as against a total capacity of 51 TMC and 37.7 TMC, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/inflow-rises-in-dams-authorities-prepare-for-floods/articleshow/77399536.cms||Shreyas HS
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Interim stay on functioning of Tasmac shop in Theni district||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday granted interim stay on the functioning of a Tasmac shop near a de-addiction centre at Andipatti in Theni district.The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by an ex-serviceman, T Gopal, a resident of Annai Sathya Nagar at Andipatti. The petitioner stated that pursuant to an order of the Supreme Court, authorities had planned to shift two Tasmac shops situated near the state highways in 2017.One of them was planned to be shifted to their locality. Since there was a deaddiction centre, school and temple in their residential area, he filed a petition before the high court Madurai bench. The petition was disposed of by the court after the authorities had stated that the shop would not be shifted to their locality. Recently, the authorities shifted a Tasmac shop in their area in a house which was constructed under ‘Pasumai Veedu Thittam’. As per guidelines, the house constructed under the scheme should not be used for any other purposes. The tasmac shop is set up very close to a de-addiction centre. Since the people who consume alcohol throw away empty bottles and cups, residents of the area are facing nuisance. Hence, he moved the court seeking to shift the shop from the area. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam granted interim stay and directed the authorities to file a counter with regard to the building in which the shop is functioning and with regard to sanitation at the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/interim-stay-on-functioning-of-tasmac-shop-in-theni-district/articleshow/77402452.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||SC to scrutinise Palghar lynching case chargesheets||NEW DELHI: A day after putting scanner on Mumbai police probe into alleged suicidal death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Supreme Court on Thursday decided to scrutinise Maharashtra police's two chargesheets in Palghar 'sadhu' lynching case and asked the state government the action it took against policemen in whose presence the lynching took placce. A petition on behalf of Juna Akhara, to which the lunched sadhus belonged, complained before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy that the Maharashtra police was complicit in the crime and that the chargesheet would collapse during the trial and all 126 accused would go scot free in trial. They have demanded a CBI probe into the April 16 incident in which the two 'sadhus' and their driver were lynched in presence of policemen. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said, "it is too serious a matter and when allegations of police complicity in the crime are being made, the state government should have no hesitation in submitting the two chargesheets for the scrutiny of the highest court. If there is complicity of policemen in the lynching, then it is a case for CBI probe." Petitioner Sashank Shekhar Jha, Juna Akahara counsel Ashotosh Lohia and Balaji Srinivasan, as well as petitioner in person Suhas Jha made a strong complaint against state government of not taking any action against the policemen who were seen in a video, which went viral in social media, pushing the sadhus towards the lynch mob even though four months have passed. The bench asked Maharashtra government counsel Rahul Chitnis to bring the Palghar lynching case chargesheets on record for scrutiny by the SC. It then asked, "what action have you taken against the erring policemen? If you have conducted an inquiry, and issued show cause notices to six policemen, what action has been taken?" "Let the state government bring the chargesheets on record. It has further been stated that a departmental enquiry against the police personnel was ordered and show-cause notices have been issued. Let details of the inquiry, including the action taken against the police personnel as well as inquiry report, be also brought on the record. Let an affidavit be filed by the State of Maharashtra within three weeks," the bench ordered. Maharashtra police informed the SC through an affidavit that "departmental inquiry was ordered against the police personnel, who have been prima facie found negligent and derelectin their performance of their duties in handling the (Palghar) incident and preventing the commission of the crime at and around the time of aforesaid crime." It said show cause notice has been issued to six policemen - Anandrao S Kale, Sudhi T Katare, Ravindra D Salunke, Naresh N Dhondi, Santosh R Mukune (all suspended) and Shashikant B Kadam. "After receipt of reply from them to the show cause notices appropriate action will be taken against them," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-scrutinise-palghar-lynching-case-chargesheets/articleshow/77404142.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Traders use banned plastics freely thanks to monitoring lapses||Madurai: Despite state-wide ban, single-use plastic bags are generously being used by traders across the city. With the health officials from Madurai corporation, focusing on controlling Covid-19 outbreak, traders have started violating the rule blatantly.The ban on one-time usable plastic items was implemented on January 1, 2019. All the local bodies and municipalities strictly implemented the rule with letter and spirit. As a result, the usage came down to near nil in Madurai corporation limits. However, with the vigilance over the usage having come down amid the pandemic situation, traders have gone back to square one. A fruit seller from Simmakkal, who wished to remain anonymous said it is difficult to find an alternative to plastic bags after the lockdown was implemented. With no other option, they started using plastic bags again, he said.A health official from Madurai corporation said that although monitoring has come down, they still keep a check on single-use plastics whenever there is scope. Once, the pandemic is over, we will implement the rule stringently. Selvin Raja, a resident of Madhichiyam said that after a brief period, banned plastic items could be seen everywhere now. With the traders freely using plastic bags, residents have forgotten the habit of carrying bags to markets and shops. “As a result of decreased monitoring, plastics are now increasingly found in garbage and drainage channels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-use-banned-plastics-freely-thanks-to-monitoring-lapses/articleshow/77402461.cms||V Devanathan
August 7, 2020||Madurai||1,448 cases, 30 deaths in south TN; 432 new cases in central region||Madurai/ Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 1,448 Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally to 60,547, which include 14,780 active cases. The toll of 889 has pushed the death rate in the region to 1.47%. Meanwhile, a day after a surge, the central region of the state witnessed a dip in fresh Covid-19 cases as 432 people tested positive for the infection on Thursday pushing the tally to 16,274. The number of active cases in the region has also been declining for the past one week as the region has 4,225 active cases. The southern region has 30 deaths, but most of them were reported between August 2 and 4. One of them was on August 1. Madurai (9) recorded the most number of deaths, pushing the death rate of the district further to 2.36% with 276 deaths, against the state’s average rate of 1.64%. Covid-19 related deaths were recorded in Virudhunagar (5), Dindigul (4), Tenkasi (3), Theni (3), Tuticorin (2), Kanyakumari (2), Ramanathapuram (1) and Tirunelveli (1) on Thursday. Theni (297) recorded the highest number of cases in the region on Thursday. It included 153 men, 126 women and 18 children. Bodi (80) and Andipatti (66) Taluks recorded the most number of positive cases. Of the total of 486 positive cases reported in Tirunelveli district in the last three days, 241 (almost half of them) are from Tirunelveli Corporation limits. So far, 74% (44,878 people) of the total positive cases have discharged from hospital; after recovery in the region. Ramanathapuram district has the highest recovery rate in the region at 86.9%, followed by Madurai (81.7%), Sivagangai (81.4%) and Dindigul (81.3%). Despite a surge in cases in Virudhunagar the district has a recovery rate of 78.6% so far. Tuticorin has a recovery rate of 77.6%. Meanwhile, the central region reported 11 deaths on Thursday. They were in Trichy (3), Perambalur (3), Thanjavur (2), Ariyalur (1), Pudukottai (1), Thiruvarur (1). With this the toll has climbed to 188. Thanjavur district reported the highest number of fresh cases (162) on Thursday taking the tally to 3,484. After recording 136 cases on Wednesday, the cases in Trichy have dropped to 97. The officials attributed the dip to the early identification of the symptomatic people in the fever clinics. Trichy had the highest number of total cases at 4,834. The death toll in the district was also the highest (67) in the region. Covid cases were also reported in Pudukottai (87), Karur (26), Ariyalur(24), Tiruvarur(23), Nagappattinam(9) and Perambalur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1448-cases-30-deaths-in-south-tn-432-new-cases-in-central-region/articleshow/77402466.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Thane||Kalyan: 2 more held for matka king’s murder||KALYAN: Police probing matka king Jignesh Shah alias Muniya’s murder arrested Dhanraj Shah alias Munna, brother of former gangster Dharmesh Shah alias Nannu, who is a prime accused in the case and local drug peddler Amjad Pathan. So far three, including Jaipal alias Japan, who had shot dead Muniya, have been arrested, while a search is on for others, including main accused Nannu. Nannu had a financial dispute with Muniya, N K Bankar, senior inspector of Mahatma Phule police station said. Police said a day before, Nannu organised a meeting outside Dhanraj’s house, when they planned the murder. Bankar said they arrested Dhanraj and Pathan as they were involved in the conspiracy. Police sources said Pathan is famous drug peddler from Kalyan who has several drug peddling related cases against him in Thane and Mumbai. In 2012 he along with his eight gang members was arrested for allegedly killing and burning his own man Harish Shah alias Sultan who had stolen their 30 kilo gram charas, a narcotics substance. In case Thane police had slapped MCOCA charged against all nine accused but all last years in May had got bail from court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-more-held-for-matka-kings-murder/articleshow/77401803.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||54 positive in Panchkula’s biggest one-day spike||PANCHKULA: Panchkula recorded the biggest single-day case spike, with 54 patients testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. With this, the district case count has mounted to 816, including 357 active ones. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Of the 54 positive cases, 20 are from ITBP, Bhanu. All the cases have been taken to the isolation ward. Their families have been called for testing. Contact tracing is being done.” Massive sampling would now be done at the ITBP now, said the health department officials. As many as 456 patients have been cured and discharged from the Sector 6 civil hospital to date. As many as 148 outsiders have tested positive here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/54-positive-in-pkls-biggest-1-day-spike/articleshow/77402458.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Elderly man dies, 77 catch Covid in Ambala||AMBALA: Ambala recorded its 18th death due to Covid-19 as a diabetic man succumbed at a private hospital in Panchkula on Thursday, when the district reported 77 positive cases.  Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A 78-year-old man of Ambala City died due to Covid-19 at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula. He was a patient of diabetes and had lung problems too.” Of the 77 positive cases, 35 are from Mullana, 12 from Ambala City, 10 from Chourmastpur, nine from Ambala Cantt, five from Shahzadpur, and three each from Barara and Naraingarh, he added. “The biggest spike on the day came from a rice mill in Samalheri village community health centre in Mullana, with 35 cases detected there. Rapid antigen testing and sampling was conducted at the rice mill as nine cases were detected there on Tuesday. As many as 44 cases have been reported in five days from the rice mill. All its workers have been isolated and administration is sanitizing the area,” said Dr Kuldeep. As many as 32 people were discharged on the day. With the recovery rate of 80.71%, the district case tally has reached 1,887.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-man-dies-77-catch-virus-in-ambala/articleshow/77402467.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Flight from UAE brings back 179 Indians||MOHALI: In continuation to the Vande Bharat mission of evacuating stranded Indians from various countries, a flight from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport with 179 Indians on Thursday. With this, a total of 27 flights have arrived so far under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission. Flights from the US, Ukraine, Auckland in New Zealand, Kuwait, two flights from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Sharjah and four flights from Dubai have so far arrived with approximately 2,400 passengers. Spicejet Flight Number SG-9302 from the UAE arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport at 2.45 pm with 179 passengers on board. This is the sixth flight connectivity to the UAE. Mohali civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers arriving from Sharjah and the UAE have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration. Recently, the government of India had permitted airline operators from the Middle East and the Gulf counties to bring stranded Indians back to their home country. These foreign airlines will operate along with Air India or Indian-based airline operators. Foreign-based airline operators like Qatar Airways, Kuwait Airways, Air Arabia, Jazeera Airways, and SalamAir, so far have been given permission to operate their flights to Chandigarh International Airport in Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flight-from-uae-brings-back-179-indians/articleshow/77402490.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||SMC sanitary inspector of Khatodara ward succumbs||Surat: Tushar Shah (53), a sanitary inspector with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) lost his battle against the deadly Covid-19 infection on Thursday. He is the 11th employee of the Surat civic body to succumb to the virus since the beginning of the pandemic. Shah was posted at the Khatodara ward under the Udhna zone. He got admitted in the New Civil Hospital (NCH) after he suffered from severe cough and fever on July 24. He tested positive and was shifted to a private hospital on July 27. Sources said that Shah’s health deteriorated late Wednesday night. Before the hospital staff could put him on ventilator, Shah succumbed at about 2am on Thursday. Shah, a resident of Palanpur Jakatnaka is survived by his wife and two sons. His work involved visiting the households and gathering the data of the people suffering from mild symptoms. Last month, he was given the additional responsibility of overseeing the sanitisation and health services in the Puna area. Parimal Vashi, vice-president of Surat Sudhrai Kamdar (staff) Mandal told TOI, “Shah was always ready to help his colleagues even during the times of Covid-19. After he was shifted to the private hospital, his health had improved and he posted a message in our Whatsapp group on July 29.” Since May 19, about 11 SMC employees have succumbed to Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-sanitary-inspector-of-khatodara-ward-succumbs/articleshow/77399567.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Three history-sheeters arrested for murder over rivalry at Kovilpatti||Tuticorin: The Kovilpatti police arrested three history-sheeters from a particular community for murdering a man from another community over rivalry. The victim, M Koteeswaran, 30, of Bharathi Nagar, Kovilpatti, was riding his motorcycle on the Mettu Theru on Wednesday evening when he was hacked to death by a gang of three.The accused have been identified as R Ramakrishnan, 27, K Muthukalai, 24, and K Balukutty, 26 in Kovilpatti. Inquiries suggested that Koteeswaran and his friend Surya projected themselves as big shots of their locality.Ramakrishnan moved to Bharathi Nagar last December and attempted to establish his presence in the area. Surya and Koteeswaran of Bharathi Nagar picked up a quarrel with Ramakrishnan, asking him to stay away from their locality. Following this, Surya and Ramakrishnan were arrested.While Ramakrishnan was released on bail, Surya was detained under the Goondas Act. As the rivalry continued, Ramakrishnan and his accomplices murdered Koteeswaran on Wednesday. Special teams formed to nab the accused got hold of them on Thursday evening. “The accused are booked for murder and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, as the victim is a dalit,” deputy superintendent of police for Kovilpatti subdivision P Kalaikathiravan said. Ramakrishnan has 11 cases against him including one murder, two attempts to murder and five extortion cases.Muthukalai was convicted for murdering a dalit as a juvenile in 2014, the DSP said. He added that Muthukalai has two murder cases, an attempt to murder and two extortion cases against him. Balukutty also has murder and an attempt to murder cases against him, the DSP stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-history-sheeters-arrested-for-murder-over-rivalry-at-kovilpatti/articleshow/77402494.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Nagar admin creates Covid dashboard for bed availability||Nashik: Ahmednagar district administration has come up with Covid-19 dashboard that would provide real time information about bed availability in government and private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients across the district. This move comes after the district administration received complaints from patients’ families about the problems being faced while getting patients admitted to the hospital.“The dashboard has taluka wise name of the hospitals with beds available, including the oxygen beds and ICU beds. The phone number of the person concerned of that hospital is also provided in the dashboard,” said district officials adding that the families of Covid-19 patients can directly call up the authorities to book beds.Of late, there has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in Ahmednagar, although the situation in the district is better than Nashik and Jalgaon districts. The district has so far registered 7,316 Covid-19 cases, of which 2,263 are active. As many as 88 Covid patients have succumbed to the infection.“The mortality rate in the district is 1.20%, which is one of the lowest in the state. We would appeal to the people of the district to observe Covid-19 safety protocols to prevent getting infected,” said district officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nagar-admin-creates-covid-dashboard-for-bed-availability/articleshow/77399558.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali logs 130 cases in 2 days; crosses 1,100-mark||MOHALI: With the surfacing of 68 more Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, Mohali has seen 130 positive cases in the past 48 hours and crossed the 1,100-mark in just two days. The district’s case tally now stands at 1,119 and of deaths’ at 17, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Thursday’s count of 68 cases is the highest-ever one-day spike. A day before, Mohali had recorded 62 cases and 48 on August 2. At present, the recovery rate is 55.85%, which is gradually coming down. The percentage of active cases has also risen from 39.73% at 393 to 42.62% at 477 cases. The mortality rate in the district is 1.71%, said the DC. On the day, Mohali city saw 28 positive cases from phases 1, 2, 4, 7, 10, sectors 57, 66, 67, 70, 72, 86, 88, 97, Balongi, Kurali, Manuali village, Banmajra, Daun, Ramgarh, TDI City, Kharar, Derabassi and Nayagaon. The new cases from Derabassi made it another micro-containment zone. Four cases were reported from Nagla and three from Derabassi. Zirakpur also saw emergence of seven cases: three from Dhakoli, two from Peermuchalla, one from Baltana and a 50-year-old woman. Five cases came from Kharar’s Jujhar Nagar, while one case each was reported from Lalru, Kurali and Nayagaon.  Besides, 36 patients were discharged on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-logs-130-cases-in-2-days-crosses-1100-mark/articleshow/77402472.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||How will lakhs be safe: Professors join BEd exam protest||LUCKNOW: Teachers from Lucknow University and other colleges have joined the protest by candidates opposing the UP BEd Joint Entrance Examination scheduled on August 9, citing the risk of contracting Covid-19. They said it would not only mean movement of 3.4 lakh candidates themselves but of around 10 lakh people including parents and staff at the examination centres if the exam is held. The examination is an open invitation to the spread of the virus and should be cancelled, appealed Lucknow University Teachers’ Association (LUTA) and Lucknow University Associated College Teachers’ Association (LUACTA) on Thursday. “When no national level examination is being conducted in the country then why is the joint BEd entrance test being held. It’s not just a matter of movement of around 4 lakh students but that of 10 lakh people,” said LUTA general secretary Prof Vineet Kumar. He said its impossible to ensure all safety norms when the candidate strength is in lakhs. LUACTA president Manoj Pandey said, “There is an average of 500 cases of Covid-19 in Lucknow per day. In such circumstances, conducting an examination of such a big level will destroy efforts to check its spread.” Aspiring BEd candidates took to social media to register their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-will-lakhs-be-safe-profs-join-bed-exam-protest/articleshow/77403241.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||MLA, medical college dean, spl officer test +ve||Tirunelveli: MLA of Vasudevanallur SC reserve assembly segment in Tenkasi district A Manoharan, 41, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Dean of the Tirunelveli medical college and hospital, M Ravichandran and the former dean of the hospital S M Kannan, who is also the special officer for anti-Covid-19 operations in Tirunelveli also tested positive the same day. They were among the elected representatives, officials and AIADMK functionaries who were to participate in the meeting to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on the Covid-19 situation and preparedness here on Friday. They underwent the mandatory Covid-19 test and gave their samples on Wednesday ahead of the CM’s visit, for which the results came on Thursday. While the MLA was asymptomatic, he got himself admitted at the district headquarters hospital in Tenkasi. His condition was stable. Samples were collected from his close contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-medical-college-dean-spl-officer-test-ve/articleshow/77402528.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||E-passes for workers will be made easier across Tamil Nadu: CM EPS||MADURAI: Two teams would be constituted in each district to issue e-passes for companies and workers in the state to make the process easier as travel restriction has helped bring down the spread of Covid-19 in the state, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. He was participating in the review meetings in Dindigul and Madurai on Thursday and distributed welfare measures worth Rs 19.23 crore in Madurai to 2,411 beneficiaries, initiated 32 new projects worth Rs 304.6 crore and inaugurated 31 completed works worth Rs 21.6 crore. Industrialists who interacted with the chief minister told him that the e-pass system was causing many problems to them as their workers were not able to come to work due to it. Two teams would be given the responsibility of issuing e-passes and companies and industries could obtain passes for their workers and renew them once a month, he said. When asked about the claim that the opposition parties were claiming that the government was concealing data with regard to Covid-19, he said that they were only following WHO and ICMR guidelines and that they had no reason to hide it as the state was leader in testing. The chief minister said that they were continuing to perform high number of tests, but did not give numbers, adding, “is there anything wrong in results getting delayed by a day or two?” he asked. As many as 43,578 Covid tests have been conducted in Dindigul till date and 1,63,492 in Madurai so far, he said, ruling out the need for a separate ministry for Siddha medication as it was producing promising results in the state. “Our health minister is performing outstandingly and there is no need for a separate siddha ministry,” he said. When asked about actor/politician S V Sekar continuously criticising the AIADMK, he said that he need not be taken seriously as he had gone into hiding when cases were filed against him for those statements. On being asked about the criticism over laying the foundation stone for the temple during this Covid-19 crisis, he said that the Ram temple was not an issue that arose recently and that the Central Government was acting as per the direction of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/e-passes-for-workers-will-be-made-easier-across-tn-cm/articleshow/77402537.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa Developers MD in police remand||tnnMohali: The Managing Director of Bajwa Developers, Jarnail Singh Bajwa, was on Thursday produced before Kharar court, which remanded him to seven-day police custody.On Wednesday, the Kharar police had arrested the real estate developer in connection with a cheating case registered against him in 2019. A day earlier, he was also booked in several other cases of cheque bounce.Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police (Mohali Rural), said Bajwa was produced before a court, which sent him to seven days’ police custody.“We will interrogate him regarding the case registered against him on the complaint of Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Sector 39, Chandigarh. The accused had sold the plot of the complainant to a third party in violation of the agreement. The case was registered in November last year under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station. There are around 58 cases registered against him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bajwa-developers-md-in-police-remand/articleshow/77402499.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 claims four more lives, toll 133||LUCKNOW: Four Covid-19 patients died of respiratory and multi-organ failure on Thursday, taking the toll to 133. All patients were under treatment at KGMU with three of them brought in advanced stages. The first casualty was of a 76-year-old Indiranagar resident who was admitted on July 30 with critically damaged lungs. He also had diabetes, said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A 65-year-old man from Nishatganj with hypothyroidism and hypertension brought in with severely damaged lungs on July 31 also died. A 35-year-old man from Campbell Road died within 24 hours of admission with acute respiratory distress syndrome. The fourth death was of a 70-year-old woman brought after brain hemorrhage. She tested Covid-19 positive as well and died within 18 hours. Meanwhile, a suspected Covid-19 death of a man (35) was reported from Maal but test report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-claims-four-more-lives-toll-133/articleshow/77403271.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 7, 2020||Hubballi||Numerous houses damaged in Haveri||HAVERI: Moderate rain was reported in several parts of Haveri district on Wednesday and Thursday. Two barrages across Varada river have submerged in Kudala and Kalasur . The historic Madaga-Masur tank in Rattihalli taluk has filled to its brim and started overflowing on Thursday morning as its catchment area in Shivamogga district is receiving heavy rainfall. All eight revenue taluks in the Haveri district received copious rain up to Thursday morning, while it also rained in the evening in Haveri. The police constable quarters in the city was surrounded by rainwater and water also entered some houses behind the town police station. Further, more than 75 houses were damaged due to heavy rain in the district on Wednesday, with Byadagi taluk reporting the highest at 18. Several houses were damaged on Thursday too. Haveri district will likely face a flood situation as Tungabhadra and Varada rivers are receiving heavy inflow in the past two days. Inflow at Tungabhadra is expected to increase from 20,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs as authorities have released 60,250 cusecs from the Tunga dam in Shivamogga. Varada river is also getting heavy inflow due to heavy rain in Uttara Kannada district. Home Basavaraj Bommai, who holds charge of Haveri district, instructed the district administration by video conference on Thursday to get ready to tackle the flood situation. The administration has alerted public against going towards riverbanks as water level can increase at any time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/numerous-houses-damaged-in-haveri/articleshow/77399580.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Revised schedule for BA-I, centralised admission issued||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department issued revised guidelines for admission to BA first year and for centralised admission. As per the new schedule, dates for display of list of applicants, of uploading provisional merit lists and submission of objections have been revised. On Wednesday, last date to apply online for both centralised and non-centralised courses was extended to August 7 up to 2pm. As per revised details, applicants will be able to download provisional application form after clearing the final discrepancies on August 16 for centralised courses and for non-centralised course (BA) on August 9. Admission for ongoing classes (second year and third year) will be done as and when the guidelines will be issued by Panjab University. The courses under centralised admission include BBA-I, BCA-I, BCom-I, BSc-I (non-medical and medical – all courses), BSc-biotechnology-I (honours) and BSc bioinformatics-I (honours). Admissions to BA-I are non-centralised and will be done by respective colleges. There are around 2,150 seats for BA in four government colleges and 5,800 seats in six private colleges. The revised dates are available on department of higher education website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/revised-schedule-for-ba-i-centralised-admission-issued/articleshow/77402534.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Man attempts suicide by jumping off bridge||MADURAI: A 40-year-old man from Jaihindpuram jumped off the Kamarajar Bridge in Madurai in a suicide attempt on Thursday. He suffered injuries to his left arm, shoulder and waist after landing on the protruding iron rods of an under construction retaining wall on the banks of Vaigai river. The man was identified as M Kannan, a bachelor. He was under the influence of alcohol when he jumped off the bridge. He lay trapped for close to three hours after the iron rods of retaining wall pierced through his body. He was later saved by a fire and rescue team. Thideer Nagar fire station officer, R Venkatesan, said that they received a distress call at around 7.15 am and rushed to the spot. The three rods that pierced through Kannan’s body were cut off in about an hour. He was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital with the iron rods still lodged in his body, since removing the rods could lead to blood loss. A team from the Sellur police station conducted an inquiry. A police officer said that Kannan cited failure in a relationship and unemployment for trying to end his life. He added that a surgery was carried out by a team of doctors and that Kannan’s health condition was now stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-on-suicide-bid-lands-on-iron-rods-near-bridge/articleshow/77402501.cms||V Devanathan
August 7, 2020||Surat||184 fresh cases, 304 get discharged||Surat: Surat city reported 184 fresh cases of Covid-19 even as five persons succumbed to the virus on Thursday.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), out of the 184 new cases, 42 were reported from Athwa zone, followed by 34 in Rander, 25 in Katargam, 22 in Varachha (A), 18 in Limbayat, 16 in Varachha (B), 14 in Udhna and 13 in Central zone.With five more deaths the toll has risen to 529 in the city.On Thursday, as many as 304 patients were discharged from different hospitals.Surat rural reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/184-fresh-cases-304-get-discharged/articleshow/77399585.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||UT’s singing cop catches the infection||tnnChandigarh: UT traffic assistant sub-inspector Bhupinder Singh, who created awareness about the use of masks and sanitizers by singing Punjabi songs, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.The ASI, who is deployed at the Children Traffic Park (CTP), Sector 23, has been quarantined at home and his condition is stated to be stable. Manoj Meena, SP (traffic), said, “Bhupinder had been on training at Police Lines in Sector 26 since July 14 and was not going to CTP. However, the police department has sanitized the entire premises of CTP as a precautionary measure.”Four cops, who came in his contact, have been put under isolation. The ASI was part of the Road Safety Education Team of Chandigarh traffic police and organised 119 exhibitions and made more than 23,000 city residents aware about the Covid-19 preventive measures by singing Punjabi songs in different sectors since May. A traffic police team led by Bhupinder, who is also known as the singing cop of UT police, has visited almost every sector and housing society to create awareness.Talking to the TOI, Bhupinder said he himself wrote Punjabi songs on coronavirus. Fourteen UT cops have tested positive till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uts-singing-cop-catches-the-infection/articleshow/77402514.cms||Pawan Tiwari
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Third Covid care centre in Nashik to treat patients from rural areas||NASHIK: The district health office (DHO), Nashik, has decided to start the third Covid care centre (CCC) with a 200-bed capacity at a students’ hostel of the tribal department near Shivaji Nagar area to provide treatment to patients coming from the rural areas and the northern part of the city. Currently, the rural health department runs two CCCs in the city—one in Sandeep Foundation near Trimbakeshwar on the western part of the city and the other in the Deolali Cantonment area on the south. “There is a good number of patients coming from the northern part and other areas of the city. It is difficult to transport them from across the city for treatment,” said district health officer Kapil Aher. “The third CCC has been planned keeping in mind the rising number of patients in the taluka, which currently has 123 active patients of the 619 reported so far,” said Aher. Nashik taluka stands third in the number of Covid-19 cases across the district after Niphad and Sinnar. Currently, around 100-120 throat swab samples are being tested in the other two CCCs. “The third facility has been proposed for the treatment of asymptomatic patients so that the Covid care centre in Deolali area and the Nashik civil hospital, which has been designated as the nodal hospital for Covid-19 treatment, can be managed effectively,” said Aher. He added that the hostel of the tribal students at RTO corner was also under consideration for construction of CCC in the next phase if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3rd-covid-centre-in-nashik-to-treat-patients-from-rural-areas/articleshow/77399579.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Elderly physicians advised not to undertake consultation||Madurai: Five doctors, all general practitioners have died of Covid-19 in Madurai district so far, according to the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Despite preventive measures, general practitioners across the state are at more risk of Covid-19 infection due to various factors, including the higher density of exposure they face.“General practitioners, especially those with more than 20 years experience, are unable to turn away patients or attenders. Many of them have just small clinics or hospitals with a single room for consultation. So, they are prone to being exposed to patients for hours posing a risk of infection even if they wear masks,” said Dr Alagavenkatesan, president, IMA Madurai and a general practitioner. He said that the IMA has recommended general practitioners above 60 years of age and with comorbid conditions to temporarily pause their services to ensure their safety. However, in many areas across the district, patients prefer going to their neighbourhood practitioner. While private multi-speciality and government hospitals have triaging area and separate screening for Covid-19, it is not the same for general practitioners. “For running a practice, the costs are also high, especially when we have to bring in safety measures, including PPE kits and masks. We are functioning with limited staff. Unlike bigger hospitals, we cannot spend much on screening and disinfection. It is difficult to ensure that patients and attenders follow them. Even when we suspect someone may have Covid-19 symptoms, we cannot ensure that they get tested,” said a general practitioner from Anna Nagar. Another general practitioner with more than 40 years service, said that despite the risks faced and the costs involved, doctors are going the extra mile to stay open to serve the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-physicians-advised-not-to-undertake-consultation/articleshow/77402552.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Govt fearful, does not trust its own people, says Poonia||Jaipur: Targeting chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the state government, state BJP president Satish Poonia in a tweet said that the CM seems to be upset with Lord Ram. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi tweeted about their faith in Ram, but the ruling Congress MLAs staying in a hotel in Jaislamer seen no lamp, aarti and bhajan. Poonia was referring to the celebration coinciding with the ground-breaking and foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. He said photos of the MLAs in hotel were seen enjoying jogging, tying rakhi, playing cricket and taking selfie, but no celebration of Ram temple, Ram save them! he said sarcastically. “The state government is feeling insecure, fearful, not trusting its own people. MLAs are getting sick, police have been kept on the trail of joggers, all of this is not good,” said Poonia “Media reports show that their MLAs cannot meet, interact with each other in the hotel, have jammers, can’t use social media. MLAs are staying in an enclosure within the hotel. An MLA is a suspect in the eyes of the Chief Minister, whom he does not trust. Therefore, the legislators are being kept in the enclosure of the hotel under strict police vigilance,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-fearful-does-not-trust-its-own-people-says-poonia/articleshow/77402553.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade is UT choice for new finance secretary||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has forwarded to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) the name of 2002 batch Punjab cadre IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade for appointment as the new finance secretary in the UT administration. The Punjab government had recently forwarded names of three IAS officers to the UT administration to be considered for the post. The exercise to appoint a new officer was initiated as the three-year deputation period of finance secretary A K Sinha gets over in August-end. The officers on the Punjab panel were 2000 batch IAS officer Kumar Rahul, who is currently posted as secretary, health & family welfare; 2002 batch IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade, posted as secretary, expenditure (department of finance); and 2004 batch IAS officer Arun Sekhri, at present posted as secretary, home affairs, justice & jails. Sources revealed that though Kumar was the senior most officer on the panel and a front-runner for the post, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore recommended Zade’s name. While forwarding all the three names to the MHA, he recommended the 2002 batch officer’s name. Finance secretary is the third-most important post in the UT administration after adviser and home secretary, and the post is reserved for Punjab cadre IAS officers. The officer looks after the entire engineering department and the issues related to urban planning. Besides, he also looks after several other departments allocated by the UT administrator from time to time. BOX: New UT SSP soon The department of personnel and training (DoPT) is likely to issue orders for the appointment of UT’s new senior superintendent of police (SSP) in the coming days. Last month, the administration had recommended 2011 batch IPS officer Vivek Sheel Soni (currently SSP, Ludhiana Rural) for the post, though in the panel of three officers sent by the Punjab government, 2009 batch Kuldeep Singh Chahal (SSP, SAS Nagar) was the senior most. The third name in the panel was of 2010 batch IPS officer Patil Ketan Baliram (AIG, counter intelligence, Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ias-officer-zade-is-ut-choice-for-new-finance-secretary/articleshow/77402539.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman, daughter attempt suicide, girl dies||Mohali: Facing depression due to the death of her brother, a 32-year-old woman and her daughter, 8, on Thursday evening attempted suicide at their residence on VIP Road in Zirakpur area. While the woman is undergoing treatment, the girl succumbed at a hospital, the police said.According to a police official, their family members said they tried to kill themselves when they were alone at home. The woman is being treated at GMCH-32, Chandigarh.“The woman was in depression as her brother, Deepak, who was a drug addict, had died recently. She is in a critical condition and currently on ventilator,” said Zirakpur station house officer inspector Gurwant Singh. The police are further investigating the matter to find out whether there was any foul play behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-daughter-attempt-suicide-girl-dies/articleshow/77402542.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Decision on 13 pvt hospitals without NOC today||Surat: The fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will take a decision on Friday over continuing 13 designated Covid-19 hospitals that don’t have the mandatory fire no-objection certificate (NOC) and issues related to safety apparatus.The department conducted fire checking at 37 designated hospitals on Thursday of which 24 were found equipped with fire safety apparatus and NOC.NV Upadhyay, deputy municipal commissioner, told TOI, "We have completed the audit of all 37 private hospitals and found that 13 don't have fire NOC. The decision on whether to continue such hospitals for Covid will be taken on Friday after detailed discussion.”Fire vehicles were deployed at the SMIMER and New Civil Hospital (NCH) and the fire audit of the designated hospitals was done in all the seven municipal zones.In-charge chief fire officer (CFO), Basant Pareek said, “On July 11, we had carried out a fire mock drill at SMIMER hospital and a fire control room was set up on the campus one month ago. After Ahmedabad’s fire tragedy, we have permanently deployed one fire vehicle each at the SMIMER and NCH for quick response in case of any emergency.” Sources said that eight teams have been formed and mock drills will be conducted in all designated hospitals too.A fire fighting training session for the doctors and healthcare staff at NCH and SMIMER hospital has also been planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/decision-on-13-pvt-hospitals-without-noc-today/articleshow/77399605.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Trade organisations urge CM to lift complete lockdown||Madurai: Members of the trade organizations Madurai District Tiny & Small Scale Industries Association (Maditssia), and Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, (TNCCI) met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who visited Madurai on Thursday, and made representations to ease lockdown restrictions.Maditssia said that the industrial fraternity had extended their wholehearted cooperation when the first lockdown was announced in spite of economic difficulties and loss. But, now the extension of lockdown till the end of August was impacting them, as they are already in a debt trap. EMIs and GST are due for three months. If the lockdown is extended further the MSME sector will be strained.The Central government on July 30, had announced that there is no need for e-pass for both inter-state and intra state travel. But it is continuing in Tamil Nadu affecting Madurai, an important trade centre of products such as medicines, auto spare parts, food grains, packaging materials and petroleum products.They also urged the chief minister to waive registration charge for additional loan under the credit guarantee scheme announced by the Central government as the additional stamp duty for the added loan costs Rs 30,000. The lockdown on Sundays should also be lifted so as to conduct marriages, he said.As traditional medicines like Siddha and Ayurveda were producing good results, they have suggested that it would be enough if the government focussed on awareness initiatives and stringent action against those who violated standard operating procedures. The e-pass system should also be scrapped as it severely affects the industries, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trade-organisations-urge-cm-to-lift-complete-lockdown/articleshow/77402544.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bareilly||Youth abducts minor girl, shares their 'wedding' pics on Facebook; cops rescue girl, accused on the run||Bareilly: A youth, in the early 20s, allegedly kidnapped a 15-year-old girl from her house, married her forcefully and later, posted photos of their 'wedding' on Facebook (FB). As the photos appeared on social media, police got the much-need lead and rescued the girl, while the youth — booked for kidnapping — is still on the run. In his complaint, the girl’s father stated that his wife and he had gone to meet former’s brother on Rakhsha Bandhan when the youth with the help of his family members kidnapped their daughter and stole Rs 50,000 cash from the house after locking their younger daughter in a room. Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused and police started searching for the girl, but the breakthrough came on Wednesday after the photos appeared on social media. Police said the girl would be handed over to the family after her medical examination and recording her statement in the court. Baradari police station SHO Sheetanshu Singh told TOI, “Even if she had followed the youth according to her will, it would be considered as abduction since she is a minor. Her medical examination was conducted on Thursday and relevant sections of the POCSO Act and rape would be added to the FIR. Now, the statement of the girl will be recorded under section 164 of the CrPC. We have, meanwhile, deployed teams to nab the accused and his aides.” “We have come to know about the Facebook posts, but the marriage with a minor is not considered legal, and thus, action will be taken as per law,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-abducts-minor-girl-shares-their-wedding-pics-on-facebook-cops-rescue-girl-accused-on-the-run/articleshow/77399610.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||664 new Covid cases in Lucknow: Daily count crosses 500-mark thrice in 7 days||LUCKNOW: Covid cases are scaling new highs with each passing day in an alarming way as the novel coronavirus infected 664 more residents of the city on Thursday, striking an average infection rate of 27 per hour. The biggest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak took the city case tally to 10,805. It was the third time, daily case count crossed the 500-mark in last seven days. Of the total, 4,806 cases are active, while 5,874, including 370 on Thursday, have recovered so far. Meanwhile, the district administration lodged FIR at Gomtinagar police station against the manager of a prominent school for not following Covid-19 safety protocol at a function organised to felicitate meritorious students on July 14. ACM (IV) Ajay Rai said action has been taken on the report of district inspector of schools who probed the matter. The new cases included two LMC employees posted at Gomtinagar zone four office which was closed for sanitisation and will reopen on Friday. LDA also sealed third floor of its headquarters in Gomtinagar for three days after an employee in planning department tested positive. No official locality-wise break-up of cases was provided by district health authorities, but sources in CMO office said highest 38 cases were detected from Madiaon, followed by Alambagh 34, Hasanganj 33, Gomtinagar 25, Mahanagar 21, Talkatora 19, Aliganj 17 and Indiranagar 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/664-new-covid-cases-daily-count-crosses-500-mark-thrice-in-7-days/articleshow/77403283.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 7, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court flays Patanjali for using ‘Coronil’, imposes Rs 10 lakh cost||CHENNAI: Patanjali Ayurved on Thursday suffered a double whammy. The Madras high court made absolute a stay against the company using ‘Coronil’ trademark and imposed a cost of Rs 10 lakh for ‘chasing further profits by exploiting the fear and panic among public by projecting a cure for Covid-19.’ Justice C V Karthikeyan passed the order while allowing a suit by Arudra Engineers Private Limited, registered owner of ‘Coronil’ trademark. “Patanjali and Divya Yog Mandir Trust have invited this litigation on themselves. A simple check with the trademark registry would have revealed that Coronil is a registered trademark. If they had, and had still, with audacity used the name, they deserve no consideration at all,” the judge said in a 104-page order. They cannot assume they can bulldoze their way and infringe a registered trademark. If they hadn’t checked with the registry, they are at fault and cannot plead ignorance and innocence and seek indulgence from this court, he added. “Patanjali and Divya Yog Mandir Trust have repeatedly projected that they are a Rs 10,000 crore company. However, they are still chasing further profits by exploiting the fear and panic among the general public by projecting a cure for the Coronavirus, when actually their Coronil tablet is not a cure but rather an immunity booster for cough, cold and fever,” Justice Karthikeyan said. They must realise there are organisations helping people in this critical period without seeking recognition, the court said while directing them to pay Rs 5 lakh each to Adyar Cancer Institute and Government Yoga and Naturopathy Medical College and Hospital on or before August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-flays-patanjali-for-using-coronil-imposes-rs-10l-cost/articleshow/77400960.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 7, 2020||Madurai||Cases drop by more than half in Sivaganga, Ramnad||Madurai: While Covid-19 cases continue to rise in many districts in south Tamil Nadu, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts have been recording only an average 50-60 cases in the past two weeks. Both districts had been recording around 100-150 cases a day in July. Officials from these districts attributed the decline to early targeted testing, analysis of hotspots and effective containment. Ramanathapuram district collector Veera Raghava Rao told TOI that Covid-19 was being effectively brought under control in the district. “At one point in last month, the positivity rate was around 35%, but now, even with three times more tests being done, it is largely around 6% or less,” he said. The collector further said that early identification of hotspots, surveillance and ensuring prompt prophylactic containment measures were key to controlling the disease. Through surveillance, the district officials had been able to act quickly even before cases broke out in an area and peaked. “Around 40 to 50 fever camps were being conducted every day in the past few weeks. In July, we roped in self-help groups (SHGs) to conduct door-to-door survey. Around 2,325 SHG women conducted survey of around 4 lakh households. Awareness at both area level and personal level is also being created,” added Rao. On an average, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga have been recording approximately 51 and 67 fresh cases a day since July 24 respectively. A senior health official from Sivaganga said that Covid-19 cases have stabilised in the district while the positivity rate has been around only 5-6% during the past two weeks. “On August 4, the district recorded 141 Covid-19 cases in a day as per the state medical bulletin. However, it was due to only backlog. Out of around 2,000 samples, 144 tested Covid-19 positive that day. On average, we are carrying out around 700-800 tests per day now and only around 60 are testing positive,” he said. Fever surveillance and containment of spread from hotspots had been effective in the district, he added. In both districts, officials said that though the number of samples tested is less than 1,000 as per the current protocol, it is enough since they have to only test 10 times more samples of the number of daily cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-drop-by-more-than-half-in-sivaganga-ramnad/articleshow/77402557.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh housing board okays PG accommodation policy in independent houses||CHANDIGARH: The board of directors of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), in its meeting held on Thursday, approved a policy for PG accommodation in independent residential houses allotted by it. The board clarified that before implementing the policy, approval from the UT administration will be obtained. The draft policy was initiated after a fire broke out inside a congested PG accommodation in Sector 32-D in which three girl students lost their lives on February 22 last. The decision was taken to allow licensed PGs in more houses to discourage unauthorised PG accommodations. At present, PG accommodation is not allowed in CHB dwelling units. Now, it has been proposed to allow it in seven-and-a-half marla or above independent CHB houses. It is on the lines of the policy of the UT Estate Office. Costliest housing scheme to be reworked The CHB will again rework the city’s costliest housing scheme. As the UT administration had rejected CHB’s proposal to increase floor area ratio (FAR) of the scheme in Sector 53, the board on Thursday decided to once again take up density and additional FAR issue with the UT administration. The board members directed officials to rework the scheme and again present it to the board members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chb-okays-pg-accommodation-policy-in-independent-houses/articleshow/77402555.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 7, 2020||Hubballi||Youth drowns in Kagina river||KALABURAGI: An 18-year-old youth drowned in the backwaters of Kagina river bridge-cum-barrage at Ingalagi village in Chittapur taluk on Thursday afternoon. Sampath Sanka, a resident of Ingalagi, had gone for a swim along with his friends in the river. While swimming, Sampath got stuck in an eddy from which he could not come out and drowned. His friends tried to save him but could not reach him. Due to heavy rain in Chincholi taluk and across Kalaburagi district, the water level of the Kagina river has increased. Wadi police recovered the victim’s body using the help of fishermen and have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-drowns-in-kagina-river/articleshow/77399622.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man booked for slapping doctor of Covid-19 hospital||SURAT: More than a month after he was allegedly slapped by the son of a woman who tested positive after her death, the medical officer of a private hospital designated for Covid-19, lodged a complaint against the resident of Puna area, on Wednesday.Dr Jignesh Monpara, a homoeopath who runs Crystal Multi-speciality Hospital in Laskana, was slapped by one Kartik Lashkari whose mother Jashu was admitted there in a critical condition on June 25. She died a few hours after treatment. After the woman died, his son insisted on taking her body, but Dr Monpara insisted that she should be cremated as per the protocol. “Nearly 80% of her lungs were damaged and she was in critical condition. She died in a few hours of admission but her Covid-19 report was pending. Hence we informed the family that as per protocol, the hospital was supposed to inform the health department of SMC,” said Monpara, who was on duty as medical officer then. The Lashkari family had been demanding the body since 1.25 am, and during the argument, he slapped Dr Monpara. At least 40 members of the Lashkari family gathered at the hospital and created a ruckus. Sarthana police later arrived here and installed bandobast. “On June 26 morning, SMC was given in writing by the family doctor who examined the woman earlier that she had the symptoms of Covid-19. Based on the report, SMC took the body's custody for cremation and later in the evening, her report tested positive,” Dr Monpara added. The accused has been booked for voluntarily causing hurt and abusing the victim. Explaining the delay in lodging the complaint, police said Dr Monpara was himself infected with Covid-19 and approached the police only after recovering fully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-booked-for-slapping-doctor-of-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/77399647.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Woman dies of Covid; 56 test positive||Chandrapur: A 67-year-old woman died of Covid-19 as Chandrapur registered yet another massive spike of 56 patients taking the total to 833 on Saturday. In all, 28 patients were discharged, taking the total of cured patients to 466. This has left 364 active patients under treatment in the district. Health officials informed that the deceased was from Durgapur. She was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The total death toll in the district due to Covid-19 has now grown to three. Those found positive during included 27 patients from Chandrapur, 22 from Ballarpur teshil, five from Bramhapuri, two from Mul and a lone patient from Worora tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-dies-of-covid-56-test-positive/articleshow/77437307.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 7, 2020||Nashik||Over 50 small IT firms stop ops||Nashik: The Covid-19 pandemic has affected Nashik’s IT sector as some of the small firms have been forced to stop operations. Sources in the Nashik IT Association (NITA) told TOI that over 50 IT firms have seized operations. “All these IT firms are largely dependent on businesses within the state. As the Covid-19 situation in the state continues to be alarming, the operations of all these firms have been severely affected. They are unable to provide any service to their clients,” the sources said. NITA’s executive committee member Shashank Wagh admitted that some IT firms have stopped functioning due to this extraordinary situation. There are around 170-200 IT firms that are members of NITA and most of them are service sector companies. Their operations depend on clients communications and feedback.“The entire IT fraternity in Nashik is still passing through a tough phase although there has been relaxations in lockdown. Majority of the IT firms have lost heavily in the first quarter. The turnover has been affected by almost 40%,” another senior NITA functionary said. According to Wagh, the employees of IT firms in Nashik still continue to work from home although the government has allowed firms to operate with 10% staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-50-small-it-firms-stop-ops/articleshow/77399619.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Rajkot||Only five out of 12 hospitals have fire NOC||Rajkot: Only five out of the 12 hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 treatment have no-objection certificate from the fire department.This was revealed in the surprise checking done by Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) at the hospitals in wake of the tragedy in Ahmedabad Covid hospital that claimed eight lives on Thursday.The civic body found that all hospitals were equipped with fire fighting equipment. However, only five had obtained the mandatory no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. They have been asked to comply with the fire safety norms and obtain the certificates at the earliest.Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “Some small hospitals were designated for Covid-19 treatment in an emergency as we wanted beds for patients. A team from Rajkot Civil Hospital had inspected the facilities there and thereafter necessary permissions were issued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/only-five-out-of-12-hospitals-have-fire-noc/articleshow/77399626.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Leading from front, Capt Mandeep braved first wave of fidayeens||CHANDIGARH: Had the Kargil War not cast its long shadows on Kashmir, Capt Mandeep Singh serving on an attachment with the 4 Rashtriya Rifles (The Bihar Regiment) in Kupwara, may well have been back home in Jalandhar as he had served out his tenure. But the Army had pulled out the crack 8 Mountain Division from the Valley to evict the Drass intrusions and this had left gaps in North Kashmir’s counter-terrorism grid necessitating over-retention of remaining officers. These gaps were occupied by an influx of fidayeen leading to the attack on Capt Mandeep’s Singh outpost near the LOC. That attack marked a watershed moment in fidayeen attacks, which went on till 2004. At just past midnight on August 6, 1999 - 10 days after the Kargil War ended - fidayeen took up position in houses or hillocks hemming in the 4 Rashtriya Rifles Delta Company’s outpost at Chak Nutnus village. The outpost, housed in a school, was located at a tactically adverse position. Unknown to Army intelligence, fidayeen had infiltrated the village. The fidayeen had watched the outpost for two weeks and informers had provided precise information on the Army’s drills by playing cricket with soldiers, providing milk etc. The devastating attack on Delta Company left six soldiers dead. The attack left the 15 Corps HQs shell-shocked. The fidayeen opened fire at virtually point-blank range of about 25 metre to 30 metre with rocket-propelled grenades (RPG), Pika machine guns, AK-47s, rifle-grenades etc. “Only sentries at the outpost had weapons. The rest had to deposit their weapons at the armoury every night under a standing order. Neither did the soldiers have night-vision devices. The outpost had conveyed over radio sets to 4 RR HQs that they were under intense shelling, but a rescue party of the 24 Rashtriya Rifles would take two hours to Chak Nutnus village. Capt Mandeep, who always led from the front, got out his barracks and made a daring bid to evacuate the JCO manning the LMG post, who had been wounded by a RPG hit. But Capt Mandeep took a hit through his chest. He bled to death, but till his last moment, he was giving orders on how to repel the fidayeens. Though wounded, he fought till the last. The year before that in 1998, my brother had taken part in the Jaggerpora encounter in which 16 terrorists, including Afghanis and Sudanese, had been killed. He had himself shot an Afghani in that encounter just before the latter could throw grenades into an Army vehicle,” Davinder Deep Singh, his Jalandhar-based younger brother, told TOI. Father of a well-known peace activist Gurmehar Kaur, Capt Mandeep had been commissioned into the 49 Army Air Defence Regiment and was serving on an attachment with the 4 Rashtriya Rifles at the time of his death. Two factors went in favour of the Army and prevented a holocaust. “'One of the Adivasi soldiers at the outpost (4 Rashtriya Rifles’s soldiers were drawn from Bihar Regiment and the Armoured Corps) had a Carl Gustav 84 mm anti-tank rocket launcher (RL), with which he opened fire. Since the shock and devastation from RL fire is tremendous, the fidayeen got rattled. However, three fidayeen managed to get to the barracks and one of them was carrying two grenades. Fortunately, one of the safaiwallahs of the outpost had not deposited his AK-47 rifle at the armoury. So, when the fidayeen broke the door and came in, the safaiwallah shot him. His grenades went off and the two accompanying fidayeen were also killed,” a senior Army officer told TOI. The very next morning, the Commanding Officer of 4 Rashtriya Rifles, Col Balbir Singh, drove out of his HQs at Keygam village. His vehicle was stopped by the road-opening party (ROP) comprising men of the Armoured Corps. One of them, Ram Niwas, opened up with his AK-47 and killed the CO, the Subedar Major, the radio operator and the driver in a classic fragging incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/leading-from-front-capt-mandeep-braved-first-wave-of-fidayeens/articleshow/77402549.cms||Vikram Jit Singh
August 7, 2020||Udaipur||Now, House panel to allot bungalows to former CMs||JAIPUR: The state government has transferred the power for allotment of five prime bungalows including Bungalow No.13, the current residence of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, to the House committee of the assembly from the general administration department (GAD). The parliamentary affairs department has also issued guidelines for MLAs who are eligible for out of term allotment of the residences. Under the new guidelines, sacked former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and former chief minister Vasundhra Raje will be eligible for out of turn allotment of bungalows. According to observers, the decision has been taken to circumvent the contempt petition filed in the high court by journalist Milap Chand Dandiya challenging the allotment of bungalow to Raje at Civil Lines after the high court struck it down. The parliamentary affairs department brought in these changes through two amendments to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) Rules, 1973. Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020 said, “The House Committee may after due consideration make out of turn allotment of appropriate house to the member who has been (i) chief minister of the state of Rajasthan; (ii) Union cabinet minister; (iii) minister of state, government of India, and at least three times Member; (iv) cabinet minister of the state and at least two times member; or (v) at least two times member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha.” By the third amendment, it had transferred four bungalows to the pool of the state assembly from general administration department. It said after the existing serial number 6, the following new serial numbers 7 to 10 and entries thereto added, namely - “ 7. I/24 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 8. I/32 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 9. B-2 Bhagat Singh Marg, Jaipur 10. 13 Civil Lines, Civil Lines, Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/now-house-panel-to-allot-bungalows-to-former-cms/articleshow/77406455.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ajmer||Now, House panel to allot bungalows to former CMs||JAIPUR: The state government has transferred the power for allotment of five prime bungalows including Bungalow No.13, the current residence of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, to the House committee of the assembly from the general administration department (GAD). The parliamentary affairs department has also issued guidelines for MLAs who are eligible for out of term allotment of the residences. Under the new guidelines, sacked former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and former chief minister Vasundhra Raje will be eligible for out of turn allotment of bungalows. According to observers, the decision has been taken to circumvent the contempt petition filed in the high court by journalist Milap Chand Dandiya challenging the allotment of bungalow to Raje at Civil Lines after the high court struck it down. The parliamentary affairs department brought in these changes through two amendments to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) Rules, 1973. Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020 said, “The House Committee may after due consideration make out of turn allotment of appropriate house to the member who has been (i) chief minister of the state of Rajasthan; (ii) Union cabinet minister; (iii) minister of state, government of India, and at least three times Member; (iv) cabinet minister of the state and at least two times member; or (v) at least two times member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha.” By the third amendment, it had transferred four bungalows to the pool of the state assembly from general administration department. It said after the existing serial number 6, the following new serial numbers 7 to 10 and entries thereto added, namely - “ 7. I/24 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 8. I/32 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 9. B-2 Bhagat Singh Marg, Jaipur 10. 13 Civil Lines, Civil Lines, Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/now-house-panel-to-allot-bungalows-to-former-cms/articleshow/77406457.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Now, House panel to allot bungalows to former CMs||JAIPUR: The state government has transferred the power for allotment of five prime bungalows including Bungalow No.13, the current residence of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, to the House committee of the assembly from the general administration department (GAD). The parliamentary affairs department has also issued guidelines for MLAs who are eligible for out of term allotment of the residences. Under the new guidelines, sacked former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and former chief minister Vasundhra Raje will be eligible for out of turn allotment of bungalows. According to observers, the decision has been taken to circumvent the contempt petition filed in the high court by journalist Milap Chand Dandiya challenging the allotment of bungalow to Raje at Civil Lines after the high court struck it down. The parliamentary affairs department brought in these changes through two amendments to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) Rules, 1973. Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020 said, “The House Committee may after due consideration make out of turn allotment of appropriate house to the member who has been (i) chief minister of the state of Rajasthan; (ii) Union cabinet minister; (iii) minister of state, government of India, and at least three times Member; (iv) cabinet minister of the state and at least two times member; or (v) at least two times member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha.” By the third amendment, it had transferred four bungalows to the pool of the state assembly from general administration department. It said after the existing serial number 6, the following new serial numbers 7 to 10 and entries thereto added, namely - “ 7. I/24 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 8. I/32 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 9. B-2 Bhagat Singh Marg, Jaipur 10. 13 Civil Lines, Civil Lines, Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/now-house-panel-to-allot-bungalows-to-former-cms/articleshow/77406456.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Now, House panel to allot bungalows to former CMs||JAIPUR: The state government has transferred the power for allotment of five prime bungalows including Bungalow No.13, the current residence of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, to the House committee of the assembly from the general administration department (GAD). The parliamentary affairs department has also issued guidelines for MLAs who are eligible for out of term allotment of the residences. Under the new guidelines, sacked former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and former chief minister Vasundhra Raje will be eligible for out of turn allotment of bungalows. According to observers, the decision has been taken to circumvent the contempt petition filed in the high court by journalist Milap Chand Dandiya challenging the allotment of bungalow to Raje at Civil Lines after the high court struck it down. The parliamentary affairs department brought in these changes through two amendments to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) Rules, 1973. Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Members Residential Accommodation) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020 said, “The House Committee may after due consideration make out of turn allotment of appropriate house to the member who has been (i) chief minister of the state of Rajasthan; (ii) Union cabinet minister; (iii) minister of state, government of India, and at least three times Member; (iv) cabinet minister of the state and at least two times member; or (v) at least two times member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha.” By the third amendment, it had transferred four bungalows to the pool of the state assembly from general administration department. It said after the existing serial number 6, the following new serial numbers 7 to 10 and entries thereto added, namely - “ 7. I/24 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 8. I/32 Gandhi Nagar, Jaipur, 9. B-2 Bhagat Singh Marg, Jaipur 10. 13 Civil Lines, Civil Lines, Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-house-panel-to-allot-bungalows-to-former-cms/articleshow/77402566.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chennai||2,000 private schools get recognition till May 2022||CHENNAI: The state school education department has issued recognition for more than 2,000 private schools that do not have DTCP (Directorate of Town and Country Planning) approval considering the future of students enrolled with them. The schools now have recognition till May 2022. “The private schools should regularise their buildings and get the necessary approvals before May 2022. There will not be any further extension,” school education secretary Dheeraj Kumar said in an order. All private schools must get the mandatory approval from DTCP or LPA (Local Planning Authority) or CMDA (Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority) to get recognition and fitness certificate for school vehicles. Schools without the approval say the DTCP did not have the manpower to inspect a large number of buildings and that’s why the approval was pending for the last few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2k-pvt-schools-get-recognition-till-may-2022/articleshow/77400967.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh police figures open pandora’s box of rape, incest||SHIMLA: Statistics on rape cases shared by the police in Himachal Pradesh show a disturbing trend. Not only are the cases on rise but they are also being increasingly perpetrated by men in the family or friend circle. Figures also underline the vulnerability of minors to rapists in the guise of trusted relatives and friends. In 2015, 244 rape cases were reported in the state. In 2019, the number increased to 358, and this year till June 30, 141 cases were reported. Maximum cases have been reported from Kangra, Mandi and Shimla in the last five years. Crime ranking of the state, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2018 report, placed Himachal at the fourth spot in the country in terms of rape cases where minors were targeted. NCRB data reveals that Himachal is fifth in molestation of minors, jointly with Goa. The hill state is third, jointly with Haryana and Mizoram, in terms of rape with murder cases. In 2015, 244 rape cases were reported in the state, of which 46 were from Kangra, 29 from Mandi and 24 from Shimla. In 2016, of the 253 rape cases reported, 41 were reported from Kangra, 30 from Mandi and 28 from Shimla. In 2017, of the 250 rape cases reported, 37 were from Kangra, 38 from Mandi and 29 from Shimla. In 2018, 345 rape cases were reported of which 52 were from Kangra, 48 from Mandi and 40 from Shimla. In 2019, 358 cases were reported, of which 39 were from Kangra, 50 from Mandi and 62 from Shimla. In 2020, of the 141 cases till June 30, 16 were from Kangra, 20 from Mandi and 22 from Shimla. In the 2015 cases, family members were involved in 26 cases, while acquaintances were found to be involved in 218 cases. In 2016, family members were found to be involved in 10 cases while acquaintances were involved in 241 cases. In 2017, family members were involved in 29 cases, acquaintances in 218 cases and strangers in two cases. In 2018, family members were found involved in 55 cases, acquaintances in 284 cases and strangers in five cases. In 2019, family members were found to be involved in 50 cases, acquaintances in 300 cases while strangers in eight cases. According to Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu, such crimes cannot be completely checked by police and legal system. “Police efforts may yield multi-fold results if other departments and agencies also join hands and we all work in tandem for the safety of women in the state,” he said. Listing initiatives taken for the safety of women, he said, women police stations have been set up in all districts, except Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. He said the state government has launched Gudiya helpline (1515) and Shakti Button mobile app. The state, he said, is the first in the country to launch 112 emergency response support system on November 28, 2018. Besides ensuring regular training and sensitisation of police personnel, a register on sexual offenders has been introduced in each police station from August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-police-figures-open-pandoras-box-of-rape-incest/articleshow/77402564.cms||Anand Bodh
August 7, 2020||Ajmer||Jaisalmer: Muslims perform yajna to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony||JAISALMER: Celebrating the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya, about 50 Muslim families at Motisara village under Payla Kalla panchayat samiti in Barmer district performed yajna on Wednesday and set up a temple in the field. Around 250 members of the 50 Dhadh Muslim Manganiyar caste families were present in the ritual. Apart from them, many Hindu saints were also present during the yajna. Many of them have adopted Hinduism as their religion. One of the members, Subhanram, said that their ancestors were Hindus and he too has been practising Hindu religion for many years and celebrates Hindu festivals. According to one Harjiram of another family of Kanchan Dhadhi, for last many years, they are following Hindu traditions. On the occasion of the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they performed a havan and due to corona, they informed about the same to the sarpanch of their village. There are around a dozen temples of 50 families of Dhadhi community and names of all of their family members are from Hindu tradition. During the yajna, a number of saints were present including Joganandji math head Balakanand Saraswati, Payla Kala priest Ram Bharti, Jeteshwar dham priest Paras Ram Maharaj, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Prantiya Pacharak chief Shailendra Singh Bhadoria, Dharam Jagran Manch’s Govind Singh Rathore, Motisara sarpanch Thakararam Saran, among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/muslims-perform-yajna-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77406900.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Chennai||SW monsoon pushes up reservoirs storage||CHENNAI: Most reservoirs in the Western Ghats have been getting substantial inflow as heavy rains continue to lash Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. As Kabini dam in Karnataka is almost full, 43,333 cusecs of water was released into the Cauvery river on Thursday. By evening, the combined release from Kabini and Krishnarajasagar reservoirs crossed 50,000 cusecs. The total release of water on Thursday alone was close to 4tmcft. The inflow at Biligundulu, Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, which remained at 6,000 cusecs on Thursday morning, touched 21,000 cusecs by evening. The inflow into Mettur reservoir rose from 3,625 cusecs in the morning to 6,000 cusecs by 5pm. The outflow was maintained at 3,000 cusecs because the current storage is only 30% of the total capacity. The Central Water Commission is closely monitoring the situation. Release of water by Karnataka has brought cheers to farmers in the delta districts as they were staring at uncertainty with Mettur level fast depleting. Rains in the last few days in the Nilgiris resulted in heavy inflow into Bhavanisagar dam in Erode. As of 8pm on Thursday, the inflow into the dam stood at 31,733 cusecs, while the outflow was maintained at 900 cusecs since much of the river downstream was also brimming due to incessant rain. The dam has 23.9tmcft water against a capacity of 32.8tmcft. The PAP group of dams, Sholayar, Parambikulam and Aliyar received steady inflow in the range of 1,694 cusecs to 6,832 cusecs during the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Papanasam and Manimuthar in Tirunelveli saw storage rising to 1.8tmcft and 1.3tmcft. Mullaperiyar in Idukki district of Kerala that supplies water to five southern districts of TN, saw an inflow of 6,956 cusecs and water level crossed 123ft. The current storage in the century-old reservoir is 3.262tmcft as against a capacity of 10.57tmcft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sw-monsoon-pushes-up-reservoirs-storage/articleshow/77400997.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaisalmer: Muslims perform yajna to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony||JAISALMER: Celebrating the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya, about 50 Muslim families at Motisara village under Payla Kalla panchayat samiti in Barmer district performed yajna on Wednesday and set up a temple in the field. Around 250 members of the 50 Dhadh Muslim Manganiyar caste families were present in the ritual. Apart from them, many Hindu saints were also present during the yajna. Many of them have adopted Hinduism as their religion. One of the members, Subhanram, said that their ancestors were Hindus and he too has been practising Hindu religion for many years and celebrates Hindu festivals. According to one Harjiram of another family of Kanchan Dhadhi, for last many years, they are following Hindu traditions. On the occasion of the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they performed a havan and due to corona, they informed about the same to the sarpanch of their village. There are around a dozen temples of 50 families of Dhadhi community and names of all of their family members are from Hindu tradition. During the yajna, a number of saints were present including Joganandji math head Balakanand Saraswati, Payla Kala priest Ram Bharti, Jeteshwar dham priest Paras Ram Maharaj, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Prantiya Pacharak chief Shailendra Singh Bhadoria, Dharam Jagran Manch’s Govind Singh Rathore, Motisara sarpanch Thakararam Saran, among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/muslims-perform-yajna-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77406898.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Muslims perform yajna to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony||JAISALMER: Celebrating the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya, about 50 Muslim families at Motisara village under Payla Kalla panchayat samiti in Barmer district performed yajna on Wednesday and set up a temple in the field. Around 250 members of the 50 Dhadh Muslim Manganiyar caste families were present in the ritual. Apart from them, many Hindu saints were also present during the yajna. Many of them have adopted Hinduism as their religion. One of the members, Subhanram, said that their ancestors were Hindus and he too has been practising Hindu religion for many years and celebrates Hindu festivals. According to one Harjiram of another family of Kanchan Dhadhi, for last many years, they are following Hindu traditions. On the occasion of the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they performed a havan and due to corona, they informed about the same to the sarpanch of their village. There are around a dozen temples of 50 families of Dhadhi community and names of all of their family members are from Hindu tradition. During the yajna, a number of saints were present including Joganandji math head Balakanand Saraswati, Payla Kala priest Ram Bharti, Jeteshwar dham priest Paras Ram Maharaj, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Prantiya Pacharak chief Shailendra Singh Bhadoria, Dharam Jagran Manch’s Govind Singh Rathore, Motisara sarpanch Thakararam Saran, among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muslims-perform-yajna-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77402613.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Clear works under MLA-LAD in 45 days: CM to officials||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday expressed concern over complaints received regarding the delay in development works under MLA-LAD and MP-LAD programmes and said the administrative and financial approvals of works under MLA funds must be issued in 45 days. Gehlot directed ACS (finance) Niranjan Arya to sanction Rs 100 crore with immediate effect after a matter of around 26,000 panchayat assistants’ pending honorarium was brought to the notice of the chief minister during a review meeting of the progress of work under rural development and panchayati raj department. This is the first meeting by the CM after removal of Sachin Pilot. He also suggested that an “online portal” should be made for effective monitoring of MLA and MP-LAD programmes. Arya also assured release of funds amounting to Rs 400-500 to the rural development and panchayati raj department. The funds include Rs 90.4 crore state share under MGNREGA (Rs 325 crore central share), Rs 200 crore under Swachh Bharat Mission-G, Rs 225 crore under MLA-LAD, Rs 25 crore under Border Area Development Programme (BADP). While Rs 320 crore is pending under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-(Grameen), the finance department will release the funds in parts, starting with Rs 100 crore, said an official. Gehlot gave directions to create posts of village development officers and block development officers for the 1,456 new gram panchayats and 57 new panchayat samitis in the state. He directed for the early approval for the construction of electric crematorium as per requirement keeping in view the Corona infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clear-works-under-mla-lad-in-45-days-cm-to-officials/articleshow/77402587.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Udaipur||Jaisalmer: Muslims perform yajna to celebrate Ayodhya ceremony||JAISALMER: Celebrating the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya, about 50 Muslim families at Motisara village under Payla Kalla panchayat samiti in Barmer district performed yajna on Wednesday and set up a temple in the field. Around 250 members of the 50 Dhadh Muslim Manganiyar caste families were present in the ritual. Apart from them, many Hindu saints were also present during the yajna. Many of them have adopted Hinduism as their religion. One of the members, Subhanram, said that their ancestors were Hindus and he too has been practising Hindu religion for many years and celebrates Hindu festivals. According to one Harjiram of another family of Kanchan Dhadhi, for last many years, they are following Hindu traditions. On the occasion of the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they performed a havan and due to corona, they informed about the same to the sarpanch of their village. There are around a dozen temples of 50 families of Dhadhi community and names of all of their family members are from Hindu tradition. During the yajna, a number of saints were present including Joganandji math head Balakanand Saraswati, Payla Kala priest Ram Bharti, Jeteshwar dham priest Paras Ram Maharaj, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Prantiya Pacharak chief Shailendra Singh Bhadoria, Dharam Jagran Manch’s Govind Singh Rathore, Motisara sarpanch Thakararam Saran, among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/muslims-perform-yajna-to-celebrate-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77406899.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Over 140 beat nCov, return to SMIMER||Surat: Dr. Amit Patel, assistant professor, Community Medicine at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital returned to work after recovering from Covid-19 infections. Patel was working in Covid-19 ward at the SMIMER Hospital when the outbreak began in the city. Later, he was shifted to the city’s north zone on May 16 where cases were rising and he was given special duty. During this time, he developed Covid-19 like symptoms on July 3 and was home quarantined. However, during home quarantine, he started suffering breathlessness and was found to be infected with Covid-19. He was thus asked to stay at home isolation for 14 days. “After 14 days of home isolation, I have resumed duty at SMIMER Hospital. Medical staff plays an important role in saving lives of people who are infected with Covid-19 and I feel happy that I returned to work and will do everything to save lives,” said Patel. According to an estimate, over 140 staff members of SMIMER Hospital resumed to work after they recovered from Covid-19 infections in the last few months. “Over 140 staff members which include doctors, nurses, lab technicians, contractual workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, sweepers and security personnel among others who were at forefront in Covid-19 duty and infected with Covid-19 have resumed duty at SMIMER Hospital after they were recovered,” said Dr Parag Shah, professor and head, psychiatry department, SMIMER Hospital, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-140-beat-ncov-return-to-smimer/articleshow/77399667.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Cop diagnosed after 3 negative tests, dies||Lucknow: A 47-year-old police inspector from Shahjahanpur suffering from Covid-19 died of respiratory failure in a city hospital on Thursday. His diagnosis was delayed as the first three tests done in Shahjahanpur were negative. It was only after he came to Lucknow for treatment that he was found to be positive for the infection. Doctors said the patient was diabetic and his lungs were severely damaged by the infection. According to SP Shahjahanpur S Anand, the patient, Indrajeet Singh Bhadauriya, was posted as SHO Allahaganj. He developed influenza-like illness on July 23, a day after returning from Meerut where he had gone for training. “We immediately got him tested for Covid-19, but the report came back negative. He was advised to rest but when there was no relief from congestion and heavy breathing, he got himself tested twice again with a gap of two days between each. On both occasions, his report was negative. Seeing no improvement, I suggested to him to go to Lucknow,” said the SP. The cop reached Lucknow on August 1 and got admitted to a private hospital which sent his swab samples for Covid-19 examination again. This time he was tested with the RT-PCR method. “The report came back positive and he was shifted to another private hospital designated for Covid patients. He responded to medicines initially but was put on ventilator after his condition deteriorated on August 4. In view of the serious condition, he was to be shifted to SGPGIMS. We lost him before that could be done,” he added. A native of Unnao, Bhadauriya was inducted as a constable in 1989 and became sub-inspector in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cop-diagnosed-after-3-negative-tests-dies/articleshow/77403293.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Shimla||Tibetans in exile to elect new parliament next year||SHIMLA: Tibetan people spread across the globe will elect their new “Sikyong" (president) and members of the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile next year, declared the chief election commissioner (CEC) of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) on Wednesday. CEC Wangdu Tsering, along with two newly-elected additional election commissioners, announced in Dharamshala the commencement of the 2021 general elections of the Tibetan parliament as per the Charter of Tibetans-in-Exile and the Tibetan electoral rules and regulations. The 2021 general elections will elect the fifth directly elected Sikyong (earlier Kalon Tripa) and the 17th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile. Interacting with the media on the elections, CEC Tsering issued a set of instructions on voter registration, code of conduct, social media practices and a separate 12-point guideline for the candidates. He said despite the challenges precipitated by the Covid-19 crisis, the election commission is committed to conducting the 2021 general elections in the stipulated time period. He also directed all regional election commissions and Tibetans around the world to take part in the polls in the interest of the Tibetan cause and in the spirit of unity. On the occasion, the CTA election commission also announced its decision to conduct new voter registration as per the provisions in articles 17, 18, 20 and 21 of the Tibetan Electoral Rules and Regulations, and with due consideration to the amendments made in the electoral rules, recommendations of the amendment committee and the need of present times. In order to achieve a properly verified list of registered voters, the election commission directed all regional election commissions as well as the public at large to ensure that all those eligible to vote are registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/tibetans-in-exile-to-elect-new-parliament-next-year/articleshow/77402570.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Shimla||Rare heart surgery saves Himachal Pradesh patient’s life||SHIMLA: A complicated medical procedure — hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm coiling — performed first time at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital, Shimla helped save the life of a sexagenarian, who was admitted to the IGMC with complaints of jaundice and severe pain abdomen. Dr Shikha Sood, assistant professor in the department of Radiodiagnosis at IGMC, achieved the feat by performing coiling of pseudoaneurysm of hepatic artery. According to the doctor, patient Amar Singh (66) from Bagda village of Kotkhai was admitted in a serious condition. Medical investigations revealed that stone of the gall bladder had created a fistulous tract into the common bile duct with resultant pseudoaneurysm formation of adjacent hepatic arteries. Dr Sood said this pseudoaneurysm could rupture any time in the abdomen, resulting in catastrophic results and even death of the patient. Hence, she decided to do the coiling of this artery under digital subtraction angiography. “It’s a major surgery which took four-and-half hours. It was done under local anaesthesia given in the leg, through which multiple wires and catheters were passed into the hepatic artery, where coils were deployed to cut off the pseudoaneurysm with the rest of the circulation,” she added. She said that the patient was conscious during the whole procedure and was following the commands. Post procedure, the patient was allowed to take meals immediately and allowed to move about after 6 hours of the surgery. Shikha Sood said that coiling of the arteries having pseudoaneurysm can be done in any part of the body. Such pseudoaneurysm can arise due to trauma, infection, inflammation or tumours, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/complex-artery-coiling-procedure-saves-hp-patients-life/articleshow/77402611.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain continues to batter Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded an average of 111.15mm rainfall on Thursday. Avalanche received a record high of 581mm rain, followed by Gudalur (335mm), Upper Bhavani (319mm), Upper Gudalur (305mm), Devala (220mm) and Pandalur (181mm). The heavy rain was accompanied by strong wind with a velocity of 80km that uprooted more than 600 trees across the district. Landslides were reported at Emerald and Avalanche. Power supply, which was disrupted after the main line at Sandynallah electrical substation was damaged in the heavy rain and wind two days ago, is yet to be restored in Ooty and suburbs. Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) officials said the work to restore power supply in Ooty and Gudalur was underway. Among the six taluks in the district, Kundah suffered the most damages owing to mud slips. At least 137 trees were uprooted in the taluk on Thursday and 299 on Wednesday. The main affected areas in the taluk are Edakkadu, Thangadu, Kattukuppai, Emerald Kinnakorai and Anna Nagar. D Suresh, revenue divisional officer, said, “About 150 people from Anna Nagar were shifted to relief camps on Thursday.” In Coonoor taluk, two houses were partially damaged and a few trees were uprooted. Ranjit Singh, sub-collector, Coonoor, said they were experiencing frequent interruption in power supply. The situation in Kotagiri isn’t any different. In Gudalur taluk, where five houses were partially damaged, 280 people have been shifted to four relief camps. Power supply is yet to be restored in Gudalur too. In Pandalur taluk, 34 people have been moved to relief camps. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya and district monitoring officer Supriya Sahu inspected the affected areas such as Kannerimandhanai, Emerald and Kundha Bridge. Divya said the rain that was recorded in the district so far this year was less than the comparable period last year. “The India Meteorological Department has forecast extremely heavy rain on August 8. We are taking all measures to face any eventuality.” Last year, Avanlanche had recorded 820mm rain on August 8 and 911mm the next day. Four teams of TNEB, each comprising 10 members, are working on restoring power supply to Gudalur, Pandalur and Ooty. At least 120 state disaster response force personnel and 22 national disaster response force personnel have been deployed to carry out the relief work across the district, the collector said. As on Thursday, 900 people have been shifted to various relief camps in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-continues-to-batter-nilgiris/articleshow/77402575.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Surat||Passengers arriving at Surat airport may have to undergo antigen test||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started rapid antigen testing facility for the passengers arriving at the Surat airport in domestic flights starting Thursday. SMC has tied up with a private hospital for the the tests. The passengers with suspected symptoms of Covid-19 found during the health screening by the SMC staff will undergo the antigen test on chargeable basis. Following the restricted flight movements at the airport due to coronavirus pandemic, only three flights are operated from the Surat airport between Delhi and Hyderabad. On an average, about 200 passengers are arriving at the Surat airport from Delhi and Hyderabad on daily basis. Official sources said that until now the thermal screening of the passengers at the airport was carried out by the health teams of the SMC. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “SMC has tied up with the private hospital for carrying out antigen testing of the passengers at Surat airport. The passengers will have to bear the cost of the test. If found negative, the passengers will be advised 14 days home quarantine and those testing positives will be shifted to the hospital or advise home isolation.” Asked about the antibody testing, Dr Naik said, “We will only advice the passengers to go for antigen testing only if they are found with suspected symptoms of Covid-19 during the health screening upon their arrival on the airport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/passengers-arriving-at-surat-airport-may-have-to-undergo-antigen-test/articleshow/77399689.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot can’t prove majority: Union min||Union minister of state for agriculture and farmer welfare Kailash Choudhary on Thursday said that the Ashok Gehlot-government’s “reverse countdown” has begun and it would soon fall. “With the government’s fall, the politics of Congress will come to an end. And, its credit will go to Ashok Gehlot,” the Union minister said, on the first day of his three-day visit to his parliamentary constituency. He went to Lakha, Jhinjhinyali and Guhda and other villages and town, attacking on the state’s Congress government. Choudhary said the Gehlot-government has lost support of its MLAs. “In the floor test, Gehlot will not be able to prove his majority,” the minister said. “During the Rajya Sabha elections, Gehlot lost faith in his party MLAs and a plot was devised to show BJP and Sachin Pilot as villains. People of Rajasthan are fed with the Congress MLA, ministers and Gehlot,” said Choudhary. “Gehlot government was feeling unsafe in Jaipur, so it has come to Jaisalmer,” the Union minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-cant-prove-majority-union-min/articleshow/77402645.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Jaipur||UDH move may spur realty, help to revive eco activities||Jaipur: In a bid to revive the economy hit by pandemic, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has prepared new draft of Urban Areas Building Bylaws-2020. The bylaws were notified in 2017 and the new draft is now open for public suggestions. Since April 2020, with complete lockdown, all economic activities came to a grinding halt which led to loss of revenue. Although the lockdown has been lifted, with low cash influx, there seems to be a need to make special provisions for businesses. Chief town planner of Rajasthan Rajendra Kumar Vijayvargia said, “These new bylaws are drafted keeping in mind about the present economic condition. We are intending to boost small businesses and new business models that are coming up. We are keeping provisions for rooftop restaurants that have become a trend. Bylaws mentioned that eco-friendly houses should not have any concrete or RCC in its structure to be called with this name. Similarly, a new definition of ‘high-rise bildings’ will boost and encourage vertical development and will stop horizontal expansion.” “The changes have been made according to the new trends in the business world. We are focusing on creating more job opportunities and entrepreneurship. The economic slowdown will have long term impact, so there is a need to amend the regulations as per new societal and economical changes,” said Vijayvargia. Warehousing is an upcoming business avenue. Thus treating this as industrial activity as done in the bylaws will encourage people to invest in this sector which will create better facilities for farmers and E-commerce business. Multiple dwelling units and extra built up areas in smaller plots will create business opportunities for small and medium entrepreneurs in real estate and will boost construction activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-move-may-spur-realty-help-to-revive-eco-activities/articleshow/77402616.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Lucknow||Robotic hands to stop manual scavenging soon in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Drains and manholes in the city will no longer be cleaned manually, with the Lucknow Municipal Corporation deciding to deploy robotic scavengers from September-end. Under Smart Cities Mission, LMC has tied up with Suez India, a subsidiary of a French company, to purchase five robots — Genorobotics — for mechanised cleaning of manholes, a job so far been done by ad hoc sanitary workers. The company will also be responsible for operating machines and their maintenance. The civic body will pay Rs 3.8 crore annually for the job, reducing human intervention to bare minimum and thereby saving lives. TimesViewThe move was long overdue. Manual scavenging is a curse which can only be scrapped by use of technology. However, LMC will have to ensure that the service continues uninterrupted because in the past, glitches due to the laxity of the staff have rendered technological interventions useless. The facility should also be made available to other institutions, both public and private. which hire sanitary workers to clean manholes and deep drains located within their premises.There are 50,000 manholes in the city. On an average, two workers are deployed to clean a manhole. While 30 manholes can be cleaned manually daily, a robotic machine can clean up to 17 and five machines can flush 85. Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said one of the robotic machines has already been supplied, while the remaining will arrive in a few days. “All the machines will be operational by September-end. The project is on a pilot basis and will continue if successful,” she added. Company officials told TOI that the operation of robotic machines is as simple and easy as controlling a remote control car. “The robot has two hands with a camera in front. An operator can see inside the manhole through the camera and use remote control to guide the hands,” they said. Prateek Sharma, an environmentalist, said, “It’s a good move as repeated handling of human excreta even after wearing face masks and gloves leads to respiratory and skin diseases, carbon monoxide poisoning or death.” The machines are being used in several states already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/robotic-hands-to-stop-manual-scavenging-soon/articleshow/77403303.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 7, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Rowdy-sheeter shot at, in critical condition||HUBBALLI: A rowdy-sheeter was shot by six motorbike-borne men on Karwar Road near Vishal Nagar on Thursday evening. The injured is Syed Irfan,45, alias Fruit Irfan, a resident of Dharwad. As per initial reports, three bullets were pumped into Irfan’s body. He sustained injuries on his neck and thigh. According to the police, Irfan came to Hubballi for his son’s wedding at a hall on Gudihal Road on Thursday. The accused waited outside, and as soon as Irfan came out of the marriage hall, the miscreants opened fire at him from a very close range. The police said Irfan sustained bullet injuries on his neck and thigh. The police recovered a live bullet from the place of the shooting, and found two empty cartridges. An injured Irfan was shifted to a private hospital, and his condition is said to be critical. Old Hubballi police inspector Maruti Gullari said that it is too early to say how many rounds were fired at Irfan, but that he sustained two injuries, and is being treated at a private hospital. CCTV footage from the marriage hall has been recovered, and an investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rowdy-sheeter-shot-at-in-critical-condition/articleshow/77399679.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Ranchi||7 from E Singhbhum among 9 Covid deaths, Ranchi gets 257 new cases||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded none Covid casualties and 708 new infections in 24 hours, with Ranchi recording its biggest single-day spike in new cases with 267 persons detected with the novel coronavirus in 24 hours until 10pm on Thursday. Of these, seven casualties are from East Singhbhum – taking the district toll past 50. The figures include 82 cases detected on Wednesday night. With 680 recoveries (biggest one-day figure) reported on Thursday, the total number of Covid cases in Jharkhand rose to 15,756, of which 9,017 are active, 6,594 have recovered and 145 have died. Even as the spike in number of cases continued in state; the positivity rate of samples tested reduced to almost half in comparison to Wednesday with 626 samples of 6,929 testing positive (9%). In revised data issued by the state government for Wednesday, Jharkhand recorded more than 1,000 cases for the first time as 1,060 samples of the 5,372 tested returned positive (almost 20%). Of the nine casualties, seven are from East Singhbhum and one each from Sahebganj and Garhwa district. “All nine were suffering from more than one comorbidity. The patient from Sahebganj was admitted to a private hospital in Ranchi and the other patient died in Garhwa district covid hospital,” said a health department official. On being asked about the death toll in East Singhbhum district, which now has 52 Covid casualties, a senior health department official said: “Most patients who died at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) were admitted to TMH with comorbidities as they have been getting treated there for years. Many were suffering Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and some were on chemotherapy. Many tested positive after they died and they are being counted in the tally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-from-e-sbhum-among-9-covid-deaths-capital-gets-257-new-cases/articleshow/77401589.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 7, 2020||Ranchi||Congress’ Umesh Singhar skips quarantine, BJP says government has dual standards||RANCHI: BJP on Thursday criticized the Hemant Soren government’s quarantine policy and said it has dual standards for functionaries of the mahagathbandhan partners and opposition veterans when it comes adherence to pandemic protocols. The saffron party said the JMM-Congress-RJD government is letting All India Congress Committee (AICC)’s Jharkhand co-in charge Umesh Singhar to violate quarantine norms ever since he landed in Ranchi on a four-day visit on Wednesday. The party brass has asked Singhar to quell the brewing unrest in the party’s state unit after three Congress MLAs visited Delhi to air their grievances against the coalition and the state unit before the high command. Singhar took part in Congress’s diya-lighting ceremony to commemorate the foundation laying of the Ram temple in Ayodhya at the party office on Wednesday, and left for Giridih on Thursday to meet the family members of a party cadre who recently died of Covid-19. While Singhar was also scheduled to visit Dhanbad for a party meeting, sources said he had to cut short his day-long tour and returned to Ranchi when the Dhanbad administration refused to let him enter the district to prevent any chances of spread of infection. Congress rejected the claim and said Singhar voluntarily cancelled his Dhanbad tour due to other engagements. Questioning the state’s quarantine policy on Thursday evening, BJP, spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo asked, “Should there be a separate rules be different for ruling party functionaries and for those in the opposition and the common people? God forbid, if the infection spread, will the CM take responsibility for his allies breaking the rules.” Last month, BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash and legislative party leader Babulal Marandi were told to stay at home after being stamped ‘home quarantine’ on their hands at the city airport on their return from Delhi. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said Singhar’s visit was approved by the state government following all the protocols. “As per the rules, we applied for permission before his visit. After getting a clearance, he showed the permission letter at the airport on arrival and home quarantine was not required for him. Unfortunately, BJP leaders do know the protocols and they had to go into home quarantine.” On Singhar’s Dhanbad tour cancellation, he said, “It was cancelled by us as he had some other work. He will be meeting party workers in Ranchi from Friday.” A few weeks ago, state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh issued a fresh set of protocols to deal with the pandemic. It said anyone entering Jharkhand will have to remain in 14-day home quarantine. It also allowed a few exceptions, mainly for those belonging to the Union government on official duty among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congs-singhar-skips-quarantine-bjp-says-govt-has-dual-standards/articleshow/77401697.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: 22 staff of CMO, including Hemant Soren's security and staff, test Covid-19 positive||RANCHI: As many as 22 people working with chief minister Hemant Soren’s secretariat at his official residence tested positive of Covid-19 late on Wednesday night. This was the second wave of infections detected the chief minister’s office (CMO). On August 2, 17 people tested positive. Among them was the private chauffeur of Soren’s wife Kalpana, security guards of the CMO and a few cooks, the district’s health officials had said. According to the health officials, throat and nasal swab samples of 50 people were collected for tests on August 4, including from Soren, Kalpana and their children. Though the sample reports of the CM and his family, which tested negative, arrived on Tuesday night itself, the reports of the remaining staff came on Wednesday night. Sources in the Soren’s office said the infected staff are mostly JAP-1 jawans and secretariat staff. "Of the infected, six people were on duty on Wednesday night and were picked up in ambulances. The remaining people were at their homes and are being shifted to Covid-19 facilities. Meanwhile, the contact tracing of the infected persons are on," sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra told TOI. Besides Soren, his parents Shibu and Rupi, who live in a separate government bungalow in Morhabadi, were also tested on Tuesday along with senior functionaries of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) who frequented the CM house. However, all of them tested negative. In July, Soren went into home isolation along with his family for nearly a week after he came in contact with state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur, who tested positive on July 8. He has now recovered. Meanwhile, sources in Soren's office said entry of outsiders to the residential area has been banned for the time being. "The CM is also working from home and not going to the secretariat for a few days. Legislators are being urged to not visit the office for some time," a source close to Soren said. As of Thursday morning, Ranchi district has the highest number of positive cases at 2,724 with 1,813 of them active and 883 have recovered. The district has also recorded 28 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/22-staff-of-cmo-including-hemants-security-and-staff-test-positive/articleshow/77401633.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||951 complaints against private hospitals in 2 weeks in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of complaints are pouring in against city private hospitals over Covid-19 treatment, ranging from excess billing to holding back information from relatives about patients. Over the past two weeks 951 complaints have been lodged with the state health department and at times there have been over 40 complaints on a single day. Two city hospitals’ permission for treating Covid-19 patients has already been revoked by health department for malpractices. While 108 complaints were over billing, 157 patients complained about hospitals holding back crucial information and 11 for not following Covid-19 protocols. Action against more hosps on the cards, says health directorThere were also 201 frivolous complaints, officials said. N Balaji, one of the complainants, said that a private hospital admitted his aunt on a pre-condition of Rs 4 lakh advance deposit and Rs 60,000 per day apart from ventilator charges. “They are charging Rs 12,000 each day for PPE kits alone and are now demanding Rs 1 lakh more. We are being constantly harassed. It’s been nine days since I raised the concern but there is no action so far,” Balaji said. In yet another complaint, a person narrated how he was not getting any updates about the condition of his father. “There is nobody in the wards to look after patients and when we raised the issue with the hospital, they took away the mobile phone from my father. Now we are unable to directly ask him about his condition and the hospital doesn’t update us for two to three days even when we keep calling,” wrote the complainant. The hospital was charging Rs 1 lakh per day and had already taken Rs 5 lakh as a cash deposit, the complainant said. Most complaints were about hospitals not following treatment protocol, non-availability of doctors and nurses, unhygienic conditions and lack of facilities provided to the patients despite hefty charges. While 428 fell in this category, 16 complaints were about insurance coverage and government health cards not being accepted. “We are investigating all the complaints and action is on the cards against more hospitals in the coming days,” said public health director Dr G Srinivas Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/951-complaints-against-private-hospitals-in-2-weeks-in-telangana/articleshow/77404160.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 7, 2020||India||Tripura's alternative appointment to terminated teachers not derogatory: SC||NEW DELHI: SC on Thursday greenlighted the Tripura government's proposal to absorb over 10,000 terminated post-graduate, graduate and under-graduate teachers as peons, night guards, gardeners, cooks and lower division clerks. Tripura government in 2010 and 2014 recruited 1,035 PGTs, 4,666 TGTs and 4,612 UGTs through oral interview under the Revised Employment Policy, 2003. The High Court on May 7, 2014 set aside the 2003 policy and quashed the appointment of all teachers. The SC on March 29, 2017 upheld the HC order, directed framing of new policy and recruitment thereunder by December 31, 2017. Citing over 15,000 vacancies in teachers posts in the states, these terminated teachers had made a second attempt in the SC for absorption in the posts. But, a bench of Justice U U Lalit and Vineet Saran refused. However, it saw nothing wrong in the Tripura government's proposal, placed before the court by senior advocate Maninder Singh, seeking to give them alternative appointments in Group C and D category government jobs. The state also informed the court that those eligible among the terminated teachers can compete in the fresh selection process and that they have been given age relaxation till March 31, 2023. The bench said, "It must be noted that the attempt on part of the State in offering certain alternate employment is not to degrade the teachers but some solace is being offered even in cases where the candidates do not succeed in the selections to the posts of teachers." Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Lalit said, "The candidates, if they are otherwise competent and eligible, will certainly have every opportunity till March 31, 2023, to get selected for the posts of teachers in the State and by way of additional benefit those who are unsuccessful in such attempts may retain the alternate employment. In our view, it does not amount to any degradation." The state government had moved an application proposing to absorb the terminated teachers as peons, night guards, gardeners, cooks, day guards, horticulture workers, Anganwadi supervisors, lower division clerks, panchayat secretaries, agriculture assistants, junior store keepers and fishery assistants. The state has identified 10,618 vacant posts in these categories in various departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dismissed-tripura-teachers-can-join-as-cooks-guards/articleshow/77404183.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 7, 2020||India||First Kisan Rail will hit the tracks today||NEW DELHI: India’s first Kisan Rail, exclusively meant to transport farm produce, will be flagged off on Friday. The train, which will have a weekly service, will run from Devlali (Nashik) in Maharashtra to Danapur (Patna) in Bihar. Railway ministry said this first Kisan Special parcel train, which will be flagged off by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal, will cover the 1,519 km in about 32 hours. Devlali falls under Maharashtra’s Bhusawal division adjoining Nashik which is known for its vegetables, onion, fruits and flowers. These perishables are mainly transported to areas around Patna, Prayagraj and Katni. The train will have stoppages at different stations carrying vegetables, fruits and other agri produce. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this special train in her last budget speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-kisan-rail-will-hit-the-tracks-today/articleshow/77404188.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||ASI among first two Covid victims from city police||Nagpur: A 54-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a 50-year old naik constable became the first victims of Covid-19 in the city police after they passed away in the early hours of Thursday leaving 8,500 strong force distraught. The ASI was posted at headquarters but deployed at Raj Bhavan. The constable was from Dhantoli police station. It is learnt both the cops had initially tested negative and none had any co-morbidities. At present, 17 cops and their 13 family members are active patients. Fifty two cops and 33 of their family members have so far tested positive. At least three senior inspectors and an Asst PI were among them. Four cops and another 16 family members are in home isolation. Some 28 have been discharged. City police chief BK Upadhyay reiterated his appeal for sounding early alerts regarding ill-health to department and seek assistance instead of delaying it to the extent of situation slipping out of hand. “We are writing to the government about the deaths so that the families get compensation at the earliest. Our drives to create awareness at police quarters and police stations would be intensified,” he said. The ASI was deployed at the Raj Bhavan till July 26 when he developed chest pain and breathing trouble. He proceeded on leave on July 26 and tested negative initially when he had approached a civic body-run facility, said his family members. He was taken to a private hospital in Shankar Nagar but refused admission on various administrative ground. He had to return home with some medications. On August 2, the ASI was taken to another private hospital at Ramdaspeth. His family members pointed finger at the hospital for being unable to get him recovered despite charging exorbitantly on per day basis. On August 5, his samples were collected once again and sent to a private laboratory. This time he tested positive. With the intervention of CP Upadhyay, DCP Shweta Khedkar and chief medical officer of police hospital Dr Sandeep Shinde, the ASI was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on August 5 and declared dead early on Thursday. Sources from Dhantoli police station said the victim constable, who was on duty in police vehicle, had proceeded on leave on July 30 as he was feeling exhausted. He too was admitted on August 2 and tested positive on August 5 at a private hospital. He was shifted to a designated Covid hospital late on August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asi-among-first-two-covid-victims-from-city-police/articleshow/77401403.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Covid suspect dies in MLA Hostel CCC||Nagpur: An elderly suspected Covid patient was found dead in his isolation room at MLA Hostel Covid Care Centre (CCC) on Thursday morning. The Wadi resident, aged 65 to 70, was referred to the CCC allegedly as ‘Covid positive’ by Vayad primary health centre (PHC), 20km from here. He was put up in Wing III of MLA Hostel, along with his 40-year-old son, who was admitted on August 4. Though he was admitted claiming to be a Covid patient, his son told civic and district officials that Covid test was never done on his father. Later in the day, PHC health officials too said he was referred as ‘high risk contact with symptoms” to the CCC. Sitabuldi police shifted the body to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) mortuary where swab was taken to confirm if the deceased was Covid positive. GMCH officials said the result was awaited till the filing of this report. “It is a sensitive case and therefore RT-PCR test will be done. The body was brought here in NMC hearse van at 4pm. Depending on the result, further process will be done. As per protocol, post mortem is not done for Covid deceased,” they said. GMCH doctors didn’t rule out a post mortem in case police investigation is initiated, even if the swab tests positive. Officials said the son was admitted on August 4 itself while the father didn’t come for a test at district health sub-centre in Wadi. The Vayad doctors had sent an auto to ferry the elderly man, but he refused to come. On August 5, as part of contact tracing, the doctors again called him up. “He told them that he was having fever. Being a close contact of a positive person, the doctors sent an ambulance and immediately referred him to MLA CCC,” they said. Reportedly, NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, SDO Shekhar Gadge and Sitabuldi PI R Rajput visited the spot. However, authorities are tight-lipped about the incident, though they confirmed the death. Officials also said that the deceased was a known case of hypertension and, as per his son’s statement, had undergone angiography last year. The death came to fore in the morning around 9am when the nursing staff went to the room for routine check of oxygen saturation level. They didn’t get any response when they knocked on the door. After some time, the son informed them that his father was not responding. The medical staff examined the man and declared him dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-suspect-dies-in-mla-hostel-ccc/articleshow/77401429.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana runs out of beds in districts; over 2,000 new cases reported||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday reported 2092 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths as authorities of worst-affected districts are running out of beds. Telangana's total caseload rose to 73,050 so far and the toll went up to 589. So far 52,103 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection, while the number of active cases crossed the 20,000 mark, with 20,358 active cases in the state for the first time. Warangal recorded no availability of beds for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial hospital (MGM) there said they need more beds, even as the district continued to record over 100 cases each day. While MGM Warangal caters to the healthcare needs of both Warangal urban and rural districts, the two districts together recorded 152 cases on Thursday. Other districts also reported very low vacant beds for Covid-19. A total of 21,346 samples were tested on Thursday, raising the cumulative sample testing to 5.43 lakh in the state. The case fatality rate dropped slightly to 0.80 from 0.81 on August 3 and is much below the national average of 2.09 percent. GHMC area recorded the highest number of cases with 535 new cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-runs-out-of-beds-in-districts-over-2000-new-cases-reported/articleshow/77404196.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad to kick off academic activities online from August 20||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) has decided to resume academic activities via online for masters and integrated students from August 20 even as an internal survey indicated that 63% students will be unable to access online classes. A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting with all deans, heads and faculty members on Thursday. Recommendations by the task force, constituted by the UoH on July 2 to chalk out a clear roadmap for resumption of teaching-learning activities, were discussed in the meeting. The task force recommended measures based on an internal survey taken up to elicit information about access to the internet and their views on online classes. Of the 5,000 students at UoH, 2,500 had submitted responses. Amidst growing clamour for online education during the Covid-19 crisis, the survey on whether students would be able to attend online classes, revealed that about 18% said they can't access them at all, 45% said they would be able to do so infrequently and 37% of the students answered with 'yes'. "In this lockdown situation, attending online classes is difficult for me, because I am living in a village which doesn't have a proper network and has electricity problems. Reading PPTs, documents, and writing assignments on a mobile phone is also very difficult," said a student in the survey. Other students pointed out issues such as mental state, lack of private space in cramped houses and increased screen time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/university-of-hyderabad-to-kick-off-academic-activities-online-from-august-20/articleshow/77404199.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Portion of Pernem rail tunnel caves in, trains diverted, no casualties||MARGAO: A 5m stretch of the lined wall inside the Pernem tunnel caved in in the wee hours of Thursday, paralysing train traffic along the Konkan Railway route. The incident occurred between Madure and Pernem railway stations at 2.50am. A press note by Konkan Railway said that traffic in this section has been suspended till further advice, though no casualties or injuries were reported. Deputy general manager, public relations, Baban Ghatge, said that restoration work was under way. “Senior officials of the Konkan Railway are overseeing the work which is being undertaken on a war footing,” Ghatge said.  The 1.5km-long Pernem tunnel was built largely in soft soil strata. “The collapsed portion of the tunnel lined wall lies 300m inside from the Mangalore end of the tunnel. The rainwater was gushing forth with such force that the portion of the wall cracked and gave way. The restoration work needs to proceed cautiously as there is a possibility of more cave-ins,” a railway official said. Though KR sources had initially said that it could take at least 3-4 days for the track restoration work to be complete, a press bulletin issued by the Konkan Railway late Thursday said that several trains have been diverted along the SWR route via Londa up to August 18 or 20, thus indicating that the restoration work could take a longer time. 02617 Ernakulam-H Nizamuddin Superfast Special Express, 06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak (T) Special Express, 02432 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani Special Express, 02618 H Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Superfast Special Express whose journey originated on Wednesday, and 06345 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Thiruvananthapuram Central of Thursday were the trains that were diverted. On Wednesday, a landslide occurred between Caranzol and Castlerock disrupting train movement along the SWR route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/portion-of-pernem-rail-tunnel-caves-in-trains-diverted-no-casualties/articleshow/77402926.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Pedal push: BMTC bus gets front-mounted bicycle rack||BENGALURU: BMTC has installed a bicycle rack on the front of a bus to encourage cyclists to get on board and promote mixed mobility. It plans to make similar additions to other buses depending on the public response. The nascent initiative also serves an acknowledgement of the growing popularity of cycles. The conditions caused by the coronavirus pandemic — unavailability of transport services during lockdowns, commuters’ preference for personal vehicles to cut infection risk, greater focus on health and fitness — have made the humble cycle an attractive option once again after years. “The bicycle rack is an in-house fabrication done by employees of BMTC central workshop,” said BMTC managing director C Shikha. The rack, fixed on a non-AC bus, can hold two bicycles. Many techies have expressed a desire to pedal to work once normal office shifts resume, but they want better road-safety arrangements and infrastructure such as dedicated bike lanes. “A 16-km pop-up cycle lane is being created on both sides of the Outer Ring Road stretch between Silk Board and Lowry Memorial College. It will run along the bus priority lane,” Shikha said. Transport experts say the integration of bicycles and buses will be cost-effective and could boost BMTC ridership. This is not the first time BMTC has installed bicycle racks on buses. It had experimented in some low-floor, AC Volvo buses, but the trial fizzled out. In 2011, Volvo, along with BMTC, operated buses with cycle racks on some routes of IT corridors like Whitefield. BMTC is compelled to try new things again as the pandemic has eroded bus ridership. At the same time, the number of cyclists has increased. “BMTC could try the bicycle rack in some buses, but the ‘attachment’ concept may not work. Ideally, BMTC should provide space for foldable cycles inside buses. It could come up with articulated/vestibule buses, so a section can be earmarked inside. There will be safety concerns if the rack is mounted outside; it could fall because of sudden braking or an accident,” said Sathya Sankaran, the bicycle mayor of Bengaluru. On Namma Metro, only foldable cycles that pass through scanners are allowed. Sankaran said BMTC should provide dedicated parking spots to cyclists at major bus stations. “The parking should be covered as bicycles are more vulnerable to vandalism and theft,” he added. Transit providers in the West create dedicated infrastructure for cyclists. In some countries, cycle trailers are attached to the rear side of the bus, so over 10 cycles can be accommodated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pedal-push-bmtc-bus-gets-front-mounted-bicycle-rack/articleshow/77404138.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 7, 2020||Goa||‘Goa’s nod not required for Karnataka’s Mhadei projects’||PANAJI: Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that the Karnataka government has recently submitted the feasibility report of the Kalasa Nala diversion scheme and Bhandura Nala diversion scheme to the Central Water Commission and these are under appraisal of the Jal Shakti ministry as per the existing central water commission (CWC) guidelines and as per the direction given in the report cum decision of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal (MWDT). The Union minister has written to the Goa government as chief minister Pramod Sawant in March had requested that the state government be intimated of any proposal sent by Karnataka for Mhadei water diversion project and that its objections be considered. Referring to Sawant’s letter that “a copy of the proposal (of Karnataka) may be given to Goa and its objections considered”, Shekhawat said, “So far as the issue of sharing the copy of the project proposal with the co-basin states is concerned, as per the existing norms, copy of PFR of any project proposed in the river basin for which no tribunal award or inter-state agreement exists, will be circulated to the co-basin states by the project authority. CWC will send copy of the PFR to resident commissioner of the party state in New Delhi.” Regarding seeking prior consent, Shekhawat in his letter to Sawant said that as per the Mhadei tribunal’s report-cum-decision, Goa’s prior consent is not required as it is a lower riparian state, while both Karnataka and Maharashtra are upper riparian states. On the issue of salinity raised by Sawant during a discussion over Mhadei, Shekhawat said that his ministry has assigned the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, to take up the study and submit a report to the ministry. In a related development, Sawant has written to Shekhawat stating that as all three states have approached the Supreme Court challenging the tribunal’s order, the DPRs of Karnataka regarding Kalasa and Bhandura projects in Mhadei basin should not be considered. Sawant said Goa has in-principle objections to diversion of water from Mhadei to Malaprabha basin. Sawant said Karnataka’s projects are to divert water from Mhadei basin to Malaprabha basin for irrigation purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-nod-not-required-for-ktakas-mhadei-projects/articleshow/77402953.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||I don’t discriminate as CM, but as Hindu won’t attend mosque event: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Hours after the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple on Wednesday, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, when asked if he would attend a similar function for the construction of the mosque in Ayodhya, turned the question on its head, wondering whether he would even be invited for it in the first place. “Do you think I will be invited for a ground-breaking ceremony for the mosque? I don’t think it is a problem for me as much as it is for them. Therefore, I don’t have any dilemma about it,” he said in interviews to three TV channels. He later clarified that as a CM, he did not distinguish between religions, castes and communities but as a yogi, as a Hindu, he would not go for such an event since he had the right to express himself in following his religion. The CM praised Iqbal Ansari, one of the main litigants from the Muslim side, for having accepted the SC’s decision on the Ayodhya dispute. “People should take inspiration from him.It is a reflection on our democratic system that as a Muslim, he felt safe in Ayodhya while fighting his case. Would a Hindu feel safe in Pakistan or Afghanistan if he was fighting for a temple?” He said that “pseudo secularism” had become the basis for terrorism, riots and naxalism in the country and for opposing Hindus and added that the temple movement had unmasked “pseudo secularism”. Holding Congress responsible for the prolonged dispute over the Ram temple, Yogi said the “divisiveness” it had created suited the party. Yogi said one may change one’s way of worshipping but can’t change the ancestor. He said critics in India needed to learn from foreign nations like Muslim-dominated Indonesia, whose people participate in the Deepotsav programme in Ayodhya every year. “Majority of the performers are Muslim and when I asked them about it, they said they have the right to practise their religion but whatever religion they might follow, they cannot change their ancestors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-dont-discriminate-as-cm-but-as-hindu-wont-attend-mosque-event-yogi/articleshow/77404198.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 7, 2020||Goa||Parts of South Goa worst hit by damage to power infra||PANAJI: Sanguem, Rivona and Canacona in South Goa have been the worst hit in terms of damage to electricity infrastructure by incessant rain and gusty winds this week. In Rivona village, eight electricity poles were knocked down by high velocity winds. “Our personnel are working 24x7, but it gets difficult when it continues to rain heavily,” power minister Nilesh Cabral, said. While there have been instances of poles collapsing more than once after being repaired and re-erected, the minister said that the department’s greatest challenge lies in identifying faults in power supply, which takes up a lot of time. Torrential rain over the past two days resulted in long hours of power outages in several parts of Goa, including in the state capital Panaji and its suburbs. Cabral said water-logging in certain areas posed an obstacle to linemen seeking to ascertain and correct faults or to restore fallen poles. Reaching some points in wooded areas only added to their problems. “I was following up with the department continuously on Wednesday night as many places, including some parts of my constituency (Curchorem), had power failure,” Cabral said. He also said that the electricity department would assess its losses at a later stage. Every monsoon, the state experiences power failure during inclement weather. At times, outages in villages last for more than a day. While underground cabling appears to be the only solution, it has been kept on the back burner as the cost of projects run into several crores of rupees. Some parts of the state, however, have already had underground cables laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-south-goa-worst-hit-by-damage-to-power-infra/articleshow/77402969.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Business||‘Bata on Wheels’ to reach out to its customers||Kolkata: Shoe major Bata India is going to introduce ‘Bata on Wheels’, one of the new delivery channel initiatives in the wake of the Covid pandemic, in Kolkata in the next five-six weeks. This is part of the global shoe major’s efforts to enhance omni-channel presence during this period. Following the annual general meeting (AGM), Ashwani Windlass, the chairman of Bata India, said that the company has ‘Bata on Wheels’ in 86 locations in north India and would expand the same to metro cities after the full ease of lockdown in different big cities. The Bata India chairman said that during 2019-20, the company focused on three major areas — innovation, marketing and customer service. “Bata India is also expanding its e-commerce footprint by ramping up its presence across online marketplaces. Your company remains committed to bring you the best online customer experience,” he added. Windlass added that Covid-19, an unprecedented pandemic, has taken all by surprise and shock. “It has not only changed our day-to-day lives but also is going to change the consumer sentiments and behaviour in multiple ways. Given the social distancing norms, shift to work-from-home and avoidance of social gatherings, there would also be an impact on lifestyle products and accordingly, also on the company. The Unlock 3.0 has just happened with re-opening of most of the activities except schools, colleges and some other activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bata-on-wheels-to-reach-out-to-its-customers/articleshow/77401725.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: This isn’t the Roy we named in drug case, says BJP||PANAJI: Ponda legislator and former Congress chief minister Ravi Naik’s sons Ritesh and Roy joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a function held on Thursday along with two members of Ponda Municipal Council Anand Naik and William Aguiar. Asked about the allegations made by BJP in the past against Roy having a nexus with the drugs mafia, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said, “This Roy is not the one against whom allegations were made for involvement in drug cases.” “Tell me if we had mentioned Roy Ravi Naik somewhere in the drugs case? My party has never made allegations against Roy Ravi Naik. Show me the proof,” Tanavade said. Tanavade said that there are many people with the name Roy and that this “certainly is not that Roy”. “This Roy is Roy Ravi Naik.” Summons had even been issued to Roy by the special investigation team (SIT) investigating the drugs mafia-policemen nexus a couple of years ago. Senior leaders of BJP, including Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar, and party office-bearers from Ponda constituency were present at the joining event. A panch member of the Curti-Khandepar village panchayat has also joined the BJP fold. Ritesh is likely to become the next chairperson of the civic body. With the joining of Ritesh and two of the councillors, the strengtwh of BJP in the 15-member Ponda council now stands at seven. Ravi told TOI that his sons are major in age and take their own decisions. Speaking after the joining ceremony, Ritesh said, “After discussion with family members, well-wishers and friends, we came to the conclusion that we have to join BJP to carry forward the developmental works in the state.” Tanavade said that now even tall leaders of Congress have started joining the BJP. “I welcome them and am hopeful that they will carry our party activities further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-isnt-the-roy-we-named-in-drug-case-bjp/articleshow/77403021.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Insecurity rife in BJP: Chodankar||Panaji: The induction of Congress MLA and former chief minister Ravi Naik’s sons into the BJP has dealt a further blow to the Congress party’s morale but the party said that it will emerge stronger. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said he did not wish to make an official comment on the move but his cryptic tweets said a lot. “Insecurity is rife in the BJP. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant was confused between Corona and Covid and Sadanand Shet Tanavade is muddled between Roy Naik and Roy Ravi Naik. Goans will explain in 2022,” said Chodankar. Congress party workers said that the exit of the two brothers would do little to dent the party’s chances in the coming assembly elections, which are less than two years away. The Naik brothers had very little role in the party’s organisational functioning, but their moving away from the Congress will affect the party workers’ morale. “It is for the well-being of all that Corona and Covid-19 go away,” said Chodankar, making many wonder if he was alluding to the brothers. Congress insiders say that Ravi Naik is upset with the party as he feels ignored. Some of the party workers even said that Naik’s exit - he may step down as an MLA just before the 2022 elections - will help the party in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/insecurity-rife-in-bjp-chodankar/articleshow/77403035.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: CR trackman electrocuted near Masjid railway station, 16 fishermen rescued||MUMBAI: As rain continued for the third consecutive day in the city, albeit with reduced intensity, a Central Railway trackman died by electrocution as he stepped out to inspect a water pump near the Masjid railway station. CR trackman Sanjeet Kumar, 27, was electrocuted after he waded into the waterlogged area outside the tracks near Masjid station. The mishap occurred at 2.45 am on Thursday when Sanjeet went to inspect the BMC pumps installed to flush out water from the railway premises. He was rushed to Bombay Hospital, where he was declared dead. Sixteen fishermen were rescued after their boat ‘Dev Sandesh’ was stranded 70 kilometres away from the coast after suffering an engine failure. The rescue operation took six hours as the waves caused the stranded boat to bob dangerously mid-sea, 15 feet high at times. In coastal Arnala in Virar, 30 tribal families were moved to safety after their thatched houses were submerged. Food packets were provided to them. Thane breathed easy with 30mm rain and reported 15 tree falls. However, Navi Mumbai received no respite on Thursday, reporting 300 cases of tree collapses and prolonged power outages that had begun on Wednesday. Potholes surfaced on Navi Mumbai’s arterial and internal roads. Reversing Wednesday’s trend, on Thursday it was Mumbai’s suburbs that received higher rainfall than the island city. Between 8 am and 6 pm on Thursday, the eastern suburbs reported 26mm rainfall and the western suburbs reported 20mm of rai. The island city, which had been battered by heavy rain and powerful winds on Wednesday, saw 16 mm of rainfall on Thursday. The Bombay high court suspended all proceedings on Thursday, the second time this week, as staff was unable to attend work due to rail disruptions. The BEST diverted buses from 10 routes compared to 40 routes over the past two days. Parts of South Mumbai, especially Kemps Corner, went without power for 18 hours as supply was disconnected after cables were waterlogged. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed administration officials to clear fallen trees and drainall the accumulated water, as well as evacuate residents near the swollen rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cr-trackman-electrocuted-near-masjid-railway-station-16-fishermen-rescued/articleshow/77404220.cms||---
August 7, 2020||India||Constitutional courts take tough stand on advocates crossing lakshman rekha||NEW DELHI: Tested to the limits by a band of lawyers who for years constantly pushed the boundaries of decency while criticising the judiciary, the constitutional courts appear to have had enough and recent contempt proceedings against renowned lawyers are indicative of attempts to demand adherence to 'lakshman rekha' of decency. Days after reserving its decision on two contempt proceedings against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, the Supreme Court on Thursday was disinclined to close a contempt case against Gujarat High Court Advocates Association President Yatin Narendra Oza, whose senior advocate designation was revoked by the HC for his allegations of nepotism, favouritism and other allegations against the HC registry, which appeared to cloud even the HC's judicial side. Oza had engaged a battery of senior advocates - A M Singhvi, Arvind Datar, P H Parekh and Shekhar Naphade. SCBA president Dushyant Dave joined in suo motu to plead for Oza. But Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Ajay Rastogi made clear their disappointment with Oza's repeated contumacious utterances. "You are a 60-year-old bar leader. We can understand rash comments and behaviour from youngsters. But, bar leaders are to guide youngsters. What example are you setting for them? How many times will you apologise? You have a history of that." A mild hint of a question on HC's harshness in taking away Oza's 'senior advocate' designation met with the bench's strong response. "Let contempt proceedings in HC culminate, we will keep the matter pending. Such a situation has happened in Delhi High Court (stripping R K Anand of senior advocate gown) and it has been upheld by the Supreme Court." As the going got tough, a remorseful Oza stepped in and said, "I used absolutely intemperate language (in the press conference). I tender unconditional and unqualified apology. I seek forgiveness." Singhvi said, "it is a matter of life and death for a senior advocate to be stripped of his hard earned designation." The bench matter of factly said, "He can still practice." Oza said, "I was the youngest lawyer to be designated senior advocate by the HC at the age of 38 years. The number of days I have been without the senior advocate designation is enough punishment. I promise to the court, it will never ever happen." Oza was designated as senior advocate on October 25, 1999 and the HC on July 18 this year stripped him of the designation for his remarks about HC as a 'gambling den' among other contemptuous utterances. Finding Oza's remorse convincing and persuaded by the pleadings of senior advocates, the bench of Justices Kaul and Rastogi in their order said "in view of the unconditional and unqualified apology, the contempt court would consider Oza's unqualified and unconditional apology. The bench also said that Oza would make a representation to the court that he should not be deprived of the 'senior gown' for all time to come. SC asked Oza to make amends in his approach and guide the younger generation lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oza-case-indicates-sc-mind-on-limits-of-decency/articleshow/77404217.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Recoveries rise; 28% Covid care centres beds are vacant||BENGALURU: Over 1,500 coronavirus cases are reported in the city every day, but in a heartening development, daily recoveries are ticking higher. The strong recovery rate is evidenced by the availability of beds at Covid care centres: nearly 28 per cent of the beds are vacant. “There are 4,276 beds in 11 Covid care centres across Bengaluru. Right now, 936 beds, i.e. 27.7 per cent, are vacant. Out of the existing 3,346 patients, 306 are due for discharge today (Thursday),” said medical education minister K Sudhakar. Discharge numbers in Bengaluru started climbing on August 2. Over four days, from August 2 to 5, 7,485 coronavirus infections were reported as against 12,381 discharges. Overall, till August 5, Bengaluru had reported 64,881 positive cases, out of which 30,960 have recovered. Active cases stand at 32,757. “Most cases in the city have been asymptomatic with the patients requiring only isolation. If testing, tracing and isolation continues, we are going to see a huge decline in the number of cases in the tech capital. However, the situation might not be the same in rest of Karnataka as other districts are seeing more cases,” a health official said. Initially, patients criticised the poor arrangements and food quality at Covid care centres. Officials said that things had improved after the involvement of private players. In a video, a patient praised the arrangements at the Covid centre inside the Art of Living campus on Kanakapura Road, saying he treated very well, the food was good, and rooms were clean. Another patient, a woman, said in a video that the facility was well-maintained and she enjoyed the meals. “I am ready to stay here for some more days as the place is great,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-28-of-beds-at-covid-centres-empty-as-recoveries-climb/articleshow/77404145.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 7, 2020||Goa||Shripad Naik playing politics: AAP||MARGAO: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said that at a time when the state was reeling under Covid-19 pandemic and the government was completely lost on direction, Ponda Congress MLA Ravi Naik’s sons joining the BJP and “that too in the presence of the Ayush minister Shripad Naik showed that the party had hit the lowest point of decency in public life”. Addressing media, party convener Elvis Gomes said, “The BJP is using central ministers to play politics and that too none other than the ‘Ayush’ minister who has a responsibility to the people first and party last.” Displaying a reply obtained under RTI Act, Gomes pointed out that an amount of Rs 8.77 crore received from the central fund was the only amount spent so far and no funds were received from the state government towards Covid care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripadplaying-politics-aap/articleshow/77403055.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||First time, Vidarbha recovery rate dips below Maharashtra & national||NAGPUR: Sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha has added 4,800-plus new patients to the tally of region in the last six days. On August 6, Vidarbha added 1,085 new cases — 648 of them being from Nagpur district alone. In Amravati, member of Parliament Navneet Rana, her husband-MLA from Badnera Ravi Rana tested positive. About 10 family members of the Rana family have already tested positive. Due to this sudden increase in the number of cases on Thursday, the recovery rate has gone down to 62.2%. For the first time, recovery rate of Maharashtra (66%) and national average (64.5%) are better than Vidarbha. This spike has also increased the number of patients under treatment to 6,924; which is 35% of total cases. This has happened for the first time ever. Vidarbha region recorded 30 deaths for the second day in a row — taking total death toll to 542. Alarmingly, 155 of these came in first six days of August alone. More alarmingly, 103 of the 155 deaths in August were reported from Nagpur district. Even on Thursday, Nagpur reported 25 deaths — 21 of them from city, and four from other parts of the district. The graph of total cases in Vidarbha is moving speedily towards the 20,000-mark. It reached 19,795 on Thursday. Recoveries, however, are increasing at a steady rate of 300 to 400 patients a day. With 315 patients discharged on August 6, total 12,329 patients have recovered from the region till date. AMRAVATI: Three Covid deaths and a spike of 92 cases on Thursday took the district’s toll to 83 while the number of patients reached 2,764. A report from civil surgeon office stated that a 48-year-old man from Kekatpur in Amravati tehsil, a 55-year-old man from Chichfail in Rajapeth locality and a 65-year-old man from Balaji Plot locality died during treatment at Covid hospital. Total 13 patients got discharge today to take the count of recovered patients to 1,853. This left 828 under treatment, including 15 referred to Nagpur. MLA Ravi Rana and his MP wife Navneet Rana today tested positive. Ten of his family members, including parents, a son and a daughter, had tested positive three days ago. Besides them, three more from Shankarnagar, where the Ranas reside, tested positive to take the locality’s count to 21. YAVATMAL: Reporting death for 4th day in a row, Yavatmal’s total Covid-19 death count reached 39 on August 6. A 58-year-old woman from Pusad city died. Apart from her, 46 others tested positive from the district, which include six from Yavatmal city. Total 82 patients recovered and were discharged on August 6. This means, 994 out of total 1,358 Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal have recovered with a recovery rate of over 73%. Though Yavatmal district has conducted 23,050 tests so far, results of 4,000 of them are still awaited. Two critical patients from Yavatmal have been referred to Nagpur. Including them, Yavatmal has 325 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: Covid-19 death toll of the district increased to 35 when a 65-year-old woman from Shivaji Nagar, Khamgaon, died on August 6. Buldhana received 472 test reports on Thursday with 70 of them positive. With this, total cases reached 1,687. Total 11 patients were discharged in a day taking total number of recovered patients to 990. Buldhana has 662 patients under treatment at present. CHANDRAPUR: District registered record spike of 67 new cases during the day taking the total Covid-19 caseload to 749 on Thursday. With health department expediting the tests, officials have warned of further rise in the number of patients in coming days. The day also witnessed the discharge of 20 patients raising the number of cured patients to 426. There are now 321 active patients under treatment at different Covid hospitals. No death was recorded on Thursday and toll remains at two in district. Out of total 746 patients here, 650 belong to Chandrapur district, 42 are from other districts of Maharashtra, while 54 are from other states. The new cases include 28 from Bramhapuri, 13 each from Chandrapur and Ballarpur, Chimur 4, three each from Bhadrawati and Warora, two from Gadchandur and one from Rajura. As of now, there are a total 73 active containment zones in the district. Officials have claimed that the number of contact patients is very high in the district. Villages namely Mangli, Delwandi and Gangalwadi have become Covid hotspots, said officials. AKOLA: Covid-19 cases have reduced in Akola Municipal Corporation area, but rural parts of the district are still reporting cases in large numbers. On August 6, total 80 new cases were reported in Akola. Most of them are from rural. Total cases in the district reached 2,880 on Thursday. Total 18 patients received discharge, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,304. Recovery rate of Akola is 80%. No Covid-19 death was reported on Thursday. Now, Akola has 455 patients under treatment. WASHIM: Total 23 Covid-19 infected persons were detected in the district on August 6 which took total number of Covid-19 cases to 813. With five more getting discharge, total number of recovered patients here surged to 470. Washim now has 325 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Covid-19 cases in the district reached 342 on August 6 as 24 new patients were detected in a day. Out of these, 21 are from Bhandara tehsil, one from Lakhni, and two from Mohadi tehsils. On Thursday, four patients recovered and were discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 231. With two deaths in July, Bhandara has total 309 patients. Out of them, six have been referred to Nagpur. GONDIA: Number of Corona positive cases continue to surge in Gondia. As many as 22 fresh cases were diagnosed, while four patients recovered in Gondia district today. New cases include eight residents of Sindhi Colony of Gondia city alone. WARDHA: Covid-19 test reports of 180 people were received on Thursday and 8 of them came positive for novel coronavirus infection. While six have defeated the virus and discharged from hospital, 178 have been released from isolation ward due to negative report on Thursday. Among the positive patients are a 55-year-old woman from Anandnagar, an 18-year-old girl from Sewagram, a 39-year-old woman and eight-year-old girl from Srinivas Colony, a 53-year-old woman from Adarshnagar, a 56-year-old man from Zakir Hussain Colony, a 23-year-old man from Ashti and a 21-year-old man from Samudrapur. On Thursday, 296 people were admitted in the isolation wards. Swabs of 281 have been sent for testing. Test reports of 260 are pending. The total number of cases in the district has reached 262. On Thursday, six patients were discharged. A total of 216 patients have recovered and returned home so far. At present, the number of active patients in the district is 37, with two of them referred to Nagpur. GADCHIROLI: A spike of 23 new cases was witnessed in Gadchiroli on August 6. These include 18 CRPF jawans, three admitted in institutional quarantine centre at Aheri, and one each from Dhanora and district hospital. With this, total number of Covid-19 cases in Gadchiroli has increased to 667. Total eight patients recovered from the district today, taking the number of recovered patients to 508. Now, Gadchiroli has 158 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-time-vid-recovery-rate-dips-below-maha-national/articleshow/77401951.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 7, 2020||Goa||Helpline glitch connects power consumers to Maharashtra||PANAJI: Several citizens trying to access the much-publicised electricity department toll free helpline number 1912 have successfully connected — to that of the neighbouring state. Consumers using certain mobile service providers like Airtel have been dialling 1912 to report power outages only to connect Maharashtra’s call centre. “I opted for the English option but a lady speaking Hindi came on line and asked me for my consumer account number despite telling her I was calling from Taleigao. Where was I supposed to search for my CA number in the dark? She then suggested that I go to my neighbour’s house and get their CA number so that she could locate the area,” Shristhi told TOI. “My call is reaching Pune,” another citizen from Guirim said. The problem has been persisting for a couple of years, a department engineer said, adding that consumers can alternatively call on 2490800 — not toll free — but which connects to the Goa call centre. However, Sayed Mohammed, who tried the alternative number on Tuesday, found that the line was constantly engaged. “I dialled for around half-an-hour before I finally gave up. The 1912 is usually helpful, but they were off communication on Tuesday night,” he said. Chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni said he would look into the issue of the number connecting to Maharashtra’s helpline. The torrential rain coupled with gusty winds over the past few days resulted in erratic power supply to many areas. While the situation improved for many on Wednesday, areas in Anjuna didn’t get respite from the power outage that struck on Monday. “Thirty-six hours without power is unpardonable for any administration in charge at a time like this, when online and work from home modules have become a necessity,” an Anjuna resident said. Keni said power supply in Anjuna would be restored through backfeeding, with linesmen working to fix the problem. “Accessibility was a problem in many areas as there was waterlogging,” he said. The weather on Wednesday provided some respite to linesmen to get power supply restored, he said. Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza on Wednesday visited the Mapusa substation to take stock of the situation following frequent power interruptions in his constituency due to snapping of electricity lines on account of falling trees and incessant rain. Assistant engineer of the electricity department Norman Athaide said that an emergency shutdown was undertaken “to clean the panels and replace the failed 11KV insulator”. The Mapusa MLA has appealed to his constituents to immediately call the Goa state helpline toll-free number 1912 or 0832-22662218 in case falling branches or uprooted trees lead to snapping of electricity lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/helpline-glitch-connects-power-consumers-to-maha/articleshow/77403056.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hanging Gardens landslide shuts road on Malabar Hill for 3 months||MUMBAI: A portion of a retaining wall collapsed along BG Kher Road (Ridge Road) near Hanging Gardens in south Mumbai during heavy rainfall on Thursday morning. It caused a landslide, with debris falling onto the road below that leads to Kemps Corner, damaged water pipelines and uprooted around 15 trees on the hill slope. The stretch between Hanging Gardens till the Kemps Corner traffic signal, a crucial connectivity for VVIP movement, will remain shut for vehicles for three months till the BMC rebuilds the retaining wall and the cracked road. The bridge from Kemps Corner towards Pedder Road may remain closed for a day or two till debris is cleared. After the incident, traffic police shut both bounds of Pedder Road from Kemps Corner up to Chowpatty for vehicles. Ridge Road, where the landslide occurred, was also closed. An excavator on site following the collapse of Ridge Road’s retaining wall“South-bound motorists coming from Mahalaxmi are diverted below the Kemps Corner flyover. We have suggested using Haji Ali - Tardeo Road - Nana Chowk-Opera House for south-bound vehicles,” a traffic police officer said. North-bound motorists are diverted near Wilson College and redirected towards Opera House. “Northward travellers can use Opera House - Nana Chowk - Tardeo Circle - Tardeo Road - Haji Ali. Additional traffic personnel have been deployed to guide motorists,” said the officer. Municipal commissioner IS Chahal, who visited the spot, told the police that once the debris is cleared, the road below Kemps Corner flyover will be kept free-flowing for vehicular movement. The retaining wall collapse tilted around 50 old fully-grown trees, which are hanging dangerously, affecting repair work. Four water pipelines passing beneath BG Kher Road were badly damaged and affected water supply to Altamont Road, Pedder Road and Kemps Corner. The BMC water reservoir is situated on the hilltop from where supply goes to nearby areas. The BMC will give alternate connections between reservoirs and unaffected pipeline portions to those affected. But this could take a few days. The civic administration started to supply tanker water to housing societies in the vicinity from Thursday onwards. A senior BMC official said, “We have asked a consultant to let us know the work required to restore the retaining wall and how much damage it has caused to the hill slope. There are big cracks on B G Kher Road, which need major repairs. So, we decided to close it for three months.” The private road inside the Parsi Tower of Silence (Doongerwadi) and its pavilion used for prayers were also badly damaged due to the cave-in. Doongerwadi manager Vistaspar Mehta said its managing committee will decide about the repair of the damaged portions. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the site on Thursday evening to assess the damage, accompanied by environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hanging-gardens-landslide-shuts-road-on-malabar-hill-for-3-months/articleshow/77404228.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Building construction was regularized for Rs 90 lakh||AHMEDABAD: Citizens of Ahmedabad have been injured twice. Once by hospitals for not being sincere and prompt enough to audit their fire and structural safety and second by the government for not ensuring checks for basic fire safety. Consider the case of Shrey hospital, where eight patients were asphyxiated. Sources in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation estate department claim that the hospital was regularized under Gujarat Regularization of Unauthorized Development Act, 2011 for a cost of Rs 90 lakh. Shrey was one among the 1.39 lakh properties in city regularized based on determining factors like — residential and commercial and availability of parking space. Structural safety was never a concern. What then did such a regularization achieve in cases of tragedies like the one at Shrey hospital? There was no fire hydrant system at Shrey, just a few stray fire extinguishers on each floor. Also, the entire margin area at Shrey was eaten up by a canteen facility, which ideally should have been a passage for rescue work. There was no extra rescue staircase as there was no space to make one. There was no floor suppression in AC ducts--which meant toxic smoke could travel through the ducts to other floors. Also, the whole building was encased in a glass facade which made jobs of fire officials difficult. Most hospital terraces, basements and escape passages are occupied by in-house pharmacy, canteens, visitor’s area, radiology department, OPD extensions and receptions. Last year in May, a similar fire broke out in the canteen of Apple Paediatric Super-speciality Hospital In Parimal Garden area. The canteen was located on the terrace of the four-storey building. Despite these construction violations, not just Shrey, many hospitals in Ahmedabad, get ‘Annexure C’ form permissions to function. In the pasts several private hospitals like Rudraksh, Sterling, Bapunagar ESIC general hospital have experienced similar fires due to short-circuits. Fire officials who had visited the spot found many violations pertaining to the National Building Code (NBC) and the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). “How does that happen? GRUDA regularizes illegal construction, property tax is recovered and now on what basis will safety checks be made?” asks a senior AMC official in charge of inspection of hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/building-construction-was-regularized-for-rs-90l/articleshow/77402010.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Brawl breaks out at Russian girl’s farewell at Arpora, one injured||PANAJI: Even after chief minister Pramod Sawant directed police to crack down on parties and made an appeal against hosting parties during the pandemic, foreigners in the state continue to do so. A farewell party hosted by a 22-year-old Russian girl for herself at a villa in Arpora turned violent after a group of youth got into a scuffle while dancing. Around 17 youths in the age group of 17 to 22 attended the party, which also included children of some prominent people, and businesspersons. The incident took place in the early hours of Sunday, but came to the light only after a video of the party went viral on social media. The video clearly shows girls and boys fighting and some people trying to intervene. Anjuna police have booked two for causing hurt to one youth with a weapon. Police said that the host mostly lived in the state as she has family here. She has contacts with children of well to do families, all of whom were invited to the party. Police, however, denied that there were drugs at the party. This is not the first party since lockdown. Sources said that in Ashvem some foreign nationals had organised a party in a stone quarry. Another was held in Arambol from where police seized some musical instruments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brawl-breaks-out-at-russian-girls-farewell-at-arpora-one-injured/articleshow/77403057.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Delhi||1,299 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, 15 fatalities in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,299 fresh novel coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally to over 1.41 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,059. According to the latest bulletin released by the state health department, 15 fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases rose from Wednesday's 10,072 to 10,348 on Thursday. An official said the positivity rate - number of confirmed cases from those tested - currently stood at 6.3%, while the recovery rate was over 89%. Of the total beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 10,547 (78%) were vacant. Also, 2,545 beds in Covid care centres were occupied by people under quarantine, including those who had returned from abroad, the official said. According to the bulletin, so far, over 1.27 lakh patients had recovered, been discharged or migrated. The number of people in home isolation stood at 5,244. The number of rapid antigen tests conducted on Thursday was 14,699, while RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 5,737, in all adding to 20,436. The total tests done so far was 11.2 lakh approximately. The number of tests done per million as on Thursday was 58,964, the government said. "In the past two weeks, we have received only one Covid-positive patient. The cases have certainly gone down, and now there is an increase in the number of people coming to hospitals with non-Covid problems," said a head of a private nursing home in east Delhi. Following the drop in cases, a few hospitals had requested the government to reduce the number of Covid beds, a source said,. However, the government maintained that de-escalation in arrangements was not possible currently as there was still a risk of resurgence in cases. "We cannot be complacent," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1299-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-15-fatalities-in-24-hours/articleshow/77404243.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||AP confident of securing 75% job quota for locals||VIJAYAWADA: It is a little over one year since the Andhra Pradesh government made a new legislation ensuring 75 per cent jobs for the locals in industries. The industries department is sprucing up to list the industries and identify the employment potential to start implementation of the Act. The Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act 2019 was introduced and passed in assembly in July 2019. The government had given three years’ time for existing industries to implement the Act, while it had made it compulsory for all the new industries to follow the norm. Andhra Pradesh was the first government to make such a law though there was resistance from the opposition and initial protest from the industry. However, the state government had mooted the idea of starting skill development colleges across the state to prepare local youth to meet industry needs. A skill development university was proposed at Tirupati and skill development colleges were proposed in every district. Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation was also formed to promote skill training and provide assistance to the skill development colleges and university besides liaising between the university and the industry. The state government had also tied up with several industries and institutions to assist the skill development colleges in imparting training for the people. The state government had also identified the government ITI and polytechnic colleges besides some private engineering colleges to be converted into the skill development colleges. “There is time for the industries to start implementing the scheme. We have given them three years’ time and we need to impart skills to the locals as per the requirement of the industry,” said J V N Subrahmanyam, director of AP Industries. “We plan to provide industrial Aadhaar across the state and identify employment potential in every industry. The study for identification and classification of industries will start soon,” Subrahmanyam said. There are over 900 major industries in the state and a little over 97,000 MSMEs across 13 districts. The state government had already extended some financial assistance to the MSMEs during the Covid-19 lockdown and had directed them to get ready to implement the 75% job scheme. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy had already directed the industries ministry to map all the industries, which would also be of some use in the process of implementation of the 75 per cent quota for the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-confident-of-securing-75-job-quota-for-locals/articleshow/77400627.cms||Gopi Dara
August 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s private jobs quota leaves AP’s youngsters in jitters||AMARAVATI: The Telangana government’s decision to ensure reservations for locals in private jobs has been viewed with skepticism at colleges and universities in Andhra Pradesh. AP’s youngsters, who are already worried about US President Trump’s frequent restrictions on foreign students, are worried about their career prospects in case the Telangana government enforces the law for local reservations. Although many believe that their merit will help them sail through the rough waters others are yet to forget ordeals faced by Andhra techies during the peak of Telangana movement in Hyderabad a few years ago. Since colleges and universities are yet to resume classes, students are exchanging angry messages on social media. “Many states are looking inwards by providing reservation to locals and creating artificial barriers to free flow of skilled youth across the country. This will have greater impact on the youth especially when a state such as Telangana, which has been growth engine for our country as it hosts globally significant multinational companies,” said NSV Sarathchandra, a research scholar. He said that local reservation is a cosmetic solution to problems of unemployment in the wake of shortage of competent skills. Dr Teki Sandhya Sri, an assistant professor at a private university, said the AP youth will be at a disadvantage as the state is yet to generate highly skilled jobs after the bifurcation. She said that the state does not have a significant number of IT companies or high-end private firms to create jobs to the local youth. “As reports are coming that that several global MNCs in China are looking for alternative locations, it will also jeopardise the chances of Hyderabad becoming a global destination as such policies will also discourage MNCs wanting to come to Hyderabad as they might want to attract the talented youth from across the globe,” said Sarathchandra. Dr D Vijayakrishna, Vignan University placement officer, allayed such fears. “I don’t believe that Telangana’s new law is going to have a big impact on AP youth. We have a big talent pool which no firm can ignore,” said Vijayakrishna. T Srinivas Rao, a noted HR firm executive, however, said that they would like to wait and watch for the response of the industry. “The new law could be applicable for unskilled and semi-skilled jobs. Private firms will purely go by merit for skilled jobs. If the government forces for reservation in that category, the firms might not hesitate to shift their bases or stop hiring,” Rao noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telanganas-private-jobs-quota-leaves-aps-youngsters-in-jitters/articleshow/77407574.cms||Samdani MN
August 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Telangana’s private jobs quota leaves AP’s youngsters in jitters||AMARAVATI: The Telangana government’s decision to ensure reservations for locals in private jobs has been viewed with skepticism at colleges and universities in Andhra Pradesh. AP’s youngsters, who are already worried about US President Trump’s frequent restrictions on foreign students, are worried about their career prospects in case the Telangana government enforces the law for local reservations. Although many believe that their merit will help them sail through the rough waters others are yet to forget ordeals faced by Andhra techies during the peak of Telangana movement in Hyderabad a few years ago. Since colleges and universities are yet to resume classes, students are exchanging angry messages on social media. “Many states are looking inwards by providing reservation to locals and creating artificial barriers to free flow of skilled youth across the country. This will have greater impact on the youth especially when a state such as Telangana, which has been growth engine for our country as it hosts globally significant multinational companies,” said NSV Sarathchandra, a research scholar. He said that local reservation is a cosmetic solution to problems of unemployment in the wake of shortage of competent skills. Dr Teki Sandhya Sri, an assistant professor at a private university, said the AP youth will be at a disadvantage as the state is yet to generate highly skilled jobs after the bifurcation. She said that the state does not have a significant number of IT companies or high-end private firms to create jobs to the local youth. “As reports are coming that that several global MNCs in China are looking for alternative locations, it will also jeopardise the chances of Hyderabad becoming a global destination as such policies will also discourage MNCs wanting to come to Hyderabad as they might want to attract the talented youth from across the globe,” said Sarathchandra. Dr D Vijayakrishna, Vignan University placement officer, allayed such fears. “I don’t believe that Telangana’s new law is going to have a big impact on AP youth. We have a big talent pool which no firm can ignore,” said Vijayakrishna. T Srinivas Rao, a noted HR firm executive, however, said that they would like to wait and watch for the response of the industry. “The new law could be applicable for unskilled and semi-skilled jobs. Private firms will purely go by merit for skilled jobs. If the government forces for reservation in that category, the firms might not hesitate to shift their bases or stop hiring,” Rao noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telanganas-private-jobs-quota-leaves-aps-youngsters-in-jitters/articleshow/77400643.cms||Samdani MN
August 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Newborn girl sold from hospital; two, including doctor, arrested||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police arrested two people on Thursday for allegedly selling of a baby.  The accused have been identified as Dr Chekuri Padmaja of Padmaja Hospital and N Nooki Ratnam, a resident of Cheedikada in Visakhapatnam district. Vizag city police chief RK Meena said that a woman named Chandaka Venkata Lakshmi had approached the police on July 30 after it was reported that some people from Universal Srusti Hospital were allegedly involved in child trafficking. The woman lodged a complaint wherein she said that she had visited Dr Jagga Rao Hospital in Chodavaram in November 2019 for a health check-up where she met Nooka Ratnam. Nooka Ratnam told her that she could have her delivery free of cost if she went to Universal Srusti Hospital in Vizag. Venkata Lakshmi went to Universal Srusti Hospital on January 31, 2020. She was later moved to Padmaja Hospital in Seethammadhara where she gave birth via caesarean section. She gave birth to an underweight girl who was later moved to Medi Cover Hospital for incubation. However, the woman was later informed that the girl child she had given birth to had died. She was discharged from the hospital on February 3. Police investigation has revealed that Dr Padmaja, one of the accused, prepared a false case sheet and sent it to GVMC for registration of birth. Meanwhile, a Vizianagaram-based couple approached Dr Namrata and Dr Tirumala of Universal Srusti Hospital seeking consultation as they were unable to conceive for a long time. Subsequently, they sold Venkata Lakshmi’s baby to the couple at a price of Rs 13 lakh. “So far six cases have been registered against Universal Srusti Hospital. We will recover the baby girl and produce her before the child welfare committee so that she can reunite with her biological parents,” Vizag city police commissioner RK Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/newborn-girl-sold-from-hospital-two-including-doctor-arrested/articleshow/77400710.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Five of family robbed at Red Hills home||CHENNAI: A 10-member armed gang barged into the house of a truck driver in Red Hills on Wednesday afternoon, tied up the residents and robbed them of 15 sovereigns of gold jewellery worth Rs 6 lakh and Rs 10,000, police said. The incident happened around 3.30pm at Balaji Nagar in Padianallur, Red Hells. A police officer said truck driver Venkatesan, 39, his wife Rathi, their children Ruban and Rubini and Kamatchi, a relative, were watching television when the doorbell rang. As soon as Rathi opened the door, 10 men rushed in. Brandishing knives, and asking all the occupants not to raise their voices, they herded Rathi and the others into a sofa and the few chairs available. The gang members tied the five occupants with saris and dupattas, removed the jewellery from the women and fled after taking Rs 10,000. They however did not gag the residents or attack them, police said. After the robbers left, Venkatesan called the police control room and a team rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. A case was registered and a hunt launched for the suspects. The officer said Venkatesan’s house was in a relatively secluded spot and was not surrounded by too many residences. Police are investigating whether the suspects were known to the victims and are also questioning the residents to know if the complaint was genuine. Some of the family’s neighbours told police that they did not notice anyone near the house and that a lot of visitors usually came to the house to meet Venkatesan. “The house had a huge gate. None of the family’s neighbours would be able to hear or see what is going on inside once it is closed. Due to the pandemic, many choose to remain indoors. This situation could have come in handy for the robbers,” said the officer. The team investigating the case has seized the CCTV camera footage from the locality, he added. “We are trying to find out if there was any motive behind the crime.” Police suspect the men may have struck after studying the family for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-five-of-family-robbed-at-red-hills-home/articleshow/77404263.cms||---
August 7, 2020||Nagpur||Chancellor to grill candidates on Saturday: NU VC||NAGPUR: Nagpur University is likely to get its new vice-chancellor this week as chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari would be interviewing five candidates on Saturday before appointing one of them to the post. The academic fraternity of NU is speculating about five names recommended by the search panel to the chancellor on Monday. As reported by TOI on Wednesday, top NU officials including pro-VC (officiating) Subhash Chaudhary and former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande are among the five to be interviewed by Koshiyari. Ex-pro VC of Swami Ramanand Tirth University in Nanded Ganeshchandra Shinde and professor in Department of Chemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, Sunil Bhagwat are other two candidates. Highly placed NU sources said the fifth could be of Mohanlal Kolhe, working with Norwegian University of Science and Technology, though it could not be confirmed. The five were selected by the search panel led by former chief justice of Allahabad High Court Dilip Bhosale, which interviewed about 30 candidates. As reported by TOI, the tough fight would be between Chaudhary and Deshpande. A majority of NU officials prefer either of two to be at the helm of affairs rather than an outsider. According to them, having an insider in the top post helps significantly in streamlining administrative work as the person is aware of the system. “For a newcomer, it takes time to get accustomed with the system. Familiar faces are aware of different officials’ style of working. They also know the members on various statutory bodies and, therefore, are better prepared to handle the administration,” they told TOI. Officials quoted examples of former VCs like SN Pathan and Vilas Sapkal, who faced difficulties dealing with NU politics and latter was even forced to resign by NU heavyweights over his decision to ban colleges operating without teachers and infrastructure. “On the other hand, VCs like Arun Satputaley and even SP Kane had relatively smooth sailing and efficiently handled administration and still took some bold decisions that were not liked by same NU heavyweights,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-vc-chancellor-to-grill-candidates-on-sat/articleshow/77402228.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
