August 8, 2020||Business||Mahindra seeks investors for electric vehicle business||NEW DELHI: Automaker Mahindra & Mahindra is looking for investment partners for its domestic electric vehicles business and is finalising investment plans for its Automobili Pininfarina unit, the group’s managing director said on Friday. The automaker wants to be a key player in mass-market electric vehicles (EVs) through its unit Mahindra Electric and in the high-end segment through Europe-based Pininfarina, which is building an electric hyper car Battista, Pawan Goenka said. Mahindra & Mahindra is seeking financial or strategic investors for Mahindra Electric, Goenka told a news conference after the group’s quarterly earnings. For Pininfarina, it is finalising how much investment it needs for future projects and will then decide how to raise funds, Goenka said, adding that this could include taking a strategic partner. Mahindra & Mahindra said in June that it was evaluating all its businesses and would continue to invest only in those where it sees a strategic advantage or can get an 18% return. It has said that EVs are strategic to its growth. As part of this evaluation, Mahindra has also decided not to proceed with the bid made by its North American unit to supply vehicles to the US Postal Service, group CFO Anish Shah told the same press conference, conducted online. The project would have required an investment of close to $500 million and given “the current environment and the focus on capital allocation” it would not have met the company’s targeted return on investment, he said. Shah said the North America business is also under review and Mahindra will have more clarity on its future once litigation with carmaker Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV (FCA) in that region ends. Mahindra reported a sharp fall in profit for the April-June quarter to 1.12 billion rupees ($15 million), compared with 23.14 billion rupees a year earlier, due to lockdowns and disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The automakers’ shares have risen around 18% since the group announced on June 12 that it was re-evaluating its businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mahindra-seeks-investors-for-electric-vehicle-business/articleshow/77421792.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||After four months, city malls reopen their doors for shoppers||As a part of the unlock phase, the Maharashtra government gave a green signal for reopening the shopping malls and business complexes recently and all the three malls in Nagpur have opened doors to customers, following the guidelines of the new normal. On the first day, people were spotted indulging in some retail therapy, of course, with a lot of caution. Strict measures, stricter implementationFrom thermal scanners at the entrance to various signages and stickers educating social distancing norms, you get a sense of the new normal, the moment you step into the premises. “As soon as the guidelines were issued, we started implementing all the SOPs in our mall. We briefed our staff on the safety measures and conducted a mock drill as well. The footfall is low as there is still a lot of fear in people. It will take a few more weeks to pick up pace,” said Yogesh Kale, the centre director of the mall near Medical Square. In the bigger stores, where there is a larger team, the employees are divided into different teams. “Each team will report to work on the rotational basis in a gap of 15 days. Even if one person is infected, the entire team will have to be quarantined for 14 days. So, the other set of employees should be ready to report to work,” added Yogesh. No events, food or gaming zonesRishikesh Rewatkar, the legal officer of a mall next to Gandhi Sagar Lake shared that while they would give out the space for various events on Sundays and special occasions, they won’t be doing so for quite some time now. While the shops have reopened shutters on an odd-even basis, the theatres, gaming zones, food courts and restaurants in the malls continue to remain shut. “This means only 20 per cent of our mall will be functional on any given day,” shares Ashish Barai, the manager of the mall in Variety Square, adding, “Kitchens at the restaurants are only functional for deliveries. Takeaway orders by customers are strictly prohibited.” Aarogya Setu app is a mustWhile collegian Arpita Chaudhary was disappointed to see her favourite brand store closed when she visited the mall, she was happy about the precautions the malls are taking amid the new normal. “I will call the store before visiting next time. But I had a good experience at the mall. I downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and went with proper precautions, which are compulsory to enter the premises,” she said. I went to the mall to get the feel of the new normal. I hope slowly we all get adapted to it. At the same time, we shouldn't flout any social distancing norms either. — Prerna Gupta, a fashion designer  I visited the mall to buy some Raksha Bandhan gifts. My daughter couldn’t give any gifts on Rakshabandhan, so we picked some t-shirts for her brothers and cousins. - Dr Tulsi Chhadi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-four-months-city-malls-reopen-their-doors-for-shoppers/articleshow/77422103.cms||Preeti Atulkar
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||After 4-month hiatus, IIT-H to open from Monday||HYDERABAD: After a break of almost four months, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) is all set to hold its doors open for students in a phased manner from August 10.  As per the senate decision, PhD research scholars and students pursuing masters of technology (MTech) and masters of design (MDes) will be allowed into the campus in batches of 70.  There are close to 1,500 PhD and masters students enrolled with the IIT-H and the institute has chalked out a detailed plan on reopening of the institution. To begin with, the institute has already identified PhD scholars, who need to come to the campus for their experimental research. The research scholars identified by the faculty have been asked their choice and only those who choose to come to campus are being allowed to return.“To enable PhD students to carry out their experimental research amid this pandemic situation, we have decided to invite our PhD students, particularly those in their final year, to the campus. All precautionary measures have been put in place and will be followed to ensure the safety of our students,” said Prof BS Murthy, director, IIT-H.  After the PhD students, who need experimental facilities for their thesis, MTech/MDes students, whose thesis depends on experimental work, will be the next batch to be allowed in the campus. “The first batch is expected to arrive on August 10, 2020. Each batch of students will be self-quarantined for 14 days in one of the hostels before they are allowed to occupy their regular hostel rooms,” reads a statement issued by IIT-H to TOI.  After self-quarantine, students will be allowed to have their meal in the mess by maintaining social distance. After the first batch of students complete their self-quarantine and move to their regular rooms, they will be under observation for a week or two before the next batch of students are allowed into the campus. This process will be continued until the need for social distancing is lifted by the government. “Initial batches of students will be from Telangana and the neighbouring states. Once the national transportation services are improved, PhD students from other states will be invited to return,” reads the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-4-month-hiatus-iit-h-to-open-monday/articleshow/77422359.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Asymptomatics are silent carriers, a big worry in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Asymptomatic patients being the silent carriers of coronavirus is a big concern in Telangana now. While it is a good sign that a majority of asymptomatic cases indicate a higher rate of recovery, rapid spread of the virus in a large population is what is worrying the officials. The recent surge in cases in the state is indicative of this, they say. According to doctors, the silent spread of the virus calls for a higher level of caution, especially in public spots and congregations. A recent study on asymptomatic cases done by School of Public Health at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, US, also confirmed that asymptomatic people were carriers of the virus. According to Dr Y Sridhar, a critical care physician and consultant with Apollo Hospitals, people contracting the virus depends on two factors. He said if the viral load of the person from whom a person catches the virus is high, the possibility of getting infected is very high. “Most importantly, if the immunity levels are low, then the virus can be contacted from an asymptomatic infected person as well,” he told TOI. He said US varsity study was significant in the context of more and more asymptomatic patients emerging as carriers of the virus. “Post-lockdown 3.0, we have been getting a lot of such cases,” Dr Sridhar explained. Asymptomatic and very mild cases have been on an upward curve ever since unlock 1.0 was announced. ICMR said among the current Covid-19 positive cases in the country, 80% are asymptomatic. Telangana fares slightly better at 85%. Dr K Sireesha, a partner with Udbhava Hospitals, said a higher percentage of asymptomatic caseload reflects higher recovery rate of positive cases. “But, at the same time, we have seen people who got infected with less symptoms are not maintaining social distancing. This results in the virus spread.” She further said: “Whether a positive patient is at home or taking treatment in a hospital, it is important to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines, including regular checking with an oxymeter.” ICMR, at the end of May, announced that asymptomatic cases constitute 68% of the total case load in India, while WHO in April had said that 40% of the cases were mild, 40% were moderate, 15% severe symptomatic and 5% critical. However, WHO did not mention anything on asymptomatic cases. Another cause of concern among the experts in the light of growing number of asymptomatic cases is the lackadaisical approach towards testing. “People are volunteering to take test if their near and dear ones are testing positive. But, the tests are done more on symptomatic people,” said a top health official on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asymptomatics-are-silent-carriers-a-big-worry-in-t/articleshow/77422479.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||89 dead, 10K +ve cases in Andhra as state breaches 2 lakh cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Friday reported the highest single-day toll of 89 deaths and 10,171 fresh Covid-19 cases, also becoming the third state in the country to soar past the two-lakh caseload. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 2,06,960 cases behind Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the two states having clocked the two-lakh coronavirus cases mark long ago. The state’s death toll also jumped to 1,842. On Friday, AP also recorded the second-highest single-day cases after Maharashtra, which had 10,483 cases. Andhra Pradesh breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one-lakh cases to touch the two lakh milestone on Friday. During the same 11 days, Andhra Pradesh conducted about 6.75 lakh tests, almost 29% of the total tests conducted as of Friday. The growing prevalence of the disease in the state can be gauged from the fact that Andhra Pradesh was the 10th state when it crossed the 10,000 case mark on June 25, and fourth state when it hit the grim one lakh milestone on July 27. But it has now zoomed into the top three states having the highest caseload. Andhra Pradesh is currently testing about 70,000 samples a day by leveraging the rapid antigen testing kits. About 7,594 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Friday and authorities said there are currently 84,654 active cases in the state with 1,20,464 cumulative recoveries and 1,842 deaths. While there has been an upward trend in the case positivity rate in the last one month, the mortality remained stable below 1% against the national average of over 2%. East Godavari continued to remain the top Covid-19 hotspot of the state with a cumulative caseload of 28,850 cases, followed by Kurnool 24,679 and Anantapur 22,273. Krishna district crossed the double century mark in coronavirus deaths on Friday after Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/89-dead-10k-ve-cases-in-andhra-as-state-breaches-2-lakh-cases/articleshow/77422582.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||18 employees at Vijayawada Durga temple test positive||VIJAYAWADA: Around 18 employees of the famous Durga Malleswara Swamy temple in the city are believed to have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said a senior temple official and two priests are among the affected persons. With the temple witnessing heavy rush due to the auspicious month of Sravana, high alert has been sounded and social distancing measures are being strictly enforced inside the temple premises. Temple authorities are sanitising the premises every morning before the arrival of devotees. All Fridays falling in Sravana masam are considered auspicious. Woman devotees observe ‘Varalakshmi Vratam’ on those days and visit the temple for darshan of goddess Kanaka Durga. Though the rush this year is less compared to the usual Sravana crowd, the numbers recorded on Friday — over 8,000 — are high given the pandemic situation in the city. Sources said a temple priest recently died of Covid-19 complications, while two others are under treatment. All of those who tested positive have been quarantined, and their family members and close contacts are being traced and tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/18-employees-at-durga-temple-test-positive/articleshow/77422584.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Incessant rain wreaks havoc in several parts of Alappuzha district||ALAPPUZHA: Following incessant rain, many parts of Alappuzha-Changanssery road, numerous rural roads in Kuttanad were left inundated. The district administration has started to shift the bedridden patients from Kuttanad to Alappuzha town. The revenue officials said that they are ready to open adequate relief camps if the situation demands. Many houses in Kuttanad have also been flooded. Chengannur MLA Saji Cherian has demanded people to shift elderly people, children and patients from their houses to relatives’ homes from flood-prone areas of Chengannur as the water level continues to rise in Pamba river. "The revenue officials will shift the people, those don’t have an option to move to relatives' homes, to relief camps. The police team led by three circle inspectors concerned have started announcements in this regard. People residing in the low-lying areas of Chengannur municipality, Pandanad, Thiruvanvandoor, Mulakkuzha, Budhanoor, Mannar, Chennithala and Venmony should move to relief camps on Friday night itself. All the building located on high places will be converted as relief camps," the MLA said. He said that the vehicles and documents should be shifted to safer places from flood-prone areas. "The fire brigades and all the officials concerned are all set to start any rescue activities if the situation demands. The revenue divisional officer and DySP have been deployed to arrange JCB and other vehicles to meet emergencies," he added. At the same time, a large number of trees and electric poles were uprooted in different parts of the district. The district administration said that as many as 56 houses were damaged in the district. Four relief camps- two in Chengannur and one each in Cherthala and Kuttanad taluks- started. At least 77 people belonging to 19 families were shifted to the camps as of Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/incessant-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-several-parts-of-alappuzha-district/articleshow/77421654.cms||Sajimon P S
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknowites adopt pets to keep the stress away in these tough times||Beating stress staying indoors for most part of the day during these testing times of Coronavirus pandemic is not an easy task. However, making the whole unpleasant experience slightly better is the company of the pets. Ever since the lockdown began, a large number of people have been adopting pets, especially dogs, to beat stress and stay happy. Take for example the case of Pallavi Mishra, a homemaker in Aliganj, who recently bought a labrador pup for her 5 year-old son. “Since we were not allowing my son, Shaurya, to go out of the house to play, he was getting very restless staying indoors and watching TV. So, we thought of getting him a furry friend to keep him occupied and also happy. Now Shaurya and Rambo, his pet dog, are forever playing and are inseparable,” shares Pallavi. Similarly for Saurabh Lamba, a collegian, who was getting bored staying at home all the time, got a pet dog for himself. “I think this is the best time to get one. I didn’t inform anyone before getting my pet, Sky, a pomeranian, home as most people in my house don’t like dogs. But now they all love him. Spending time with him is so destressing,” he says. Pallavi Mishra brought a dog as a companion for her seven year-old son, Shaurya (BCCL)Parth Oberoi, who finished law from a college in Gujarat is back home in Lucknow. He would miss his friends, so to make himself feel better Parth adopted a dog. “I don’t have friends in Lucknow and mine is a nuclear family. So I used to get really stressed sitting at home. So my mom and I decided to get a pet for the house to keep ourselves stress free,” says Parth. For Bhumika Sharma, the lockdown period was proving to be very stressful. She had lost her job and had come back home to Lucknow from Chennai. To get her out of her lows her parents got her a dog. “When Bhumika came to Lucknow, we could see that she was upset and needed some TLC, so we got her a dog to help her heal,” says her mom Sunita. “The transformation in Bhumika was literally overnight after we got the stray dog. She is now happy and she and Roco, as she’s named the dog, are constant companions. Roco has really helped Bhumika overcome her emotional lows.” “People have been adopting dogs a lot during this lockdown period,” says Geeta Taneja, who runs a shelter and pet shop in Lucknow. “It feels good to be nurturing a life in these testing times, most say,” shares Geeta, adding, “It’s good to see that while some people are abandoning their pets, there are also people who are adopting and taking home animals,” she adds. Having a pet is a big emotional support: Psychologists “We recommend keeping pets because they provide a huge emotional support to a person. Pet therapy, as it is called, helps a person heal emotionally and mentally. Besides, in such stressful times, when there are emotional and communication issues, having an animal respond lovingly towards you is immensely healing. Also, we recommend small children to be exposed to pets because it develops a sense of responsibility in them. When one is isolated, as in these times, having a small furry thing to look after develops a sense of responsibility in a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknowites-adopts-pets-to-keep-the-stress-away-in-these-tough-times/articleshow/77420120.cms||Iti Shree Misra
August 8, 2020||India||Don’t delay call on 4G in Kashmir: SC to govt||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday frowned upon the delay on part of the Jammu and Kashmir administration and the Centre in taking a coordinated and considered stand on the possibility of providing 4G internet services in Kashmir, suspended since August 5 last year. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R S Reddy and B R Gavai told solicitor general Tushar Mehta not to delay taking a decision on one pretext or the other when the law officer said there was a change in lieutenant governor in the UT and he would need time to take fresh instructions. The SC on July 28 had asked the SG to explain the dichotomy in the stand of then LG G C Murmu, who had favoured resumption of 4G services, and the home secretary-headed high-powered committee, which had said the time was not right to provide faster internet services given the militancy and terrorism situation in the UT. The bench said, “The then LG had said there was no difficulty in providing 4G telecom services in Kashmir. What is the basis for that statement? You explore if it is possible for the administration to provide 4G internet services in the UT. We do not know the ground level situation. But don’t delay things. Find out whether faster internet services can be restored in some areas if possible.” Mehta said the government has implemented the SC’s judgment on reviewing the ground situation to examine whether conditions were ripe for providing faster internet services. “The then LG had apparently given an interview on faster internet services. Now, a new incumbent is in the post. I will take instruction and file an affidavit by Tuesday,” he added. The SC posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday. Petitioner NGO ‘Foundation for Media Professionals’ through senior advocate Huzefa Ahmedi had on July 28 said that though the panel headed by the home secretary had declined to make 4G internet services available in Kashmir for the time being, Murmu had told media organisations in separate interviews that the administration had no reservations if 4G internet services were provided in the UT. “Our only request is the authorities should consider the issue magnanimously rather than on other considerations,” Ahmedi said. The SC had ordered the setting up of a high-powered committee headed by the home secretary to periodically review the situation in the state and determine whether high-speed internet services could be provided to people. The NGO had said in the absence of high-speed internet services, students could not attend virtual classes, businessmen could not transact, doctors could not give online consultation to patients and people’s free speech was impeded because of lack of proper internet. However, the Centre had said faster internet services were being misused in the state by elements inimical to peace who acted at the behest of a hostile neighbour to spread rumours and arouse passions of the public and disturb the atmosphere in the UT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-delay-call-on-4g-in-kashmir-sc-to-govt/articleshow/77424226.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 8, 2020||India||NEP addresses 21st century challenges: Modi||NEW DELHI: Stating that a healthy debate will help the education sector, PM Narendra Modi on Friday said it was encouraging that no region or section of society has levelled any charge of bias against the new National Education Policy unveiled by the Centre. “It is a pleasure that after the National Education Policy was announced, no region in the country or section of the society have said there is any bias. This is also an indicator that the changes people have been expecting in the education system for years have been presented in the policy,” the PM said. Assuring that NEP has his complete political commitment, Modi said it’s natural for questions to arise on how such massive reforms will be implemented. Students in India will get ready for the challenges of the 21st century and contribute constructively in nation-building, the PM said while delivering the inaugural address at the ‘Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy’ via video-conferencing. Participants in the conclave included education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, K Kasturirangan, chairperson, committee for draft NEP and Amit Khare, secretary, higher education among others. Modi said systemic changes will be made wherever necessary. “We have to do this together. You all are directly involved with the implementation of the National Education Policy and therefore your role is crucial.” The PM said like all nations which integrate national values in their education system and bring in reforms based on national goals so as to make its present generation “future ready”, India’s NEP too is based on the same principles. However, Modi also pointed out that NEP 2020 is also in sync with global changes. “A new world order and global standard is emerging. To sync our changes with that is also important… While we have to make our students global citizens, we also need to ensure they stay connected with their roots.” Modi said: “While so far the focus has been on ‘what to think’, this policy shifts it to ‘how to think”. “We are also trying to ensure that the talent of India stays in India and works for the development of generations to come,” said the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nep-addresses-21st-century-challenges-modi/articleshow/77424285.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
August 8, 2020||India||Pilot killed in Kerala Air India Express crash served in IAF, won NDA Sword of Honour||MUMBAI: Commanding pilot Deepak V Sathe is believed to have died on the spot. Sathe lived in Powai with his family which includes his wife Sushma and two sons. His older son Shantanu got married March 8, days before the lockdown began on March 25. Shantanu works in the US while Sathe’s younger son Dhananjay is employed with a corporate firm in Bangalore. A neighbour in Powai said, “Sathe and I were squadron mates in the Air Force, flying MiG-21s in the 1980s during our bachelor days. We have not received an official confirmation from Air India Express (about his condition). We fear the worst although we have not lost hope as yet. His wife Sushma is a strong lady and is quite composed. We are making arrangements for her to travel to Calicut on Saturday.” He was a wing commander in the Indian Air Force from where he retired and joined Air India about 10 years ago. He flew the Airbus 310 for AI before moving to Air India Express on Boeing 737. He had a rare passion for flying, said a distant relative who is a senior lawyer. Sathe studied in Cambrian Hall school, Dehradun. Old school friends, who are from the defence forces, also rang his home to pay condolence. Meanwhile in Pune, the former vice chief of the Indian Air Force, Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (Retd) said, “It is very unfortunate to lose a brilliant officer in this manner.” Sathe was from the 58th course of the National Defence Academy (NDA). “He passed out from the Air Force Academy with a Sword of Honour in June 1981. He was a fighter pilot and served as test pilot of the IAF. He was an excellent squash player too,” he said. Gokhale, who investigated the Mangalore plane crash in which 158 passengers were killed in 2010, said, “The accumulation of rainwater on the runway surface in the rainy season is the riskiest thing for any pilot. There is a Standard Operating Procedure set up by the DGCA for clearing the water from the runway. The inquiry panel will check this aspect during the investigation." Watch Kozhikode mishap: 'Aircraft landed beyond the touchdown zone, no damage to the aircraft's engine'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilot-served-in-iaf-won-nda-sword-of-honour/articleshow/77424515.cms||---
August 8, 2020||India||Runway 10 of Kozhikode airport unsafe, expert warned 9 years ago||CHENNAI: Karipur airport is unsafe and landing should not be allowed here, especially during wet conditions, Captain Mohan Ranganathan, a member of a safety advisory committee constituted by the ministry of civil aviation, had warned more than nine years ago. The crash of an Air India plane on Friday suggests the warning went unheeded. Read AlsoPilot killed in Kerala Air India Express crash served in IAF, won NDA Sword of HonourCommanding pilot Deepak V Sathe is believed to have died on the spot. ​Sathe lived in Powai with his family which includes his wife Sushma and two sons. He was a wing commander in the Indian Air Force from where he retired and joined Air India about 10 years ago. He flew the Airbus 310 for AI before“My warning, issued after the Mangalore crash, was ignored. It is a tabletop runway with a downslope. The buffer zone at the end of the runway is inadequate,” he said. Given the topography, he pointed out, the airport should have a buffer of 240 metres at the end of the runway, but it has only 90 metres (which the DGCA had approved). “Moreover, the space on either side of the runway is only 75 metres instead of the mandatory 100 metres,” he told TOI. Ranganathan said there is no guideline for operations on a tabletop runway when it is raining. In his June 17, 2011 letter addressed to the chairman of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee (CASAC), with copies to the civil aviation secretary and director-general of civil aviation, Ranganathan had said: “Runway 10 approach should not be permitted in view of the lack of ‘runway end safety area (RESA) and the terrain beyond the end of the runway. RESA of 240m should be immediately introduced and runway length has to be reduced to make operations safe.” Live updates: Kozhikode Air India Express crashIf an aircraft is unable to stop within the runway, there is no RESA beyond the end. The ILS localiser antenna is housed on a concrete structure and the area beyond is a steep slope. The 2011 letter said: “The Air India Express accident in Mangalore should have alerted AAI to make the runway conditions safe. We have brought up the issue of RESA during the initial Casac sub-group meetings. We had specifically mentioned that the declared distances for both runways have to be reduced in order to comply with ICAO Annex 14 requirement.” He said the condition of the runway strip was known to the DGCA teams that have been conducting inspection and safety assessments. “Have they considered the danger involved? Did the DGCA or the airline lay down any operational restrictions or special procedures,” Ranganathan asked. Watch Tabletop Kozhikode airport is a high-risk landing tarmac: What makes such airports vulnerable?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/runway-10-of-kozhikode-airport-unsafe-expert-warned-9-years-ago/articleshow/77424513.cms||V Ayyappan
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||52 days on, cops clueless about Kaniyo||Vadodara: Fifty-two days ago after he walked out of the Wadi police station in the city and melted into the darkness of the adjacent narrow lanes, police are yet to track down notorious criminal Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo. The absconding of Ajju, who was picked up in an extortion case on June 14, has become a major embarrassment for the police after he casually strolled out of the police station in presence of many cops. “Apart from the crime branch sleuths, a team led by a police sub-inspector (PSI) is trying to track down Ajju. We have information that he has left the city,” said a police official from Wadi police station. Interestingly, no action has been taken against any cop despite the criminal giving cops a slip as he wasn’t under formal arrest. Ajju, his brother Iqbal and Wali Mohammed Qureshi were picked up for threatening a man demanding money and a flat from him. As per mandatory norms, Ajju and Wali were taken to SSG Hospital for Covid-19 tests before they could be arrested. The duo was then brought to Wadi police station for further questioning. While waiting for his Covid test results, Ajju casually walked out of the police station at about 1 am and went missing. Wadi cops realised this only after some time. Ajju’s Covid test results came a day after he disappeared and he tested negative. Ajju has over 35 offences including extortion, attempt to murder, loot, rioting and assault registered against him at different police stations in the city. He has been detained four times under the Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA) in the past and even externed twice. He was an accused in the communal riots that broke out in the old city in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/52-days-on-cops-clueless-about-kaniyo/articleshow/77420287.cms||Tushar Tere
August 8, 2020||Patna||Power production at NTPC’s Kahalgaon unit dips by 1420MW||BHAGALPUR: Power production at the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC)’s Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station (KhSTPS) has plunged by 1420 MW due to temporary shut down of four production units following breach in embankments of fly ash dyke and collapse of deep intake wells on Thursday afternoon. The KhSTPS has initiated the restoration work of the breached embankments and deep intake wells to resume power production on war footing. A technical committee has also been set up on Friday to probe the reasons of the mishap besides overseeing the restoration work . Executive director Chandan Chakraborty told this newspaper that a team of NTPC experts from New Delhi will reach Kahalgaon by Friday evening and look into the issue. “We are working on war-footing to restore the breached portion,” he said. KhSTPS has seven power production units with four units having a capacity of of 210 MW each and three units each of 500MW, which generates 2,340MW of electricity. NTPC officials said Bihar is one of the major beneficiaries of power generation by the KhSTPS. Another KhSTPS official wishing anonymity said that there was a small breach in the embankment of intake well number-2 at ash dyke lagoon- II. “Out of total seven production units, two units of 500 MW each and two units of 210 each have been shut temporarily as a precautionary measure,” he said.He added: “There is no spillage of ash water outside the lagoon overflow area and there is no loss of life or damage to property. Even the agricultural areas in the near vicinity are safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/power-production-at-ntpcs-kahalgaon-unit-dips-by-1420mw/articleshow/77420327.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 8, 2020||Patna||Maoists set mukhiya free, another escapes||PATNA: Money lender Rajendra Yadav (70) allegedly escaped from the clutches of Maoists while Bhalui panchayat mukhiya Ganesh Rajak (46) was set free by them. The two were kidnapped from village Mananpur Basti under Chanan police station in Lakhisarai district along with one Ravindra Rajak on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Chanan police station SHO Vaibhav Kumar said Ganesh returned home on Thursday night after the Maoists set him free in the Kudra forests. Ganesh’s nephew Ravindra was set free after a few hours of their kidnapping. “We are yet to record Ganesh’s statement,” the SHO said. He said the family members of Ganesh and Rajendra denied paying any ransom to the Maoists for setting them free. “Police also don’t have any information about any ransom payment,” he said while denying reports of more than Rs20 lakh paid to the Maoists. “Rajendra was yet to reach home. But we have information that he escaped. Let him return to the village,” the SHO said. He said the group involved in the kidnapping is led by wanted Maoist commander Arjun Korha. Lakhisarai Sadar SDPO Ranjan Kumar said four regular and one CoBRA commando team of CRPF, along with four additional Special Task Force (STF) teams of state police were involved in the combing operation in the hilly jungles. Gun factory busted, three held: A team of Special Task Force (STF) busted a gun factory at Jamalnagar under Salkhua police station in Saharsa district on Friday. STF sources said two regular rifles, three countrymade pistols, 13 live cartridges, one large lathe machine, one grinder machine, mining machine, two drill machines, one SUV, four cellphones and a large number of partially manufactured firearms and other things were recovered from the spot. STF sources said Soman Kumar and Pintu Kumar of Jamalnagar and Nand Kishore Bhagat of Kasimpur Tolwapar under Salkhua police station area were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoists-set-mukhiya-free-another-escapes/articleshow/77420208.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||TV channels move HC on Trai’s Rs 12 price cap||Swati.Deshpande@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Television broadcasters on Friday approached the Bombay high court against the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) for urgent relief over price restrictions. The telecom regulator had last month warned them against non-compliance of the new tariff order issued in 2017, and amended in January, which capped pay channel rates at Rs 12 in a bouquet. The broadcasters have challenged the directions issued on July 24 by Trai and sought a stay on its operation till the matter is pending in court. A bench of Justices S C Gupte and Abhay Ahuja heard Zee Entertainment and TV18. The justices said the matter would be heard before an appropriate bench as, before the lockdown, the broadcasters were already in court against Trai and its price-cap for pay channels. Till then, Trai is unlikely to take any adverse action. The new tariff amendment order (NTO 2.0) is at the centre of the broadcasters’ legal woes. In its order last month, Trai directed broadcasters to publish their channels’ maximum retail price per month, that of bouquets of channels, their composition and the amended reference interconnected offer (RIO) by August 10. It said, “In order to promote orderly growth of the sector and to balance the interest of the service providers and to safeguard the interest of the consumers, it is necessary to give effect to the tariff order of 2020 and interconnection amendment regulation 2020 without any further delay.” In January, when it amended the tariff order lowering channel prices from Rs 19 to Rs 12, it was to be effective from March 1. It led to a flurry of legal petitions before the HC, which was hearing it at length before the lockdown. The HC had in February asked Trai whether the new tariff cap of Rs 12 per pay channel in a bouquet can be deferred. It had asked this as it said a hearing of a plea for interim relief in a challenge to the validity of the new January 2020 tariff regime may take a while.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tv-channels-move-hc-on-trais-rs-12-price-cap/articleshow/77421874.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 8, 2020||Business||DICV to start 2nd shift at Oragadam next week||Chennai: Truck maker Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) will start production on the second shift at its plant in Oragadam from next week. The company, which launched its used truck business BharatBenz Exchange on Friday, has seen strong ‘traction’ for its products driven by demand from e-commerce, mining and construction segments, said MD & CEO Satyakam Arya. The company is also studying new product segments to enter — including electric mobility options for last-mile light cargo carriers. “Light cargo will be the first segment to go electric in commercial vehicles because their intra and inter city needs can be met with current battery options,” said Arya. “In markets like Japan, we have a product called e-Canter which caters to part of this segment. It’s the highest volume segment and will grow further with changing diesel prices and it is one of the segments we are looking at and studying right now,” he added. As for the used truck business, the company plans to roll out BharatBenz Exchange in all its dealerships. “Already 60% of our dealerships have enrolled and the balance will enroll shortly,” said Arya. The company expects to add 10% customers to its new truck business through the exchange programme and expects the used business to be three times the new. It is tying up with NBFCs and financiers and will offer leasing options too. “The used business will be extended to buses too,” said Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dicv-to-start-2nd-shift-at-oragadam-next-week/articleshow/77421676.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||Database of potential donors to be made||Surat: Considering the need for plasma donation to save the critical patients undergoing Covid-19 treatment, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) and the city-based Loksamarpan Raktdan Kendra (LRK) have joined hands to create database of the people who have recovered from the infection and can donate plasma. Over 250 Covid-19 positive patients have benefited through the plasma donations by the recovered patients in the city. Hari Kathiriya, chairman of Loksamarpan Raktadan Kendra told TOI, “Till now, we have collected plasma of 44 people and about 88 have been administered plasma for speedy recovery. The requirement of plasma is going to be huge in the coming days. So, we have joined hands with the SGCCI for creating awareness on the importance of plasma donation.” Kathiriya added, “We have contacted the New Civil Hospital (NCH), SMIMER and other private hospitals for list of recovered Covid-19 patients. We will call such patients and ask for plasma donation.” Interim president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “We have circulated the message on plasma donation to over 9,000 members of the SGCCI. A help desk will be shortly opened at the SGCCI headquarters for helping the Covid-19 recovered patients to contact us for plasma donations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/database-of-potential-donors-to-be-made/articleshow/77420962.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||Lakshmi Mills Company reports loss of Rs 4 crore due to cancelled orders||Lakshmi Mills Company has reported net loss of Rs 4 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2020, as compared to profit of Rs 5 crore a year ago, on the back of cancelled orders and slowdown in production for the textile mill, due to the Government-imposed lockdown to curtail the spread of Covid-19 virus.Revenue from operations (sales) dropped to Rs 8 crore in the first quarter, from Rs 54 crore in the previous year. The company statement said “Operations have been gradually resumed in line with the phased lifting of lockdowns with constraints on availability of workforce and lower demand for the finished goods resulting in scaling down of operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lakshmi-mills-company-reports-loss-of-rs-4-crore-due-to-cancelled-orders/articleshow/77422005.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt outreach plan with eye on senior citizens in housing complexes||KOLKATA: To bridge the information gap, civic bodies and police in Kolkata, Salt Lake, New Town and Howrah will start a high-rise ‘census’ to identify and reach out to elderly people staying alone. The state government has also appealed to housing societies to help them to reach out to these people. CM Mamata Banerjee, in a cabinet meeting on Thursday, had stressed on the need to reach out to elderly people living alone instead of reacting to emergencies. Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the state home secretary and Kolkata’s Covid nodal officer, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim, Kolkata police commissioner Anuj Sharma, along with their counterparts in Salt Lake, NKDA, Howrah and North 24-Parganas, held a meeting in Kolkata on Friday. Bandyopadhyay told reporters: “Housing societies and gated communities are often inaccessible to ASHA and KMC workers. There is an information gap. There is a need to reach out to elderly people living in these high-rises, many of whom stay alone. Police and KMC officials will collate all information regarding them ward wise. We will also inform them about the numbers to reach out to in case of emergency. We also seek help from the resident welfare associations to help us.” In the meeting it was decided that police-run initiatives ‘Pronam’ in Kolkata, ‘Sanjh Batih’ in Salt Lake and New Town and ‘Shraddha’ in Howrah, will be integrated to help the state health department with a primary database. The KMC Covid-response team, ward coordinators and local police stations have been asked to conduct a survey of city’s housing complexes, especially those in the containment zones, to get first-hand information about elderly citizens — their phone numbers, health conditions and the kind of requirements they have. Be it providing ambulances for hospitalization or reaching essentials at their doorsteps or simply arranging for a doctor for a health check-up, the KMC health team, ward coordinators or police teams will keep a constant vigil, Bandyopadhyay said. “Its an excellent initiative since there are several elderly residents in our apartment, including me. Our apartment has been in a containment zone on multiple occasions but thankfully, there has been no medical emergencies yet. But if we get full-fledged emergency support from the government, it will be extremely helpful,” said Hasmukh Kundalia, the vice-president of Rameshwaram Apartment in Bhowanipore. Debjani Mukherjee, director of Urbana facility management that has also had several Covid patients in the last few months, also welcomed the move. “We have been providing regular support in terms of reaching daily essentials to elderly residents’ doorsteps, deputing housekeeping personnel in the absence of maids and offering medical assistance. But the government initiative is always welcome,” she said. Greenwood Sonata in New Town, the first high-rise to start a full-fledged Covid care unit on the premises, also appreciated the government move. “The move is extremely timely as the elderly residents had started talking about what the government had been doing of them. We have all arrangements ready at our complex to help the seniors but at times, younger residents are not available at the complex. If we have ready emergency support from the administration, it will certainly help,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of the housing complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-outreach-plan-with-eye-on-senior-citizens-in-hsg-complexes/articleshow/77421559.cms||Saikat Ray
August 8, 2020||Patna||Make sure that those keen are tested for coronavirus: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the health officials to make arrangements for conducting oxygen-level tests at all the Covid-19 testing centres, besides increasing the number of RT-PCR and TrueNAT tests across the state. Holding a review meeting on Covid-19 at his residence, Nitish asked the officials to ensure the facility to all those who desire to undergo test for the virus. “Also ensure the availability of sufficient number of kits at all the Covid-19 testing centres,” he said. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit informed the CM that the number of Covid tests had increased to 71,520 on Friday from 28,624 on July 31. “The number is being increased every day in the state and all necessary preventive steps are being taken to save people from the infection,” Amrit said. CM also asked him to ensure that people at the flood relief centres were tested for coronavirus. State’s health minister Mangal Pandey, all divisional commissioners, range IGs/DIGs of police, district magistrates and SPs attended the meeting through videoconferencing. After reviewing the status of availability of beds in the district hospitals by interacting with the DMs concerned, Nitish asked the officials to develop intensive care units (ICUs) in all district hospitals and increase the number of beds in proportion to the population of the respective districts. The CM asked them to increase the number of beds at all dedicated Covid hospitals and also ensure supply of oxygen through pipeline to the maximum beds. He said special attention should be given to the districts having the maximum number of Covid active patients. He asked the health officials to introduce an attractive incentive to encourage people to donate plasma. Nitish asked the officials to review the number of tests on population of every one lakh and also evaluate percentage of infection among the tested people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/make-sure-that-those-keen-are-tested-for-corona-nitish/articleshow/77420762.cms||Madan Kumar
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Man hangs self after tiff with wife in Rajasthan||KOTA: After verbal spat with his wife, a 22-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his home in Khanpur town of Jhalawar district late on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Lalit Suman (22), a resident of Mahvir Colony, in Khanpur town of Jhalawar district. According to police, the youth embraced the hanging knot in front of his wife in the room but she thought her husband was just dramatizing the scene of suicide to terrify her. He was immediately rushed to local hospital but the doctors declared him brought dead, police said. The police handed over the body to family members on Friday morning after post-mortem and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPc to ascertain actual reason of death. Police said, the reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was recovered from the possession of the deceased, however, a verbal fight between the husband and wife was reportedly underway before he took the extreme step of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-hangs-self-after-tiff-with-wife/articleshow/77421775.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Virus fear results in body mix-up||KOLKATA: The fear among people to get too close to bodies of Covid-19 positive relatives has landed Eastern Railway’s premier BR Singh Hospital in Sealdah in a spot. The family of a patient, who died at the hospital on Wednesday and tested positive for Covid, apparently identified another body that was taken away by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for disposal. Later, family members of another person, who also died at the hospital on Wednesday but whose sample had tested negative, reached the morgue and was shown the body. When they said the body shown to them was not of their relative’s, it dawned upon the hospital authorities that a major mix-up had occurred. “Both patients died at the hospital on Wednesday even before their test results arrived from NICED. While one tested positive, the other was negative. Both bodies were shifted to the morgue. On Thursday, the family of the patient who was Covid-19 positive reached the morgue and identified the body. We videographed the whole process. After identification, the body was taken away by the KMC for disposal. Later, relatives of the other patient arrived and said the body shown to them wasn’t that of their family member. This effectively means that the body cremated by the KMC was that of a non-Covid person,” said D C Bhuniya, medical director, BR Singh Hospital. While hospital authorities have lodged an FIR and informed the KMC. An inquiry has also been convened by Eastern Railway (ER). According to Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, CPRO, ER, the inquiry would reveal what actually happened. “There is nothing to suppress. If any railway employee is found guilty of negligence, necessary action will be taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-fear-results-in-body-mix-up/articleshow/77421685.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘RBI loan recast plan a big relief amid Covid-19 stress’||PATNA: People have welcomed the Reserve Bank of India’s plan to restructure the loans taken by individuals, who are facing financial constraints in the repayment due to the coronavirus pandemic. The RBI on Thursday also allowed a similar debt recast facility for MSME and small business loans as well. Lauding the initiative, Gudiya, a wealth management professional, told this newspaper, “A loan recast is when a borrower pays a large sum toward their mortgage’s principal, resulting in the lender recalculating the loan based on the new balance. The main benefit to the borrower of recasting a loan is the opportunity to reduce monthly payments.” The move is aimed at providing lenders a window to recast Covid-19 stressed assets without classifying them as non-performing on the condition that they set aside 10% additional provisions on such loans. It is sought to provide financial relief to borrowers who are finding it difficult to repay instalments as their regular sources of income have been affected amid the pandemic. According to the RBI guidelines, banks can offer a recast for all personal loans, including for education, home and consumer durables, any time before December 2020. “Loan recasting would be a good option for those whose source of income has been affected by Covid-19 and they are not able to pay large EMIs. With an extension of the residual loan tenure, people with economic hardship can immensely benefit from this,” said Sagar, a banking professional of Buddha Colony. “As per the RBI announcement, banks have been given the responsibility to chalk out a restructuring plan. Adhering to RBI guidelines, banks will decide to whom to offer this benefit and what will be the new terms and conditions,” Sagar explained. However, as per the RBI guidelines, only those individual borrower accounts shall be eligible for resolution under this framework which were classified as standard, but not in default for more than 30 days with the lending institution, as on March 1, 2020. Mukesh Sinha, an automobile part dealer of Patel Nagar, said, “My business has suffered losses in the past quarter. I was anyway struggling to repay my loan instalments in time. Since the restructuring has been announced, I am looking forward to discussing my eligibility with my bank official.” The eligible individual borrowers’ accounts should continue to be classified as ‘standard’ till the date of invocation of resolution (i.e. the date on which resolution plans come into effect) under this framework.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rbi-loan-recast-plan-a-big-relief-amid-covid-19-stress/articleshow/77420617.cms||Arunima Lal
August 8, 2020||Business||Volkswagen to exit diesel space in India||CHENNAI: German auto maker Volkswagen (VW) India has decided to exit the diesel vehicle segment although as part of its new India 2.0 strategy it will continue to bet on SUVs for Indian roads. According to Steffen Knapp, director, Volkswagen Passenger Cars India, the exit diesel strategy is fuelled by the falling share of diesel vehicles in the Indian passenger vehicle market caused by the sharp increase in price of diesel BS6 vehicles. Globally, VW has made hefty payouts due to lawsuits triggered by the diesel emission manipulation case in big markets like the US and now Europe. “We have already cut back and right now we have no diesel options in our existing models Polo and Vento and the newly launched T-Roc and Tiguan Allspace SUVs,” said Knapp. “We have also showcased two new models as part of the India 2.0 strategy which will roll out in 2021 — the Taigun SUV and a Vento replacement. Both these products will be gasoline only kitted with a TSI petrol engine,” he added. The no-diesel strategy, he said, has been taken at a group level. “It is a VW group strategy to focus on gasoline and that includes all the brands — Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche and Skoda. For bigger cars we are watching the market but for now the focus is on petrol.” The reason is the falling share of diesel vehicles in India. “Back in 2017, diesel share in India’s passenger vehicle sales used to be 39%, last year it was 35% and this June it's down to 23%,” said Knapp. “Due to BS6 diesel has become a high cost option so we are focussing on fuel efficient petrol with our TSI engine range,” he said. The cost of ownership has also gone up for diesel vehicles. Even in the used car market, it is petrol cars that are selling faster. “Today it takes 15 days for us to sell a used petrol vehicle and 30 days for a used diesel,” said Knapp. Apart from the diesel exit, the India 2.0 strategy focuses on SUVs for Indian roads and high localisation. “We plan to increase localisation levels from 81% now to 93% next year and our medium term objective is to cross 95%,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volkswagen-to-exit-diesel-space-in-india/articleshow/77421664.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Artisans begin tazia preps, admin to take call on juloos||LUCKNOW: The over 200-year-old Muharram rituals of Lucknow may not be the same this year with novel coronavirus casting a cloud over them. Preparations though for the Shahi Juloos to be taken out from Bada Imambara on the first of Muharram have begun. The first month of the Islamic lunar calendar, Muharram is expected to commence from August 21 or 22 (dependent on the of the moon). The yellowed galleries of Chhota Imambara, where preparations have always taken place, are abuzz with activity. An advisory from the district administration is still awaited on how the mourning month will be observed. The Husainabad & Allied Trust (HAT) formed by King Mohammad Ali Shah for this purpose, and which is responsible for the processions of the first and seventh of Muharram, has started work on the ‘shahi mome ki zari’ (wax replica of Imam Husain’s mausoleum) among other things. “Around 40% of the zari’s work has been done. We will soon begin silver polishing of the accessories that are part of the two processions,” said HAT official Habibul Hasan. “The people who supply the elephants and camels have also been told to be ready. The number of animals will be informed to them after the district administration’s decision. Tender for the tabarruk (food distributed among poor) has been approved,” he added. Those who attend majlis in the six imambaras under HAT are given the tabarruk of sheermal, two tandoori rotis, taaley aaloo ka salan or dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/artisans-begin-tazia-preps-admin-to-take-call-on-juloos/articleshow/77423929.cms||Yusra Husain
August 8, 2020||Patna||Art forms being used to boost women’s reproductive health in Patna||PATNA: Accessing health services with dignity has always been a difficult job for women and Covid-19 pandemic has further worsened the situation. Several women have complained of facing difficulties in getting institutional deliveries and institutional abortions, impacting their health. A Patna City-based woman said she was denied delivery at a private clinic in Rajendra Nagar she used to visit regularly. Finally, she had to change her doctor. Asha volunteers working on women issues said getting abortion was a difficult job amid pandemic. Vaishali-based Asha worker Manju Devi said she took a woman to a health centre the other day and despite waiting for six hours, abortion could not be done. “In rural areas, women hardly get support from their family members if they want abortion. As time lapses, doctors refuse to conduct abortion,” she added. Another woman from Vaishali, mother of two, also wanted to terminate her pregnancy as Covid-19 pandemic had badly affected the economic condition of her house. However, she was not supported by her husband and in-laws and it also led to domestic violence. Hajipur-based Asha worker Rashmi Kumari said, “A woman should not be discouraged if she wants family planning or needs contraceptive.” Meanwhile, several local artists are using various art forms to promote family planning and help women get sexual and reproductive health services with dignity as part of their ‘swastha mahila, swastha parivaar, swastha Bihar’ campaign. For instance, Patna-based artist Amrit Singh is using Sujini, Madhubani and Manjusha art forms to explain how important it is for women to talk openly about their sexual and reproductive health issues with their family members. Amrit said while interacting with artists in villages, he found it was a taboo for unmarried women to even discuss their sexual health. “Almost every household has Sujini art work. Even Madhubani paintings are now very common. Hence, we decided to use them to help women,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/art-forms-being-used-to-boost-womens-reproductive-health/articleshow/77419934.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Doctor recovers after 60-day Covid battle||KOLKATA: Amidst rising cases of healthcare workers getting infected and succumbing to Covid-19, a 60-year-old doctor won a long-drawn 60-day battle against the virus. The doctor, who spent 40 days under ventilation and had 12 days of ECMO support, was sent home from hospital on Friday. The general physician from south Kolkata used to attend to patients in the Tollygunge-Garia locality in his chamber. He was admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital with Covid-19 ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome). When his oxygen saturation did not improve despite ventilation, he was put on ECMO support. He eventually recovered after 12 days of ECMO and 40 days in ventilation. Doctors said that the 60-year-old medic had immense mental strength, which also helped in his fight against the disease. “When one from our fraternity fights the odds and goes home recovered, it brings hope to the whole medical community,” said a release from the ECMO team of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-recovers-after-60-day-ncov-battle/articleshow/77421663.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Post-grad student volunteers first port of call for Covid patients||KOLKATA: A group of post-graduate students and recent pass-outs have been roped in by the state in its corona battle. These volunteers have joined the state health department as tele-medicine counsellors from this week and their job includes boosting the morale of Covid patients, understanding their psyche and helping them stay positive. They may also meet Covid survivors at the time of their discharge from hospitals and prepare them for the road ahead. So far, 26 post-graduate students of clinical psychology, applied psychology and journalism and mass communication department of Calcutta University — all in their early and mid-twenties — have joined the government’s “tele psychological counselling department” on a two-month contract for a stipend of Rs 13,000 per month. Till Thursday, 3,875 people had been counselled. Sources said more students are likely to be inducted in the next few days and the contract may be extended. “Like the ‘Covid Warrior’ team, we have formed this ‘Covid Helping Hand’ team. Apart from counselling, they are assisting the doctors in providing tele-medicine to the patients. They are attending the calls and then transferring them to the doctors according to the requirement,” Mamata Banerjee said in a press conference at Nabanna on Thursday. The chief minister also asked the officials to develop a mechanism so that more youngsters could join the programme. Last month, the state had approached Calcutta University for names of students. After a telephonic interview, the short-listed people were asked to join the service, said Sanjukta Das, a senior professor of the psychology department who specializes in clinical psychology, adult development and ageing. The youths are handed a sheet of Covid-positive patients and their job includes calling them, checking up on their mental well being and helping them out if they are under stress. If required, the volunteers can also get them connected to a doctor.The counsellors said that on speaking to scores of patients over the last two days, they have realized most patients are suffering from dejection and rejection, which are taking a toll on their mental health.The counsellors are thus trying to boost the patients’ morale by giving them data of recovery rates. “We are advising them to stay positive, which will ensure they heal quicker,” said Susama Dam, a volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/post-grad-student-volunteers-first-port-of-call-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77421655.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 8, 2020||Business||RBI notifies Kamath-led panel to work out loan recast details||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has formed a five-member committee with former ICICI Bank chief K V Kamath as its chairman to suggest the process for putting in place a framework for banks to restructure loans that turned bad because of Covid-related issues. The other members of the committee are Diwakar Gupta, currently serving at Asian Development Bank, T Manoharan, currently chairman of Canara Bank, and Ashvin Parekh, a strategy consultant. The CEO of the Indian Banks’ Association will serve the committee as its member secretary. If required, the RBI may bring in new members also, the central bank said in a release. The committee has been mandated to place its report to the central bank, which will put the recommendations in the public domain in 30 days. While announcing a one-time loan-resolution scheme on Thursday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had announced that Kamath would lead the panel, although the names of other members had not been disclosed. The latest appointment marks the return of the former ICICI Bank chief into the domestic arena after spending the last five years in Shanghai as the first head of New Development Bank, the multilateral funding agency set up by BRICS member nations — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. Kamath, the veteran banker credited with transforming the staid development financial institution into a universal bank, is an old hand in helping the revival of stressed companies, having seen several downturns. His appointment also puts an end to speculation in Mumbai over the possibility of the 73-year-old joining the government as a minister. The panel under Kamath has been tasked with recommending the financial parameters to be included in the resolution plans, with sector-specific benchmark ranges for such parameters. “The committee shall also undertake the process validation for the resolution plans to be implemented under this framework, without going into the commercial aspects, in respect of all accounts with aggregate exposure of Rs 1,500 crore and above at the time of invocation,” the central bank said. The committee will submit its recommendations on the financial parameters to the RBI, which, in turn, will notify the same along with modifications, if any, in 30 days, the release said.According to a report by ratings agency CARE, the resolution plan announced by the RBI is a significant relief to entities which have been affected by severe stress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent economic disruption. The report, however, said that the current version of the loan-restructuring scheme with several requirements on eligibility, provisioning and loan extension, is more rigorous compared to the earlier restructuring options. Crisil said the move will ease liquidity pressure on companies amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but underlined the need for timely approval from the lenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-notifies-kamath-led-panel-to-work-out-loan-recast-details/articleshow/77423185.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||Radio Mirchi revenue falls 72%, but market share expands||MUMBAI: Entertainment Network (India) Ltd, or ENIL, the operator of India’s No.1 FM radio channel Radio Mirchi, on Friday posted a total revenue of Rs 37 crore for the first quarter ended June 30. This was nearly 72% lower compared to Q1FY20 on account of Covid-induced lockdowns. However, cost-control initiatives resulted in a 27% lower other operating cost, even as revenue market share rose to 33%. Ebitda loss during the quarter was Rs 26 crore on account of the decline in the top line. Net loss for the quarter was almost Rs 37 crore due to the combined impact of the coronavirus & IND AS 116 accounting standard. Non-revenue impact of Covid on the bottom line was Rs 1.6 crore. The company said its balance sheet remains strong with cash reserves of more than Rs 236 crore as on June 30. ENIL MD & CEO Prashant Panday said, “Media companies have all been hit very badly by Covid. Mirchi’s strategy of providing solutions and building digital products has protected us and in fact lifted our revenue market share to 33% in a 30+ player market. Our leadership in listenership, our strong position in cash, and our rationalisation of operating costs give us confidence that when the economy recovers, we will gain the most.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/radio-mirchi-revenue-falls-72-but-market-share-expands/articleshow/77423219.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Patna||CBI investigation will unravel Sushant’s death mystery: Kin||PATNA: The CBI probe into the death of actor late Sushant Singh Rajput has rekindled a ray of hope for justice among his family members. Sushant’s sister-in-law and LJP MLC Nutan Singh said on Friday the demand for a CBI investigation has been fulfilled and the officers concerned have already assumed their work. Sushant was found hanging under mysterious circumstances at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. “Ab jakar ummid ki kiran dekhaee de rehi hai. Ab bharosa hai ki pariwar ke saath saath unke fans ko bhi nyay mil jayega. Nahi to hum log nyay ki ummid chhod chuke the (Now we hope that justice will be done to the family and hundreds of his fans. Else, we had lost the hope for justice),” Nutan said over the phone. Nutan’s husband and BJP MLA from Chhatapur, Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, alleged that the family was earlier apprehensive of a fair investigation as the Mumbai police were working under ‘pressure’. “They were trying to tamper with the evidence and only consuming time to close the case without any logical conclusion,” he said. Neeraj also accused the Mumbai police of shielding Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family members, who had allegedly hatched a conspiracy to destroy the promising actor monetarily, mentally and physically. “The Mumbai police’s investigation remained confined to quizzing only a few personalities of the Bollywood in the name of investigation,” he added. “The Mumbai police never contacted the family members and shared information related to the investigation. It seems they were taken aback when a Bihar police team landed in Mumbai for investigation after Sushant’s father K K Singh lodged an FIR in Patna,” the MLA said. In reply of a query, the BJP legislator said, “The Mumbai police had exerted pressure on the family members to disclose the names of the suspects when they visited there for Sushant’s funeral. Their attitude showed that they were least bothered about the investigation. And our apprehension proved right when the BMC officials quarantined an IPS officer from Patna, who reached Mumbai on August 2 to lead the Bihar police probe into the case,” he added. Describing the Mumbai police role in the case as biased’ and ‘prejudiced’, Bablu said such an inhuman treatment with their counterparts in Patna was not expected. “The way they tried to obstruct the investigation on one pretext or the other indicates that there is something ‘fishy’ which they are trying to conceal. But with the case handed over to the CBI, nobody will be spared now,” he believed, adding that his family is thankful to CM Nitish Kumar for recommending a CBI probe. Bablu, who along with other members had raised the issue in the state assembly during the monsoon session, said the CBI would certainly punish the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbi-investigation-will-unravel-sushants-death-mystery-kin/articleshow/77419975.cms||Ramashankar
August 8, 2020||Business||Now navigate through your Netflix app in Hindi||Chennai: Netflix just got more accessible for a Hindi-speaking user. As the OTT entertainment war heats up in India, Netflix has launched a Hindi user interface for its users across mobile, TV and the web medium, to capture a larger section of the Indian audience. The feature enables Netflix members who prefer Hindi to discover, access and enjoy their favourite Indian and international films and series in the Hindi medium. The complete Netflix experience will now be available in Hindi- right from the sign up to the search options to payment. Netflix supports interfaces in over 20 languages including Arabic, Spanish, French, Portuguese, Chinese, Italian and more. “Delivering a great Netflix experience is as important to us as creating great content. We believe the new user interface will make Netflix even more accessible and better suit members who prefer Hindi,” Monika Shergill, VP-Content, Netflix India, said. Industry sources said addition of the Hindi language support has been in the works for almost a year now, and follows Netflix’s decision last year to invest around Rs 3,000 crore in India in the next few years in original and licensed content, tech, post production, etc. As OTT players emerge as the biggest gainers from a pandemic that has restricted people’s leisure options to their homes, global players have been focused in attracting Indian users with regional content. Netflix’s rivals Amazon Prime Video and Hotstar also support Hindi. In 2019, Netflix also introduced a unique mobile plan in India for RRs 199 per month to make its global platform affordable to the India’s digital native users. Netflix members can switch to the Hindi user interface from the language option in the ‘Manage Profiles’ section on their desktop, TV or mobile browsers.Netflix members outside India will also have the option to switch their user interface to Hindi, the company said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-navigate-through-your-netflix-app-in-hindi/articleshow/77421778.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 8, 2020||Business||Tube Investments to take over fraud hit CG Power||Chennai: Murugappa Group firm Tube Investments (TI) is acquiring a controlling stake in scam-hit CG Power for Rs 700 crore in the form of shares and warrants.The board of TI has approved a binding bid to acquire CG Power, and the two companies have entered into a securities subscription agreement, the companies informed the stock exchanges on Friday. The consideration, which will be in a combination of equity shares and convertible warrants, is fixed at the rate of Rs 8.56 per equity share (of Rs 2 each) of CG Power and at Rs 8.56 per warrant. TI will be issued 64,25,23,365 equity shares and 1,75,233,645 warrants, each carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share per warrant within 18 months from allotment. Tube Investments will gain approximately 50.6% stake in CG Power following the allotment of the equity shares, and around 56.6% post conversion of the warrants. The acquisition is expected to be closed in 120 days, and is subject to TI emerging as the successful bidder under the Swiss challenge process to be undertaken by CG Power’s lenders on August 28. It is also subject to the approval of CG Power’s shareholders and the Competition Commission. “TII’s operational, financial and governance capabilities and experience will help remove the present difficulties and hardships of CG Power and facilitate value creation for both TII and CG Power,” TII said in a statement to the exchanges. Both companies are in the engineering and industrial power business.A scam involving multiple suspicious transactions in CG Power came to light last year when an audit committee report indicated that management including chairman Gautam Thapar could be involved in diversion of funds. Thapar was sacked after the allegations and is now being investigated by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office and Sebi. CG Power is engaged in designing, manufacturing and marketing electrical products and services and counts PE major KKR as a minority investor. TI is a part of Murugappa Group, and manufactures industrial products for the automotive, railway, construction, mining and agriculture sectors. It counts engineering, metal formed products and cycles as its three key divisions. TI’s shares closed the trading day up 6.15% at Rs 540.9 while CG Power hit the upper circuit at Rs 10.99 apiece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tube-investments-to-take-over-fraud-hit-cg-power/articleshow/77421803.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Decision on third giant care hub post-Aug 12||Pune: The district administration will decide on the third jumbo hospital facility after assessing the Covid-19 situation and the rise in cases on August 12. The state government has cleared three giant makeshift hospitals to redress the lack of hospital beds, on the lines of Mumbai, in Pune district. “The live dashboard update revealed that over 1,000 beds with oxygen support were vacant on Friday. The decision on the third makeshift jumbo hospital on the SSPMS ground will be taken after August 12,” Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) commissioner Suhas Diwase said after a review meeting headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “The deputy CM visited the Annasahebnagar stadium and COEP ground, which will host the two other makeshift health hubs, and reviewed the work progress. The two facilities will increase the bed capacity by 1,600, out of which 1,200 will have oxygen support and 400 will be equipped with intensive care units. Besides, the private hospitals are increasing their bed capacity every day,” he said. The PMRDA is implementing the two makeshift giant hospitals. “If the decision on the third facility is taken, the agencies appointed for the first two makeshift hospitals will carry out the other project as well,” Diwase said. The PMRDA commissioner added that infrastructure work related to water, drainage and electricity were in place at both the facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-third-giant-care-hub-post-aug-12/articleshow/77423096.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||IOB cuts interest rate by 10 bps on MCLR-linked loans, lowers base rate at 9.35%||Chennai: State-owned Indian Overseas Bank has reduced its interest rate on loans linked to Marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) by 10 basis points across all tenors making loans cheaper for customers effective Monday. Overnight MCLR has been lowered to 7.20% from 7.30%, and MCLR with one-year tenure lowered to 7.65% from 7.75%. IOB has also reduced its interest rate on loans linked to base rate by 10 basis points from 9.45% to 9.35 % per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iob-cuts-interest-rate-by-10-bps-on-mclr-linked-loans-lowers-base-rate-at-9-35/articleshow/77421976.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Extramarital affair: Couple ends life||A couple in an extramarital relationship committed suicide by hanging themselves in Alwar’s Kishangarhbas police station on Friday. The deceased were identified as Bharti Devi (22) and Pawan Kumar (35). Both hailed from the same village. “We received information from the village sarpanch that two bodies had been found hanging from a tree and rushed to the spot. The couple was declared dead after they were rushed to the hospital. Preliminary investigation suggests that the two were in a relationship but were facing opposition from their families because of which they took the extreme step,” said a police official. While Bharti got married just last month, Pawan had two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extramarital-affair-couple-ends-life/articleshow/77421780.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||ACB gets four-day custody of Sanjay Jain||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) got four-day custody of Sanjay Jain after arresting him on production warrant in the horse-trading case. Jain was arrested after audio clips, in which he was heard talking to other politicians about possible toppling of the ruling government, went viral. He was initially arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) in the same matter. Jain was produced in the court on Friday by ACB following which the agency was granted his custody till August 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-gets-four-day-custody-of-jain/articleshow/77423095.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Green light for international charter flights to land in Kolkata||KOLKATA: After prohibiting international flights from landing in Kolkata for over a month, the state government on Friday eased the restrictions by allowing international charter flights to operate with only Covid-negative certified passengers on board. While the embargo on Vande Bharat flights will continue, the decision will come as a huge relief to those from Bengal and other eastern states who have been stranded in different parts of the globe for over four months now. It will also enable airlines and travel agents to join hands to float charter flights with no fare cap. In a letter to the ministry of external affairs, the state government announced a revised SOP for charter flights carrying Indian nationals from abroad to Bengal. “The state government has decided that presently only charter flights carrying stranded Indian nationals from abroad having a negative test report (RT-PCR) conducted within 96 hours of flight departure may land at airports in Bengal,” the letter stated. Four days ago, the health ministry had issued fresh guidelines for international arrivals wherein passengers flying to India from August 8 can skip institutional quarantine if they submit Covid-19 negative reports. This test should be done within 96 hours prior to undertaking the journey. Passengers without the negative report will continue to be quarantined. When the paid quarantine rule was introduced, the state had empanelled several hotels. On Thursday, the health department issued a list of 27 hotels with 1,436 rooms for self-quarantine, hinting at possible resumption of international flights. While the latter proved true, quarantine will no longer be required as the government has made it mandatory for all arriving passengers to produce the Covid-negative report. The move, while continuing to impose restrictions on Vande Bharat repatriation flights, will allow airlines and travel agents to cobble together allowances and run charter flights to fly home stranded people. Fares though could hit the roof with tickets from Dubai costing Rs 40,000-50,000. “There is a huge demand from the Gulf and South East Asia. Trade bodies like Travel Agents Federation of India, Travel Agents Association of India and the Airlines Operators’ Committee have been pushing for this and we are glad the government has responded,” said TAFI chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said: “We are glad international flights will operate again. There has been a lot of queries from Indians stranded abroad on when flights will resume. Now they will have an opportunity to fly back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-light-for-intl-charter-flights-to-land-in-kolkata/articleshow/77421572.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 8, 2020||Patna||Quarantined Patna SP on way home from Mum||PATNA: The IPS officer from Bihar, Vinay Tiwari, whose quarantine in Mumbai had sparked a war of words between Bihar and Maharashtra governments, is expected to return to Patna late on Friday evening after being released by the Mumbai civic authorities earlier in the day. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey took to twitter to thank the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for exempting the Patna SP (central) from the 14-day quarantine. In his tweet, the DGP mentioned how the state police had to write two letters to the BMC commissioner before the request was granted and that too only after the Supreme Court’s adverse oral observations on Tiwari’s quarantine. The IPS officer was allegedly forcibly quarantined on Sunday, within eight hours of his landing in Mumbai to coordinate with the Mumbai police in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The IPS officer boarded a flight to Patna from Mumbai via Hyderabad on Friday. The BMC had written a letter to ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Thursday giving the nod to exempt Tiwari under the clause that his stay was of less than seven days. DGP Pandey had earlier said they may move court if Tiwari was not released by Thursday. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh had written the first letter to BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday citing the clause of exempting government officers arriving on duty followed by another letter by ADG Kumar citing a separate clause that his stay was for less than seven days. Meanwhile, sources said Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma’s affidavit to bring on record the findings of investigation conducted by the Patna police in Mumbai before the Supreme Court was sent to Delhi on Friday. The process of handing over the case to the CBI also began on Friday with the Rajeev Nagar SHO Nishant Kumar along with another officer flying to Delhi within 24 hours of reaching Patna from Mumbai to submit all case papers to the federal agency, which registered an FIR against actress Rhea Chakraborty, her parents, brother and other known associates on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantined-patna-sp-on-way-home-from-mum/articleshow/77419909.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 8, 2020||Patna||Budget hotels face problems of survival amid pandemic||PATNA: The owners of around 1500 budget hotels and guesthouses in the city are struggling to keep afloat amid declining profitability owing to near record low occupancy and mounting costs in the wake of strict government restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With the drastic slump in occupancy rates and increased internal costs due to additional safety measures, some hotels have resorted to laying off their staff in order to survive. Rahul Misra, manager of a budget hotel in Kadamkuan, said, “We have 23 rooms at an average of Rs2,000 per night. The average occupancy per month before the lockdown was close to 80%. It has dropped to 25% this month. My guests ranged from employees of private companies to students coming to the city to undertake exams.” Bablu Prasad, who owns a budget hotel in Fraser Road, said with the limited number of trains, buses and flights operating, the number of guests has drastically gone down. “The little business we have is from unmarried couples and those coming from other districts to visit non-Covid patients in hospitals,” he said. Some of these hotels offer rooms to those who have returned from other states and want to be quarantined, but they are often condemned out of coronavirus fear. Pawan Kumar, who owns a chain of hotels in the city, conceded that he had to face public outrage when he offered his hotels in Phulwarisharif and Bailey Road as quarantine facilities to the government agencies. “We have taken a humanistic point of view in rendering these services. But, instead of appreciating it, people condemn us,” he said. The situation is worse for clusters of budget hotels located around prime areas. In times of dwindling demand, owners are increasingly getting into price wars tactics to attract customers. “Prior to the lockdown, our AC rooms were priced at Rs1200 & non-AC at Rs950. Since my hotel is based in an area dominated by other cheap hotels, I had to bring down the price by 40% to lure customers. We cannot even reach the break-even in terms of cost and profit,” said a hotelier from Rajendra Nagar. Akhilesh Singh, whose hotel is near Mahavir Mandir, said, “There has been no decline in the commission charged by online booking sites. When customers book our rooms through third-party sites, we have to compromise on our margins.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-hotels-face-problems-of-survival-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77420711.cms||Arunima Lal
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports highest single day Covid deaths||Dehradun: With 10 new deaths, Uttarakhand reported its highest-ever single day Covid-19 death count on Friday. The state's toll has now increased to 112. Also, at least 278 fresh positive cases were reported in the state on Friday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 8,901. With the rising deaths of Covid-19 patients, the state’s mortality rate has jumped to 1.3% which is almost 1% less than the national mortality rate at 2% (approx). Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation, who is tracking the state's Covid-19 data, said that 107 of the total 112 deaths - which is 96% of total deaths - have been reported during Unlock 1, 2 and 3 phases. "Also, 85% deaths are in three districts. While Dehradun reported 63 deaths, Nainital reported 23 deaths followed by nine in Udham Singh Nagar," he added. Abhishek Tripathi from 'Covid-19 war room' informed that among the 10 new deaths, four were from Government Doon Medical College while three each were from AIIMS Rishikesh and Sushila Tiwari Medical College, Haldwani. "In each death, the reason was comorbid illness along with Covid-19 infection," he added. Meanwhile, AIIMS Rishikesh reported two more deaths on Friday after the release of health bulletin, confirmed PRO Harish Thapliyal. Also, among the fresh cases, a maximum of 85 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar followed by 73 in Haridwar, 34 in Nainital, 25 from Pauri and 21 from Dehradun. In Tehri, 15 new cases were reported on Friday followed by seven in Champawat, six each in Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi, four from Rudraprayag and one from Chamoli. In some relief, 304 Covid-19 patients recovered on Friday, taking the state’s recovery tally to 5,731.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-highest-single-day-covid-deaths/articleshow/77420585.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 8, 2020||Kolhapur||3 dists in W Maha report over 200 cases in a day||Kolhapur: As many as 207 fresh cases and 14 deaths were reported in kolhapur district on Friday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 8,977 and the death toll to 249 respectively. Currently, there are 4,777 active patients in the district. Of the 14 deaths reported in the district, four people were from the textile town of Ichhalkaranji who were taking treatment at IGM hospital. The total number of deaths in the textile town has reached 71 followed by Kolhapur city where 55 Covid-related deaths have been reported so far. Sangli district reported 225 cases on Friday, including 148 from the jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation. The Covid-19 tally in the district has reached 4,199, of which 2,542 cases have been reported from the municipal limits alone. Currently, 2,289 patients are currently undergoing treatment in the district. Nine more people died of Covid-19 in Sangli district, taking the death toll to 127. District officials said that the condition of 151 patients was critical. Satara district reported 203 cases till Friday evening, taking the tally of positive cases to 5,176. The district has 2,591 active patients. Three patients succumbed to the infection on Friday, taking the death toll in the district to 162. Solapur city reported 43 cases till Friday, taking the total number of cases to 5,334. The death toll rose to 374 after four people died of the infection on Friday. Currently, there are 1,231 active cases in the city undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-dists-in-w-maha-report-over-200-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77421771.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Patna||Two oxygen banks set up in Gaya||GAYA: Two oxygen banks with a capacity of two dozen cylinders have been set up in Gaya to cope with the demand for mildly symptomatic Covid patients preferring home isolation. Whereas one oxygen bank has been established in the Red Cross Bhavan, the other has been set up by the local unit of the Rotary International. Gaya Red Cross chairman Dr Uma Nath Bhadani said the oxygen bank will start functioning from Saturday. “To begin with, 10 oxygen cylinders along with the accessories required by Covid patients preferring home isolation have been arranged,” he said. “Four of the ten cylinders have been donated by the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce and two by the Rotaract Club, the youth wing of Rotary International. The remaining four cylinders have been purchased by the Red Cross Society. The cylinders will be made available to those in need on the basis of a doctor’s recommendation,” he said. Red Cross secretary Dr DK Sahay said the oxygen cylinders would be provided only to the residents of Gaya town on the basis of address proof of the patient. According to Dr Ratan Kumar, secretary of the Rotary Club, its oxygen bank has become functional and more than half a dozen Covid patients have availed the facility. Dr Kumar, a surgeon by profession, said oxygen cylinders would be provided to only such patients having a saturation level of 90-95%. “Those with an oxygen saturation level of less than 90% are advised hospitalization. As on date, 14 oxygen cylinders are available at the Rotary Club bank. All fire safety norms are being observed. More donors are coming to contribute to the oxygen bank,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-oxygen-banks-set-up-in-gaya/articleshow/77420661.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: E-consultation for Salt Lake corona affected||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar MLA and state fire services minister Sujit Bose has taken up an initiative to provide online doctor consultation for Covid positive Bidhannagar residents. Through this process, patients can know what measures to take during their isolation period. “We are taking up this initiative named ‘Sparsho’ in association with ‘Protect The Warriors’, a doctors group who will provide online consultations through video conferencing as to what precautions should be take during isolation,” said Bose, who himself was affected by Covid. There will be a specific time when patients can consult the doctors in panel. Councillors of different wards of Bidhannagar are taking up initiatives to form WhatsApp or online groups for residents to have online consultation with doctors on the dos and dont’s. The patients, who are in home isolation, will have to call two helpline numbers 7439596460 and 7439598338. The consultations will be done for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-consultation-for-salt-lake-corona-affected/articleshow/77421698.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Experts, weavers hopeful of fastrecovery in handloom industry||PATNA/BHAGALPUR/MADHUBANI: The rich handloom sector in Bihar with several globally acclaimed art forms, such as Sujani and Sikki, has though been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, the weavers as well as experts are hopeful of a speedy recovery in the coming months with gradual opening of markets along with emphasis on ‘swadeshi’ products. Sanjay Shrivastava, director of National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT)- Patna, where every student is required to approach and study different handloom clusters in Bihar for two weeks every year, said initiatives like cotton face masks helped the weavers survive the lockdown. “Markets are gradually opening up with unlocking of the economy, which has led to slight surge in demand for handloom products. Bihar’s handloom products, including those made using art forms like Sujani and Sikki, fetch very high demand in global market. Thus, weavers in Bihar can hope of speedy recovery from the financial crisis witnessed during the last few months,” Sanjay told TOI on the occasion on National Handloom Day on Friday. He added around 5,000 handloom weavers in state own looms. “The different handloom clusters in Bihar include Bhagalpur, Madhubani, Gopalganj, Nalanda, Patna City and Gopalganj. The handloom sector in Bihar is male dominated and inclusion of women folks is needed for growth of this sector,” Sanjay said. Bhagalpur handloom weavers engaged in Khadi, linen, Tussar and staple cotton fabric industries are a harried lot owing to Covid-19 pandemic and they have sought financial support from state and central governments. “Abject poverty has forced the weaving community to shift to some engagements like making of face masks, hand towels (cotton gamcha) and other small articles in order to eke out a living,” said Alim Ansari, secretary of Resham Bunkar Khadi Evam Gramodyog Sangh (RBKEGS). “But it is not enough to feed thousands of handloom and power loom workers here,” he added. Alok Agarwal, general secretary of Eastern Bihar Industries Association (EBIA), said the handloom is labour intensive industry and manufacturing is mostly based on the skills of the weavers unlike in power loom. “The handloom products are costly as they are manufactured by hands on the traditional looms and need to be preserved. The state and central governments can support by providing financial assistance and giving a platform for the sale of handloom products at proper price,” he said. In Madhubani, Khasthinath Jha, secretary of Gram Vikas Parishad, a prominent non- government organisation engaging more than 800 artists, said there was practically no work for last about four months due to Covid pandemic. “The income of artists has been badly affected, but the demand for Madhubani masks has been there,” he said. Krishna Kant Jha, a prominent artist of Jitwarpur village, which was declared ‘kala gram’ by government of India, said artists are the worst hit by the pandemic. Narendra Narayan Singh Nirala, an academic, urged the government to take steps for artists of Mithila painting in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-weavers-hopeful-of-fastrecovery-in-handloom-industry/articleshow/77420141.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 8, 2020||Patna||RJD urges EC to hold Bihar assembly polls through ballot papers||PATNA: The main opposition in the state, RJD, on Friday reiterated its demand to defer the upcoming assembly polls due in October-November. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the party has already made its stand clear on the assembly polls in the wake of surge in the coronavirus cases in Bihar. “Even if the Election Commission (EC) finds it fit to conduct elections, we have demanded the use of ballot papers, instead of EVMs,” he said. Tejashwi said the use of ballot papers will lessen the voters’ risk of contracting the virus at the polling booths. He said several other parties have also stated that people would be at great risk if elections were held under such a situation. The RJD leader’s reactions came in the wake of EC’s directive to extend the date till August 11 for seeking comments and suggestions from political parties on the mode of electioneering. Earlier, July 31 was the deadline for this purpose. Earlier, RJD national general secretary Abdul Bari Siddiqui had written to the EC to use ballot papers citing some studies that coronavirus remained active on plastic and metal surfaces for days. “In such a situation, will the elections by EVMs be able to stop the danger of the virus? Will paper ballots not be a safer alternative? If a decision is made to hold elections, then for public health and interests they should be held by paper ballots,” the RJD had written to the EC. It had also suggested to reduce the voters to 250 per polling booth to maintain social distancing and other safety norms, if elections were to be held on schedule. However, the EC has said there will be 1,000 voters per polling booth. RJD has also opposed the idea of virtual campaigning, saying the method doesn’t allow a level playing field to all contestants and the political parties. “While conducting a virtual rally, state BJP president, vice-president and 75 other party members were infected and the BJP office had to be sealed,” the letter said. Meanwhile, the EC has decided to use VVPAT (voter verifiable paper audit trail) at each polling booth so that the voters would see which party or candidate s/he voted for. The EC has also approved the proposal for setting up over 34,000 auxiliary polling booths to restrict the voters’ number to 1000 at one booth. Authoritative sources said around 1.49 lakh VVPATs, 1.83 lakh control units and 1.83 ballot units will be required for polling in state. The tenure of this assembly comes to an end on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-urges-ec-to-hold-state-assembly-polls-through-ballot-papers/articleshow/77420184.cms||Ramashankar
August 8, 2020||Patna||No power supply in nine north Bihar districts||PATNA/BAGAHA/KHAGARIA: Electricity supply remained disrupted in nine north Bihar districts on Friday as floodwaters entered several grid substations and damaged the transmission lines attached. East Champaran, West Champaran, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Gopalganj, Siwan and Saran districts suffered from power outage as floodwaters entered the 400/132 kV grid substation at Motihari, 400/220 kV grid substation at Darbhanga and 220/132/33 kV grid substation at Amnour in Saran district. However, Bihar State Power Transmission Company Limited (BSPTCL) chief engineer (operations and maintenance) Satyanarayan Kumar told TOI that the Motihari grid substation is likely to resume functioning from Saturday. The BSPTCL officials also assured some respite from power outage from Saturday with completion of restoration works on Motihari grid substation. “With completion of restoration works on Motihari grid substation and the transmission lines attached to it, there would be major improvement in power supply in all the affected districts, except Saran. The water level at Amnour grid substation is still quite high, which is leading to obstruction in carrying out restoration works. The restoration works on Darbhanga grid substation is likely to be completed in two to three days,” Satyanarayan said. Meanwhile, locals claimed that power supply under Thakaraha, Bhitaha, Madhubani and Piparasi blocks of the flood-affected Bagaha subdivision in West Champaran had been disrupted for the last 20 days. Hundreds of consumers of Bhitaha block had staged demonstration before power substation at Gulariha earlier this week. Krishnandan Singh, junior engineer of North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (NBPDCL), said the Gopalganj substation was not supplying power as per the demand. “Floodwaters affected the substation and now power is being supplied to attached lines on rotation basis,” the JE said. Power supply has also been snapped in riverine villages of Khagaria district owing to the floods. According to executive engineer (EE), electric supply division (Khagaria rural), Ajit Kumar, electricity supply to Beldari, Pathak, Mushari, Kothiyar, Pipra Tola, Bisaria Dih, Fultora Chikni, Oradih, Piparpanti, Makhnahi, Larhi, Moharaghat, Dahma, Khairi Khutha and Mohanpur under Alouli block had been stopped. Madhura, Uttar Marar, Amniand Hiyatpur under Khagaria block and Tegachhi Sahorba, Sonebersa, Rohiya, Madhya Borne, Thutthi Mohanpur and Rohiyar villages under Chautham block were also facing power outages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-power-supply-in-9-n-bihar-dists/articleshow/77420160.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||‘Buy US-made meds’ order may hurt desi pharma companies||MUMBAI: US President Donald Trump’s order directing his government to increase procurement of indigenously-manufactured essential medicines, could hurt Indian generic pharmaceutical companies once implemented, though there may not be an immediate impact. At present, details are sketchy regarding its timeline and mechanism, but it may not be easy to implement, as India is one of the largest overseas suppliers of generic medicines to the US, with every third tablet sold from India, experts said. Domestic generic pharma companies — already reeling with price erosion in the US every year — could be impacted significantly if there is further pressure on prices, analysts said, adding that it could just be “rhetoric, being a presidential year”. Trump signed an executive order to increase US production of essential medical supplies and cut down reliance on foreign producers of medicines. Under the order, government agencies will create a list of medicines and critical inputs that are essential for public health, and limit competition in government procurement of essential items. In the short term, the order is not likely to impact domestic pharma companies mainly because it reportedly exempts drugs that are either not sufficiently and reasonably available in the US. Nearly 90% of certain critical life-saving antibiotics, steroids like Gabapentin, anti-diabetes drugs Metformin and painkillers like Ibuprofen are imported by the US from India and China. Each year, US imports $6-billion worth of formulations from India. Since Covid-19 struck, the US sought has sought huge quantities of paracetamol, anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine, and key antibiotics from India due to an increased demand. Further, it’s a long and arduous process stretching into several months till it comes into force, industry experts said, adding they are studying the fine print and will wait to see the details to know the full impact. “It’s not very clear on the quantum and specific areas or drugs it could hurt”, they stated, adding generic drugs are more affordable than the patented ones, hence may not be impacted much.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/buy-us-made-meds-order-may-hurt-desi-pharma-cos/articleshow/77423160.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Cops tweak strategy, keep strict vigil on adda zones to ensure Kolkata stays indoors today||KOLKATA: The city police has spent the past 48 hours sending out the message that anyone caught stepping out of their house without a valid reason may invite legal action against themselves. Ahead of the second total lockdown of August, Kolkata Police has shifted its focus to popular hangout spots in localities, including parks, tea stalls and local milk booths. “We have realized that Kolkata’s favourite pastime — adda — is still a major headache. Every morning and evening, people return to parks, tea stalls and even milk booths to hang out. We have thus had to shut parks across the city, including the smaller ones in areas like Patuli, Tallah and Muchipara. On Thursday and Friday, we acted against 391 people for gathering in public spots,” said an officer. Cops said they will continue such drives on non-lockdown days. According to police sources, Wednesday — a full lockdown day — was a case in point. A total of 274 people were prosecuted till noon for violating rules. On Thursday and Friday, cops acted against 214 and 177 people respectively. Around 514 people were prosecuted for not wearing masks properly. In the past 48 hours, 44 have been prosecuted for spitting on the road while cops prosecuted 24 drivers for carrying more passengers than allowed. On Friday, Lalbazar took note of all reports of people gathering in bylanes in certain pockets. The top officers have now hinted that drones are likely to be deployed in some of these pockets, especially in central Kolkata. Vehicles will checked and drivers’ names and phone numbers taken down if they are found breaking norms. In some cases, cops even will click photographs of the vehicle. “If the driver repeats his mistake, we will have our records ready,” said an officer. On total lockdown days, only emergency services are to operate. “We have been asked to ensure there are no gatherings and all attempts at going for unnecessary drives or walks — especially near micro-containment zones — must be nipped in the bud,” said a divisional DC. The plan, claimed Lalbazar officers, was to dominate the roads from 5am, just like on other days, and start checking cars from 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-tweak-strategy-keep-strict-vigil-on-adda-zones-to-ensure-kolkata-stays-indoors-today/articleshow/77421614.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Body lies at home for 18 hours as kin wait for death certificate in West Bengal||KOLKATA: In yet another case of procedural delay to cremate a deceased Covid patient, the body of a 75-year-old woman was kept in her bedroom for 18 hours with the family members — in home quarantine — frantically calling up doctors, cops, the councillor and the state health department for help. The body was finally taken out for cremation on Friday afternoon. Police said the Kestopur resident was suffering from fever, diarrhoea, cough and cold since last week and the family got her tested on August 2. Her Covid positive report arrived two days later. The house physician advised the family home isolation and treatment at home. However, her condition deteriorated on Thursday afternoon and she expired around 6:30pm . “The family tried to call doctors but none was ready to issue a death certificate. The family reached us for help and we informed the state health department but didn’t receive any instruction at night,” an officer of Baguiati police station said. The family had also called the councillor’s office but without much help. It was around 9:30am on Friday that police called in a doctor and a death certificate was issued and the matter informed to the health department. Finally, the body was collected from the house around 12:30pm by health department personnel. Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty said all the necessary procedures were followed to collect the body of the Covid patient. The civic authorities will sanitize the building and its adjacent premises in ward 26. According to civic officials, most Covid cases in the Bidhannagar civic body area are getting reported from pockets of Kestopur and Baguiati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/body-lies-at-home-for-18-hrs-as-kin-wait-for-death-cert/articleshow/77421593.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 8, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 testing up 10 folds in Bihar, three lakh samples tested in past one week||PATNA: The state’s per day testing capacity has gone up by nearly 10 times over the past one month with over three lakh samples tested in the past one week alone. And to further ramp up the testing rate using the more accurate RT-PCR method, the health department has tasked all private medical colleges and hospitals to start this facility this month. As per information shared by the state health department on Friday, 71,520 samples were tested in a 24-hour time period and so far, 8,70,852 samples have been tested. Of these, over three lakh samples have been tested in just one week in the month of August. As per the health department data on July 7, 5,168 samples were reported to have been tested in 24 hours and a cumulative 2,69,277 samples were tested till then. Till July 31, 54,8172 samples were tested in the state. When asked if the government had set any target of how many samples have to be tested per day or cumulatively, health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit replied, “There is no such target. The more we test, the better it is. We have revamped and our emphasis is on testing, testing and more testing” Amrit said before increasing the testing capacity, the strength of the entire team was analyzed, including district administration officials, doctors, technicians and then the ramping up was done. He said of the total samples tested so far, 46.5% were tested through the rapid antigen method, 40.31% through RT-PCR and a little over 13% through TrueNat. When asked about CM Nitsih Kumar’s instruction to provide testing facility through RT-PCR method in all districts, Amrit said, “All five private medical colleges and hospitals in the state have been instructed to begin this facility in August. JLMNCH in Bhagalpur has been given August 10 deadline and NMCH has been given August 31 deadline to start RT-PCR in their respective medical colleges and hospitals.” He further said the department was in the process to procure more RT-PCR machines with automated RNA extraction kits. As of now, tests through RT-PCR method are being conducted at RMRI, IGIMS, AIIMS-Patna, PMCH, DMCH and ANMCH in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/testing-up-10-folds-in-bihar-3-lakh-samples-tested-in-past-1-week/articleshow/77420855.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 8, 2020||Patna||Patna cops 'hide & seek' to avoid quarantine||PATNA: Anticipating resistance from the local authorities, the four-member Patna police team in Mumbai stayed in the backyard of a small workshop owned by a person from Bihar in a densely populated area in Parel. While carrying out investigation into the alleged suicide case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the team of inspectors Manoranjan Bharti and Mohammad Kaisar Alam and sub-inspectors Nishant Kumar and Durgesh Gahlaut, consciously avoided staying in hotels or guesthouses as they would have had to show identification papers for booking rooms. “We stayed in that extremely low-profile area anticipating that problems may arise due to jurisdiction issue, which eventually happened,” inspector Bharti told TOI over phone on Friday, adding, all their efforts to seek Mumbai police’s assistance failed. “We used to carry out investigations on our own the whole day and returned around 2am to eat cold dinner of hard chapatis, dal and a vegetable cooked at least seven hours before. This was the only proper meal we had during our Mumbai stay,” Bharti further said. Their hunch proved right when they got the information about Patna SP (central) Vinay Tiwari being quarantined after reaching Mumbai on August 2, nearly a week after their arrival on July 27. The team members immediately switched off their cell phones. “Since Sunday when the SP was quarantined, we didn’t speak to our families or pick up calls from any unknown number except for our seniors on a few occasions. We kept our phones switched off till we reached our destination,” Bharti said, adding, “We had come to know from the local media that efforts were on to locate and quarantine us as well,” he said. The inspector said they never left their accommodation in a group and always travelled separately. “We used to leave the workshop disguised in dirty clothes right from day one and later changed into proper clothes inside public toilets to avoid getting tracked or identified by anyone,” he added. Bharti recounted that they came close to being caught twice last Sunday after the IPS officer was quarantined. “A Mumbai police team and a BMC vehicle had stopped near us on Sunday while we were looking for something to eat. We had to flee in different directions like criminals,” he said. However, they did get confronted by Mumbai police once and claimed that they were pushed around a couple of times while being taken to one of their vehicles whose footage was aired by news channels. “We stayed in control and kept in mind that we were representing our state as well as the department,” he said. While inspector Alam and SHO Nishant were busy preparing papers related to the case and couldn’t speak to TOI, SI Gahlaut said this was the most high-profile he had handled till now. “I will remember this investigation for a long time. I learned a lot about carrying out an investigation from seniors in this short period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-cops-hide-seek-to-avoid-quarantine/articleshow/77419851.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Building collapse in Ramganj creates panic||JAIPUR: A two-storey house collapsed at Kanwatiyon ki Peepli at Ramganj in Jaipur on Thursday night. Although no one was injured, the incident has raised serious questions on the work of Municipal Corporation, Jaipur, which failed to look into the condition of the dilapidated building for so long. The building collapsed over an electric transformer. Roads were blocked by the debris till morning. Later, cranes and tractors were sent by the civil defence to clean up the area. A survey was conducted by the municipal corporation officers before monsoon to find out the houses that needed immediate repair. In the Walled City area, where houses are centuries old, around 60 notices were served to the owners. But after the notice was served, no attention was given about the execution of the notice. According to the Municipal Corporation, Jaipur Heritage officials, they had already served a notice to the owner of the collapsed building. Deputy commissioner of Hawa Mahal zone (East) Ramkishore Meena told TOI, “We had given 19 notices before the monsoon season to owners of building that are in dilapidated condition. Owners had been asked to either destroy the building as it is inhabitable or to repair it as per norms. The owners of the building in Ramganj that collapsed did not follow the procedure, so now he will have to bear the expenses of cleaning the site.” Under Section 243 of Rajasthan Municipality Act, 2009, municipal corporations have wide powers to make the owner to repair the building and if they find it necessary, corporation can take down the building themselves. Moin Khan, a resident of the area, said when the condition of the building was so bad why the officials didn’t warn the owner. “Mere giving a notice is not enough. I live two houses away and when we got to know about the building collapse, my family and I immediately came out of the house. Debris was all over the place and any passerby could have been injured. Authorities should take the issue seriously or someone would lose their life,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/building-collapse-in-ramganj-creates-panic/articleshow/77423093.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: After counselling by doctors, SRPF jawans donate plasma at Sassoon||PUNE: Sandeep Girme (37), a havildar with the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), donated plasma at the Sassoon hospital on Friday after recovering from Covid-19. Like him, six SRPF personnel from group-I at Ramtedki donated plasma at the hospital. Girme told TOI, “While performing duty at Dharavi and Koliwada in Mumbai, I got infected with the virus in April. Today, I felt nice as my plasma could save lives of Covid-19 patients.” Doctors from Sassoon hospital had conducted counselling sessions to create awareness on plasma donation for personnel a few days ago at the group headquarters. “The counselling session cleared our doubts about plasma donation,” Girme added. A second batch of six personnel would donate plasma on Saturday. “About 200 of our personnel had tested positive for Covid-19 while performing duty across the state. Of which, blood samples of 65 personnel will be sent to the hospital. Eligible personnel will subsequently donate plasma,” said Naveen Kumar Reddy, additional director general of police, SRPF. Dr Suvarna Joshi, head of microbiology department, BJ Medical College, said, “We have so far found 16 SRPF personnel eligible for donating plasma. Their blood samples collected on Friday at the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-counselling-by-doctors-srpf-jawans-donate-plasma-at-sassoon/articleshow/77423104.cms||Mandar Deshpande
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM provides relief to plot holders||JAIPUR: In a bid to provide relief to plot holders in view of Covid crisis and to give a boost the economy, the state government on Friday decided that on depositing the advance and outstanding lease amount at a time, they will be entitled to land ownerships (free-holding the plot). Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday approved the proposal of finance and urban development departments for this. According to the proposal, 5% lease interest will have to paid for the remaining period of the 8-year lease duration and the plot will be made lease free if the entire amount is paid at one go. Similarly, for various residential, institutional and commercial plots, the plots will be declared free hold if 10 years of advance lease amount is paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-provides-relief-to-plot-holders/articleshow/77423098.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Soon, Info & innovation cluster at IIT-Jodhpur||JODHPUR: IIT-Jodhpur will have one of the six knowledge and innovation clusters proposed to be set up in the country. Christened Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC), a budget of Rs 949.70 lakh has been sanctioned for the cluster and an ice-breaking meeting has already taken place at the institution. Set up under the aegis of the Principal Scientific Adviser, three clusters including Jodhpur, Hyderabad and Pune, have already been set up and remaining three are yet to be sanctioned. Initial duration of the project will be three years. The project will be executed jointly by various R&D institutes, academic institutes, government agencies and industry of Jodhpur city with IIT-Jodhpur as the coordinating agency. Spokesperson of IIT-J Amardeep Sharma said that the main objective of JCKIC is to create a mechanism for coordinated exploitation of knowledge base, scientific expertise and resources available among a large pool of academic and R&D institutions, government agencies and industry in Jodhpur. “This initiative will help in enabling innovation for accelerated growth of local industry, pave way for new initiatives in entrepreneurship and develop solutions of the critical problems of Jodhpur and nearby areas,” Sharma said. The center will work towards effective intervention of knowledge, technology and innovation for the society at large and industry and governance in particular. Further, the cluster will provide a platform to the young entrepreneurs to work on their new and innovative ideas. The initial focus of JCKIC will be to provide innovation-driven impetus to healthcare and medical technology industry, design and implement digital technologies for value addition to local handicrafts and handlooms, develop and implement a prototype waste water management system dealing with pollution from the textile industry, design and develop an integrated real time data management system for Jodhpur, on top of forthcoming 5G network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/soon-info-innovation-cluster-at-iit-jodhpur/articleshow/77423107.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Erode||No decision taken yet on reopening of schools: Tamil Nadu school education minister||ERODE: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Friday said the state government was yet to take a decision on reopening of schools. Talking to reporters at Gobichettipalayam in Erode on Friday he said that reports in a section of media that the government was planning to reopen schools in November was wrong. “No such decision has been taken yet. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would take a decision taking into account the views of public and parents when the intensity of Covid spread reduces,’’ he said. On the mounting criticism over online classes conducted by private schools, he said that the subject is being heard in Madras high court. A verdict in the case is expected on August 19, he said. Sengottaiyan said that the state government was also awaiting the outcome of petitions filed by parents in the court regarding fee collection by private schools. Once the verdict comes, the state government would act accordingly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/edu-min-denies-report-of-schools-reopening-in-nov/articleshow/77423110.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||India can become arbitration hub, says Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman||TRICHY: India can become an arbitration hub if the country’s legal system is adequately funded, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday. Delivering the Nani Palkhiwala memorial lecture at Sastra University on Friday, she said the government has approved the creation of New Delhi International Arbitration Centre. Making India the hub of international arbitration has been one of the initiatives of the NDA government. Setting up of an independent and autonomous regime for institutionalized domestic and international arbitration is a step in this direction. While it will simplify the tax structure of the country, she said transparency in handling tax disputes was the primary agenda of the ministry of finance. She launched the Tata Palkhivala Chair on Artificial Intelligence and Alternate Dispute Resolution at the virtual event organised by Sastra, Thanjavur. N Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, said the Indian judicial system was facing capacity issues. “There are three crore cases pending in one court or other. High courts and Supreme Court have 45 lakh cases pending and typically a case takes four to five years for resolution. By the time the resolution is achieved, nearly 40% of the cost involved is lost,” he said. He said that corporate India alone was losing nearly Rs 4,50,000 crore a year to various legal disputes. He stressed on the need to build bridges between law and technology and asked students to re-orient their learning and research priorities especially in the light of Artificial Intelligence being used in relation to Alternate Dispute Resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/india-can-become-arbitration-hub-says-nirmala/articleshow/77423942.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||‘Bhim Gend’ found desecrated, probe on||Nainital: The Bhim Gend — a large circular stone believed to have been used by one of the Pandava brothers Bhim as a playing ball — kept in the premises of Baijnath temple in Garud town of Bageshwar district was found to be broken into two on Thursday. Subsequently, locals apprised the police and the district administration officials of the vandalism. Speaking to TOI, Yogendra Singh, sub-divisional magistrate of Garud, said that the administration as well as the police have started scanning the CCTV footage and are trying to trace the miscreants who desecrated the Bhim Gend. “I have talked to the local SHOs and we have started investigating the case. The CCTV footage in and around the Baijnath temple is being checked to trace any suspicious person,” Singh said. He added that the administration is yet to register an FIR but they have received several complaints already. “We are investigating the matter and if anything suspicious is found, we will register the case as well,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bhim-gend-found-desecrated-probe-on/articleshow/77420597.cms||Prashant Jha
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||No public gathering on Ganesh Puja, Janmashtami and Muharram: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: There will be no public celebration of festivals like Janmasthami, Muharram and Ganesh Utsav this year. This was stated by chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan while reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing on Friday. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, idols of Lord Ganesha will not be installed at public places nor will procession on Janmashtmi as well as Tazias on Muharram allowed. The chief minister urged the citizens of the state to celebrate these festivals at home itself. Gathering of more than five people at a time at places of worships will not be permitted, he said. The Independence Day will also be celebrated at a limited scale this time. Gathering of people will not be allowed at any place, he added. Chouhan said that home isolation should be promoted among the coronavirus patients without symptoms, who voluntarily wish to remain at home with sufficient arrangement. Good arrangement of regular treatment and monitoring should be made during home isolation. Currently, 42 people are under home isolation in Bhopal, he was informed. Chief minister said that the recovery rate in the state is continuously increasing and the fatality rate is declining, which is a good sign. The recovery rate has reached 74.1% and fatality rate has come down to 2.52%. During the review of Singruali district, chief minister Chouhan instructed that the health screening of people, moving in and out from the borders of our state should be done mandatorily. Without this, movement of people should not be allowed. New 20 cases have been found in Singruali. In the district- wise review, it was found that the highest new cases of corona have been found in Bhopal and Indore followed by 63 in Jabalpur, 44 in Khargone, 26 in Gwalior and 24 in Morena. Chouhan instructed to take special precautions at these places. In the review of Jabalpur district, it was informed that the positivity rate of the last week is 9.35%. Expressing concern over the positivity rate, Chouhan issued instructions that awareness should be spread among the people to wear masks and follow social distancing mandatorily. Collector has informed that at present only 60% to 70% people are wearing face masks. The chief minister instructed that mask compliancxe should be 100%. Action should be taken against people for not wearing masks. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman informed that 734 new patients have been found in the state on Friday, while 719 patients went back home after recovery and 16 succumbed to the disease. In this manner, the number of active patients of corona is 8,715. Comparatively, Madhya Pradesh ranks at 16th place in terms of active cases in the country, he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-public-celebrations-on-ganesh-utsav-janmasthami-muharram-cm/articleshow/77420557.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||HC expresses concern over non-compliance of orders||JAIPUR: The high court on Friday expressed concern over increasing number of contempt petitions as the state government is not complying with its orders. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma expressed concern while hearing a contempt plea on minimum wages to cooks with the Police department saying that the petition has been pending since 2008 and has not been complied with yet. He said, according to the registry there were a total of 4,022 contempt petitions pending as the concerned departments failed to implement its orders. He said it is the duty of the government to comply with the court orders. He directed the chief secretary to look into the matter before the court adopts some unpleasant steps to curb the trend while seeking a report from chief secretary on September 24. The court said the principal secretary of the concerned departments be made liable for non-compliance. HC summons JDC over Central Park encroachmentThe high court has directed commissioner, Jaipur Development Authority, to be present in the court on September 9 in connection with a contempt petition by Yogesh Yadav over encroachment in Central Park. The high court in April 2018 had directed the Jaipur Development Authority to remove all encroachments on the 322-bigha Central Park and file a compliance report within eight weeks. This includes 1.10 bigha of land (kasra no. 115 which housed the old Census office) in possession of the star hotel, Rambagh Palace Pvt Ltd, encroachments in the Central Park area opposite the chief secretary’s official residence on Tonk Road, and some religious structures. But the petitioner said the high court order has not been fully complied with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-expresses-concern-over-non-compliance-of-orders/articleshow/77423105.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||CAU unlikely to hold players camp from next week||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) is unlikely to hold camp for its senior players from next week. The CAU was supposed to hold a conditioning camp for its players from August 10 at the Abhimanyu Cricket Academy (ACA) in Dehradun. The CAU had planned to put players and other staff members inside the ACA throughout the entire duration of the camp and everyone would have gone through testing for Covid-19 on a daily basis. Though as of now, the CAU has confirmed that the camp is likely to get postponed as getting permission from the district administration is highly unlikely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-unlikely-to-hold-players-camp-from-next-week/articleshow/77420612.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: PHED to lodge FIR against fake order of appointment||JAIPUR: PHED to lodge an FIR on fake office order on temporary appointment to the post of pump driver in the name of office of chief engineer (administration), Jaipur. Chief engineer (administration) Sandeep Sharma said that a fake order has come to light from unknown sources regarding temporary appointment on the post of Pump Driver, which was sent in the name of Chief Engineer (Administration) and Superintending Engineer (Installation - Non-Gazetted). Their Signatures were scanned and fake orders were issued. He said that in this fake office order, the list of candidates for temporary appointment in Grade Pay-2400 on the post of Pump Driver has been issued under the provisions of the Recruitment Rules 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-to-lodge-fir-against-fake-order-of-appointment/articleshow/77423102.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||MC worker loses consciousness while cleaning sewer||Ludhiana: A contractual employee of the municipal corporation lost consciousness while cleaning a sewerage line on Tajpur Road on Friday evening. Sagar was without a safety kit when he entered the line.After receiving a complaint of a choked sewerage line in EWS Colony, Sagar was put on the job. Around 4.30pm, he lost consciousness on inhaling the gases.On learning about it, SAD functionary Balwinder Singh Shanky, who is the husband of councillor of Ward 17, reached the spot and took Sagar to a hospital. He is stated to be out of danger.“Choked sewer is a problem in the ward. We have requested the MC officials several times to send employees equipped with safety kits to redress the problem, but none seems to pay heed,” Balwinder said.Superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Rajinder Singh said he had not received any information about the incident. “We will inquire from the staff concerned. Action will be taken if negligence is found on the part of officials concerned,” he said. It is not the first time that such an incident has taken place in the city. Several times before, cleaners either lost consciousness or their lives while cleaning sewer lines as they were not equipped with safety gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-worker-loses-consciousness-while-cleaning-sewer/articleshow/77420608.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||54 more casualties push Pune’s coronavirus toll to 2,344||PUNE: The Covid-19 death toll in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) increased to 2,344 on Friday, with 54 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. As for cases, PMR’s tally increased to 1,02,884 on Friday after 2,620 people tested positive for the contagion in the region in the last 24 hours. As many as 73,509 people have been discharged after complete recovery in PMR so far. On Friday, as many as 2,605 people were discharged after being cured. Of these, as many as 1,168 were discharged in the PMC limits, while 1,254 in the PCMC areas. Among the fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits added 1,249, while the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 960. The rural areas added 322 cases, Cantonments recorded 32 and other areas reported 58 cases in the last 24 hours, stated the press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. The PMC areas witnessed a maximum of 28 deaths on Friday, followed by PCMC limits’ 18, Pune rural (6) and others (2), the statement revealed. The active patients in the PMR included 15,820 in hospitals and 11,586 in home isolation. In contrast to these numbers, more patients are in home isolation in the PMC areas as against hospitals. The daily report of PMC states that critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas were 703, of whom 439 were on ventilator support. The cause of deaths of a majority of the patients highlighted that they had other health problems, including respiratory diseases, heart failure, high blood pressure and diabetes. When it comes to testing, as many as 4,79,938 samples have been analyzed in PMR till Friday evening. Of these, a mximum of 3,08,529 were conducted in the PMC limits alone, followed by the PCMC areas (1,17,262), among others. Civic health officials have appealed to people to exercise caution while venturing out and maintain proper hygiene. “Wear face mask when venturing out and make washing hands a habit to keep the infection at bay,” a health official said, adding that people should not indulge in crowding at temples during the upcoming Ganeshotsav. Mayor had already held a meeting with Ganesh mandals on Thursday, the official said, adding that people should also stay cautious and avoid crowding within their housing societies to celebrate the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/54-more-casualties-push-citys-corona-toll-to-2344/articleshow/77423114.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur collector donates plasma||JODHPUR: In what could be termed as a positive gesture of encouraging the cured corona patients, district magistrate of Jodhpur donated his plasma on Friday, just a day after honouring the plasma donors of the city. Calling upon the cured persons, district magistrate Indrajit Singh said the plasma donation could lead to saving lives of infected persons who are critical. He said plasma donation camps were being organised and people should come forward without any fear to donate their plasma for saving valuable lives. Singh had tested positive last month, barely a few days after taking charge as Jodhpur collector. So far, 50 people, including Singh, have donated their plasma and the administration has been constantly encouraging people for plasma donation under its mission ‘Jeevan Raksha’. “It would be a huge contribution to save the lives of corona positive persons who are critical,” he said, calling upon people to support this mission. On the other hand, with a view of better Covid-19 patient management, special training is being imparted to doctors posted at rural health centres. As many as 10 batches with 11 doctors in each batch have been constituted for the purpose and experts from AIIMS Jodhpur have been training them. The district administration has also asked private hospitals to equip themselves with the required resources and train their human resource to deal with Covid-19 cases. Singh said that considering the gravity of the situation there was a pressing need of proper training to doctors and nurses of private hospitals along with those of government hospitals. He also asked the private hospitals to remain in contact with each other through a WhatsApp group for sharing information leading to smooth availability of medical facilities to the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-collector-donates-plasma/articleshow/77423116.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Salem||Water level rising in Mullaperiyar, Mettur dams||SALEM/MADURAI: Inflow into Stanley reservoir in Mettur surged more than seven fold in 24 hours, from 6,000 cusecs on Thursday to 45,000 cusecs on Friday evening, raising the storage by close to four feet in the sprawling dam during the period. The water level in the dam, the lifeline of the delta districts, stood at 67.7 ft, up from 64 ft a day ago. However, outflow from the dam was reduced from 3,000 cusecs to 1,000 cusecs as the demand for delta irrigation was met by water from brimming Bhavani and Amaravathi rivers draining into the Cauvery. There was a marginal drop in the quantum of water released into the Cauvery from Karanataka reservoirs. ``Water flow realised at Biligundulu, the entry point of Cauvery into Tamil Nadu was 45,000 cusecs on Friday,’’ said a PWD officer. On Thursday, about 50,000 cusecs of water was realised at Biligundulu. Nevertheless, frothing water gushed down at Hogennakkal falls, forcing the authorities to issue warning to people living along the wayside villages not to venture close to the river. The district administration had ordered revenue and police officials to keep a close watch along the banks to ensure that people stay away. Bhavanisagar and Pillur dams too continued to receive heavy inflow due to rainfall in the catchment areas in the Western Ghats on Thursday night, albeit lesser than the previous day. As against 31,733 cusecs received on Thursday, the inflow into Bhavanisagar dam in Erode saw a drop to 24,722 cusecs on Friday. The outflow remained the same at 900 cusecs, but the storage has surged to 26.6 tmcft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/inflow-surges-seven-fold-in-mettur/articleshow/77423135.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Project hits road bump, MC to now rope in traffic expert||Ludhiana: Without hiring a traffic expert, the municipal corporation prepared a comprehensive road safety project for the industrial town under the Smart City mission. But with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu raising objections to it, the MC officials are likely to rope in a traffic expert. The project aims at installing road safety equipment and making road markings in the entire city. The officials have prepared a detailed report of the project, whose estimated cost is around Rs 26 crore. Even as the civic body funds road marking, blinker and cat’s eye, among others, work, the project was taken up under the Smart City mission almost a year ago due to paucity of resources.The roads which will be covered include Rahon Road, 70 Feet Road in Sunder Nagar, Benjamin Road, RK Road, Gill Road, Hambran Road, Haibowal Road, Dugri Road, Old Krishna Mandir Road, Ghumar Mandi Road, BRS Nagar Road, Circuit House Road, among others.Zebra crossings and other road markings at main roads have almost vanished. As a result, commuters face a tough time while driving on such roads, especially during foggy conditions. Even at major chowks that witness high vehicular movement, like Bharat Nagar Chowk, Bhai Bala Chowk, Durga Mata Mandir Chowk, the road markings are fading.Usually, whenever road markings are made or speed-breakers installed in the city, hardly a thought is spared towards their requirement. Speed-breakers are constructed anywhere without caring for the rules, increasing risk of accidents.Ashu said, “Only a traffic expert can suggest where road safety equipment are required as MC officials do not have technical know-how about the same. I have asked the officials to take help from traffic experts, so that the money spent on the project does not go down the drain.”Superintending engineer of building and road branch and Smart City mission Rahul Gagneja said, “At the execution stage of the project, we will seek assistance of a traffic consultant.”Review meetingA review meeting of Smart City projects took place at MC Zone D office on Friday. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal reviewed the progress of the ongoing projects. The officials have been asked to stick to deadlines and wind up the projects by year-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/project-hits-road-bump-mc-to-now-rope-in-traffic-expert/articleshow/77420618.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Corona warriors to be felicitated on Independence Day: CS||Dehradun: Due to the ongoing Smart City projects in and around Parade ground, this year’s Independence Day celebration would be held at Police Lines in the Race Course area. The state authorities have decided to honour the coronavirus warriors during the event. The responsibility to identify people, who have put forth an exemplary performance, has been given to the health department and urban local body department. The flag hoisting would be done by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat at 10 am, which would be followed by his speech. “Proper social distancing would be maintained and the area would be sanitised before the Parade. Besides, the presence of sanitizer and oxygen will also be ensured,” chief secretary Om Prakash said. The chief secretary will himself hoist the flag at the secretariat at 9 am. All the heads of departments, government and non-government organisations would hoist the flag at 9 am. While DM Dehradun has been directed to hoist the flag at 9 pm, the DMs of other districts will do so at 9:30 am. Patriotic songs would be played through loudspeakers at all prominent squares of state capital and districts on August 14 and 15. The timing for playing the songs on August 14 would be from 6 pm to 9pm and on August 15, the stipulated timings are from 6am to 11am. However, the Kavi Sammelan organised each year on the eve of Independence day would not be held this year in wake of Covid-19. Government offices and buildings would be decorated with low voltage consuming LED lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corona-warriors-to-be-felicitated-on-independence-day-cs/articleshow/77420625.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||With 734 new Covid cases, Madhya Pradesh tally at 37,298||BHOPAL: With 734 people testing positive on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the state reached 37,298. Apart from these new cases, 16 casualties were also reported, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties have been reported includes Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Ujjain, Rewa, Raisen,Sehore, Satna and Katni. With these new deaths, the toll due to covid-19 in state reached 962 on Friday. While fresh cases were reported from 46 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from 9 districts on Friday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 145 new positive cases were reported on Friday. After Indore, it was Bhopal where 131 new positive cases were reported, followed by Jabalpur where 63 cases were reported on Friday. Of the 46 districts that reported fresh cases on Friday, new cases were reported in double figures from 19 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 13,437 samples were received on Friday when 734 people tested positive. Thus, overall 5.4% of the people whose samples were tested on Friday were found positive. This positivity rate of 5.4% is greater than that of average positivity rate of around 4% in the state. Overall, there are 8,715 active cases in the state as of Friday. On the brighter side 719 people who were admitted in hospitals across the state recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 27,621. With this recovery rate of patients became 74%. A total of 3,149 localities across Madhya Pradesh have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-734-new-cases-state-tally-at-37298/articleshow/77420568.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||HC questions PCB on illegal printing, dyeing units at Sanganer||JAIPUR: The Pollution Control Board (PCB) on Friday acknowledged that the printing and dyeing units located at Sanganer are functioning illegally without any approval. The PCB acknowledged this while replying to a contempt petition by lawyer Vijay Singh Poonia, in a 17-year-old petition. The court had earlier in the PIL directed that these units working at Sanganer be relocated considering the pollution caused to underground water and their being located in a residential area. The RIICO had developed about 400 plots for them to shift to Chitroli near Bagru following the court order, but the industries have not yet been relocated. RIICO now approached the court with the request to release these plots as these industries are refusing to be relocated and the RIICO’s investment has gone in vain. Advocate general MS Singhvi appearing for RIICO said except a couple of units, none of the units functioning at Sanganer was ready to shift to the new area developed for them. RIICO now wanted these plots to be merged with the Bagru Industrial area. The court then asked why the pollution control board had not acted against such illegal units, and the PCB said they have been served notices. Counsel for the petitioner Vimal Chaudhary objecting to RIICO’s claim said the matter had even gone to the Supreme Court and apex court had upheld the order of the high court for the relocation. Now, the high court simply cannot nullify the order. The court also made seven IAS officers party to the contempt petition including chief Rajeeva Swarup, PCB chairman P K Goyal, Kuldeep Ranka, Ashutosh Pendekar, Dinesh Kumar, Gaurav Goyal and Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra. The court then clubbed all the petitions including a new petition by Bhanshidar Jat who raised the pollution of the Nevta dam water along with the SLP filed in the Supreme Court and a petition by PN Mendela to be heard on September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-questions-pcb-on-illegal-printing-dyeing-units-at-sanganer/articleshow/77423108.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Collectors told to conduct search ops in jails||Jaipur: The home department on Friday directed the district collectors to carry out an intensive search operation in all the prisons of the state to catch those inmates having mobile phones, SIM cards and other prohibited items in the jails. It also instructed them to register a case against the accused if they are found carrying such materials.Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) home department Rohit Kumar Singh instructed that if the prisoners are found carrying mobile phones or other prohibited items in the jails, they must be immediately transferred to other prisons. “In such cases, a case will be registered against the accused and the matter will be noted in the prison records. Forensic lab investigation of mobiles will be done that are thrown inside the prisons in parcels by anti-social elements. This will provide information about the user of unclaimed mobile phones found in the jail,” he said in a statement. The offenders will not be given bail or parole when they file applications. The decision has been taken looking at the increase in the number of gangs operating from prisons. “It has been observed that cases are not registered when mobile phones or prohibited items are recovered from the prisoners,” he said.He directed the district collectors to constitute search teams for the purpose and said the transfer of staff posted at the sensitive prisons to other places can be done only after a certain period of time.Singh also asked the district collectors to appoint an RAS officer as the in-charge of the teams set up for conducting the search for prohibited items in prisons and proper management of search teams should also be done. The service of the local-level RACs can also be taken for the search operation.Singh directed that during the search of the detainees in the jail, video recordings will be done and the director general of prisons will cooperate with the search teams. “The detainees should be locked up in wards or single cells before conducting the searches,” read a statement. He said the district collector will ensure the smooth search operations in sensitive prisons located near residential colonies/areas of the city in collaboration with local administration, police and jail administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collectors-told-to-conduct-search-ops-in-jails/articleshow/77423111.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||Aurobindo Pharma joins Covid-19 vaccine race||Hyderabad: City-based pharmaceutical major Aurobindo Pharma has joined the race to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, which has been shortlisted by BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council), for initial development funding. “Our vaccine candidate underwent an evaluation by BIRAC (Department of Bio Technology, Ministry of Science and Technology in India). BIRAC has evaluated our platform extensively and we have been informed that our vaccine has been shortlisted by BIRAC for funding initial development upto conducting the Phase I/II trial in India,” the company said in its annual report for financial year 2019-20. The Covid-19 vaccine candidate is among the four viral vaccines that the company is developing at its R&D centre in Pearl River, New York. The centre was among the R&D assets that Aurobindo Pharma acquired from US-based vaccine developer Profectus BioSciences during 2019-20 fiscal through Auro Vaccines LLC, a 100% subsidiary of its wholly owned US arm Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc. “During the year, we acquired R&D assets from Profectus BioSciences, a clinical-stage viral vaccine development company, providing access to proprietary and innovative technology platforms along with a R&D centre. The acquisition will also lead to the enhancement of our R&D capabilities and expertise in developing new vaccines from basic discovery to FDA approved products. As part of our commitment to patient needs, we have started working on developing a vaccine for Covid-19,” Aurobindo Pharma’s managing director N Govindarajan said in the annual report. Auro Vaccines LLC had signed an agreement in late November 2019 to acquire certain business assets of Profectus BioSciences for an upfront cash consideration of $11.29 million (approx. Rs 80 crore) and the acquisition was completed in February 2020. Pointing out that the company’s vaccines pipeline consists of bacterial and viral vaccines, Aurobindo Pharma said it is also developing a Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) vaccine through its joint venture with Tergene Biotech and viral vaccines through Auro Vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindo-pharma-joins-covid-19-vaccine-race/articleshow/77421788.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||PCB’s recovery rate rises to 91% in two months||PUNE: The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Pune Cantonment has gone up to 91%, the highest in Pune district, from 76% over the last two months despite a spike in the progressive tally of cases. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) registered 378 cases till June 8, which increased to 951 till August 7. The Cantonment had discharged 289 patients till June 8 and 866 patients were discharged till August 7. The number of deaths rose to 27 from 9 in the last two months. The Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “We had recorded a surge in cases after the June 8 relaxations in the lockdown. Early detection of positive cases has helped us treat patients, when they had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic. We were able to treat them at our Covid care centres, where they remained under doctors’ observation for 10 days before getting discharged after testing negative for Covid-19. This has reflected in the improved recovery rate.” The PCB had deployed surveillance teams across its jurisdictions ever since the pandemic broke out in Pune in March. “On many occasions, our staffers could trace over 10 to 15 close contacts of positive patients at an early stage and ensure their timely treatment,” said PCB’s resident medical officer VD Gaikwad. However, Kumar expressed his concern over the opening of businesses and more relaxations. “We might record more positive cases in the days ahead. Our endeavour would be to carry out intensive testing to identify patients early,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcbs-recovery-rate-rises-to-91-in-two-months/articleshow/77423119.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Allahabad||Yogi Adityanath orders fire safety survey of Covid hospitals within 3 days||LUCKNOW: A day after at least eight Covid-19 patients were asphyxiated after a fire broke out in the ICU of an Ahmedabad hospital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the fire department to inspect Covid hospitals in the state, both government and private, within three days. Amidst a spike in Covid cases, the CM directed senior officials to hit the ground and himself took stock of the situation in Bareilly, where 211 cases were reported on Friday. He later proceeded to Noida where he will inaugurate the state’s largest Covid hospital on Saturday morning. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM has issued necessary directives to the director general (fire) to survey Covid hospitals. “The fire department should assess whether buildings are fire-proof and equipment in working condition. If there is shortage of equipment, it should be procured. The fire department should also hold a short training programme for hospital staff to inform them about the steps to be taken in case of a fire,” he said.  The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to an increase in containment zones. From 6,500 in July-end, containment zones have risen to 10,142 on Friday with 85.31 lakh people under surveillance and 38,121 positive cases. The CM directed officials to focus on districts where cases are extremely high and district magistrates have been asked to review the situation in their areas. Lucknow registered 707 cases on Friday while other districts with high number of cases included Kanpur (393), Varanasi (271), Prayagraj (164) and Gorakhpur (140). Awasthi said the chain of infection should be broken for which door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing should be carried out in all districts. “The CM has also directed the chief secretary, home department, DGP and health department to inspect all command and control centres to ensure its proper functioning. These centres are active in all districts but to ensure that they function properly, the CM has said that all DMs should hold meetings at least twice a day with the CDO, CMO and police officials and prepare the minutes of the meeting,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/yogi-orders-fire-safety-survey-of-covid-hosps-within-3-days/articleshow/77425719.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 8, 2020||Kanpur||Yogi Adityanath orders fire safety survey of Covid hospitals within 3 days||LUCKNOW: A day after at least eight Covid-19 patients were asphyxiated after a fire broke out in the ICU of an Ahmedabad hospital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the fire department to inspect Covid hospitals in the state, both government and private, within three days. Amidst a spike in Covid cases, the CM directed senior officials to hit the ground and himself took stock of the situation in Bareilly, where 211 cases were reported on Friday. He later proceeded to Noida where he will inaugurate the state’s largest Covid hospital on Saturday morning. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM has issued necessary directives to the director general (fire) to survey Covid hospitals. “The fire department should assess whether buildings are fire-proof and equipment in working condition. If there is shortage of equipment, it should be procured. The fire department should also hold a short training programme for hospital staff to inform them about the steps to be taken in case of a fire,” he said.  The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to an increase in containment zones. From 6,500 in July-end, containment zones have risen to 10,142 on Friday with 85.31 lakh people under surveillance and 38,121 positive cases. The CM directed officials to focus on districts where cases are extremely high and district magistrates have been asked to review the situation in their areas. Lucknow registered 707 cases on Friday while other districts with high number of cases included Kanpur (393), Varanasi (271), Prayagraj (164) and Gorakhpur (140). Awasthi said the chain of infection should be broken for which door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing should be carried out in all districts. “The CM has also directed the chief secretary, home department, DGP and health department to inspect all command and control centres to ensure its proper functioning. These centres are active in all districts but to ensure that they function properly, the CM has said that all DMs should hold meetings at least twice a day with the CDO, CMO and police officials and prepare the minutes of the meeting,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/yogi-orders-fire-safety-survey-of-covid-hosps-within-3-days/articleshow/77425717.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 8, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath orders fire safety survey of Covid hospitals within 3 days||LUCKNOW: A day after at least eight Covid-19 patients were asphyxiated after a fire broke out in the ICU of an Ahmedabad hospital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the fire department to inspect Covid hospitals in the state, both government and private, within three days. Amidst a spike in Covid cases, the CM directed senior officials to hit the ground and himself took stock of the situation in Bareilly, where 211 cases were reported on Friday. He later proceeded to Noida where he will inaugurate the state’s largest Covid hospital on Saturday morning. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM has issued necessary directives to the director general (fire) to survey Covid hospitals. “The fire department should assess whether buildings are fire-proof and equipment in working condition. If there is shortage of equipment, it should be procured. The fire department should also hold a short training programme for hospital staff to inform them about the steps to be taken in case of a fire,” he said.  The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to an increase in containment zones. From 6,500 in July-end, containment zones have risen to 10,142 on Friday with 85.31 lakh people under surveillance and 38,121 positive cases. The CM directed officials to focus on districts where cases are extremely high and district magistrates have been asked to review the situation in their areas. Lucknow registered 707 cases on Friday while other districts with high number of cases included Kanpur (393), Varanasi (271), Prayagraj (164) and Gorakhpur (140). Awasthi said the chain of infection should be broken for which door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing should be carried out in all districts. “The CM has also directed the chief secretary, home department, DGP and health department to inspect all command and control centres to ensure its proper functioning. These centres are active in all districts but to ensure that they function properly, the CM has said that all DMs should hold meetings at least twice a day with the CDO, CMO and police officials and prepare the minutes of the meeting,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-orders-fire-safety-survey-of-covid-hosps-within-3-days/articleshow/77425716.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot’s magic has waned: Union minister||JAISALMER: Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Friday said chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s magic had waned and that Congress government in Rajasthan would not be able to prove its majority on August 14 when the state assembly session begins. “The state will get rid of the ill-governance of Congress,” the Union minister said, addressing a press conference at the local BJP office here. Choudhary said the Congress was unnecessarily blaming the BJP and Rajasthan governor for its own troubles. “It is a fight between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot, but it’s the people who are suffering the consequences. Gehlot has lost faith in his MLAs, so is keeping them imprisoned,” the minister said. On Gehlot praising former CM Vasundhara Raje, Choudhary said, “It is a good thing that the CM is praising a leader of the opposition party”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlots-magic-has-waned-union-minister/articleshow/77423121.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman beaten up, paraded naked for marrying lover||JAIPUR: In a horrific video from Banswara, a newly-married woman was dragged out of her husband’s house on Thursday evening and paraded naked in the village. The woman was thrashed by the few persons while a large crowd of villagers looked on. The reason for the assault appears to be that the couple married against their community wishes. Cops have arrested six accused till now. The incident is of Arthuna police station in Banswara district. Though the police refused to divulge the names of the victim and her husband, they said that both were adults. Kavendra Singh Sagar, SP, Banswara told TOI, “The woman had eloped with the youth following which they got married and returned to his house. The woman’s family wanted her to marry someone else and when they came to take her back, there was a bit of scuffle due to which her clothes got torn”. The officials claimed that it was not an intentional assault though the video showed the victim being dragged out of her husband’s house surrounded by a large crowd while some of the accused were beating her. One of the persons captured the video and uploaded it on social media following which it went viral. The husband and wife are from different villages but both belong to Kumhar community. According to officials, the incident occurred around 5pm on Thursday. A few hours later, the woman registered a case. “Based on her complaint, we arrested two accused on Thursday night and four others on Friday. We are looking for one more accused who she had named,” added the official. The victim suffered minor injuries and police have registered a case of abduction and eve-teasing under relevant IPC sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-beaten-up-paraded-naked-for-marrying-lover/articleshow/77421892.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Nagaur ex-councillor arrested for communal post on FB||JAIPUR: A former councillor was arrested in Nagaur for allegedly posting communal comments on social media following the foundation laying ceremony at Ayodhya on Wednesday.  One local registered a case against him following which he was arrested. The accused was identified as Ghulam Hussain and the case was registered at Kotwali, Nagaur. Ram Narayan, SHO, Kotwali, said, “the complainant came to us with the information that the accused had posted comments on a social media site in which he had apparently written against gods worshipped by a community.” After verifying the post, police arrested the accused. “On being asked the reason for posting this particular comment, the accused claimed it was after the foundation stone was laid at Ayodhya. At present, we have not found anything to indicate that he posted similar comments on other social media platforms apart from Facebook,” said an official. Cops are also keeping a tight vigil to ensure that communal writings are not floated on social media to prevent any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nagaur-ex-councillor-arrested-for-communal-post-on-fb/articleshow/77421854.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Agra||Agra university plans to reduce syllabus by 30%||Agra: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University has decided to reduce the syllabus of all courses for the academic session 2020-21 by 30%, following disruption of classes due to the pandemic. The university administration will be sending a proposal in this regard to the state government for approval. The university had earlier cancelled its annual examination right after the coronavirus outbreak in March. First- and second-year students were promoted without examination. University administration had decided to conduct the exam for final year students, but are yet to finalise the dates. Following delay in taking new admissions and commencement of classes, university administration has decided to revise the academic calendar for session 2020-21. The university’s public relation officer Pradeep Shridhar said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has derailed the academic calendar this year. It will not be possible for teachers and students to cover the entire syllabus. We’re working on a plan to reduce the syllabus by 30%. A committee will be constituted to prepare a proposal in this regard, and it will soon be sent to the state government for final approval.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-university-plan-to-reduce-syllabus-by-30/articleshow/77420630.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Varanasi||Master weavers honoured, online events staged on 6th National Handloom Day||VARANASI: While the 6th National Handloom Day was celebrated across the country on virtual platform, a brief offline event was organised in Varanasi at the Weaver Service Centre, Chowkaghat on Friday to felicitate the master weavers of Banarasi silk industry, which has credit to get the first GI (Geographical Indication) tag for Banaras Brocade and Saree of UP in Textile sector in 2009. Varanasi being a prominent centre of handloom products, the second National Handloom Day function was organised here in 2016. Besides, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also gifted Deendayal Hastkala Sankul – a trade facilitation centre to the city for promotion of handloom and handicrafts. The PM had laid the foundation stone of the centre in November 2014 at Bada Lalpur. Deputy director WSC Sandeep Tumbarikar said that after virtual event, a small programme was held to honour the master craftsmen and to highlight their contributions in the traditional art and craft. Several master weavers including Sant Kabir Award recipient Ramlal Maurya, Mohammad Swaleh Ansari, Amresh Kushwaha, Badruddin, Mustafa, Vijay Kumar and others were honoured on the occasion. “Varanasi’s handloom products and varieties have demand across the country as well as abroad. The Banarasi weave is famous for difficult and intricate weaving techniques by hand in hundreds of varieties and colours,” said Dr Rajni Kant, GI expert and president of Human Welfare Association. Earlier, the WSC was linked with the virtual programme organized by the ministry of textiles to avoid public gathering in view of Covid-19 pandemic. According to the ministry of textiles, due to Covid-19 pandemic and inability to hold conventional marketing events the government is providing online marketing opportunities to weavers and handloom producers. The Handloom Export Promotion Council organized a Virtual Fair, connecting more than 150 participants from across the country. The 7th August was chosen as the National Handloom Day to commemorate the Swadeshi Movement which was launched on the same date in the year 1915. The first National Handloom Day programme was held in 2015 in presence of PM in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/master-weavers-honoured-online-events-staged-on-6th-national-handloom-day/articleshow/77420435.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||This govt school doubles its enrolment during lockdown, thanks to a tea seller||Ludhiana: During lockdown, when world over people reported a decreasing interest in their ventures, Government Senior Secondary School (Multipurpose) has managed its highest ever enrolment — in fact, with 3,400 enrolments, it has snagged the ‘highest’ slot in the district, too. According to principal of the school, a tea seller has a hand in this achievement.When the school was closed during lockdown, Sunil Kumar Dimple, who runs a tea stall outside the school, engaged with visiting parents, showing them how they could enrol online. For 65-year-old Dimple, this was a god-given opportunity to show his love to the school that he passed out from.Five decades ago, Dimple says he had completed his school education here. “After completing my school education in 1970 at this school, I started working as an electrician. But about little over four decades ago, I started a tea shop outside the school.”School principal Navdeep Romana Sandhu says Dimple shares a unique bond with the school. “He takes care of the school like his own house. During lockdown, when everything was shut down, Dimple has not only helped us in getting maximum admissions but also took care of the maintenance of the school building. He got the water tank cleaned and maintained the lawn. He used to leave his shop, his work, to guide parents and students with admission. Because of his efforts, we have been able to double our enrolment,” adds Sandhu. “During lockdown, I saw students and parents coming to school, but it was closed. Initially, I used to call the principal to inform about it. Then, the principal madam gave me the online link for admission. Thereafter, I started sharing that link with the parents. I also used to tell them about the vocational courses like mechanical, computer, knitting, shorthand and their benefit. I also guided many students in opting for different streams. Even helped them in filling the online link,” says Sunil. The principal also acknowledges the tireless work of physical education teacher Nina Jindal and computer teacher Manu Kakkar. “Earlier, last year 1,700 students had enrolled themselves. This year, till today, we have got 3,400 enrolments. This is the highest so far in the school and highest in the district this year. Since the enrolment has doubled, the school will most probably work in double shift. We will need more staff to run it smoothly,” points out principal Sandhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-govt-school-doubles-its-enrolment-during-lockdown-thanks-to-a-tea-seller/articleshow/77420654.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Centre discusses border roads with states||Dehradun: Officials of the Union home ministry on Friday discussed the issues related to border roads with the states concerned. While sources maintained that the issue of any road in Uttarakhand was not raised in the discussion. Meanwhile, the state authorities have laid thrust on completing the Jauljibi-Munsiyari-Milam road at the earliest. The road leads up to the China border. The project which started a few years back is being carried out by the Border Roads Organisation. Sources said that the important road is being made from both sides and only a small stretch of around 40-km, where rock cutting was difficult, is left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-discusses-border-roads-with-states/articleshow/77420659.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000-mark in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 767||JAIPUR: Almost after five months since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the state, the number of cases crossed 50k mark on Friday with 1,161 positive cases. Also, 10 persons died of the virus on Friday, taking the death toll to 767. The first Covid-19 case was reported from Jaipur on March 2 when an Italian tourist tested positive. With 1,161 positive cases out of which 1,155 were from various districts in the state and six from Border Security Force(BSF), the total number of cases were 50,157. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 10 deaths in the state, two deaths each were reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Kota and Nagaur while one death each was reported from Dholpur and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said the officer. Jaipur reported 104 cases which made the total count 6,250 cases. “Though no deaths were reported in Jaipur, the city so far has witnessed 213 deaths due to Covid-19,” the officer added. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 203 corona positive cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Ajmer where 98 cases were reported, Bikaner 86 and Pali 68. However, it was some relief that in some districts like Udaipur, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur and Baran, no fresh cases were recorded. Rajasthan now has 13,162 active cases. “33,850 persons got discharged from hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-cases-cross-50k-mark-in-raj-death-toll-rises-to-767/articleshow/77426173.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Noida||Yogi Adityanath orders fire safety survey of Covid hospitals within 3 days||LUCKNOW: A day after at least eight Covid-19 patients were asphyxiated after a fire broke out in the ICU of an Ahmedabad hospital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the fire department to inspect Covid hospitals in the state, both government and private, within three days. Amidst a spike in Covid cases, the CM directed senior officials to hit the ground and himself took stock of the situation in Bareilly, where 211 cases were reported on Friday. He later proceeded to Noida where he will inaugurate the state’s largest Covid hospital on Saturday morning. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM has issued necessary directives to the director general (fire) to survey Covid hospitals. “The fire department should assess whether buildings are fire-proof and equipment in working condition. If there is shortage of equipment, it should be procured. The fire department should also hold a short training programme for hospital staff to inform them about the steps to be taken in case of a fire,” he said.  The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to an increase in containment zones. From 6,500 in July-end, containment zones have risen to 10,142 on Friday with 85.31 lakh people under surveillance and 38,121 positive cases. The CM directed officials to focus on districts where cases are extremely high and district magistrates have been asked to review the situation in their areas. Lucknow registered 707 cases on Friday while other districts with high number of cases included Kanpur (393), Varanasi (271), Prayagraj (164) and Gorakhpur (140). Awasthi said the chain of infection should be broken for which door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing should be carried out in all districts. “The CM has also directed the chief secretary, home department, DGP and health department to inspect all command and control centres to ensure its proper functioning. These centres are active in all districts but to ensure that they function properly, the CM has said that all DMs should hold meetings at least twice a day with the CDO, CMO and police officials and prepare the minutes of the meeting,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yogi-orders-fire-safety-survey-of-covid-hosps-within-3-days/articleshow/77425718.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders fire safety survey of Covid hospitals within 3 days||LUCKNOW: A day after at least eight Covid-19 patients were asphyxiated after a fire broke out in the ICU of an Ahmedabad hospital, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the fire department to inspect Covid hospitals in the state, both government and private, within three days. Amidst a spike in Covid cases, the CM directed senior officials to hit the ground and himself took stock of the situation in Bareilly, where 211 cases were reported on Friday. He later proceeded to Noida where he will inaugurate the state’s largest Covid hospital on Saturday morning. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM has issued necessary directives to the director general (fire) to survey Covid hospitals. “The fire department should assess whether buildings are fire-proof and equipment in working condition. If there is shortage of equipment, it should be procured. The fire department should also hold a short training programme for hospital staff to inform them about the steps to be taken in case of a fire,” he said.  The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to an increase in containment zones. From 6,500 in July-end, containment zones have risen to 10,142 on Friday with 85.31 lakh people under surveillance and 38,121 positive cases. The CM directed officials to focus on districts where cases are extremely high and district magistrates have been asked to review the situation in their areas. Lucknow registered 707 cases on Friday while other districts with high number of cases included Kanpur (393), Varanasi (271), Prayagraj (164) and Gorakhpur (140). Awasthi said the chain of infection should be broken for which door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing should be carried out in all districts. “The CM has also directed the chief secretary, home department, DGP and health department to inspect all command and control centres to ensure its proper functioning. These centres are active in all districts but to ensure that they function properly, the CM has said that all DMs should hold meetings at least twice a day with the CDO, CMO and police officials and prepare the minutes of the meeting,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-fire-safety-survey-of-covid-hosps-within-3-days/articleshow/77423955.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000-mark in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 767||JAIPUR: Almost after five months since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the state, the number of cases crossed 50k mark on Friday with 1,161 positive cases. Also, 10 persons died of the virus on Friday, taking the death toll to 767. The first Covid-19 case was reported from Jaipur on March 2 when an Italian tourist tested positive. With 1,161 positive cases out of which 1,155 were from various districts in the state and six from Border Security Force(BSF), the total number of cases were 50,157. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 10 deaths in the state, two deaths each were reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Kota and Nagaur while one death each was reported from Dholpur and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said the officer. Jaipur reported 104 cases which made the total count 6,250 cases. “Though no deaths were reported in Jaipur, the city so far has witnessed 213 deaths due to Covid-19,” the officer added. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 203 corona positive cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Ajmer where 98 cases were reported, Bikaner 86 and Pali 68. However, it was some relief that in some districts like Udaipur, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur and Baran, no fresh cases were recorded. Rajasthan now has 13,162 active cases. “33,850 persons got discharged from hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-cases-cross-50k-mark-in-raj-death-toll-rises-to-767/articleshow/77426174.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000-mark in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 767||JAIPUR: Almost after five months since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the state, the number of cases crossed 50k mark on Friday with 1,161 positive cases. Also, 10 persons died of the virus on Friday, taking the death toll to 767. The first Covid-19 case was reported from Jaipur on March 2 when an Italian tourist tested positive. With 1,161 positive cases out of which 1,155 were from various districts in the state and six from Border Security Force(BSF), the total number of cases were 50,157. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 10 deaths in the state, two deaths each were reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Kota and Nagaur while one death each was reported from Dholpur and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said the officer. Jaipur reported 104 cases which made the total count 6,250 cases. “Though no deaths were reported in Jaipur, the city so far has witnessed 213 deaths due to Covid-19,” the officer added. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 203 corona positive cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Ajmer where 98 cases were reported, Bikaner 86 and Pali 68. However, it was some relief that in some districts like Udaipur, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur and Baran, no fresh cases were recorded. Rajasthan now has 13,162 active cases. “33,850 persons got discharged from hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-cases-cross-50k-mark-in-raj-death-toll-rises-to-767/articleshow/77426175.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000-mark in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 767||JAIPUR: Almost after five months since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the state, the number of cases crossed 50k mark on Friday with 1,161 positive cases. Also, 10 persons died of the virus on Friday, taking the death toll to 767. The first Covid-19 case was reported from Jaipur on March 2 when an Italian tourist tested positive. With 1,161 positive cases out of which 1,155 were from various districts in the state and six from Border Security Force(BSF), the total number of cases were 50,157. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 10 deaths in the state, two deaths each were reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Kota and Nagaur while one death each was reported from Dholpur and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age,” said the officer. Jaipur reported 104 cases which made the total count 6,250 cases. “Though no deaths were reported in Jaipur, the city so far has witnessed 213 deaths due to Covid-19,” the officer added. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 203 corona positive cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Ajmer where 98 cases were reported, Bikaner 86 and Pali 68. However, it was some relief that in some districts like Udaipur, Rajsamand, Sawai Madhopur and Baran, no fresh cases were recorded. Rajasthan now has 13,162 active cases. “33,850 persons got discharged from hospitals till Friday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-cross-50k-mark-in-raj-death-toll-rises-to-767/articleshow/77423120.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Phones of MPs & MLAs not tapped: Rajasthan Police||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Police on Friday evening issued a statement saying it was not tapping the phones of parliamentarians or legislators in the state. The police said a social media post which claimed that phones of legislators staying at Suryagarh Hotel in Jaisalmer were being tapped, was baseless, bogus and misleading. The post, purportedly released in support of the rebel Congress legislators led by Sachin Pilot, had gone viral on the social media on Friday morning. The message was being circulated with a list of phone numbers, claiming that the phones of at least half-a-dozen MLAs in the hotel were being tapped. Legislators from the ruling Congress as well as the independents supporting chief minister Ashok Gehlot were staying in two hotels, including Suryagarh in Jaisalmer since July 31. “None of the units of Rajasthan Police tapped the phones of parliamentarians or legislators in the past, nor were they doing so currently. The charge (on social media) of recording conversations taking place on (hotel) intercom is also bogus and imaginary,” read the statement released by the joint director, police headquarters, Jaipur. “The Rajasthan Police always acts to prevent criminal activities and illegal tapping is a criminal act,” the statement said. The BJP had earlier accused the Gehlot government of illegally tapping phones after the Congress cited some audio clips on social media allegedly exposing the conspiracy to topple the elected government in Rajasthan. AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, who reached Jaisalmer on Friday, said the phone-tapping charge was baseless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phones-of-mps-mlas-not-tapped-raj-police/articleshow/77423145.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kanpur||UP govt grants Rs 2,447 crore loan to 98,743 MSMEs||LUCKNOW: The state government has signed an MoU with e-commerce websites eBay and Flipcart to promote marketing of products manufactured by MSMEs and also arranged Rs 2,447 crore loan for 98,743 new MSME units. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also laid the foundation stone for 13 common facility centres (CFCs) worth Rs 82.2 crore and inaugurated six other CFCs which will help in promoting export from the state. The CM also launched training programmes for skill development in handicraft, especially started for candidates from SC/ST and OBC categories, and a marketing promotion plan for ‘one district-one product’ scheme. An MoU was also signed between the MSME department and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University for knowledge and technology sharing. “To realise the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of making India self-reliant, UP government is working on all possibilities. By ensuring jobs for its people, including 40 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state during lockdown, UP government has ensured that the state’s economy emerges stronger from Covid-19 slowdown,” Yogi said. “A day after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package for MSME industry, UP’s MSME department got down to the job. When 40 lakh migrants returned to UP, people wondered what we would be able to do for them. We not only provided jobs to them but also launched programmes that will help make them self-reliant,” the CM said. In a meeting with bankers on Thursday, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said easy availability of loans had played a major role in promoting MSMEs. He asked bank officials to give in writing the reason in case a loan application is rejected so that there could be transparency in the system. “I have also asked them to provide loans to micro units because these are the ones which usually face problems in getting loans,” he said. Between May 14 and August 7, at least 7.3 lakh MSME units have been given loans of Rs 21,000 crore. Out of these, 4.1 lakh old units were given loans of Rs 9,680 crore while 2.7 lakh new units have been given loans of Rs 8,949 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-grants-rs-2-4k-cr-loan-to-98743-msmes/articleshow/77425872.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Allahabad||UP govt grants Rs 2,447 crore loan to 98,743 MSMEs||LUCKNOW: The state government has signed an MoU with e-commerce websites eBay and Flipcart to promote marketing of products manufactured by MSMEs and also arranged Rs 2,447 crore loan for 98,743 new MSME units. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also laid the foundation stone for 13 common facility centres (CFCs) worth Rs 82.2 crore and inaugurated six other CFCs which will help in promoting export from the state. The CM also launched training programmes for skill development in handicraft, especially started for candidates from SC/ST and OBC categories, and a marketing promotion plan for ‘one district-one product’ scheme. An MoU was also signed between the MSME department and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University for knowledge and technology sharing. “To realise the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of making India self-reliant, UP government is working on all possibilities. By ensuring jobs for its people, including 40 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state during lockdown, UP government has ensured that the state’s economy emerges stronger from Covid-19 slowdown,” Yogi said. “A day after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package for MSME industry, UP’s MSME department got down to the job. When 40 lakh migrants returned to UP, people wondered what we would be able to do for them. We not only provided jobs to them but also launched programmes that will help make them self-reliant,” the CM said. In a meeting with bankers on Thursday, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said easy availability of loans had played a major role in promoting MSMEs. He asked bank officials to give in writing the reason in case a loan application is rejected so that there could be transparency in the system. “I have also asked them to provide loans to micro units because these are the ones which usually face problems in getting loans,” he said. Between May 14 and August 7, at least 7.3 lakh MSME units have been given loans of Rs 21,000 crore. Out of these, 4.1 lakh old units were given loans of Rs 9,680 crore while 2.7 lakh new units have been given loans of Rs 8,949 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-grants-rs-2-4k-cr-loan-to-98743-msmes/articleshow/77425873.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt grants Rs 2,447 crore loan to 98,743 MSMEs||LUCKNOW: The state government has signed an MoU with e-commerce websites eBay and Flipcart to promote marketing of products manufactured by MSMEs and also arranged Rs 2,447 crore loan for 98,743 new MSME units. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also laid the foundation stone for 13 common facility centres (CFCs) worth Rs 82.2 crore and inaugurated six other CFCs which will help in promoting export from the state. The CM also launched training programmes for skill development in handicraft, especially started for candidates from SC/ST and OBC categories, and a marketing promotion plan for ‘one district-one product’ scheme. An MoU was also signed between the MSME department and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University for knowledge and technology sharing. “To realise the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of making India self-reliant, UP government is working on all possibilities. By ensuring jobs for its people, including 40 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state during lockdown, UP government has ensured that the state’s economy emerges stronger from Covid-19 slowdown,” Yogi said. “A day after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package for MSME industry, UP’s MSME department got down to the job. When 40 lakh migrants returned to UP, people wondered what we would be able to do for them. We not only provided jobs to them but also launched programmes that will help make them self-reliant,” the CM said. In a meeting with bankers on Thursday, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said easy availability of loans had played a major role in promoting MSMEs. He asked bank officials to give in writing the reason in case a loan application is rejected so that there could be transparency in the system. “I have also asked them to provide loans to micro units because these are the ones which usually face problems in getting loans,” he said. Between May 14 and August 7, at least 7.3 lakh MSME units have been given loans of Rs 21,000 crore. Out of these, 4.1 lakh old units were given loans of Rs 9,680 crore while 2.7 lakh new units have been given loans of Rs 8,949 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-grants-rs-2-4k-cr-loan-to-98743-msmes/articleshow/77423966.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Voters in each booth reduced to 700 in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Looking at the rising Covid positive cases in state, the state election commission (SEC) has reduced the number of voters to be polling in each station to 700 from 1400 so that social distancing can be maintained during the elections to the 129 Nagar Palikas, scheduled to be held in August. Hence, around 7,400 polling stations have been set up for the elections to the municipal bodies. In the last general elections to these 129 municipal bodies, 4,294 polling stations were established. About 41.41 lakh voters will participate in the electoral process. Of the total, 21.31 lakh are men and 20.9 lakh are women voters and 84 belong to the third gender. There are a total of 4,450 wards in the 129 urban local bodies. The health department will submit Covid status report up to August 7 to the SEC in a couple of days. Meanwhile, the Congress party and local self-government departments have urged the commission to postpone the polls looking at the rising Covid cases. The BJP, however, said it was ready to participate in the electoral process if the government was prepared to conduct it. The state election commissioner P S Mehra had cited examples of countries that conducted polls amidst the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-voters-in-each-booth-reduced-to-700/articleshow/77423151.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||Post-lockdown, daily Covid tally on decline in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Following a spurt in coronavirus cases in Bhopal, a 10-day total lockdown was imposed in the district on July 25. Two weeks since, the number of new patients as received in the health bulletin continue to be high, yet there is a slight decline in the second week beginning August 1. The lockdown was lifted on August 4. While a total 1,347 new Covid-19 patients were found in Bhopal from July 25 to July 31, in the succeeding week, i.e. from August 1 to August 7, the number declined to 1,118. According to the state government’s health buletin, on July 25, 132 new patients were detected followed by 199 on July 26, 177 on July 27 and 199 each on July 28 & 29. On the next two days, the figure exceeded 200 with 233 new patients found on July 30 and 208 on July 31. Obviously, the lockdown didn't have the desired impact, but in the week beginning August 1, the numbers though still high, did not reach close to 200 as was the case the previous week. On August 1, 168 new cases were found, followed by 158 the next day, 166 on August 3, 177 on August 4, 150 on August 5, 155 on August 6 and 149 on August 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/post-lockdown-daily-no-of-cases-go-down-in-bhopal/articleshow/77420615.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 8, 2020||Varanasi||UP govt grants Rs 2,447 crore loan to 98,743 MSMEs||LUCKNOW: The state government has signed an MoU with e-commerce websites eBay and Flipcart to promote marketing of products manufactured by MSMEs and also arranged Rs 2,447 crore loan for 98,743 new MSME units. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also laid the foundation stone for 13 common facility centres (CFCs) worth Rs 82.2 crore and inaugurated six other CFCs which will help in promoting export from the state. The CM also launched training programmes for skill development in handicraft, especially started for candidates from SC/ST and OBC categories, and a marketing promotion plan for ‘one district-one product’ scheme. An MoU was also signed between the MSME department and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University for knowledge and technology sharing. “To realise the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of making India self-reliant, UP government is working on all possibilities. By ensuring jobs for its people, including 40 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state during lockdown, UP government has ensured that the state’s economy emerges stronger from Covid-19 slowdown,” Yogi said. “A day after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package for MSME industry, UP’s MSME department got down to the job. When 40 lakh migrants returned to UP, people wondered what we would be able to do for them. We not only provided jobs to them but also launched programmes that will help make them self-reliant,” the CM said. In a meeting with bankers on Thursday, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said easy availability of loans had played a major role in promoting MSMEs. He asked bank officials to give in writing the reason in case a loan application is rejected so that there could be transparency in the system. “I have also asked them to provide loans to micro units because these are the ones which usually face problems in getting loans,” he said. Between May 14 and August 7, at least 7.3 lakh MSME units have been given loans of Rs 21,000 crore. Out of these, 4.1 lakh old units were given loans of Rs 9,680 crore while 2.7 lakh new units have been given loans of Rs 8,949 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/govt-grants-rs-2-4k-cr-loan-to-98743-msmes/articleshow/77425870.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Architect held on charge of intern’s sexual harassment in Pune||PUNE: An architect was arrested on Friday after a 22-year-old architecture student working at his firm as an intern lodged an FIR accusing him of sexually harassing her since June 8. Senior inspector Kalpana Jadhav of the Alankar police said, “The complainant is pursuing her architecture degree in a city-based college and is in the third year of the course. She joined the architect’s firm for a three-month internship programme as a part of her course. She initially ignored his advances thinking that he would eventually stop troubling her. She also wanted to complete her internship. But when the architect continued harassing her, she approached us.” The officer said, “The woman, as part of her course, was told by her college to join any architecture firm for an internship and submit an experience certificate. The college did not specify the name of any architecture firm but instructed its students to join any office of their choice.” Jadhav added, “The student approached the suspect for an internship in June after researching about architecture firms in Pune on a social networking platform. We have arrested the architect under Section 354 (a) of the Indian Penal Code.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/architect-held-on-charge-of-interns-sexual-harassment/articleshow/77423154.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Boy injured in parapet wall collapse dies in Trichy||Trichy: A 10-year-old boy, who suffered injuries after the parapet wall of a building collapsed on him in Lalgudi in the district, died on Thursday night.The boy has been identified as G Ebenesan Kumar, 10, of Malayapuram of Lalgudi. He sustained injuries on his back and head. Ebenesan died in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital without responding to treatment.According to the Lalgudi police, the boy visited a shop with his friend on Wednesday afternoon. He was standing near a two-storey commercial complex.Due to strong wind, the parapet that was part of the partially demolished building collapsed and fell on Ebenesan and his friend. Two women were injured in the incident.Ebenesan and his friend were referred to Trichy government hospital, while the two women were given first aid at Lalgudi government hospital. Ebenesan’s friend returned home after treatment.Police said that half of the commercial complex was demolished a few months ago for construction a bridge. However, the parapet was retained.Vinoth Kumar, sub-inspector at Lalgudi police station said, “The wall parapet was poorly built and was unnecessary in that place.”There are 12 shops in the commercial complex that is owned by seven people. All the seven were booked under sections 290 and 337 of the IPC for public nuisance and endangering human life over negligent act. Following the boy’s death, the case has been altered and they have been booked under section 304 A (whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) of the IPC too, said Vinoth Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-injured-in-parapet-wall-collapse-dies-in-trichy/articleshow/77423962.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Agra||Agra district jail prisoner tests Covid +ve, 128 cases in Bareilly||Agra: A 65-year-old prisoner of Agra district jail was tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. A cancer patient, the prisoner was taken out of the jail on court orders for a biopsy test.Agra district jail superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “The prisoner has been admitted to the jail's isolation ward. Prisoners and staffers who had come in contact with the infected inmate will be tested for Covid-19 infection on Saturday."Since May, five inmates of Agra district jail and 10 of Agra central jail have tested positive. One prisoner of district jail and one of central jail has died so far.At least 30 new Covid-19 positive cases also surfaced in Agra district on Friday, taking the district tally to 2,031. These include three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 25 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 2,031 cases, 80.31% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 289 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, at least 128 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Friday while two persons succumbed to the virus. The district tally has reached 3,237 cases, including 78 deaths. Also, 22 fresh cases were reported in Budaun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-jail-prisoner-tests-covid-ve-128-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77420666.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||CM inaugurates 2nd chopper summit, says state has 50 helipads and looking for more||Dehradun: Through a webinar session, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday inaugurated the second helicopter summit, which is being jointly organised by the Civil Aviation ministry and FICCI. Rawat said that Uttarakhand is a strategically important state, which shares around 600-km international border with China and Nepal. He added that the state already has 50 helipads and requests have been made for approval of more helipads. “Improving air connectivity is important for the state due to its strategic location, tough routes and also due to rising tourism activities,” the CM said. Rawat further stated that while Dehradun airport was being developed as an international level airport, plans were afoot to make a greenfield airport at Pantnagar. He added that under UDAAN-2, Uttarakhand became the first state to start intra-state chopper service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-2nd-chopper-summit-says-state-has-50-helipads-and-looking-for-more/articleshow/77420677.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Banana, shallot farmers in district suffer huge losses||Coimbatore: Heavy rain destroyed acres of banana and shallot plantations in and around Thondamuthur near the city in the last four days. While the crops suffered extensive damage in Thondamuthur and surrounding villages such as Narasipuram, Madhvarayapuram, Semmedu and Boluvampatti, the damage was relatively low in places such as Sennanur and Theethipalayam. Nendran and kathali banana plants on 5,000 acres and shallots on 200 acres were destroyed, farmers said. M Jagadeesh of Narasipuram had cultivated banana on three acres and shallots on 10 acres. “All my banana plants were destroyed in the gale and rain. I am trying to salvage shallots. The rain was expected before the Adi Perukku festival on August 2. Ideally, we should have started harvesting shallots now. But as the rain came late, everything was destroyed,” he said. Farmers usually harvest shallots and store them to be sold during the Diwali festival. While the market price of shallots is Rs 30-35 now, farmers expect it to shoot up to Rs 70 during the festival. “Now, we have to see how much shallots we can salvage and even if we do so, would it be fresh,” said R Periasamy, a farmer from Thondamuthur and a representative of Farmers’ Association. The farmers are finding it difficult to get farmhands to collect shallots. Due to the strict e-pass system, workers from other districts are not able to come, they said. Those who had planted banana plants for leaves had destroyed the crop last month after they couldn’t find the usual demand from Kerala. Farmers, who lost fruit-bearing trees that were ready for harvest, are counting losses. An acre of banana plantation usually has 1,800-1,900 trees. A bunch of nendran weighs around 10kg-12kg and a kilo of the fruit fetches Rs 35. A bunch of kathali weighs 9kg-10kg and a kilo fetches Rs 55-60. An acre of shallot plantation produces around five tonnes. Horticulture department officials are working with the revenue department officials to estimate the extent of damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/banana-shallot-farmers-in-district-suffer-huge-losses/articleshow/77402750.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Police form four special teams to nab burglars in underwear||Coimbatore: The city police have formed four special teams to nab the gang that was found roaming in underwear in residential areas at Peelamedu and Singanallur police station limits to burgle houses.In their bid to break into a newly-constructed house at AG Pudur near Irugur on Thursday night, the gang members had climbed on its compound wall. However, they had no option but to run after neighbours switched on lights after hearing the sound.They then attempted to break into another house at Kotari Nagar in Singanallur. There too, neighbours noticed their movements and raised an alarm. The gang sped away and targeted a house at Kathiravan Garden, where their attempt failed after its occupants raised an alarm. The gang later entered the premises of Shruthi Enclave and attempted to burgle a house. This time too, the resident raised an alarm and neighbours switched on lights, forcing them to leave the place. The residents informed the Singanallur police, who held an inquiry.City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “We have got vital clues about the gang. We have formed four special teams and they are working round the clock to nab them. People need not panic and they can alert the police control room if they find anyone in suspicious circumstances. The gang will be arrested in two days.”On Wednesday night, the gang had attempted to break into a house at Poonga Nagar near Irugur that a woman entrepreneur had taken on rent to stock material for online trading. Occupants of other house noticed them and switched the lights on, forcing them to run away.A few days ago, the gang had attempted to break open three houses at Pattanampudur near Sulur. They had then managed to enter a house and escape with gold ornaments weighing 12 sovereigns.The gang was first caught on CCTV camera while roaming in residential areas at Deepam Nagar at Irugur on July 23. Seven men in underwear were roaming in the area with sticks and some weapons. Four men were seen roaming at Balaguru Garden at Peelamedu on July 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-form-four-special-teams-to-nab-burglars-in-underwear/articleshow/77423163.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Khadki Cantonment Board CEO turns barren backyard into oasis||Pune: He has turned many cantonments and defence estates across the country into oasis of greenery with his tender loving care. In his current assignment as Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB)’s chief executive officer, Pramod Kumar Singh has converted his three-acre backyard into a thriving plant nursery.From a barren land 10 months back, the backyard has turned into a sea of greenery, nestling 60,000 saplings of 52 types of trees, including banyan, peepal, raintree, gulmohor, mango, tamarind, among others. He toils two hours daily with his gardener and two contractual workers, tending to the saplings and watching them grow and flourish. Singh’s tryst with gardening began long back and survived over the years during his various postings. “I had planted over 30,000 trees when I was the CEO of Ranikhet Cantonment in Uttarakhand in 2013-2015. plants,” he added.Singh turned 219 acres of barren defence land at Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh into a patch of greenery. KCB used to spend over Rs 1 crore on gardening, which Singh felt was a waste of money. So, he cancelled the contract. “Today, we have our own nursery,” said Singh. The cantonment board has so far donated thousands of saplings to various government organisations, including the Pune Cantonment Board in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadki-cantonment-board-ceo-turns-barren-backyard-into-oasis/articleshow/77423158.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||My Warning After M’galore Crash Was Ignored: Says Captain Mohan Ranganathan||Chennai: Karipur airport is unsafe and landing should not be allowed here, especially during wet conditions, Captain Mohan Ranganathan, a member of a safety advisory committee constituted by the ministry of civil aviation, had warned more than nine years ago. The crash of an Air India plane on Friday suggests the warning went unheeded.“My warning, issued after the Mangalore crash, was ignored. It is a tabletop runway with a downslope. The buffer zone at the end of the runway is inadequate,” he said. Given the topography, he pointed out, the airport should have a buffer of 240 metres at the end of the runway, but it has only 90 metres (which the DGCA had approved). “Moreover, the space on either side of the runway is only 75 metres instead of the mandatory 100 metres,” he told TOI.Ranganathan said there is no guideline for operations on a tabletop runway when it is raining. In his June 17, 2011 letter addressed to the chairman of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee (CASAC), with copies to the civil aviation secretary and director-general of civil aviation, Ranganathan had said: “Runway 10 approach should not be permitted in view of the lack of ‘runway end safety area (RESA) and the terrain beyond the end of the runway. RESA of 240m should be immediately introduced and runway length has to be reduced to make operations safe.”If an aircraft is unable to stop within the runway, there is no RESA beyond the end. The ILS localiser antenna is housed on a concrete structure and the area beyond is a steep slope. The 2011 letter said: “The Air India Express accident in Mangalore should have alerted AAI to make the runway conditions safe. We have brought up the issue of RESA during the initial Casac sub-group meetings. We had specifically mentioned that the declared distances for both runways have to be reduced in order to comply with ICAO Annex 14 requirement.”He said the condition of the runway strip was known to the DGCA teams that have been conducting inspection and safety assessments. “Have they considered the danger involved? Did the DGCA or the airline lay down any operational restrictions or special procedures,” Ranganathan asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/my-warning-after-mgalore-crash-was-ignored-says-captain-mohan-ranganathan/articleshow/77423977.cms||V Ayyappan
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid-19 tally reaches 7,799 as 150 more test positive||BHOPAL: With 150 people testing postive for Covid-19 in the city on Friday, the tally of Covid positive cases reached 7,799. On the brighter side, after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was discharged from hospital on August 5, state BJP president VD Sharma, along with BJP organization secretary of Bhopal division, Ashutosh Tiwari, were also discharged on Friday. Both the leaders will remain in home quarantine for another seven days. Among those tested positive were three children of the same family in Bairagarh, a doctor and two employees of the Gandhi Medical College, five people from Arera colony, one jawan of the 23rd battalion and a police personnel posted at Govindpura police station. One person has also tested positive from police lines in Nehru Nagar. In the meantime, an official of the food and civil supplies department who tested positive and was admitted at AIIMS Bhopal died during treatment. The other areas of the city where people tested positive includes one person from SBI Colony in Idgah hills, three people of a family from Laharpur area, three members of a family from Anand Nagar, three people from a family in Talaiya Mandir of Berasia and five people of the same family in Ayodhya Bypass. Four people were found positive from Navjivan Colony in Chhola area, three members of a family were found positive from Awadhpuri and Yashoda Nagar. Two people from Bijili Nagar colony also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-19-tally-reaches-7799-as-150-more-test-positive/articleshow/77420632.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra first state to get its official mangrove tree||MUMBAI: White chippi (Sonneratia alba) or sweet scented apple mangrove is now the official mangrove tree of Maharashtra. The state is the first to declare such a tree and the approval was granted at the 15th state wildlife board meeting on Friday. Maharashtra implemented a successful mangrove conservation programme on government land after the Bombay high court declared them as protected forests in 2015. Later, they were declared reserved forests. Maharashtra already has a state tree (mango), animal (large squirrel), fowl (inexperienced pigeon), state butterfly (blue mormon) and flower (jarul). The meeting, attended by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, was held after two years. A series of approvals were granted at the meeting, including rehabilitation of the Arabian marine humpback whales. Sources said the proposal is for the Ratnagiri-Sindhdurga belt. The details are yet to be worked out. Similarly, the board approved a marine protection area at Angaria plateau, also in Sindhdurga district. Thackeray said he also wants the area of the Thane flamingo sanctuary to be increased and the dislocation of tigers from the Tadoba region in Vidarbha considered only after all other alternatives have been exhausted. A study group has now been set up for the purpose. At the meeting, Thackeray made it clear that development for his government was not just construction but also forest, wildlife and conservation. He said drone surveys will now be mandatory for every proposal along with the environmental impact of a proposal placed before the wildlife board for approval. Speaking strongly for tiger conservation, he said, “It is important not just to speak for people but also for those who do not have a voice.” Thackeray has already written to the Centre to cancel the proposed Akola-Khandwa rail route through the Melghat tiger reserve. The alternate rail route that has been proposed would avoid the reserve and pass through more urban areas. Anish Andheria, member, said approval had been granted for Kanhargaon on the Maharashtra-Telangana border to be declared a sanctuary. “The area is one of the finest tiger habitats outside a protected area and is ideal for eco-tourism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-is-first-state-to-name-official-mangrove-tree/articleshow/77423080.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Agra||UP: No work, little pay for thousands of Muslim artisans who dressed Lord Krishna||AGRA: This time of the year used to be a busy period for Shakir Shah, an artisan skilled in sewing embroidered clothes and accessories for deities. Shah’s handmade dresses, tiny crowns and minuscule flutes made for Lord Krishna during Janmashtami were a hit and mostly exported abroad by the Mathura-based workshop he was employed with. The workshop shut down during the Covid-19 lockdown and never resumed operations, rendering hundreds like Shah jobless. Other workshops dedicated to sewing clothes for Lord Krishna in Vrindavan that are still continuing production have received almost no orders from abroad ahead of Janmashtami on August 12 while low-key celebrations at home have dented income. According to the manufacturers, each year clothes and accessories for Lord Krishna worth over Rs 5 crore were exported from Vrindavan to US, UK and other countries, but this year no consignments have been sent out due to transport curbs and low demand. Consequently, thousands of Muslim artisans employed in these workshops -- many of whom have been doing this work for generations and learned the skills from their forefathers -- have witnessed sharp decline in their incomes. “Janmashtami meant thousands in earnings for at least two to three months as we had bulk orders. But after the workshop closed, I haven’t been able to find employment anywhere. Now instead of stitching dresses, I’m stitching masks and selling them to feed my family of seven,” said Shah. Mohammad Naeem, employed at a workshop in Vrindavan, added, “We used to work for 16 to 18 hours a day in the months ahead of Janmashtami to fulfil orders, but now there is barely three hours of work.” Income has gone down from up to Rs 18,000 per month to barely a few thousands, forcing artisans to look for alternative jobs, he said. Vipin Kumar Agarwal, who runs one of the oldest workshops in Vrindavan, said they have reduced production by 80% so there is little work for artisans this year. He said that celebrations will be low-key as Vrindavan authorities have barred outsiders from entering the city on Janmashtami. Isckon temple’s spokesperson in Vrindavan Saurabh Das admitted that Covid-19 outbreak has marred celebrations this year and the organisation has placed 30% less orders than usual for its 250 temples across the globe. “Each year we used to purchase more than 1,000 dresses for Lord Krishna. Each dress is exquisitely made and costs anywhere between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 7.5 lakh. But this year, we placed orders for 700 dresses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-work-little-pay-for-thousands-of-muslim-artisans-who-dressed-krishna/articleshow/77420693.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Plasma donations, therapy gain momentum||VADODARA: From stray cases to a surge since the last two weeks, plasma donation for Covid-19 treatment has caught up in the city. With encouraging results, attempts are now being made to use the therapy extensively and encourage donors to come forward. Till recently, only the two state-owned hospitals – the SSG Hospital and GMERS Hospital, Gotri – were given a nod to use the therapy. But the recent guidelines by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) opened the gates for more donations. While only two plasma donations for Covid-19 had taken place till July 26, around 20 recovered patients have come forward to give their plasma till now. The number has gone up significantly after the hospitals that have plasma apheresis machines now being allowed to take up the therapy. Dr Vijay Shah, honorary medical director of the Indu Blood Bank, which has seen the highest number of donations, said that apart from SSGH and GMERS Hospital, Bhailal Amin General Hospital and Dhiraj General Hospital have used the therapy. Shah who is also a co-investigator in the research project involving use of the therapy for Covid-19 at GMERS Hospital said that the results are encouraging and only one person had died. Shah said that plasma therapy can be a good alternative to the exorbitantly costly drugs that are being used presently and are even in short supply. Shah said that patients who are given plasma are monitored for 180 days. The therapy is, however, yet to be used widely in the city. When asked about the possibility of increasing its use, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) medical officer Dr Devesh Patel said that treating doctors and hospitals decide on the line of treatment. “We do not interfere in the process and they take the call in this regard,” he said. A major awareness drive is on the cards to encourage more recovered patients to come forward. Youth NGO Chhatra Sansad along with Indu Blood Bank is looking to reach out to all Covid-19 patients who have been cured and convince them to enlist as plasma donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/plasma-donations-therapy-gain-momentum/articleshow/77420333.cms||Sachin Sharma
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand handicraft products now available on Amazon||Dehradun: On the occasion of National Handloom Day on Friday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat officially started the sale of handloom and handicraft products of Uttarakhand through e-commerce giant Amazon. He said that it would help local products reach a high number of people. Under the Uttarakhand Handloom and Handicrafts Development Council, about 150 of the state’s leading 150 handloom and handicraft products will be available for sale on Amazon. “Special attention is being paid to the quality, standardisation, and packaging of the products,” the CM said. CM Rawat said that the government is making best possible efforts so that no industry is closed and they are being given the required assistance. He also met the representatives of Industries Association of Uttarakhand and directed the officials to solve the issues related to industries in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-handicraft-products-now-available-on-amazon/articleshow/77420698.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Tribal children to attend classes, after intervention of govt officials||COIMBATORE: Bhavana, a resident of the Puliyankandi tribal settlement in Aliyar who started working at a textile mill in Sulur a month ago, was on cloud nine after her mother telephoned her a few days ago. The 17-year-old girl’s mother told her that she can quit her job and go back to school to pursue her dreams as soon as the government resumes bus service. Her mother Rasathi had sent Bhavana to the mill for a monthly salary of Rs 6,000 after her school was closed four months ago due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Revenue department and school education department officials, who inspected the settlement a few days ago, convinced Rasathi to continue her daughter’s education. “I will bring her back to the settlement once the bus service resumes. She always wanted to become a police officer. Let her pursue her dreams. She has the blessings of her father, who committed suicide in May,” Rasathi told TOI. The officials will also help other children in the settlement to go back to school. “We inspected four settlements – Puliyankandi, Nellithuraimannan, Ellappa Colony and Chinnarpathi – and held talks with the residents. We obtained their assurance in writing that they will educate their children and not force them to work. Only four children from Puliyankandi were identified as absentees. The remaining kids had attended school till March,” said Pollachi district educational officer (DEO) S Subramanian. The officials have requested the electricity board to provide power connection to the houses in the settlements. “The students will be able to attend virtual classroom sessions that will telecast through 13 channels from Monday at primary schools that have TV. We have instructed teachers of a government high school in Aliyar to visit the settlements to teach the students and conduct assessments,” he said. On July 27, TOI had carried a report about the plight of the children of tribal settlements in Pollachi, who were forced to work as farmhands due to lack of infra to attend online classes and the uncertainty over reopening of schools. It prompted the Madras high court to direct the state government to inspect the settlements and file a report within three weeks. The officials are preparing the report to be submitted to the court, Pollachi sub-collector R Vaithinathan said. Meanwhile, revenue officials inspected the Puliyankandi settlement on Friday after several houses were damaged in rain. They have allowed 33 residents to stay in the government elementary school in the locality till rain stops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-kids-to-attend-classes-thanks-to-official-intervention/articleshow/77423155.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 8, 2020||Pune||Work from home system a blessing for new parents||Pune: Parents who had children a few months before the lockdown was announced are thanking the opportunity to work from home even after the expiry of their maternity and paternity leaves. “My maternity leave ended in May and since then I have had to join work online from home. I can spend enough time with my daughter and also manage my work at my convenience,” said Shefali Mansukhani, a KPO employee. Graphic designer Neha Saraf, who gave birth to a boy in January this year, said, “I have seen colleague worrying about having to leave their children in the care of others after returning to work from maternity leave. My husband and I shifted to Pune from Nagpur. The plan was to have my mother here for a few months to take care of the baby and then enrol him in a creche. Now because of the pandemic, we have been told to work from home. So, we can take care of our child and not compromise on our work.” Rohan Sharma, data analyst and father to a three-year-old daughter and a seven-month-old son, said, “We’ve had our hands full these last few months since my son was born. My daughter, a nursery student, attends classes online. We’ve had to play the role of teacher, parent and friend as she is not allowed to go out. She is also getting used to not being the only one receiving all our attention. Since my wife and I are working from home, we can split our time between the two and take care of them. I am glad to have this opportunity to be a more hands-on parent”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-from-home-system-a-blessing-for-new-parents/articleshow/77423161.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||Jobless people try alternate means for living||Surat: Anant Miske, a resident of Adajan, used to decorate sarees with beautiful embroidered designs on multiple machines at his unit. But that was before the lockdown happened. Today, Miske can be seen selling embroidered masks on Adajan road. The lockdown robbed Miske and his team of nearly 15 workers of their livelihood after their unit closed down in March. They faced severe financial crisis but didn’t lose their colours of hope. Miske soon applied their skills in making beautiful masks and are now earning enough to at least meet their expenditures. “We started making masks with alphabets embroidered on it which soon turned very popular. Altogether 14 people, eight women and six men, are earning their livelihood from this now,” said Miske, who had his unit set up at a rented place by investing Rs 4 lakh in the machines. Many others too have turned to masks, sanitizers and vegetables to keep themselves going against the odds after lockdown, said Suresh Sekhaliya, president of Diamond Nagar, an industrial society of weaving units. Till the lockdown, Nirav Patel, worked as a polisher in a diamond unit in Katargam. After lockdown rendered him jobless as the factory closed down, Patel switched to delivering vegetables at homes. The resident of City Light area took advantage of people’s reluctance to step outdoors amid the pandemic fears and thus sought his help to get their veggies at their doorsteps. “I used to earn Rs 25,000 per month as a polisher, but that stopped. I then decided to deliver vegetables at people’s homes during the lockdown and it gave me a good opportunity to keep my home fires burning,” said Patel. Tejas Domadiya too changed his music post lockdown. This music system provider had purchased a Rs 10 lakh worth music system in January which he gave on rent. However, that was until March as after that he didn’t have any business and reeled under severe financial crisis. Domadiya then started selling vegetables outside his warehouse serving his dual purpose — earnings plus keeping his costly equipment safe. “The brand new music system was a big concern for me. So I started vegetable business there so that I could keep an eye on the equipment and earn some money too,” said Domadiya, who earlier earned at least Rs 50,000 per month from the music system. Ghanshyam Jasani, a textile unit owner in Laskana, now sells lemons from his car. After the lockdown, Jasani didn’t pause to despair and soon started selling lemons from his farm in his car in Varachha and Puna BRTS road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jobless-people-try-alternate-means-for-living/articleshow/77420997.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party to install Parashurama's tallest idol in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: In an apparent bid to consolidate its position among Brahmins, Samajwadi Party is planning to get an 108-foot idol of Lord Parashurama installed in Lucknow. Parashurama, the sixth avatar of Vishnu, was born a Brahmin but had traits of a Kshatriya. A group of SP leaders from Lucknow have already reached Jaipur to talk to artisans who specialise in making tall idols. SP spokesperson Anurag Bhadauria confirmed to TOI that a towering idol of Parashurama will be installed and added that it will be bigger and more magnificent than any other idol. “We will install a magnificent idol of Parashurama because we respect all sections of the society equally,” he told TOI on Friday. Bhaduaria claimed that SP believes in development for all and respects all communities. “So no one should have any problem if Samajwadi Party is installing a magnificent idol of Parashurama,” he said. The announcement comes days after senior Congress leader and former Union minister Jitin Prasada, who had recently launched ‘Brahmin Chetna Parishad’, claimed there was a growing perception that Uttar Pradesh government was anti-Brahmins. “How is it that the victims of recent crime incidents are only Brahmins? The statistics speak for themselves,” he had said. Sources in SP said it has been decided in principle that a 108-foot idol of Parashurama will be installed in Lucknow. The party will go for crowdfunding to finance the project and could approach the state government for land to install the idol. The decision to install the tallest idol of Parshurama was taken at a recent meeting of the Uttar Pradesh Prabhudh Sabha (UPPS), a unit of Samajwadi Party. The meeting was chaired by SP MLA from Unchahar, Manoj Pandey, who is also the president of UPPS. The meeting was attended by senior SP leaders, including former UP Assembly Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey and a host of other Brahmin leaders of the party. Talking to reporters, Manoj Pandey said that besides Lucknow, UPPS has decided to install idols of Parashurama and statues of freedom fighter Mangal Pandey in every district of the state. “We will collect funds through crowdfunding and seek land from the municipal bodies in every district to install these statues. If the authorities concerned refuse to provide us with land, then we will install them on private plots donated by party leaders and supporters,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-to-install-parashurama-tallest-idol-in-lucknow/articleshow/77423975.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Four men killed in car accident||Coimbatore: Four men were killed and another man was injured when the car they were travelling in rammed a tree on the Coimbatore-Anaikatti Road at Kalaiyanur here on Friday morning. Police identified the deceased as S Indhiresh, 22, of Seeranaickenpalayam, R Karthik Raju, 22, of Flower Market, V Mohan Hari, 23, of Kasthurinaickenpalayam in Vadavalli and N Manikandan, 22, of North Coimbatore. “Indhiresh was a student of a private college. Raju was doing real estate business. Hari worked at a textile shop and Manikandan was a job seeker. R Prajesh, 22, of North Coimbatore, who suffered injuries, was a classmate of Indhiresh,” a police officer said. The men had visited their friend Venkatesh’s home at Kavundampalayam on Thursday night to celebrate his birthday. “They later went for a long drive in a car. Indhiresh was driving the vehicle in a rash manner. When the vehicle was passing through Kalaiyanur around 4am, he lost control and crashed into a tree. Indhiresh and three others died on the spot. Prajesh, who was sitting on the front seat, suffered injuries on his chest,” the officer added. The Thadagam police rushed Prajesh to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem. Superintendent of police Ara Arularasu urged motorists to be alert while driving. “You should never drink and drive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-men-killed-in-car-accident/articleshow/77423167.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Agra||UP approves use of anti-parasite drug for Covid treatment and prevention||AGRA: A drug to treat head lice and worms will now be administered to Covid-19 patients and those at high risk of infection in Uttar Pradesh. The anti-parasite drug, ivermectin, has been used in clinical trials in Delhi hospitals but Uttar Pradesh is the first to approve its statewide use in the Covid-19 prevention protocol. Besides contacts of Covid-19 patients and healthcare workers, “asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients should be administered ivermectin … along with doxycycline,” the health department order, issued on Thursday, said. Doxycycline is an antibiotic. The UP order, issued by the additional chief secretary, says that the protocol is not, however, meant for pregnant women and children younger than two. “Following government orders, we have started providing ivermectin tablets to Covid-19 patients and their contacts free of cost,” Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said. The idea is that its immunomodulation properties — activating the immune system — could help stave off Covid-19. “Ivermectin has been used for several years to treat many infectious diseases … It has low adverse effects. We have been providing the drug to Covid-19 patients in our isolation ward. Positive results were achieved,” said Dr Sanjay Kala, principal of SN Medical College. And the range of its use has been considered worth exploring. “It has antimicrobial, antiviral and anti-cancer properties. It has shown effective results in Covid-19 studies,” said Dr Prashant Prakash, professor of pulmonary medicine at the college. The protocol, using the two drugs, had been used in Bangladesh in May, where a team of doctors had said it was successful. Researchers in Australia’s Monash University also said the drug worked to “eliminate” the virus, as did those in Japan and Russia. In June, an article in ‘Nature’ said a “recent in vitro study showed that ivermectin was active against COVID-19-infected cell lines.” The switch in protocol has, meanwhile, led a short supply in the market. “Demand has shot up over the past month. Doctors have been prescribing it and it is in short supply. The price of a tablet varies from Rs 6 to Rs 15,” said Punit Kalra, spokesperson of Agra Pharma Association. District magistrate Singh, however, said stocks will be assessed soon: “We have enough ivermectin to meet the demand. We will check its market availability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-approves-use-of-anti-parasite-drug-for-covid-treatment-prevention/articleshow/77420726.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||HC dismisses PIL seeking ban on Coronil||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC), on Friday, dismissed the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking ban on Coronil, the medicine that yoga guru Baba Ramdev had claimed to be a treatment for coronavirus. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik while dismissing the PIL also levied a fine of Rs 25,000 on the petitioner. The petitioner, Mani Kumar, is a resident of the Udham Singh Nagar district and had approached the court in June against Baba Ramdev. While the court order wasn’t available till the filing of the report, lawyers who appeared in the case told TOI that though the petitioner told the court he was ready to withdraw his petition, the court levied a fine for wasting its time. As reported by TOI earlier, Kumar had approached the court arguing that Baba Ramdev and his Divya Pharmacy had touted Coronil as a cure for Covid-19 without conducting any clinical trial or without any proof. The Ayush ministry had stopped the advertisement of the medicine and the officials from Uttarakhand said that Patanjali had applied for licence for a medicine as an immunity booster. Patanjali is now selling Coronil as immunity booster medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-ban-on-coronil/articleshow/77420730.cms||Prashant Jha
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||In audio clip, man seeks money in name of Vikas Dubey||KANPUR: An audio clip has gone viral on social media wherein the caller, who claims himself to be a friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, is found threatening an employee of a computer institute to return fee or be ready to face dire consequences, on Friday. Police said that computer institute employee Ashish, in his complaint has said that he got the call from a man who identified himself as Ram Singh, and threatened him to return fee. The caller further warned that if he did not pay heed to his demand, he would killed the institute owner, the complaint said. He also said that slain gangster Vikas Dubey was his friend. He also took name of a former MLA of the area saying that everybody knows him. “This is the first time in the city when anyone has threatened anybody in the name of Vikas Dubey. It is unfortunate. But we will take strict action against the culprit,” said Inspector Juhi Santosh Kumar Arya. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Juhi police station and further investigations are on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-audio-clip-man-seeks-money-in-name-of-vikas/articleshow/77428710.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kanpur||In audio clip, man seeks money in name of Vikas Dubey||KANPUR: An audio clip has gone viral on social media wherein the caller, who claims himself to be a friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, is found threatening an employee of a computer institute to return fee or be ready to face dire consequences, on Friday. Police said that computer institute employee Ashish, in his complaint has said that he got the call from a man who identified himself as Ram Singh, and threatened him to return fee. The caller further warned that if he did not pay heed to his demand, he would killed the institute owner, the complaint said. He also said that slain gangster Vikas Dubey was his friend. He also took name of a former MLA of the area saying that everybody knows him. “This is the first time in the city when anyone has threatened anybody in the name of Vikas Dubey. It is unfortunate. But we will take strict action against the culprit,” said Inspector Juhi Santosh Kumar Arya. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Juhi police station and further investigations are on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-audio-clip-man-seeks-money-in-name-of-vikas/articleshow/77421208.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Rural areas contain virus spread, record just 703 cases till Aug 3||Coimbatore: The rural areas of the district seem to have successfully contained the spread of Covid-19 so far. While 4,975 of the 5,805 cases that the district had recorded as on Monday were reported from the city corporation limits, only 703 cases were logged in rural areas. The remaining 127 cases were reported from semi-urban municipalities of Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Valparai. In rural areas, Periyanaickenpalayam tops the list with 109 cases, followed by Annur (95). At 23, Madukkarai has, however, the highest number of active cases, followed by Sarkar Samakulam (21) and Periyanaickenpalayam (19). A senior health department official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Among the rural areas, Annur turned problematic with the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, while Periyanaickenpalayam started to see Covid-19 cases after many people, who landed from other districts, did not quarantine themselves properly. In rural areas, there was an initial failure from officials in sticking quarantine stickers in front of houses with people in isolation and checking if they were following quarantine rules. On the other hand, city corporation officials were strict on the same.” Despite containment measures such as contact tracing and isolation, both Periyanaickenpalayam and Annur panchayats continue to see at least five to 10 fresh cases a week. At Periyanaickenpalayam, most affected areas are Govanur, Veerapandi and Jothipuram. Kadhiravamurthy, executive officer, Periyanaickenpalayam panchayat, said, “While a few returnees from other districts tested positive for the virus, others were contacts of earlier patients like their family members. In some cases, people who went to hospitals for other reasons were found positive. We suspect that they might have contracted the virus from the hospital.” Annur, meanwhile, managed to control the Tablighi cluster to 39 cases, 27 of who were contacts of the remaining 12 patients. At least 16 police officers also contracted the virus in the area. “Besides them, we had a person from Trichy who infected six others and a Rajasthan returnee who infected another six people. The remaining were stray cases,” said the executive officer of Annur panchayat. “There is no community spread, because we are strict on contact tracing, testing and other containment measures.” South Pollachi and Anamalai, which were Covid-19 hotspots during the Tablighi Jamaat cluster outbreak and its aftermath, have just two active covid-19 cases each. “Since they are primarily tribal forest areas or agriculture lands, they are naturally socially distanced, making isolation easier and more effective,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rural-areas-contain-virus-spread-record-just-703-cases-till-aug-3/articleshow/77423169.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Dy CM tells PMRDA to speed up Metro 3rd line land work||Pune: PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase on Friday said deputy chief minister and guardian minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro project and stressed on speeding up land acquisition for the work.Diwase said 75% land acquisition has been completed for the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (PMRDA) third Metro line. The senior official told TOI that while the state agencies have provided land for the project, while talks were on with the central government agencies for the purpose. “The entire work will be taken up soon. All work related to the demolition of the University and E-square flyovers will be done within the August 10-11 deadline and work related to the Metro will be simultaneously taken up,” Diwase said,Pawar on Friday also told the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to speed up the survey for the tunnel from Pashan, Panchwati to Paud Road. “A green signal from defence department has come for the study. The civic administration should carry out fast,” Pawar said during a a meeting with civic officials. The PMC had in its 2017 budget of 2017 proposed this tunnel. A surveyor has been appointed the project. Times News Network||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-tells-pmrda-to-speed-up-metro-3rd-line-land-work/articleshow/77423175.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||133 adolescent workers found in mills||Coimbatore: Almost 10 days after rescuing 40 adolescent workers from a private spinning mill at Alathur on the outskirts of Tirupur, an inspection led by superintendent of police Disha Mittal along with officials from labour department on Thursday found 133 more adolescent workers – 118 girls and 15 boys – working in the same mill. On July 28, officials from the district administration inspected the spinning mill and rescued 40 adolescent workers – 37 girls and 3 boys who were brought in from different districts including Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Vellore. They were accommodated at Child Care Institutions (CCIs) at Palladam, Periyar Colony and Thanneerpandal. Meanwhile, a Tiruvannamalai-based activist CN Sivababu filed a habeas corpus petition at the Madras high court on Thursday seeking the whereabouts of six adolescents who had come to Tirupur to work in the mill. Based on the petition, the team led by superintendent of police Disha Mittal inspected the spinning mill. “During the inspection, we found 133 adolescent workers – 118 girls and 15 boys – working at the mill. Of which, we had rescued four adolescents and one adult, who were mentioned in the petition, and accommodated them at a home. Another person mentioned in the petition had left a couple of days ago and we have alerted the Tiruvannamalai police about it,” the official sad. The rescued labourers were produced before the judicial magistrate through video conferencing. “During which, they informed the court that they are working out of their own will,” the official said. District child protection officer (DCPO) M Selvam said, “No one aged below 14 years were found at the mill. As per the norms, the adolescents can work on specific conditions such as that they should not be forced to do overtime. We are enquiring them. Based on which, further action would be taken.” Moreover, as the workers are brought from Tiruvannamalai and neighbouring districts in the last two months without e-pass, police officials have filed a case against the mill owner. Meanwhile, collector K Vijayakarthikeyan made arrangements to sent the rescued 40 adolescent workers aged between 14 and 18 years to their respective districts on Friday. In a statement, the collector said he directed officials concerned to inspect the factories and industries in the district to check whether child labourers are working on their premises. He further warned the industries employing child workers of serious action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/133-adolescent-workers-found-in-mills/articleshow/77423181.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Mafia, middlemen no longer exists in secretariat or CM office, says Rawat||Dehradun: In a direct attack on the alleged corruption in the previous Congress government, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday said that “the mafia and 'dalals', which were active earlier, can no longer be seen in the CM office, residence of secretariat". “The people who had donned the role of liaison officers are no longer visible due to our zero tolerance for corruption stand,” the CM said after inaugurating the Subordinate Services Selection Commission (SSSC) office at Raipur road. On the multi-crore rice scam, whose audit report submitted recently revealed multiple discrepancies in the procurement process, Rawat said that earlier rice was supplied on documents only, whereas the actual beneficiaries were deprived of it. “Audit and that too by a third party is mandatory to bring transparency in the system. If we compare with others, our government is providing good quality rice to people,” he added. The CM pointed out that the scam was done in the previous Congress government and when the matter was brought to his knowledge, he ordered a thorough probe. Rawat did not rule out the possibilities of audit in other departments as well. He, however, said, “It is done only after substantial inputs are received about corruption. Audits are important to win the confidence of people, who have voted us for good governance.” In the same breath, he added at the start of any project, it is important to announce the deadline and the authorities need to ensure that the work is completed within the stipulated time. “In this way, we will save surplus expenditures and time. It is important that people get the due facility at the right time,” the CM said. On the issue of Covid-19, he said that the numbers have gone up and are likely to increase further. “The WHO took has maintained that it will take some time to find a vaccine. Therefore, till the time we get a vaccine, it is advisable and safe to take all due precautions and maintain social distancing norms,” he added. The CM maintained that the SSSC has done a commendable job in the last three years. He added, “It came into existence in 2014, and in the last three years jobs have been provided to 6,500 people – out of which 4,000 have already joined - and the process is on to employ another 2,500 people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mafia-middlemen-no-longer-exists-in-secretariat-or-cm-office-says-rawat/articleshow/77420767.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||'Ram temple to be quake-resistant with 1,000-year life span'||AYODHYA: The Ram temple in Ayodhya will be designed to endure large-magnitude earthquakes and will have a lifespan of at least 1,000 years. “Pillars in the foundation will be strong and deep like those holding aloft mammoth bridges straddling mighty rivers, making the structure robust and quake-resistant,” said Champat Rai, general secretary, Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on Friday. Intricate details of the design will be ready soon, he said. Talking to reporters at Karsewakpuram in Ayodhya, he emphasised the Ram temple will be able withstand any natural calamity for thousands of years. “Artefacts unearthed during digging and levelling of the temple site, including centuries-old relics will be exhibited in the temple premises,” he said. Talking about funds for constructing the temple, he said, the Trust account has a current balance of Rs 42 crore, received from donations ranging from Re 1 to Rs 1 crore. “At least 20,000 seers across India participated in the temple movement and it wasn’t possible to invite all. We could send invites to only 90 seers from outside Ayodhya and 52 from the temple town,” he said. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rai said, “Despite drawing criticism in time of crisis, the PM visited Ayodhya and offered prayers to Ram Lalla and paid his respects to seers. People across India celebrated the historic moment.” He also revealed that Larsen & Turbo officials, who will execute the project, visited him on Thursday and told him the map of the foundation was in final stages. “We will get the map passed by Ayodhya Development Authority and will pay the fees. We are not seeking any fee exemption,” he said. Read this story in BengaliWatch Ram temple to be quake-resistant with 1,000-year life span, says Ram Temple Trust general secretary||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-to-be-quake-resistant-with-1000-yr-life-span-says-trust/articleshow/77423996.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||Declare 2019-20 as zero year: MPSD students stage a sit-in||BHOPAL: Students of the 2019-20 batch of Madhya Pradesh School of Drama (MPSD) staged a sit-in at the Sanskriti Bhawan on Friday, demanding that the school administration hold classes — when government allows — for the remaining four months of their course. Students say, the administration has started the adminstation process for the new batch and is planning to wrap up four-months’ worth of their course in 15 days. To follow social distancing norms, three students of the batch staged the sit-in on behalf of their class. Priam Jain, one of the students who was at the sit-in said, “The graduates of MPSB get jobs at good institutes and theatre companies. If the students of the 2019-20 batch do not know the basic techniques and theories then they might not be eligible for good jobs. The students are demanding that 2019-20 be declared a ‘zero-year’.” “We have written to the culture department, and asked our director to hold regular classes for us once the government gives permission to reopen educational institutes. There are many students who get admission here after 2-3 attempts, and some who are graduates and post graduates in theatre, who have all worked hard to be here, how can we leave without learning everything that the course offers?,” said Jain. He added, “We had a few online classes in June and July, but theatre is a performing art. How can we learn something like theatre through online classes? We could not even get to do the demos. Besides, MPSD asks all batches to participate in four productions, we have only done 2 so far.” Director MPSD, Alok Chatterjee said, “The students came to me earlier and gave me a written application about the same. As MPSD comes under the department of culture, I sent the same letter to the culture department for the minister to take a call on the issue. The culture department allocates budget and scholarship funds for the students here, the decision will only be made by the department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/declare-2019-20-as-zero-year-mpsd-students-stage-a-sit-in/articleshow/77420683.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Ministerial staff transfer policy lacking: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Observing that the grievance redressal mechanism provided in the state education department policy regarding transfer of its ministerial staff is “not wholly adequate”, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government whether a “better mechanism” can be worked out. “Prima facie at least this court would find that the grievance redressal mechanism provided in the policy is not wholly adequate and therefore the additional chief secretary (school education) would state as to what better mechanism can be provided therein to ensure timely disposal of all such grievances, with a single person, i.e. the director general secondary education, not being (seemingly at least) able to handle all grievances received from all over the state single-handedly. As regards any genuine grievances of petitioners qua their transfers, those would also be looked into in earnest and speaking orders passed in each case, by the competent authority,” the HC observed. The additional chief secretary (school education) has also been asked to file response on the issue and place on record some of the representations received prior to issuance of the policy to determine as to whether all grievances raised have been actually considered or not. Justice Amol Rattan Singh has fixed next hearing of the case on August 31. The matter reached the high court after a petition was filed by Ram Niwas and several others, who were working as clerks in the state’s school education department, seeking directions to make necessary amendments in the Online Transfer Policy of Ministerial Staff, 2020, of the department, after taking into consideration the objections/grievances raised by them in their legal notice dated July 7. According to the petitioners, the policy is arbitrary as it has been issued without considering their representations and legal notice. They also submitted that with no person allowed to represent until after he has joined his place of posting and then also to only one person, i.e. the director general, secondary education, there can be no effective redressal of any grievance, especially with the number of representations that a single person would obviously receive. The counsel for the petitioner, therefore, prayed for a stay of all transfers made in the light of the said policy. Strongly opposing the petition, Haryana additional advocate general Ravinder Singh Dhull submitted that the policy was issued after duly considering the grievances that have been received by them and therefore that contention of the petitioners does not deserve to be accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-ministerial-staff-transfer-policy-lacking/articleshow/77423203.cms||Ajay Sura
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||No lockdown in Uttarakhand this weekend||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has decided not to enforce a lockdown in any district during the weekend. For two weeks, the state authorities had put in place a weekend lockdown in four districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital. However, it was lifted last week in the wake of the Raksha Bandhan festival on Monday. This weekend too, the state government has decided to discontinue with the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-lockdown-in-ukhand-this-weekend/articleshow/77420797.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||’07 attire controversy: Follower sends notice to dera top brass||Bathinda: Following the controversy about the attire worn by Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in 2007, which led to clashes between Sikhs and sect followers, dera follower Ashok Kumar has served a legal notice to three senior functionaries of the dera in Sirsa and another at dera branch Salabatpura in Bathinda. He has given them seven days time to respond to his queries, failing which he has threatened to approach the court. In the nine-page notice served through his lawyer, Ashok has asked the dera functionaries to clarify which dera follower had arranged the attire, who was the dera functionary who collected the dress, who released the photos of dera head in that attire to newspapers, who paid for the advertisements in the newspapers and who conspired for clashes in Punjab over dera head wearing that outfit. Ashok said it is due to some conspiracy hatched internally that the dera and dera head had to face such a situation. It has been mentioned that the dera chief worn that dress either on May 12 or 13, 2007 after which that members of Sikh organisations opposed it and a case was registered at Bathinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/07-attire-controversy-follower-sends-notice-to-dera-top-brass/articleshow/77423220.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||4 PFI, SDPI men held for posts on ‘bhoomi pujan’||LUCKNOW: The district media in charge of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) were among four persons arrested by Bahraich and Lucknow police for uploading objectionable posts about Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. PFI and SDPI had also made headlines when they were accused of provoking people to resort to violence during protests against the amended citizenship law. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra said the arrested men were identified as Dr Aleem, Saibe Alam and Kamruddin. Mishra said police received information that some people near Heera Masjid were sitting in the clinic of Dr Aleem and forwarding messages on WhatsApp and tweeting objectionable comments to disturb peace and communal harmony. Police said Dr Aleem and Alam were members of WhatsApp group of SDPI and another social media group named SDPI political news, whose administrators were from Dubai. “Administrator of the WhatAapp group, Alam, had asked all the members of the group to circulate objectionable messages and posts on social media. Such messages were being circulated since August 4,” said sub-inspector, Jarwal road police station, Brijraj Prasad. An FIR was lodged against the accused under charges of vilification or attack on the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, speaking words against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings, and whoever, with deliberate intention of hurting religious feelings. Meanwhile, Lucknow police also arrested Abdul Majeed, a native of New Delhi, who was staying in Kakori and teaching at a madrassa, for spreading hatred on WhatsApp and Twitter. SHO, Kakori, Pramendra Singh said Majeed was a member of Popular Front of India (PFI) and a probe about his other aides is also underway. Meanwhile, in a statement, PFI said Uttar Pradesh police was harassing innocent Muslims. The press release also mentioned the names of Dr Aleem, Kamruddin, Sahibe Alam and Abdul Majeed who were arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-pfi-sdpi-men-held-for-posts-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77424054.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Allahabad||4 PFI, SDPI men held for posts on ‘bhoomi pujan’||LUCKNOW: The district media in charge of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) were among four persons arrested by Bahraich and Lucknow police for uploading objectionable posts about Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. PFI and SDPI had also made headlines when they were accused of provoking people to resort to violence during protests against the amended citizenship law. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra said the arrested men were identified as Dr Aleem, Saibe Alam and Kamruddin. Mishra said police received information that some people near Heera Masjid were sitting in the clinic of Dr Aleem and forwarding messages on WhatsApp and tweeting objectionable comments to disturb peace and communal harmony. Police said Dr Aleem and Alam were members of WhatsApp group of SDPI and another social media group named SDPI political news, whose administrators were from Dubai. “Administrator of the WhatAapp group, Alam, had asked all the members of the group to circulate objectionable messages and posts on social media. Such messages were being circulated since August 4,” said sub-inspector, Jarwal road police station, Brijraj Prasad. An FIR was lodged against the accused under charges of vilification or attack on the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, speaking words against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings, and whoever, with deliberate intention of hurting religious feelings. Meanwhile, Lucknow police also arrested Abdul Majeed, a native of New Delhi, who was staying in Kakori and teaching at a madrassa, for spreading hatred on WhatsApp and Twitter. SHO, Kakori, Pramendra Singh said Majeed was a member of Popular Front of India (PFI) and a probe about his other aides is also underway. Meanwhile, in a statement, PFI said Uttar Pradesh police was harassing innocent Muslims. The press release also mentioned the names of Dr Aleem, Kamruddin, Sahibe Alam and Abdul Majeed who were arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-pfi-sdpi-men-held-for-posts-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77425781.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Kanpur||4 PFI, SDPI men held for posts on ‘bhoomi pujan’||LUCKNOW: The district media in charge of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) were among four persons arrested by Bahraich and Lucknow police for uploading objectionable posts about Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. PFI and SDPI had also made headlines when they were accused of provoking people to resort to violence during protests against the amended citizenship law. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra said the arrested men were identified as Dr Aleem, Saibe Alam and Kamruddin. Mishra said police received information that some people near Heera Masjid were sitting in the clinic of Dr Aleem and forwarding messages on WhatsApp and tweeting objectionable comments to disturb peace and communal harmony. Police said Dr Aleem and Alam were members of WhatsApp group of SDPI and another social media group named SDPI political news, whose administrators were from Dubai. “Administrator of the WhatAapp group, Alam, had asked all the members of the group to circulate objectionable messages and posts on social media. Such messages were being circulated since August 4,” said sub-inspector, Jarwal road police station, Brijraj Prasad. An FIR was lodged against the accused under charges of vilification or attack on the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, speaking words against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings, and whoever, with deliberate intention of hurting religious feelings. Meanwhile, Lucknow police also arrested Abdul Majeed, a native of New Delhi, who was staying in Kakori and teaching at a madrassa, for spreading hatred on WhatsApp and Twitter. SHO, Kakori, Pramendra Singh said Majeed was a member of Popular Front of India (PFI) and a probe about his other aides is also underway. Meanwhile, in a statement, PFI said Uttar Pradesh police was harassing innocent Muslims. The press release also mentioned the names of Dr Aleem, Kamruddin, Sahibe Alam and Abdul Majeed who were arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-pfi-sdpi-men-held-for-posts-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77425780.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Meerut||Farmers of western UP go bananas as crop catches fancy of the sugarcane growers||MEERUT: Nothing catches the fancy of western UP farmers more than the promise of a good return combined with a fuss-free life offered by a low-maintenance crop. Sugarcane fit the bill and filled the vast swathes of the region for generations. But heads are turning now, and bananas are making inroads into the sugarcane fields, slowly but steadily. From around 250 hectares last year, patches of banana plantation are dotting about 466 hectares this year. “It offers twice the return as compared to the sugarcane, and is also almost disease free,” says a smiling Rajnish Tyagi in Datyana village of Hapur, who, while growing up, never saw any other crop than sugarcane around him. Farmers are taking up banana plantations in over 12 districts of western UP, including Ghaziabad, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr and Baghpat. Experts see a bright future for the cash crop in the region. “The bananas being grown in these 466 hectares will meet just 10% of the requirements of their districts. Rest will come from outside,” an agriculture scientist said. People in the region eat bananas grown in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and in a few pockets of UP like Maharajganj, Lucknow and Sitapur. Vice-chancellor of Meerut’s Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Agriculture University, RK Mittal, recounted the banana’s journey in the region so far. “In 2017, the department of biotechnology (DBT) entrusted us with the task of developing multiple saplings of disease-free bananas through a method called tissue culture. The three-year programme had the target to train 100 farmers and motivate them to cultivate banana crops here. Today, we have around 280 farmers benefiting from the initiative and the cultivation area is only increasing each season,” Mittal said. RS Sengar, a professor of biotechnology at the agriculture university, adds, “The university through the tissue culture technique developed multiple saplings of special variety of disease-free banana in much lesser time than the conventional methods and motivated farmers to sow the carbohydrate-rich fruit which yields more than the double as compared to the sugarcane.” Farmers growing bananas are quite upbeat. “I shifted to the banana plantation a couple of years ago and never regretted it. On an average a farmer earns Rs 10,000 per bigha of land under cane cultivation. Banana production in the same area of land yields double the earnings,” says Rajinder Singh of Bijnor. There is geographical advantage too. “We are very close to Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi as compared to eastern UP. We are certainly better placed,” said Tyagi. In the eastern UP, the banana is grown in about 67,000 hectares of land. “It is just a beginning here. Very soon bananas will catch up with the sugarcane here,” a scientist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-of-western-up-go-bananas-as-crop-catches-fancy-of-the-sugarcane-growers/articleshow/77420813.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 8, 2020||Pune||Extend the state's free treatment benefit to all for a year: Activists||Pune: Health activists have urged the state government to extend the period of availing the benefit of the free treatment under the Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJY) beyond July 31.The activists said many have suffered financial setbacks because of Covid-19 and the financial losses have necessitated the need for free treatment for at least a year. "The state government should not only promise to extend the benefit of free treatment to all beyond July 31 but also issue a GR," a medical practitioner and health activist Abhijit More said.When contacted, state health minister Rajesh Tope said, "We are going to extend the benefit of free treatment beyond July 31. The GR will be issued soon." Tope did not divulge details about the period of extension, whether it would cover all citizens irrespective of their financial status and whether the free treatment benefit (without financial riders) will be applicable to all the listed diseases and disorders including Covid-19 or it will only be applicable for Covid-19 treatment. A total of 3,293 Covid-19 patients have availed the benefit of free treatment at empanelled private hospitals in the Pune Metropolitan Region under the health scheme between May 23 and July 31. The number of beneficiaries clearly indicates poor awareness about the scheme among the masses.Till July 31, about 55,000 infected patients were discharged from different hospitals in the PMR after they were declared cured. That simply means only 6% of the infected patients who required hospitalisation have availed the benefit of free treatment in the PMR so far. Experts and health activists have urged state and civic health authorities to initiate efforts to popularise the scheme's free treatment benefits. A total of 23 private hospitals that include prominent trust hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been given authorization by the state government to offer free treatment to moderate and severely-ill infected patients irrespective of their financial status."The maximum 1,556 beneficiaries - who availed of the free Covid-19 treatment till July 31 - are residents of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits and another 1,496 beneficiaries are of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The remaining 241 are rural parts of Pune," Amol Maske, regional manager of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJY) told TOI.On May 1, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope had first announced that all citizens would be covered under the state government's health scheme MJPJY irrespective of their financial status. Rules were amended during lockdown to include all ration card holders under MPJAY so that financial constraint should not be an obstacle in accessing timely treatment for anyone."Looking at the number of beneficiaries, the scheme has not been used to its fullest potential. There is almost no rider. Anyone can avail the benefit irrespective of the income slab. Producing documents like ration card of any colour and Aadhar card at the time of admission is also not mandatory. The documents can be furnished after seeking hospitalisation," said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter.The break up of beneficiaries who availed free Covid-19 treatment at empanelled private hospitals in the PMR till July 31Area Number of beneficiaries Pimpri Chinchwad (PCMC) 1,556Pune city (PMC) 1,496Pune rural 241 Total 3,293BOXPoor awareness about the scheme Only 5% of the cured/recovered patients have availd the benefit of the free treatment under the state's health scheme in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extend-the-states-free-treatment-benefit-to-all-for-a-year-activists/articleshow/77423223.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 8, 2020||Patna||Quarantined Patna SP returns from Mumbai||Patna: The IPS officer from Bihar, Vinay Tiwari, whose quarantine in Mumbai had sparked a war of words between Bihar and Maharashtra governments, returned to Patna late Friday evening after being released by the Mumbai civic authorities earlier in the day. Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey took to Twitter to thank the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for exempting the Patna SP (central) from the 14-day quarantine. In his tweet, the DGP mentioned how the state police had to write two letters to the BMC commissioner before the request was granted and that too only after the Supreme Court’s adverse oral observations on Tiwari’s quarantine. The IPS officer was allegedly forcibly quarantined on Sunday, within eight hours of his landing in Mumbai to coordinate with the Mumbai police in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The IPS officer boarded a flight to Patna from Mumbai via Hyderabad on Friday. The BMC had written a letter to ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Thursday giving the nod to exempt Tiwari under the clause that his stay was of less than seven days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantined-patna-sp-returns-from-mumbai/articleshow/77422069.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar seer performs last rites for 50 Covid patients from Delhi whose ashes remained unclaimed||Haridwar: As ashes of deceased Covid-19 patients pile up across crematoriums in several cities, with families refusing to collect them or waiting for a better time to travel, a Haridwar-based seer is on a mission to provide dignity to the dead. On Friday, Swami Rajeshwaranand immersed ashes from 50 urns — which belonged to bodies of Covid-19 patients that had never been claimed — in river Ganga. The urns or ‘asthi kalash' had been lying for months in Nigambodh Ghat in Delhi. As per Hindu rituals, the last step in the final rites of a person is to consign their ashes to a river. Rajeshwaranand, who performed the ritual on Satighat in Kankhal, was in Delhi to stay at an ashram last month when he started going to Nigambodh Ghat to perform last rites of deceased Covid-19 patients. “Many families did not want to perform last rites out of fear of infection so I decided to do it for them,” said the seer, who belongs to Shri Rajmataji ashram in Haridwar’s Bhoopatwala. Within days, Rajeshwaranand also contracted the infection. “I could not go out for several days but when I got well I learned that there were ashes piled up at the creation ground that no one was willing to dispose of as they had not been claimed,” he told TOI. So Rajeshwaranand picked up 50 of the urns and brought them to Haridwar. The seer is now contacting other crematoriums and says that he will immerse unclaimed ashes from there as well into river Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-seer-performs-last-rites-for-50-covid-patients-from-delhi-whose-ashes-remained-unclaimed/articleshow/77420818.cms||MS Nawaz
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Sanitation workers, gardeners’ protest suspended for 10 days||Haridwar: A week-long protest by sanitation workers and gardeners in Gurukul Kangri University was “suspended for 10 days” from Friday following a dialogue between vice-chancellor Roop Kishore Shastri and Amiya Lal Valmiki, a sanitation workers' leader. The employees had been on a strike since July 31 protesting against the university's decision to replace them with outsourced staff. While the university argued that it was only implementing a UGC order of 2002, the sanitation workers and gardeners said they will “not budge an inch unless their demands are met”. According to Sanjai Kumar, president of the university unit of Akhil Bharatiya Safai Mazdoor Sangh, Valmiki asked the VC to withhold for 10 days the process of tendering which the university was initiating to outsource the Group D staff, as per the UGC order. With the VC agreeing to the demand, the striking employees announced the strike suspension during the 10-day period. "If our demands are not met, the strike will be resumed," he said. However, registrar Dinesh Chandra Bhatt claimed that the strike had been called off. The 51 sanitation workers and 21 gardeners on strike have been working in the university for the past 18 years. While some of them are daily wage workers, others get fixed emoluments, as per university rules. The UGC order says that the Group D (or class 4) employees including sanitation workers, gardeners and security staff should be outsourced and given the benefits of employees provident fund, medical facility and insurance which are not due to daily wage workers, Bhatt said regretting that the "striking employees do not understand it". An audit report of the financial year 2018-19 "has taken exception to the university not implementing the UGC order," Bhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sanitation-workers-gardeners-protest-suspended-for-10-days/articleshow/77420840.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 8, 2020||Varanasi||4 PFI, SDPI men held for posts on ‘bhoomi pujan’||LUCKNOW: The district media in charge of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) were among four persons arrested by Bahraich and Lucknow police for uploading objectionable posts about Ram temple bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. PFI and SDPI had also made headlines when they were accused of provoking people to resort to violence during protests against the amended citizenship law. Superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra said the arrested men were identified as Dr Aleem, Saibe Alam and Kamruddin. Mishra said police received information that some people near Heera Masjid were sitting in the clinic of Dr Aleem and forwarding messages on WhatsApp and tweeting objectionable comments to disturb peace and communal harmony. Police said Dr Aleem and Alam were members of WhatsApp group of SDPI and another social media group named SDPI political news, whose administrators were from Dubai. “Administrator of the WhatAapp group, Alam, had asked all the members of the group to circulate objectionable messages and posts on social media. Such messages were being circulated since August 4,” said sub-inspector, Jarwal road police station, Brijraj Prasad. An FIR was lodged against the accused under charges of vilification or attack on the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, speaking words against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings, and whoever, with deliberate intention of hurting religious feelings. Meanwhile, Lucknow police also arrested Abdul Majeed, a native of New Delhi, who was staying in Kakori and teaching at a madrassa, for spreading hatred on WhatsApp and Twitter. SHO, Kakori, Pramendra Singh said Majeed was a member of Popular Front of India (PFI) and a probe about his other aides is also underway. Meanwhile, in a statement, PFI said Uttar Pradesh police was harassing innocent Muslims. The press release also mentioned the names of Dr Aleem, Kamruddin, Sahibe Alam and Abdul Majeed who were arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/4-pfi-sdpi-men-held-for-posts-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77425779.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Tourist from Thailand raped in Haryana's Hisar, hotel owner arrested||HISAR: A 40-year-old woman tourist from Thailand, who came to Hisar on Thursday night with friends, was gang-raped by the owner-cum-manager of a local hotel and his accomplice. The police have arrested the hotel owner, while the other accused is said to be absconding. The police said based on the complaint of the woman, a case has been registered against Gulshan Kumar, the owner of Regency Hotel, situated at Red Square Market in Hisar, and another person under Section 376-D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code. In her complaint, the rape survivor said she had come to Delhi on March 3, from where she came to Hisar, along with some of her friends, on the night of August 6 and stayed at the hotel. The woman said she was drunk when Gulshan raped her. When the other person tried to rape her, she ran out of the hotel and sat near the road. When some passersby saw her sitting there, they sent her to the woman police station, from where she was sent to the HTM police station, she said. Police spokesperson Vikas said after conducting a medical examination of the woman and registering a case, the hotel owner-cum-manager has been arrested. He is also being interrogated about the whereabouts of the other accused, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/tourist-from-thailand-raped-in-hisar-hotel-owner-arrested/articleshow/77423212.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Popular dine-in restaurants break the seal on cloud kitchens in Pune||PUNE: Some popular dine-in eateries across the city have launched cloud kitchens to ensure some business after suffering five months of losses. Evolving into new brands, the cloud kitchens are serving a new pandemic-inspired menu, including homestyle, comfort food and immunity-boosting preparations. The menu is also priced relatively lower than the regular menu since it is solely available for delivery. The concept of a cloud kitchen involves renting only a kitchen or a cooking space and catering only to delivery orders, hence cutting out any other added expenditure of running a full-fledged restaurant, such as wait staff, cutlery and space. “With the increase in deliveries, before lockdown, we launched a few cloud kitchen brands namely Soul Tadka in Mumbai and Chan’s Chinese kitchen in Pune with a view to diversify our revenue streams by leveraging our current infrastructure. This helped us maintain and grow our base as customers are more likely to order from tried and tested places,” said Rachel Goenka, chief executive officer of The Chocolate Spoon Company that owns The Sassy Spoon, Barazza Bars and Bites, House of Mandarin and Wicked China. “The cuisines are completely different from what we offer within our existing restaurants and also provide more economical options without compromising on quality and taste since we aren’t burdened with heavy overheads,” she added. Restaurants have to change their operations to adapt to the current market requirements by considering post-pandemic conditions. One such shift in consumer behaviour during the lockdown is the increase in demand for comfort food. With stress levels running high, comfort food helps people cope in the times of uncertainty. Karan Khilnani, partner at the gastropub Elephant & Co, said, “The menu is designed according to the vibe and concept of pub culture. We did not want to drastically play with the image so we began The Canteen by Elephant & Co and Kathi Roll Inc to cater to our patrons’ needs at home. Both cloud kitchen brands are completely delivery-focused with an emphasis on packaging and freshness even post-preparation as the time taken for the food to reach the customer is more.” The pizza joint Bubsterr’s has also launched three economical and delivery-friendly cloud kitchen brands, altering their pre-Covid plans of expansion across the city. Vidur Mehmi, partner at Bubsterr’s, said, “Although the plan has been modified due to the lockdown, it gave us an opportunity to create new and innovative brands/products to suit the delivery-only model. Affordable, clean, hygienic food that can last longer travel times than delivery options from a primarily dine-in outlet. So, during the lockdown period we created three sub-brands that are completely different from the regular Bubsterr’s menu.” He said they have introduced Bubbawala dabba, ready-to-eat packed meal boxes to be delivered at the doorstep on subscription basis. “This mainly consists of Maharashtrian, Punjabi, even Parsee home-cooked meals which come from our homes. The Bub-Freeze, ready-to-eat frozen pizza is available at retail stores and Carnivore, which offers big American cheeseburgers,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/popular-dine-in-restaurants-break-the-seal-on-cloud-kitchens/articleshow/77423218.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||Rains drench most parts of South Gujarat||Surat: Umarpada taluka of Surat district recorded 140 mm rainfall in just four hours on Friday leading waterlogging is several low lying areas. According to Surat flood control officials, the entire district received widespread rainfall on Friday. Surat city also received light to moderate rainfall on Friday with Katargam recording the the highest rainfall of 45 mm followed by 39mm in Varachha (A), 38mm in central zone, 36mm in Rander, 31mm in Limbayat, 29mm in Athwa and 25 mm in Udhna zone. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heavy rainfall warning for Saturday for South Gujarat region. “Heavy to very heavy rains are very likely at isolated places in the districts of South Gujarat region namely Narmada and Surat. Heavy rains at isolated places is expected in the districts namely Aravalli, Panchmahal, Dahod, Mahisagar, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Bharuch, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad and Union Territory of Daman and Dadra Nagar Haveli,” stated the IMD forecast bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rains-drench-most-parts-of-south-gujarat/articleshow/77421041.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Valuables worth over Rs 84k stolen in separate burglaries||Pune: Burglars targeted a dental clinic, liquor shop and a vegetable shop in Pimpri Chinchwad in separate burglaries and made off with valuables, collectively worth Rs84,500. The thefts occurred between Wednesday and Thursday in Pimpri and Dehu Road. A 27-year-old dentist lodged a first information report with the Pimpri police on Thursday stating that unidentified men broke the locks of the clinic’s shutter in Pimpri in the early hours and stole her laptop and cash, collectively worth Rs10,500. Around the same time, unidentified men also broke into a vegetable shop at Ajmera colony in Pimpri and swiftly decamped with cash and a cellphone, collectively worth Rs4,000. Rahul Agarwal (23) lodged a first information report with the Pimpri police in this regard. Meanwhile, in the early house of Thursday, suspects broke into a liquor shop in Ravet and decamped with Rs70,000, police said. The shopowner Somnath Kate (48) lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police. Kate in his complaint stated that the suspects entered his shop by breaking the window’s glass and stole the cash kept on the counter. “We are investigating the case,” an officer from the Pimpri police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-worth-over-rs-84k-stolen-in-separate-burglaries/articleshow/77423227.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Meerut||Woman declares hubby dead, draws widow pension for a year; husband blows the lid off||Meerut: Beginning the day they got married, Babu Lal never underestimated Sheela Devi, his smart wife. He knew she was capable of pulling off any feat. But, recently, when Lal stumbled on his death certificate and a few other documents suggesting that Devi was drawing widow pension for the last one year after pronouncing him dead, it was too much, way beyond his expectation. Devi even surprised the government officials in Bulandshahr who were wondering how someone can get hold of a death certificate for a man who is still alive. They were also shocked how Devi managed to get the widow pension for over a year without the con being found out. They launched a probe into the entire matter, which was brought to their notice by Lal.An angry Lal had shot off a letter to the district authorities telling them about his wife’s escapade. She allegedly enjoyed the government perks -- including the monthly pension of Rs 500-- extended to the widows for over a year before being caught by her husband.Lal, who is in his late 60s, ailing and almost bedridden, will now have to prove before the authorities that he is alive. Social development officer Nagendra Pal Singh said, “The complainant did not mention any contact number. I have formed a team to investigate the matter. The team is trying to zero in on the complainant. It is extremely difficult to get a death certificate and then procure widow pension on its basis. Even then, since we have got the complaint, the team will investigate all the 45,000 widow pension cases in Bulandshahr.”Senior officials, on condition of anonymity, said that if the matter turns out to be true, it will be a case of “serious lapse.”Notably, widow pension scams have been reported from many districts of the state in the past 2-3 years with the latest being an incident in Sitapur in November 2018 where 22 married women were found drawing widow pensions in the name of their husbands who were alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-declares-hubby-dead-draws-widow-pension-for-a-year-husband-blows-the-lid-off/articleshow/77420850.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||MLA’s son’s agency named in LPG racket||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) busted a domestic gas theft racket on Friday and booked three men for theft. The cops have booked drivers of two tempos and a man working in godown for stealing LPG from bottles. The police said that two of the accused are associated with the gas agency owned by Hiren Sukhadia, son of BJP MLA Jitendra Sukhadia. “The two tempo drivers used to collect bottles from the gas agency owned by Hiren Sukhadia. They used to take the bottles to a godown in Jalaram Nagar in Karelibaug and steal LPG. The third accused used to work in the godown whose owner is yet to be traced,” said M R Solanki, SOG police inspector. “We are in the process of arresting the accused,” Solanki said. Solanki added that they are yet to question Hiren in connection with the case. This is the second such case in connection with the gas agency owned by Hiren. In September last year, the Sama police had booked two delivery agents of the agency for stealing LPG from the bottles. The district supply office had caught the tempo driver and helper while stealing the gas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mlas-sons-agency-named-in-lpg-racket/articleshow/77420376.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab transport department records 81% shortfall in July||CHANDIGARH: As the fear of Covid-19 is keeping most of people away from travelling in buses, the Punjab transport department has registered nearly 81% shortfall in collection of receipts from bus tickets in July as compared to the average receipts in pre-Covid months. The department could collect around Rs 7.75 crore (19%) receipts in July though its per month collection was an average Rs 40 crore per month before March, said state transport director Bhupinder Singh. Hardly 25% of the state transport department buses and nearly 5% private transport buses were operational on select routes in the state in July. Punjab Roadways have a fleet of 1,255 buses, Punbus has 600 buses and PRTC 1,200. There are 18 depots of Punjab Roadways and Punbus across Punjab, and nine of PRTC. There are nearly 13,000 private buses in Punjab. “We are going to increase operations of our fleet up to 40% by Saturday. This will also help us in increasing our receipts,” said the director. With the increase in diesel prices, private operators were also not finding their business viable, and even less than 5% of private buses were on roads, the officer said. The state transport buses used to have maximum passengers during the four days around the Rakshabandhan festival, which was even more than those travelling during Diwali. “This time, there were not even 25% passengers,” he added. The department has not yet started running air-conditioned buses, though private operators are operating them on select routes, like Amritsar to Chandigarh. Congress’s Jalandhar North MLA and transporter Avtar Singh Junior, who owns a fleet of over 100 buses, says the situation is “very bad” and it has been nearly four months since private buses came to a grinding halt. Transporters are not able to pay salaries to the staff and some had even resorted to layoffs. According to him, there are not even 100 private buses plying in Punjab today and transporters see no hope of resuming operations in the next three-four months. “Unfortunately, neither the state government nor the central government try to speak to the transporters about their difficulties,” he rued. Private transporters provide direct employment to nearly 60,000 people and had requested the state government to waive off the special road tax (SRT). The MLA said crude oil prices had plummeted but its benefits were not passed on to transporters. “We never asked for an increase in fares because it would add to inflation. Our buses ferry the poor people, who do not own vehicles,” he said. Transporters are also demanding that diesel prices should be reduced. Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contract Workers’ Union president Resham Singh Gill said rather than taking government buses, people now prefer travelling in their own cars or two-wheelers. Though the Punjab government has allowed full occupancy of buses, its buses run on around 70% occupancy during the normal course. A journey is viable only if a bus runs with at least 20 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-transport-dept-records-81-shortfall-in-july-receipts-from-buses/articleshow/77426392.cms||Sanjeev Verma
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab transport department records 81% shortfall in July||CHANDIGARH: As the fear of Covid-19 is keeping most of people away from travelling in buses, the Punjab transport department has registered nearly 81% shortfall in collection of receipts from bus tickets in July as compared to the average receipts in pre-Covid months. The department could collect around Rs 7.75 crore (19%) receipts in July though its per month collection was an average Rs 40 crore per month before March, said state transport director Bhupinder Singh. Hardly 25% of the state transport department buses and nearly 5% private transport buses were operational on select routes in the state in July. Punjab Roadways have a fleet of 1,255 buses, Punbus has 600 buses and PRTC 1,200. There are 18 depots of Punjab Roadways and Punbus across Punjab, and nine of PRTC. There are nearly 13,000 private buses in Punjab. “We are going to increase operations of our fleet up to 40% by Saturday. This will also help us in increasing our receipts,” said the director. With the increase in diesel prices, private operators were also not finding their business viable, and even less than 5% of private buses were on roads, the officer said. The state transport buses used to have maximum passengers during the four days around the Rakshabandhan festival, which was even more than those travelling during Diwali. “This time, there were not even 25% passengers,” he added. The department has not yet started running air-conditioned buses, though private operators are operating them on select routes, like Amritsar to Chandigarh. Congress’s Jalandhar North MLA and transporter Avtar Singh Junior, who owns a fleet of over 100 buses, says the situation is “very bad” and it has been nearly four months since private buses came to a grinding halt. Transporters are not able to pay salaries to the staff and some had even resorted to layoffs. According to him, there are not even 100 private buses plying in Punjab today and transporters see no hope of resuming operations in the next three-four months. “Unfortunately, neither the state government nor the central government try to speak to the transporters about their difficulties,” he rued. Private transporters provide direct employment to nearly 60,000 people and had requested the state government to waive off the special road tax (SRT). The MLA said crude oil prices had plummeted but its benefits were not passed on to transporters. “We never asked for an increase in fares because it would add to inflation. Our buses ferry the poor people, who do not own vehicles,” he said. Transporters are also demanding that diesel prices should be reduced. Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contract Workers’ Union president Resham Singh Gill said rather than taking government buses, people now prefer travelling in their own cars or two-wheelers. Though the Punjab government has allowed full occupancy of buses, its buses run on around 70% occupancy during the normal course. A journey is viable only if a bus runs with at least 20 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-transport-dept-records-81-shortfall-in-july-receipts-from-buses/articleshow/77426391.cms||Sanjeev Verma
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Submit list of all govt land: Doon DM||Dehradun: Acting against encroachment on all government lands in the city, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has asked the officials to prepare a land bank of all the government owned land that exists in Dehradun. The officials will submit a list of government land with details, including their category and current status within a weeks’ time. Once the list is prepared, the concerned Lekhpal (accountant) will issue a written declaration that no government land is encroached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/submit-list-of-all-govt-land-doon-dm/articleshow/77420885.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Meerut||In Meerut pvt hospital, manager is ‘doc’, paramedics Class X passouts||Meerut: No biomedical waste disposal facility, no Covid-19 test for incoming patients, a staff of paramedics who had passed Class X and a hospital manager “attending to” patients instead of doctors — an inspection of five private hospitals in Meerut revealed major cracks in the city’s health infrastructure.The chief medical officer on Friday served notices on the hospitals and a report has been filed with the health department. “There were no doctors in each of the five hospitals. Those who passed for doctors and paramedics had only studied up to Class X. There was no biomedical waste disposal facility. No social distancing was being followed and no patient was being tested for Covid-19,” Dr Anil Nausran, secretary of the Meerut unit of Indian Medical Association, said. He is one of eight members of the Infection Prevention and Control Protocol team that conducted the inspection last week.When the team arrived in each of the five hospitals, Dr Nausran said, the doctors mentioned in registration certificates were not to be found. “At one hospital, a woman was attending to Covid-19 patients in the out patient department. When approached, she said she was only ‘sitting there’ and was, in fact, the manager of the hospital,” he added. “In some hospitals, a few paramedics said they had BSc degrees. Not one MBBS-qualified healthcare staff was around.”Chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said an investigation has been initiated. “The hospitals have replied, saying they will fix the problems. Another inspection will be done later to see if they have indeed done so. If not, action will be taken against them.”Meerut, which had reported 2,353 Covid-19 cases till the time of filing this report, has had 94 deaths, which adds up to a high fatality rate of 4%. The state average is 1.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-meerut-pvt-hospital-manager-is-doc-paramedics-class-x-passouts/articleshow/77420878.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab transport department records 81% shortfall in July||CHANDIGARH: As the fear of Covid-19 is keeping most of people away from travelling in buses, the Punjab transport department has registered nearly 81% shortfall in collection of receipts from bus tickets in July as compared to the average receipts in pre-Covid months. The department could collect around Rs 7.75 crore (19%) receipts in July though its per month collection was an average Rs 40 crore per month before March, said state transport director Bhupinder Singh. Hardly 25% of the state transport department buses and nearly 5% private transport buses were operational on select routes in the state in July. Punjab Roadways have a fleet of 1,255 buses, Punbus has 600 buses and PRTC 1,200. There are 18 depots of Punjab Roadways and Punbus across Punjab, and nine of PRTC. There are nearly 13,000 private buses in Punjab. “We are going to increase operations of our fleet up to 40% by Saturday. This will also help us in increasing our receipts,” said the director. With the increase in diesel prices, private operators were also not finding their business viable, and even less than 5% of private buses were on roads, the officer said. The state transport buses used to have maximum passengers during the four days around the Rakshabandhan festival, which was even more than those travelling during Diwali. “This time, there were not even 25% passengers,” he added. The department has not yet started running air-conditioned buses, though private operators are operating them on select routes, like Amritsar to Chandigarh. Congress’s Jalandhar North MLA and transporter Avtar Singh Junior, who owns a fleet of over 100 buses, says the situation is “very bad” and it has been nearly four months since private buses came to a grinding halt. Transporters are not able to pay salaries to the staff and some had even resorted to layoffs. According to him, there are not even 100 private buses plying in Punjab today and transporters see no hope of resuming operations in the next three-four months. “Unfortunately, neither the state government nor the central government try to speak to the transporters about their difficulties,” he rued. Private transporters provide direct employment to nearly 60,000 people and had requested the state government to waive off the special road tax (SRT). The MLA said crude oil prices had plummeted but its benefits were not passed on to transporters. “We never asked for an increase in fares because it would add to inflation. Our buses ferry the poor people, who do not own vehicles,” he said. Transporters are also demanding that diesel prices should be reduced. Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contract Workers’ Union president Resham Singh Gill said rather than taking government buses, people now prefer travelling in their own cars or two-wheelers. Though the Punjab government has allowed full occupancy of buses, its buses run on around 70% occupancy during the normal course. A journey is viable only if a bus runs with at least 20 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-transport-dept-records-81-shortfall-in-july-receipts-from-buses/articleshow/77423224.cms||Sanjeev Verma
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||4 land in jail for sharing ‘derogatory’ post on a deity on social media||Bareilly: A provocative post describing the deity of a faith in a “poor light” brought hundreds of people on the Lakhimpur Kheri streets and landed four men, accused of posting it on social media, in the jail. Police had booked eight persons of the minority community for sharing the post, and four of them were identified.Hundreds of people staged a protest outside Mohammadi police station on Thursday evening and an FIR was registered late in the night. On Friday, the protesters blocked Shahjahanpur-Lakhimpur state highway and demanded arrest of the accused, who were at large then. A few hours later, the four identified accused were arrested.The situation remained tense on Friday. Senior policemen acted swiftly and called extra forces from nearby police stations and brought it under control. The protesters were assured that the accused will be arrested, leading to the lifting of the blockade.Station house officer (SHO) of Mohammadi, Sanjay Tyagi, said, “An FIR has been registered under section 66 of IT Act and section 295a of IPC. We have arrested all the four identified accused. IT cell has been asked to find the details of other four persons who were using profiles with pseudo names. The post is now deleted and we are questioning the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-land-in-jail-for-sharing-derogatory-post-on-a-deity-on-social-media/articleshow/77420899.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government names ‘relievers’ for 24 IAS officers, Manisha made new ACS planning||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government late on Friday released a list of link officers [relievers] for 24 senior IAS officers. The move was initiated to ensure that the work was not impacted if the officers were on leave, study leave or on a foreign tour. In yet another reshuffle, additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar has also been given charge of ACS planning. In addition, six IAS officers of 2018 batch have been made deputy collector in different districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-names-relievers-for-24-ias-officers-manisha-made-new-acs-planning/articleshow/77420897.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 8, 2020||Meerut||4 booked for waiving religious flag at shrine of different faith, 2 held||Meerut: Two men, owing allegiance to a saffron outfit, were on Friday arrested after photographs purportedly showing them waving flags inside a place of worship of a different faith turned up on several social media platforms. The alleged incident is said to have taken place in Meerut’s Sadar area on August 5. Ajay Thakur and Ankit Tyagi were arrested after a few locals filed a complaint against them.According to sources, four persons scaled the boundary wall of the religious place and got themselves photographed while hoisting a saffron flag on it. “Several people we spoke to claimed that the photograph is recent. Some said it is a year old. Our surveillance cell is trying to get to the bottom of the case,” said superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh. An FIR under section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against four suspects out of which two have been arrested. “Efforts are being made to find others,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-booked-for-waiving-religious-flag-at-shrine-of-different-faith-2-held/articleshow/77420891.cms||Piyush Rai
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to receive heavy rainfall for next one week, landslides and road blockages likely: Met office||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre has predicted widespread rains in Uttarakhand in the next one week, resulting in increased chances of landslides and road blockages in the hills. The Met office also issued an orange alert of heavy to very rainfall with intense spells at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun, Pauri and Chamoli districts in the next 24-hours. According to Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, “Monsoon activity is going to rise across Uttarakhand during next one week. Till August 13, we are going to witness increased rainfall with heavy to very rainfall spells at a few places.” Singh added that due to increased rain activity for next few days, there are high chances of incidents of landslides and road blockages in the hills, while plains might experience waterlogging. Meanwhile, several places in Uttarakhand received light to moderate rainfall since Thursday with Dharchula receiving the maximum of 60 mm rainfall, followed by Chamoli (50 mm), Ukhimath (40 mm), Bageshwar (30 mm), Gairsain (30 mm), Didihat (20 mm) and Haridwar (30 mm). The temperatures, especially maximums, remained above normal to appreciably above normal in both plains and hills of Uttarakhand. The highest maximum temperature 37 degree Celsius was recorded at Dhanauri while the lowest minimum was recorded at 15.8 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-for-next-one-week-landslides-and-road-blockages-likely-met-office/articleshow/77420902.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar does aerial survey as 70 lakh hit by floods||PATNA/BAGAHA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday made an aerial survey of the Pipra-Piprasi embankment along the Gandak near the Uttar Pradesh border on Friday even as the flood-affected population in north Bihar crossed the 70 lakh mark across 16 districts and the death toll went up to 23. Nitish inspected repair work on a damaged portion of the Pipra-Piprasi embankment on Friday. The CM also did an aerial survey of the work on the Bagaha town embankment and other flood-affected areas of West Champaran district. He was accompanied by chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to the CM Chanchal Kumar and water resources department (WRD) secretary Sanjiv Hans. The CM later went to the Valmikinagar barrage on the Gandak and spoke to the local officials about the operational details. He inspected all 18 gates of the barrage and asked barrage officials to be alert to their duty amid the floods in the region. The CM also inspected the barrage control room and sought to know how much water was discharged from the barrage in the past few days. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department (WRD), the discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on Friday afternoon stood at 1.50 lakh cusec against the corresponding highest discharge of 4.36 lakh cusec witnessed on July 21, this year. The CM then went on to inspect an exhibition of paver blocks produced locally by workers, who returned during the first-phase of the nationwide lockdown. After visiting the exhibition, the CM lauded the returnee migrant workers for producing high quality paver blocks at their villages. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar told the CM that the returnee migrant workers were being provided employment based on their skills. The DM said several returnee migrants have been made provided the opportunity of self-employment. The flood situation, meanwhile, is improving in West Champaran district as major rivers such as Gandak, Masan and Pandai are receding. Accordingly, people from relief camps and those who have taken shelter on embankments and uplands are returning. However, other major rivers in north Bihar continued to flow above the danger mark at several places but showed either static or falling trends. According to the WRD bulletin, Burhi Gandak continued to be the most turbulent river as it is flowing above danger level at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samstipur and Khagaria districts. The swollen Bagmati, on the other hand, seemed to be gradually easing as it came down below the danger level at two places in Sitamarhi district and was showing a rising trend at only one out of its seven flood gauges. As per weather forecasts, light to moderate rainfall is expected in Bihar in the next 48 hours along with the possibility of lightning. “Monsoon activity was normal in Bihar and only light to moderate rainfall occurred at some places. A second low- pressure is likely to be formed in Bay of Bengal by August 9, which is likely to lead to light to moderate rainfall in next 48 hours along with moderate to heavy rainfall at a few places in eastern parts of the state,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at Patna meteorological centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-does-aerial-survey-as-70-lakh-hit-by-floods/articleshow/77420904.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Gurgaon||As losses mount, Haryana decides to ply all buses at full capacity||CHANDIGARH: To cut losses incurred due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Haryana Roadways has now decided to ply all buses at full capacity, as against only 30% occupancy since Unlock 1.0. The total financial loss of the Haryana Roadways is expected to touch Rs 850 crore soon. While it had incurred Rs 600 crore losses till February, another Rs 250-crore loss has been accrued due to the lockdown. To recover losses and restore normal bus services in the state, the Haryana transport department on Thursday issued a letter allowing all its depots to run buses with full capacity. According to the August 6 letter, issued by the transport department director, the government has decided to ply all buses of the Haryana Roadways at their full capacity but with strict adherence to the norms of sanitisation, seating and and other Covid-19 related precautions. The order was released for “strict compliance”. There are 23 depots and 13 sub-depots of the roadways in Haryana and the total number of buses the carrier owns is around 4,200. The major sources of revenue for the roadways are the fare and the rent/ lease amount of various shops/ booths allotted by the entity at bus stands across the state. Before the outbreak of Covid-19 in February this year, around 192 lakh passengers had travelled in the state roadways buses, which ferried only 2.87 lakh passengers in May, after the lockdown was lifted. While in February, the roadways buses had a run of around 285 lakh km, the same was down in May to around 25 lakh km. However, a major problem facing the state roadways is non-permission by the neighbouring states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh, and Punjab to enter its buses. With this, the state will not be able to ply buses on some long routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-losses-mount-haryana-decides-to-ply-all-buses-at-full-capacity/articleshow/77426520.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||As losses mount, Haryana decides to ply all buses at full capacity||CHANDIGARH: To cut losses incurred due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Haryana Roadways has now decided to ply all buses at full capacity, as against only 30% occupancy since Unlock 1.0. The total financial loss of the Haryana Roadways is expected to touch Rs 850 crore soon. While it had incurred Rs 600 crore losses till February, another Rs 250-crore loss has been accrued due to the lockdown. To recover losses and restore normal bus services in the state, the Haryana transport department on Thursday issued a letter allowing all its depots to run buses with full capacity. According to the August 6 letter, issued by the transport department director, the government has decided to ply all buses of the Haryana Roadways at their full capacity but with strict adherence to the norms of sanitisation, seating and and other Covid-19 related precautions. The order was released for “strict compliance”. There are 23 depots and 13 sub-depots of the roadways in Haryana and the total number of buses the carrier owns is around 4,200. The major sources of revenue for the roadways are the fare and the rent/ lease amount of various shops/ booths allotted by the entity at bus stands across the state. Before the outbreak of Covid-19 in February this year, around 192 lakh passengers had travelled in the state roadways buses, which ferried only 2.87 lakh passengers in May, after the lockdown was lifted. While in February, the roadways buses had a run of around 285 lakh km, the same was down in May to around 25 lakh km. However, a major problem facing the state roadways is non-permission by the neighbouring states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh, and Punjab to enter its buses. With this, the state will not be able to ply buses on some long routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-losses-mount-haryana-decides-to-ply-all-buses-at-full-capacity/articleshow/77423228.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Allow Class XI admission in school near home: Girls||JIND: Around 20 girl students approached the Jind deputy commissioner’s office on Friday, claiming that education department officials had refused to give them admission to the co-educational government senior secondary school of Muwana village in Safidon sub-division and asked them to apply for admission to a girls school which was 2km away and on the outskirts of the village. The students said their parents were not willing to send them to the girls school due to security concerns as they would have to walk till there. They said they had faced problems in Class X too and would encounter anti-social elements on the way. Muwana is one of the biggest villages in Jind district and BJP district president Amarpal Rana hails from there. The students claimed that there were two schools in the village. They had applied for admission in the arts stream of Class XI in the co-educational school. The students reached the mini-secretariat along with their parents to meet the DC. They said they would drop out of school if they were not given admission in the coeducational school, which is near their houses. One of students, Kajal, said the girls’ school also lacked infrastructure. “We have even paid for hiring a science teacher last year by paying Rs 100 per student and Rs 100 for generator in summer season. We all are from poor backgrounds and unable to pay such an amount and there are no better arrangements. This is why we sought a change,” she added. Another student, Shivani, said the co-educational school was giving admissions to girls in the science stream, but not those who wanted to study art. “They even told our parents that students of our stream are not sincere. If we don’t get admission in the nearby school, our parents will marry us off or stop us from attending school,” she said. DEO Madan Chopra said she would look into the matter personally. “The school authority cannot refuse to give admissions to girls. A reason why they did not admit them could be because the posts of teachers at the girls school would have been surplus then,” Chopra said. DC Aaditya Dahiya said he had asked district education officials to sort out the issue within two days. Safidon ASP Ajit Singh Shekhawat said the girls could approach the police in case they wanted security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/give-class-xi-admission-in-school-near-home-or-we-drop-out-girls-to-jind-dc/articleshow/77423234.cms||Vijender Kumar
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Man tries to kill 11-year-old sister by electrocution||Hisar: A young man and his close kin allegedly tried to kill his 11-year-old sister by electrocution over a land dispute, the police said on Friday. The girl, who sustained severe burns, has been admitted to a private hospital here for treatment. The police said on the complaint of the mother of the victim, a case has been registered at Barwala police station against her son, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law and nephew under various sections of the IPC and under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The girl’s mother has stated that her husband had died five years ago and her son was addicted to alcohol. She has a land dispute with her brother-in-law and her son colluded with them. The accused would often talk about the land dispute in front of her minor daughter and the latter would pass on everything to her, she said. “On August 4, she came to know that her daughter was badly burnt due to electrocution and was admitted to a Barwala hospital, from where she was shifted to a private hospital in Hisar. When her girl regained consciousness, she said that when she had gone to the uncle’s house, the accused were talking about the land dispute. On finding her present there, they caught hold of her and the auntie gave her electric shocks with a live wire, which made her unconscious,” she alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-tries-to-kill-11-year-old-sister-by-electrocution/articleshow/77423237.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||Rs 1.7 cr looted from UP bizman’s accountant recovered, 7 held||Pilibhit: With the arrest of three more people on Thursday evening, city police recovered another Rs 64.8 lakh of the stolen money belonging to a Bareilly-based businessman. His accountant who was carrying the money was robbed on July 28 on the outskirts of the city. The trio was nabbed from Khatima by a special team of the Pilibhit police headed by circle officer, Pilibhit city, Praveen Malik.Earlier, four people had been arrested for the robbery and over Rs 1.08 crore was recovered from them. So far, police have recovered Rs 1.73 crore of the stolen money. An FIR was registered on July 30 at Sungarhi police station. Businessman Rohit Gupta had said he had sent his accountant, Saurabh Saxena, with his driver, Sandeep Yadav, to Bahraich and neighbouring places on July 26 to collect payment for steel sold by his firm. While returning from Bahraich with about Rs 1.8 crore, the driver had stopped the car near Nirmal petrol pump in Pilibhit and got out on the pretext of checking a tyre. The moment the accountant stepped out of the car, the driver got into the vehicle and drove off along with the cash and important documents.Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, told reporters here on Friday that four people, including car driver Sandeep Singh were arrested in Uttarakhand's Khatima city on July 31. A sum of Rs 1.08 crore was recovered from them.On the information provided by them, police raided a house in Khatima on August 6 and recovered Rs 62.8 lakh and another Rs 2 lakh from a utensil seller, identified as Pramod Chandra, of the same city. Three people, including Chandra, were arrested on Thursday.The primary FIR was lodged only against the car driver under IPC’s section 407 (criminal breach of trust by a person entrusted with property as a carrier) and 381 (theft in respect of any property by a person being a clerk or servant). Now, IPC’s section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) has been added, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rs-1-7-cr-looted-from-up-bizmans-accountant-recovered-7-held/articleshow/77420910.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh bleeding too, need more hand-holding, say operators||SHIMLA: Amid the concerns shown by the state government about Rs 5,000-crore apple industry facing threat of losses due to labour shortage, it is the transport sector of Himachal Pradesh that has been left bleeding during the Covid-19 pandemic. A majority of transporters say they are ruined as the state government failed to provide them relief like waiving taxes and insurance premiums. Be it the owners of luxury buses, taxis or private buses, everyone is worried about their fate as they are not even able to pay their loan instalments. As on March 31, Himachal had 21,277 buses, 1,62,849 goods carrier, 26,880 cabs and 14,813 maxi cabs registered with the state transport department. It has been five months since a majority of private buses and taxis are without work. Rising Covid-19 cases are only making people more scared and keeping them from travelling in public transport. People prefer to stay home or to travel in private vehicles to reduce chances of infection. Missing tourists have also left the luxury bus owners worried. Even after the state government allowed buses to operate within the state, private operators refused to ply them after finding few were willing to ride with them. To compensate bus operators, a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, on July 20 increased the bus fare by 25% in the present per kilometer tariffs for all travel beyond three kilometers for hilly and plain areas, while for first three kms, fare was increased to Rs 7 from Rs 5. Yet, private operators were suffering due to few passengers. Himachal Pradesh Private Bus Operators Association state general secretary Ramesh Kamal said around 3,300 private buses were there in the state but majority were off the road. The private bus operators had cancelled operation on 100 routes across state as plying them was resulting into losses, he added. Though thankful for the hike in bus fares, he said the government should waive off the special road tax on private buses. He said private bus operators were not able to pay the salary to staff leave alone pay taxes, insurance premium and loan instalments. The state has around 200 luxury buses whose operators are even more worried as there are no tourists. Himachal Luxury Bus Operators Association chairperson Lajwanti Sharma said one luxury bus costs around Rs 1.5 crore and its monthly instalment comes to around Rs 23 lakh. “For the last many months, buses have been grounded. Now, before bringing them on road, we will have to pay insurance and other taxes for which money is required, which we don’t have at the moment,” she said. “We have been without work for the last five months while the government has waived off token tax till July in the name of relief. We still have to pay insurance premium and loan instalments,” said Gupt Ram Thakur, president of Him-Anchal Taxi Operators Union, which has 5,000 taxis registered with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/pandemic-leaves-himachal-transport-sector-bleeding/articleshow/77423229.cms||Anand Bodh
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||RSS-backed forum to work for promotion of Punjabi language||Jalandhar: A recently-constituted Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-backed outfit — Punjabi Bhasha Manch — has announced to work for the promotion of Punjabi language, so as to make it the administrative language of Punjab. It has also vowed to work at the ground level, including in schools, so that people do not have a sense of inferiority about their own language. The Manch announced that apart from promoting Punjabi in Punjab, it would also work for its promotion in other states. “We shall meet the Punjab governor to impress upon him that all legislations should be passed and made available in Punjabi. Article 348 (2) of the Constitution provides that the governor, with the President’s consent, can introduce use of local language in high court. We shall take up this issue also with the governor, so that all judgements of the Punjab and Haryana high court and other courts are also available in Punjabi,” Manch convener Jawahar Lal Sivia told the media at Vidya Dham here. “Apart from getting it implemented at the administrative level, we shall also reach out to private schools to ask them to stop discouraging children from conversing in Punjabi. This not only creates inferiority complex among children about their mother tongue, but also reduces their creative expression. We shall also create awareness among people that they should feel proud about their mother tongue,” said Sivia, who was accompanied by the office-bearers of the Manch. Sharma said that they would campaign among the people that they should have their name plates in Punjabi, should sign in Punjabi and should also write the name of country “Bharat” in Punjabi rather than India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rss-backed-forum-to-work-for-promotion-of-punjabi-language/articleshow/77423259.cms||IP Singh
August 8, 2020||Noida||RWAs want clear guidelines before taking upkeep duty from GNIDA||GREATER NOIDA: Office bearers of more than three dozen residents'welfare associations (RWA) reached GNIDA’s office in Knowledge Park IV to hand over a memorandum to the authority’s chief executive officer denouncing its move to hand over the maintenance work of residential sectors to them. GNIDA wants to pass on at least three responsibilities to the RWAs gradually -- registration of pet dogs, sterilisation of stray dogs and keeping vacant plots free of garbage and litter. Residents said unless a clear cut policy or document to distinguish and define financial as well as general liabilities is framed, they will continue to oppose the move. Chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan said, “A contract or memorandum of understanding will be signed between GNIDA and willing societies. We will hold talks with the resident groups before finalising the contract. Societies which are interested in taking up maintenance work, will be given a chance to do so. Otherwise, the present arrangement will continue.” About 80 groups who stay in residential colonies or apartment complexes in Greater Noida have registered their associations with Uttar Pradesh registrar of firms, societies and chits. People staying in 15 to 20 sectors are yet to register their association. In May, authority had opened the registration process for all kind of groups. Bhooshan said that 36 societies have applied for the scheme. “But at that time, a lot of people did not know authority was expecting residents to pool in money to maintain their locality. Authority has to create a corpus or offer some clarity. We have been getting only assurances so far,” said Devendra Tiger, president of federation of RWAs in Greater Noida. Bhooshan added that RWAs will be given the facility to operate and earn money through the local community centre. “Traditionally, they are used for organising marriages or birthdays. But they can be turned into a club for local residents which could have carom, billiards table, card room among other options. Membership fee can be charged and used for upkeep of the sector,” suggested Bhooshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rwas-want-clear-guidelines-before-taking-upkeep-duty-from-gnida/articleshow/77424086.cms||Shalabh
August 8, 2020||Meerut||UP: Forest staff on toes as snakes, crocodiles frequent human habitats during lockdown||MEERUT: Uttar Pradesh forest department and its snake-catchers have been on their toes for the past four months due to “unprecedented” jump in reptiles entering urban homes and into villages. In Meerut alone, almost a hundred snakes have been rescued. According to officials, at least eight cobras and a few vipers were caught and released in the wild in this period. More than 60% of the rescued reptiles were pythons. Aditi Sharma, DFO Meerut forest division, attributed the rescue of the unusually large number of reptiles to curtailed human movement because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Now, as monsoon has set in, experts have warned that other reptiles, like crocodiles and gharials, will also start venturing into human habitats, particularly those near water bodies. Last year there had been a couple of incidents in this regard. Elaborating on the issue, Sharma said, “This time, the number is high. Both villagers and staff are being trained to tackle the situation. We have equipped our teams with special apparatus like catching rods, bags, boots among other things.” Monsoons force even big reptiles to leave their habitats. Just two days ago, a huge python was rescued from a field in Bijnor’s Sehespur village. Bijnor DFO M Semmaran said, "After the onset of monsoon, a large number of pythons move from the banks of the flooded Ganga and enter villages. This time, the number is high. We have engaged snake-catchers to assist our teams to rescue these reptiles."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/forest-staff-on-toes-as-snakes-crocs-frequent-human-habitats-during-lockdown/articleshow/77420938.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Another peak with 107 cases; death toll rises to 103||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases registered in the city and district since Thursday evening made yet another peak with 107 persons testing positive in the city. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 taking the total number of victims to 103. The 107 fresh cases were detected from 973 tests conducted since Thursday evening. The highest number of cases in the city were reported from the west zone of the civic body where 28 tested positive. In the north zone 22 persons tested positive while 17 cases came to light in the east zone. Ten persons were found infected in the south zone of the city. In the rural areas of the district, outside VMC limits, 28 Covid-19 cases were reported. These include cases in Dabhoi, Padra, Karkhadi, Por, Ranoli, Sankarda, Varnama, Sherkhi, Valan and Karjan. One person each from Ahmedabad and Petlad also tested positive in the city. With 91 persons being discharged on Friday, 1,140 persons remained hospitalised. Out of these, 58 were on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 156 were on oxygen support. The condition of 926 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-peak-with-107-cases-death-toll-rises-to-103/articleshow/77420351.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||Abandoned by their owners, Dumas’ beach camels saunter on Surat roads||SURAT: While camel fun riding is still a matter of debate among conscious circles, what is being meted out to the mute animals on Dumas beach is definitely cringe-worthy matter. Till it could ferry revellers across the sands of Dumas beach and earn their keepers a decent income, the camels were owners’ pride. But once the pandemic struck and lockdown happened, it became the owners’ burden and were promptly abandoned. Left to fend for itself, many such injured animals were seen loitering in the wilderness of Diamond City roads hunting for food, shelter. Volunteers of Nature Club Surat (NCS), a city-based NGO working for animal rights, rescued three abandoned camels found moving around in posh City Light and Vesu areas in the last four days. According to NCS, they received frequent calls from the residents about the injured camels seen roaming in these areas at night. Many callers also shared videos of camels in precarious conditions crying for immediate help. Snehal Patel of NCS told TOI, “In last four days, we found three abandoned camels in critical situation and loitering on the roads without food and water. These camels were badly injured and needed immediate treatment.” Probing into the matter, NCS volunteers reached Dumas village to inquire about the abandoned camels when they were told about the cruelty on the domesticated animals. Patel said, “These camels were used as rides for the visitors at Dumas beach. Post-lockdown, the visitors’ entry to the beach is banned following government orders. Sans income, owners were unable to feed them and so cut them loose.” According to Patel, the camels were brought to the Eco Farm in Vesu — a rescue centre run by NSC for injured and abandoned animals and birds — and were treated by the veterinary doctors there. Currently, the camels are still with NCS and they will be shifted to a captive facility where they can live peacefully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abandoned-by-their-owners-dumas-beach-camels-saunter-on-surat-roads/articleshow/77421111.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Railways readies for WAG-12, India’s most powerful locomotive||Vadodara: Indian Railways’ crew readies to meet the challenges of WAG-12 — the country’s most powerful indigenously developed locomotive. Manufactured by the Madhepura Electric Loco Factory, Bihar, WAG-12 is the first ‘Made in India’ high-power locomotive with 12,000 horse-power (HP). These locomotives are state-of-the-art insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBT) based three-phase drive. It is being developed in such a way that it can be deployed on dedicated freight corridors (DFCs) where they will be used to haul freight trains weighing more than 6,000 tonnes at speeds of 100 to 120 km per hour. Through this, the average speed of freight trains will be double in the sector, while also helping decongest saturated tracks by improving average speed and loading capacity of freight trains. During a two-day training sessions organised for a total of 26 supervisors and 199 crew members including loco pilots and assistant loco pilots of Vadodara railway division, participants were given training on this new type of locomotive. “One such high power WAG-12 arrived at Vadodara railway station on August 3. It was taken to trip inspection shed at Vadodara yard where training of crew and supervisors was carried out,” said Khemraj Meena, public relations officer of Vadodara railway division. Unlike the existing locomotives, this locomotive has high voltage apparatus like the vacuum circuit breaker inside its body in a special cubicle. “The roof of the locomotive is almost empty except for the pantograph. ,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/railways-readies-for-wag-12-indias-most-powerful-locomotive/articleshow/77420404.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||Develop 300-bed hospital as dedicated Covid hospital, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||BAREILLY: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday during a review meeting on Covid-19 condition in Bareilly asked health department to devlop 300-bed hospital as dedicated Covid hospital. The newly constructed 300-bed hospital was lying vacant for the past few months but the health department started using it for examining and collecting samples of suspected cases of Covid since March. The hospital is currently being used for quarantining suspected cases with 100 beds while asymptomatic patients of Covid are being treated at hospital’s another block with 200 beds. “During review meeting, CM directed us to develop 300-bed hospital as Covid-19 level two hospital in 15 days. For upgrading the hospital to level two, we will install equipment, including ventilators and high flow nasal cannula. The district had received a budget of Rs 5 crore for Covid and a committed headed by district magistrate will transfer budget for upgrading the 300-bed hospital,” said chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla. Apart from 300-bed hospital, Yogi asked district authorities to increase more level two hospitals. He also said if need arises, private hospitals should be used for Covid and an additional chief medical officer should be given the task of contacting Indian Medical Association (IMA). UP CM also told officials that it has been reported that private hospitals and nursing homes refer patients to Covid hospitals when their condition turn serious and he asked district administration to deal with it. Praising integrated control room set up in Bareilly, Yogi said other districts should also upgrade their control rooms on the same lines. He asked officials to focus on contact tracing and door-to-door survey. He said after conducting survey, antigen test should be conducted. Bareilly has reported 3109 cases of Covid-19 till Thursday and of these, 76 people succumbed to virus while 1743 are active case. The district has been reporting over 100 cases daily for the past 10 days and the number of cases increased by 90% in a month. Following a surge in Covid-19 cases, Yogi visited Bareilly on Friday for review meeting with officials of Bareilly division. Yogi directed district magistrates of Bareilly, Budaun, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur to provide mike to all primary health centres so that they can conduct awareness programmes on Covid in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/develop-300-bed-hospital-as-dedicated-covid-hospital-says-yogi/articleshow/77421001.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||UP: STF nabs murder accused absconding since 2017||BAREILLY: A Pilibhit resident, who has been absconding since 2017 after committing a murder in Meerganj area of Bareilly district, was arrested from Etah district on Friday by a special task force (STF) unit of Bareilly. Accused Vipin Joshi was carrying Rs 15,000 bounty. Police said he had kept changing his location regularly to evade capture. The operation was led by inspector Ajay Pal Singh, the in-charge of the Bareilly STF unit, after receiving a tip-off from an informer. During questioning Joshi, said that he was partying with his friends Rajendra, Avdhesh and Avnish in Labheda village in 2017, when he had a quarrel with Avnish. In a fit of drunken rage, he killed Avnish and dumped his body with the help of Rajendra and Avdhesh. Singh told TOI, “We’ve arrested Vipin Joshi from Raja Ka Rampur area in Etah district. Local police was informed that he was wanted in a murder case in Bareilly. The accused has been booked under sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. He will be handed over to Bareilly police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stf-nabs-murder-accused-absconding-since-2017/articleshow/77421018.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||Autopsy of 10 dead cows reveals accumulated polythene in stomach||Pilibhit: The report of autopsy of 10 dead cows conducted here on Thursday has revealed the cause of their deaths as accumulation of polythene in their stomachs. After the cows reportedly died in Devipur cow shelter under Gajraula police station on Thursday, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav deputed chief veterinary officer (CVO) Akhilesh Kumar Garg and executive officer (EO) of Pilibhit municipal council Nisha Mishra to probe the matter.The presence of 30 open garbage dumps of Pilibhit municipal council in the city area alone is believed to be the key factor behind the consumption of polythene bags by stray cows lodged in shelter homes. The dead cows were of age 10-12 years.Devipur cow shelter houses 500 cows, said the CVO. At the time of the probe, it was so saturated with ooze, filth and cow dung that the municipal council had to deploy two earth moving machines to remove it, said EO Nisha Mishra.Regarding the presence of so many open garbage dumps overflowing with polythene in the city, she said her department had proposed several plans to convert them into covered ones before the municipal council chairman, but none of them were approved for reasons unknown, said the EO. Some dedicated gau seva (cow service) volunteers, including Ashok Mishra of Pilibhit city and Ghanshyan Das of village Rooppur Krapa under Pilibhit tehsil, said, “The open garbage vats pose great threat to the lives of cows, as they daily consume large quantities of polythene from these. Many of these cows are owned by people who are unable to bear the expense of feeding them properly, and end up letting them scrounge around in garbage dumps. Abandoned aged cattle also end up there.”B M Arora, former veterinary scientist at Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute, told TOI, “Unlike the human digestive system, milch animals have four sections in their stomachs — rumen, reticulum, omasum and abomasum. Polythene is indigestible material. It keeps accumulating in the rumen and blocks the passage between the rumen and reticulum, drastically reducing the animal’s appetite leading to its death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/autopsy-of-10-dead-cows-reveals-accumulated-polythene-in-stomach/articleshow/77421047.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bareilly||1,194 illicit liquor cases across UP, inspector suspended since Aug 1||Pilibhit: Enforcement teams of the excise department have registered 1,194 cases involving distillation, sale and smuggling of illicit liquor, within a week beginning on August 1, after the department launched a statewide drive against illicit liquor in the wake of numerous deaths reported from in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh due to consumption of poisonous liquor.Speaking with TOI, UP additional chief secretary of excise, Sanjay R Bhhosreddy said the excise teams seized 26,502 litres of illicit liquor from various districts, and recovered 1,45,200 kg of lahan (raw liquid from which illicit liquor is distilled), all of which was destroyed on spot.The teams also confiscated eight vehicles used for smuggling liquor, arrested 90 accused and sent them to jail, he added.Prior to this, in the month of July, excise teams had succeeded in seizing 1,18,404 litres of illegally distilled liquor and 4,05,595 kg of lahan, while registering 3,849 cases against offenders and seizing 38 vehicles used to smuggle liquor, Bhoosreddy said.In addition to keeping a vigil on illicit liquor manufacturing, the department had also kept watch on departmental officials and the field force, as a result of which, an excise inspector was suspended in Meerut for negligence of duty, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1194-illicit-liquor-cases-across-up-inspector-suspended-since-aug-1/articleshow/77421080.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist records highest toll of 10 deaths; 127 test positive||TNNLudhiana: With 10 deaths, the district logged the biggest Covid-19 toll on Friday, when 127 from Ludhiana and five from outside tested positive.The health department said a 55-year-old man from Sarabha Nagar, who had bone marrow cancer and Covid-19, died at CMCH, where a man of 56 years from Jatana, who had hypertension, also died. A 48-year-old man from Sherpur breathed his last at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, while a 60-year-old woman from Daba Colony, who had a respiratory disease, died at GTB Hopsital. A 69-year-old man from Kartar Nagar, who also had cancer besides coronavirus infection, died at Mohandai Oswal Hospital. A 75-year-old diabetic man from Model Town died at a city hospital. Those who died at DMCH included a 77-year-old man from Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar who had prostate cancer, a woman of 73 years who had BP and diabetes, a 57-year-old man from Ashok Vihar who had diabetes and a liver disease and a 77-year-old man from Jammu who had blood pressure and diabetes. A 71-year-old man from Sham Nagar, who had blood pressure, diabetes and kidney problem, died at SPS Hospital. Department officials said the number of deaths from the district has risen to 148 and 44 from outside have lost their lives here so far.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 99 positive reports received on Friday, 96 were from Ludhiana and one each from Jalandhar, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. He said of the 33 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, 31 were from Ludhiana and one each from Sangrur and Mansa. Of the 127 positive patients from the district, 34 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 34 were contacts of positive cases, eight from OPD, three police officials, five healthcare workers, two undertrials, two domestic travellers, one pregnant woman, 18 severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases and 20 from tracing process. With this, the case count of Ludhiana district has increased to 4,512 and 547 outsiders were found to be infected here. The civil surgeon said on Friday, 1,085 samples were sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-records-highest-toll-of-10-deaths-127-test-positive/articleshow/77421094.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||GSL to build damage control simulator for Navy||Panaji: The Indian Navy has tasked Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) to build a damage control simulator which will be based at Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Navy and GSL formally signed the contract for the simulator on Friday, this being the seventh simulator that GSL will build for the armed forces. The simulators will help train naval personnel to deal with various types of vessel damage, ranging from fires to water ingress. The simulator has 19 compartments and can simulate five different damage control exercises. As many as 24 naval personnel can be trained at a time in the simulator, GSL said. A damage control simulator is essentially a training system that simulates a realistic and stressful but controlled environment for crew training in ship damage control and repair. The probability of damage to a warship during war and routine sorties is likely and the navy trains its personnel to contain the damage and save the vessel. “The crew needs to be able to respond to the threat with efficiency, expertise and confidence gained from training in similar situations,” said a naval officer. Till date, GSL has built six simulators and has even exported a damage control simulator to a neighbouring country. “With the signing of this contract, GSL has consolidated its position in supply of ship simulators for damage control. All these GSL built simulators are in active service and are assisting the users in providing realistic simulation of possible naval scenarios at training establishments,” said GSL chairman and managing director B B Nagpal. The three deck structure can simulate ship movements, compartment flooding, failure of electrical power and machinery. GSL has completed refit of 17 vessels in the last 18 months and is also working on warships for the navy and the Coast Guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-to-build-damage-control-simulator-for-navy/articleshow/77423313.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||3 armed with swords rob cousins of cash||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Thursday booked three miscreants three days after they robbed two cousins of Rs 1.47 lakh on Dhandari flyover.The duo work as goods suppliers with a company.Balkar Singh, 38, of Dhillon Colony said in his police complaint, “My cousin Goldy, 30, and I work with a company that supplies groceries to different districts. We collect groceries from near Pava village on GT Road. After supplying the commodities on August 3, we were on way home with a collection of Rs 1.47 lakh when a motorcycle intercepted our SUV on Dhandari flyover around 9.30pm. Three masked men were riding it. One of them hit our vehicle bonnet with a sword. Threatening to kill us with swords, they robbed us of the cash. We tried to fight back, but the trio overpowered us and escaped.” Focal Point police station ASI Ajmer Singh said, “Balkar had called the police the same night. Later, he said that he would give a written complaint after talking to their employer. After that, they approached us on Thursday and a case was registered under Section 379-B (snatching) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-armed-with-swords-rob-cousins-of-cash/articleshow/77421098.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||MoUs with three private Covid hospitals cancelled||Surat: In the aftermath of the fire tragedy at a private Covid hospitals in Ahmedabad, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday cancelled the memorandum of understanding (MOU) with three designated Covid hospitals here for lack of the mandatory no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department and absence of fire safety equipment. Following the decision of the SMC, the three hospitals won’t be able to operate. Civic body officials said that till date they have not referred any patient to any of these three private Covid hospitals. Official sources said that the three hospitals—Amena Sarvajanik Hospital in Unn Patiya, GB Gabani Hospital in Varachha Road and Param Hospital at Parvat Patiya—have been asked to shut operations immediately due to lack of fire safety system. Following the fire tragedy in a private hospital in Ahmedabad killing eight patients, SMC had ordered fire audit of all the 36 Covid hospitals across the city on Thursday. About 12 hospitals were found to be lacking the mandatory fire safety system. Out of these, fire safety was grossly missing in these three private hospitals. NV Upadhyay, deputy municipal commissioner told TOI, “MoU with three private hospitals have been cancelled and they have been asked to shut the hospitals till further orders for the safety of patients. Other nine hospitals have been told not to admit patients till the completion of the fire safety system and other fire norms.” Upadhyay added, “While 12 hospitals were found to be lacking fire safety management, they have been asked to be extra vigilant and cautious to deal with the emergency fire situation. They have been asked to comply with the fire safety norms in a couple of days.” Official sources said that about 1,400 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at private Covid hospitals across the city, while only 400 are admitted to government hospitals including SMIMER and New Civil Hospital (NCH). In-charge chief fire officer (CFO), Basant Pareek told TOI, “We have deployed fire tender 24x7 at SMIMER and NCH hospital for the quick response in a time of emergency. Fire safety measures in 24 private hospitals are found as per the norms. We will be carrying out regular drills in the private hospitals for training the hospital staff to deal with a fire emergency situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mous-with-three-private-covid-hospitals-cancelled/articleshow/77421142.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Crocodile rescued from Sayajibaug||Vadodara: A four-feet long crocodile was rescued from Sayajibaug on Friday morning. The reptile had ventured into the park from the Vishwamitri River that flows through the park. The park’s staff spotted the baby crocodile and immediately informed volunteers of Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT). WRT volunteers said that during monsoons many reptiles venture out of the river that is home to hundreds of crocodiles. A monitor lizard was also rescued from a car parked in a residential apartment on Sama Savli Road on Thursday. The three-and-half-feet long lizard had crawled into the car’s bonnet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocodile-rescued-from-sayajibaug/articleshow/77420480.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||PCMC chief seeks help of mandals for seniors’ safety||Pimpri Chinchwad: The commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Shravan Hardikar, has appealed to the volunteers of Ganesh mandals to participate in a survey of senior citizens with comorbid conditions living in the civic limits. At a social media interaction, Hardikar appealed to the representatives of Ganesh mandals to tone down celebrations this year and divert their efforts towards community service, such as surveying Covid-19 hotspots for early detection among the vulnerable age group.Hardikar said, “Early detection is the key to break the Covid-19 chain and we will need the assistance of volunteers of Ganesh mandals. They can come forward to survey containment zones and hotspots. We need to monitor hotspots with pulse oximeters to find out if people have oxygen saturation level below 94%. If we can identify such people at a very early stage, they can be treated on time and the possibility of the infection spread can be avoided.”The civic body plans to monitor such hotspots twice a day with the help of volunteers and keep the contagion in check. Hardikar also appealed to the mandals to avoid crowding during the festival and adopt innovative ways such as online aarti.The number of Covid-19 cases in the PCMC limits have already crossed the 26,000 mark and there are over 6,000 cases currently active.Government-employed teachers have had to take up surveying containment zones during the pandemic as academic duties have largely taken a backseat. Since March, when the first Covid-19 case was detected in the PCMC limits, teachers have been assigned the job of conducting surveys in the containment zones at least three times, with a fresh order issued towards the end of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-chief-seeks-help-of-mandals-for-seniors-safety/articleshow/77423303.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Govt allows private buses to Konkan during Ganeshotsav||Pune: The state government has allowed private buses to transport passengers to the Konkan region on the lines of the services offered by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) during the approaching Ganeshotsav.Ganesh festival holds a special importance in Konkan with almost every household in the region celebrating it every year.The MSRTC has decided to run buses across five routes in Konkan for the Ganapati festival. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI that the private buses could also operate the same services and start ticket bookings.“The private buses can transport passengers only to the Konkan region. The bus operators, however, have to be extremely careful. They need to maintain strict hygiene standards and ensure social distancing on the buses. At the same time, they should not overcharge passengers,” he said. “In accordance with the regulations, a private bus can charge one-and-a-half times more than the fare of an MSRTC vehicle operating on the same route and towards the same destination. For instance, if the fare from Pune to Ratnagiri of an MSRTC bus is Rs100, a private bus can charge a maximum fare of Rs150,” Parab said.The MSRTC has started buses to Dapoli, Ratnagiri, Khed, Chiplun and Guhagar. The MSRTCsaid in case of group bookings, the buses will take the passengers to their respective villages. The transport corporation, however, made it clear that not more than 22 passengers would be allowed on a bus. “If the passengers are travelling before August 12, they don’t need to have any kind of medical certificate with them. However, the passengers travelling after August 12 will need to carry their swab sample test report with them. In both the situations, there will be a mandatory 10-day home quarantine for the travellers. The private buses should take note of these regulations,” Parab said. Sources in the transport department said the regional transport offices (RTO) will keep an eye on the private buses. “If they flout any norms, strict action will be taken,” an RTO-Pune official said. Parab, however, said no decision has so far been taken on starting the inter-district bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-allows-private-buses-to-konkan-during-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77423301.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Car jack used to steal 600kg safe||RAJKOT: Call it desperation for money or simply addiction to break-ins! But four burglars did not think about possible injuries to themselves when they stole a safe weighing nearly 600 kg from an auto garage, took it to a nearby field and then hammered it for hours to steal the cash from it. The incident happened in Parth Automobile Garage located on Limbdi crossroads on the Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Limbdi police and Surendranagar local crime branch cops were also perplexed with the theft that was carried out using garage equipment. Four persons are suspected to be involved. The burglars broke the shutter of the garage and straight went to the owner’s office located on the first floor inside. Knowing that it was impossible to lift the heavy safe and bring it down, they hit upon an idea of placing a huge tyre around it. After placing the tyre, they pushed the safe from the office, a height of around 10 foot, so that it won’t make a loud noise while crashing on the floor. Then they somehow placed the safe on a hydraulic jack with wheels that’s used to lift the cars and rolled it outside the garage up to a field located just behind. There they placed thick seating cloth beneath the safe and started hammering it. After a few hours, the safe broke and they stole Rs 17.50 lakh cash kept inside, said Dipal Dhol, inspector, Surendranagar LCB. On Thursday morning, when the garage owner Shailesh Chauhan came there, he realized that burglars had struck. But he was shocked to see that the safe was lying in the field behind. Chauhan told police that ever since the lockdown, he had stopped keeping money in the bank and instead kept all the cash in the safe of his office. On Thursday, he had to pay salaries to his mechanics and workers. Chauhan’s land deed papers of a plot deal were also missing from the safe, said Dhol. “We suspect there were four persons. We are checking the footage from the CCTVs on the highway to get more clues. Some insider’s role is also not being ruled out,” added Dhol. Forensic experts have also been roped in for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/car-jack-used-to-steal-600kg-safe-from-garage/articleshow/77421102.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: St Andrews School found guilty of violating govt fee norms||HYDERABAD: The St Andrews School in Bowenpally has been found guilty of collecting huge fees in violation of government order. After the parents of the pupils there lodged a complaint, the deputy inspector of schools in Secunderabad Mandal II conducted an enquiry into their allegations. The deputy inspector R Suman, in his report submitted to the district education officer, Hyderabad said that the school management is violating norms by collecting additional fees also under the tuition fee since the academic year 2019-20. “In the enquiry, it was found that the management was collecting fees with different nomenclature caution deposits, annual fee, teacher recruitment benefits, term fee, tuition fee, late fee, infrastructure fee, computer fee and miscellaneous fee for the academic year 2018-19. But from the academic year 2019-20, all fees was being collected in the name of tuition fee, which is against government rules,” said Suman. Earlier, the deputy inspector had issued notices to the school, asking them to furnish all relevant records pertaining to the fees for the academic year 2018-19, 2019-20, and 2020-21, copies of resolution of governing body pertaining to the said academic years and fee receipts for classes pre-primary to class VII by August 5. Speaking to TOI, Venkata Narasamma B, DEO of Hyderabad said that her office will now issue a notice giving an opportunity for the school to rectify the error. “From the report, it is clear that the school has violated regulations for the academic year 2020-21,” she said. After the issue came to light, the principal of the school, Shamita Bhattacharya, had said that the institution has followed all government directives. She had refused to comment on the issue any further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/st-andrews-found-guilty-of-violating-govt-fee-norms/articleshow/77422349.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Kunal Icon society makes most of the lockdown||PUNE: As lockdowns ease, housing societies in the city have been preparing numerous measures to keep residents safe. Many have also taken impressive steps towards self-sustenance. The Kunal Icon housing society in Pimple Saudagar used the downtime to start various initiatives and improve existing ones. It has over 850 homes and about 4,000 residents. Everyone swung into action as soon as curbs were announced in March. The society’s managing committee, through surveys, ensured all 4,000 members, including the elderly and people with disabilities, had enough supplies coming in. “We also kept a tab on residents returning from abroad and from other parts of the country,” said Vinod Surve, the chairman of Kunal Icon's management committee. He said, “The society is allowing essential and non-essential services with mandatory thermal screening and hand-sanitization checks for the past many weeks.” These checks have become very important for housing societies across the city. “Thermal screening is now a must before entering our society, too. We have also allowed maids to return to work,” he said. Residents used the lockdown to augment existing resources. Pravin Dhole, the joint secretary of the society, said rainwater harvesting project that had started two years ago now covered 16 borewells with a capacity to store 80 lakh litres. “Our water tanker bill dropped from last year’s Rs 54 lakh to just Rs 16 lakh this year,” Dhole said. He added that their solar panels now generated around 75,000 units of electricity. CR Sonpetkar, the secretary of the society, said the in-house garbage collection and treatment produced nearly 3 tonnes of compost every year. Some of it is used for gardens on the society premises, while the rest is sold to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kunal-icon-society-makes-most-of-the-lockdown/articleshow/77423308.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Asymptomatics are silent carriers of Covid-19, a big worry in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Asymptomatic patients being the silent carriers of coronavirus is a big concern in Telangana now. While it is a good sign that a majority of asymptomatic cases indicate a higher rate of recovery, rapid spread of the virus in a large population is what is worrying the officials. The recent surge in cases in the state is indicative of this, they say. According to doctors, the silent spread of the virus calls for a higher level of caution, especially in public spots and congregations. A recent study on asymptomatic cases done by School of Public Health at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, US, also confirmed that asymptomatic people were carriers of the virus. According to Dr Y Sridhar, a critical care physician and consultant with Apollo Hospitals, people contracting the virus depends on two factors.  He said if the viral load of the person from whom a person catches the virus is high, the possibility of getting infected is very high. “Most importantly, if the immunity levels are low, then the virus can be contacted from an asymptomatic infected person as well,” he told TOI. He said US varsity study was significant in the context of more and more asymptomatic patients emerging as carriers of the virus. “Post-lockdown 3.0, we have been getting a lot of such cases,” Dr Sridhar explained. Asymptomatic and very mild cases have been on an upward curve ever since unlock 1.0 was announced. ICMR said among the current Covid-19 positive cases in the country, 80% are asymptomatic. Telangana fares slightly better at 85%. Dr K Sireesha, a partner with Udbhava Hospitals, said a higher percentage of asymptomatic caseload reflects higher recovery rate of positive cases. “But, at the same time, we have seen people who got infected with less symptoms are not maintaining social distancing. This results in the virus spread.” She further said: “Whether a positive patient is at home or taking treatment in a hospital, it is important to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines, including regular checking with an oxymeter.” ICMR, at the end of May, announced that asymptomatic cases constitute 68% of the total case load in India, while WHO in April had said that 40% of the cases were mild, 40% were moderate, 15% severe symptomatic and 5% critical. However, WHO did not mention anything on asymptomatic cases. Another cause of concern among the experts in the light of growing number of asymptomatic cases is the lackadaisical approach towards testing. “People are volunteering to take test if their near and dear ones are testing positive. But, the tests are done more on symptomatic people,” said a top health official on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asymptomatics-are-silent-carriers-a-big-worry-in-t/articleshow/77423338.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Serum sets $3 per dose as ceiling price for proposed vaccine in India||Mumbai: Pune-based Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, has set a ceiling price of $3 per dose for the proposed Covid-19 vaccine for India and low-and middle-income countries (LMICs). The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will provide an at-risk funding of $150 million to Gavi (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation), which will be used to support Serum to manufacture potential vaccine candidates, including the ones from UK firm AstraZeneca, and US biotech company Novavax. Significantly, the ceiling price is only for vaccines proposed to be distributed to 92 countries under the Covax alliance — co-led by Gavi, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and World Health Organization (WHO), formed to accelerate development of Covid-19 vaccines and ensure their rapid and equitable access. The company on Friday entered into a partnership with Gavi and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses for these countries. Of this, up to 50 million doses are expected to be made available in India alone, sources close to the development told TOI. Besides, India is also expected to get upto 50% of the one billion doses from Astra Zeneca, and a part of the one billion doses from Novavax, as part of their agreement with Serum Institute. Prices of these vaccines will be decided later, even as the company has earlier said that the Astra Zeneca vaccine candidate will be under Rs 1,000 per shot in India. Through the partnership, the company will accelerate manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses as part of the agreement for India and LMICs, as early as the first half of 2021, Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute said. The collaboration will provide upfront capital to Serum to increase manufacturing capacity, so that once a vaccine gains regulatory approval and WHO prequalification, doses can be produced at a scale for distribution to India and LMICs. Doses are expected to be allocated on a proportional basis across 92 countries, and in accordance with World Health Organization’s global allocation framework, which is currently under development. The framework prioritizes healthcare professionals and frontline and essential workers in each geography, in addition to those most at-risk from the virus, such as people over 65 or those with underlying health conditions. The timeline will ultimately depend on the results of the phase 3 trials, and approval from the Drug Controller General of India and WHO prequalification. In the best-case scenario, the doses should be delivered in the first half of 2021. Experts pointed out that additional manufacturing capacity may be needed at a global level and specifically for India, and hence require increased multilateral, government and philanthropic funding. The collaboration between Gavi, Serum, and Gates Foundation supports the efforts of ACT Accelerator's vaccines’ pillar, also known as Covax. Decisions around investment in manufacturing are taken in close collaboration between these three organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/serum-sets-3-per-dose-as-ceiling-price-for-proposed-vaccine-in-india/articleshow/77424235.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid positivity rate is below national average: AP CM Jagan||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy during a review meeting at his camp office in Tadepalli on Friday said that Covid-19 positivity rate and mortality rate in the state were lower than the national average. “The government is extensively carrying out tests, more so in containment clusters,” said the CM. According to state government officials, the national average positivity rate is 8.87% and the state average is 8.56%. AP ranks below Karnataka (9.88%), Tamil Nadu (9.26%), Maharashtra (19.36%) and Delhi (12.75%), said officials. On the mortality rate, the CM said the national average is 2.07% while the state average is 0.89%, Karnataka stans at 1.85% and Maharashtra at 3.52%. The chief minister enquired about food and hygiene facilities at the 138 Covid-19 hospitals in the state and the functioning of telemedicine. He asked the officials to collect feedback and take corrective measures wherever there have been complaints. The chief minister told the officials to give masks to students along with the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka kit and get feedback from Covid-19 hospitals. He directed them to display names of hospitals providing medicare at village secretariats and make ANMs the referral point for Aarogyasri hospitals. The officials told the chief minister that five to 10 beds are available at primary health centres (PCH) for people with severe respiratory problems, adding that clinical protocol is being strictly followed. Patients with fever and low oxygen levels are being immediately admitted to hospitals and later shifted to Covid-19 hospitals if required, officials said. The chief minister said the 104 and 14410 call centres should function effectively. Deputy chief minister and health minister Alla Nani, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang, medical and health special chief secretary Jawahar Reddy and other officials participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/positivity-rate-is-below-national-average-jagan/articleshow/77421158.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Israeli gets bail in assault case||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa granted bail to Israeli national Yaniv Benaim alias Atala, allegedly a drug dealer, in a 2019 assault case. In April 2019, Anjuna police had booked an offence against Atala and two others for assaulting a Russian. Subsequently, he was arrested. While granting bail, Justice Nutan Sardessai said the apprehension of the state can be allayed by putting the applicant to terms to ensure his presence before the court. “I order the release of the applicant on bail on certain terms and conditions,” she observed. As per the condition, Atala has to execute bail bond in the amount of Rs 50,000 and also furnish one local surety in co-extensive amount to the satisfaction of the additional sessions judge, Mapusa. “The applicant shall also not leave the state of Goa and the territorial waters of India without the prior written permission of the additional sessions judge,” HC observed. Counsel for the applicant, Damodar Dhond said the chargesheet was filed on August 22, 2019 and thereafter the complainant had to be examined between November 19, 2019 and January 20, 2020. Further, he said the complainant had not supported the case of the prosecution and was declared a hostile witness and that he had not at all implicated the applicant in the said crime. The additional sessions judge had rejected his bail application on May 14, 2020. Pravin Faldessai, additional public prosecutor stated that the statement of the complainant had to be looked into on the merits of the case and also on the conclusion of the trial by the additional sessions judge, and that it could not be appreciated at this juncture for deciding the application for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/israeli-gets-bail-in-assault-case/articleshow/77423372.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Man stabbed to death by co-worker in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old mason was stabbed to death by his co-worker at an under construction building in Petbasheerabad on Friday. The deceased, identified as Madhava Rao, 32, was a native of Andhra Pradesh. He had been working at an under construction site in Petbasheerabad. The accused, Krishna, was working with Madhava Rao. Krishna had an affair with a female construction worker. Madhava Rao had recently become close to her, after which, Krishna had warned both of them, police said. On Thursday night, Krishna came to the construction building and noticed the woman leaving the room in which Madhava Rao was consuming liquor. The woman told Krishna that she had gone to give Madhava Rao drinking water. Krishna picked up an argument with Madhava Rao and hit him on the head with a stick at around 11.30 pm and left the place. Later, at around 1 am, Krishna returned to the site and stabbed Madhava Rao who was fast asleep, said AVR Narasimha Rao, ACP at Petbasheeerabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabbed-to-death-by-co-worker/articleshow/77422377.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Karipur airport unsafe, safety expert had warned in 2011||MUMBAI/CHENNAI: Nine years ago an air-safety expert had warned the aviation ministry and the civil aviation regulator about the dangers of permitting passenger aircraft to land on runway 10 of Karipur Airport during rains and unfavourable wind conditions. On Friday, that warning played out word-for-word after Air India Express pilots landed in tailwind conditions and the aircraft overshot the tabletop runway to drop off the end and crash. “An aircraft landing on runway 10 in tailwind will experience poor braking action due to heavy rubber deposits … All such flights … are endangering the lives of all on board,’’ said Capt Mohan Ranganathan, in a letter sent on June 17, 2011 to then director general of civil aviation Bharat Bhushan and Nasim Zaidi, chairman of a civil aviation safety advisory committee, which was formed after the May 2010 Mangaluru air crash which killed 158 people. “My warning issued after the Mangaluru crash was ignored. It is a table-top runway with a down slope. The buffer zone at the end of the runway is inadequate,” Capt Ranganathan said. Given the topography, he pointed out, the airport should have a buffer of 240m at the end of the runway, but it only has 90m (which the DGCA had approved). “Moreover, the space on either side of the runway is only 75m instead of the mandatory 100m,” he told TOI. Capt Ranganathan said there is no guideline for operations on a table-top runway when it is raining. “Runway 10 approach should not be permitted in view of the lack of runway end safety area (RESA) and the terrain beyond the end of the runway. RESA of 240m should be immediately introduced and runway length has to be reduced to make the operations safe,” his letter said. If an aircraft is unable to stop within the runway, there is no RESA beyond the end. The ILS localiser antenna is housed on a concrete structure and the area beyond is a steep slope. “The Air India Express accident in Mangalore should have alerted AAI to make the runway conditions safe. We have brought up the issue of RESA during the initial Casac-sub group meetings. We had specifically mentioned that the declared distances for both runways have to be reduced in order to comply with ICAO Annex 14 requirement,” Capt Ranganathan said. He said the condition of the runway strip was known to DGCA teams that have been conducting inspection and safety assessments. “Have they considered the danger involved? Did the DGCA or the airlines lay down any operational restrictions or special procedures?” The letter also refers to Approach and Landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) training, which is supposed to be mandatory before every monsoon, but airlines don’t follow it, he said. “70% of accidents take place during approach and landing and that is why this training is essential,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/karipur-unsafe-safety-expert-had-warned-in-2011/articleshow/77423360.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||TSCHE tells pvt colleges to halt admissions||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has warned private degree colleges against commencement of admissions before the council releases an official admission notification and said that erring colleges will lose their affiliation. The council has directed the colleges to follow the academic schedule and said that the TSCHE/universities have not issued any notification for admitting candidates into the respective degree courses. The council said that colleges which are not admitting students through Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) have to wait for a notification to admit students. “TSCHE has been receiving a number of complaints from parents or student organizations that the private degree colleges in Hyderabad are making admissions and collecting huge fees from the candidates, which is illegal. Hence, all private colleges are instructed to immediately stop the admission process,” said T Papi Reddy, chairman, TSCHE. He further added, “In future, if any complaints are received against colleges, the government/TSCHE will consider the issue seriously and take the initiative to cancel the affiliation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsche-tells-pvt-colleges-to-halt-admissions/articleshow/77422407.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||APSRTC resumes Guntur-Vijayawada services||GUNTUR: AP State Road Transport Corporation resumed passenger services between Vijayawada and Guntur on Friday, four-and-a-half months after suspension of operations. Although APSRTC has been operating buses to major cities and towns across the state for the past two months, services between Guntur and Vijayawada could not take off due to apprehensions of collectors of both districts about the spread of Covid-19. With both Guntur and Vijayawada reporting a high number of cases, senior officials kept public transport movement between the two cities on hold. No depot in Guntur region was allowed to operate services to Vijayawada. After repeated requests by RTC authorities, Guntur district collector Samuel Anand Kumar gave the green signal to operate services. He, however, directed RTC regional manager to run a limited number of buses. Taking the collector’s instructions into consideration, RTC plans to operate 178 buses from the 13 depots in the district. While each depot would ply around four services to Vijayawada, Guntur-I and Guntur-II depots plan to run at least 30 services between the two cities. At least one service used to run every five minutes between Guntur and Vijayawada in the past. This frequency has come down to nearly one service every 40-50 minutes. The remaining services have been planned between different towns within the district. “We have taken precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and are allowing only 50% of seats to be filled,” said regional manager in-charge, Rajasekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsrtc-resumes-guntur-vij-services/articleshow/77421168.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||‘Samvad’ of theatre artists from 11 cities||Vadodara: M S University’s Department of Dramatics will provide a platform to 17 young artists from 11 cities of Gujarat and Maharashtra through ‘Samvad: a seven days youth theatre integration’. The participants including some Padma awardees will also delve on how Gujarat’s theatre art can be projected on international stage. “The online programme that begins from August 9 is to have a dialogue between young theatre practitioners to know their art practice, understand their perspective about art and society and to work together in years to come,” said Dr Pramod Chavan, artistic director of the programme. “They will speak on performance language, direction styles, actors training methodology, socio-political crisis and other subjects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/samvad-of-theatre-artists-from-11-cities/articleshow/77420623.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||SGST arrests two in Rs 14cr ITC scam||Surat: The State Goods and Service Tax (SGST) department on Friday arrested two persons involved in a scam of fake Input Tax Credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 14 crore. Sources said that the accused had received specific information on the ITC scam involving two traders who had set up six bogus firms for the exchange of textile goods in Bhagal, Ring Road and Adajan areas in the city. Without physical supply of goods, the duo claimed ITC from the government exchequer. In its preliminary investigation, SGST sleuths found that the duo, identified as Manish Shah and one Yogesh, had fraudulently claimed ITC on basis of fake invoices generated in the names of the bogus firms. Manish Shah is the mastermind of the scam and had created the bogus firms in the name of his relatives and friends showing fake addresses under GST registration. However, the duo were presented in the district court on Friday where they have been sent in the judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgst-arrests-two-in-rs-14cr-itc-scam/articleshow/77421169.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Light rain and thunder forecast for weekend in Pune||PUNE: Parts of the city and its surrounding areas received light rain and thunder on Friday, with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting similar weather on Saturday as well. The IMD stations at Shivajinagar and Lohegaon recorded rainfall of 0.7mm and 0.8mm, respectively. The day was also marked by high humidity, with the IMD recording the relative humidity at a maximum of 90%. Most stations in the region also received light rainfall and maximum temperatures ranged from mid-20 degrees Celsius to early-30 degrees Celsius. The exception was Mahabaleshwar, which recorded a rainfall of 27mm on Friday. The maximum temperature in the hill resort town reached only up to 20.1 degrees Celsius. Kolhapur also received significant rainfall in the central Maharashtra region, at 7mm till 5:30pm. An IMD release stated that the city and its surrounding region would continue to experience similar weather at least on Saturday, with flashes of lightning and thundery and gusty winds. The IMD had on Thursday stated that the downpour was likely to be good throughout the state, including Pune city and district, during the next fortnight of August. The extended range forecast showed that after the ongoing spell, the rainfall was likely to pick up once again in most parts of the state after August 14, with possibility of good showers till August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/light-rain-thunder-forecast-for-weekend/articleshow/77423369.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Folk artists perform for Covid-19 patients||Visakhapatnam: Popular folk artists of Srikakulam district are rendering performances at the 1,300-bed Covid-19 Care Centre in Srikakulam town in a bid to entertain patients. A total of 951 Covid-19 patients are housed at the centre as of Friday. The artists are performing every evening from 6pm to 7:30pm. A stage has been arranged in compliance with Covid-19 norms. The stage is set up 10 feet away from the audience gallery. In the gallery, there is a space of six feet between two seats. Audience members are mandated to wear masks. A total of 46 artists are performing. Performances include folk songs, skits, mimicry, Burra Katha, Toorpu Bhagvatam, Pandiri Pata, Jamukula Katha, Yakshaganam and plays. The district administration is spending nearly Rs 60,000 for the performances, said Vamsi Krishna Reddy, in-charge at the centre. On Friday, Pandiri Pata—a folk art form— was performed by Arunasri Tavitinaidu Party, a group of artists from Sanivada village in Srikakulam mandal. The programmes are aimed at encouraging patients and reducing stress. Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “We want to save Covid-19 patients from stress. A patient spends nearly a week at the Covid Care Centre. All our programmes are designed to keep patients engaged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/folk-artists-perform-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77421176.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB demolishes illegal structure in Karkhana||Secunderabad: Mild tension prevailed in Karkhana on Friday after locals held a protest against land grab in the area. The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) engineering officials accompanied by a team of police personnel, later demolished an illegal structure that was built on the land. “A temporary shed was put up on Cantonment land (Class ‘C’), which is governed by the board, measuring nearly 400 square yards, near Mahankali temple at Karkhana for commercial purposes by unidentified persons. The accused were using the shed for repairing motor vehicles and washing them. It is an illegal structure, and earlier too, we had told them to remove the shed, but they did not do it,” SCB assistant engineer, Krishna Sagar, told TOI. Meanwhile, the locals produced a few documents claiming that the land belonged to them, however, according to SCB records, it is Class ‘C’ land. “We have put up a signboard and a wall will be built to protect the cantonment land,” said the engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-demolishes-illegal-structure-in-karkhana/articleshow/77422404.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Free hostel, transport aid to get girls to study after HSC in Pune||PUNE: The Pune zilla parishad has launched schemes like free hostel facility in urban colleges, transportation allowance and fee concession to stop the dropout rate among girls. The higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) results were recently announced and many girls have performed well, and the Pune ZP has begun steps to improve enrolment for undergraduate courses. Women and child development sabhapati of Pune ZP Pooja Pagare said, “On review of the funds used by our department, it was noticed that much of it was unused. So, we decided to conduct a survey of why the allocation was not utilised and on the other hand women enrolment in higher education was on the downside. We have identified a few areas where we can introduce schemes but to be sure we are conducting a survey.” The ZP is also trying to provide free transportation facilities so that those who cannot stay in hostels will be able to travel if the commute is provided. Chief executive officer of Pune ZP, Ayush Prasad said, “The recently announced std X and XII results were excellent, but every year after std X, girls drop out of education. After std XII, the rate is even more. We are encouraging girl students to fill up FYJC and graduation forms. They can get opportunities for employment on graduation and it will also help in their family income.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/free-hostel-transport-aid-to-get-girls-to-study-after-hsc/articleshow/77423364.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana registers single-day high of 2,200 Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 12 coronavirus deaths with the single-day highest count of 2,207 cases on Friday. While the death toll has gone up to 601, the total caseload has touched 75,257, with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reporting 532 cases followed by Rangareddy district with 196 cases and Warangal Urban district with 142 cases. Barring Nirmal, all the other districts in the state recorded cases in double digits. Health authorities also said that 1,135 patients recovered on Thursday, taking the total number of people recovered so far from the global pandemic to 53,239. At present there are 21,417 active cases in the state and out of these 14,837 patients are under home isolation. The state tested 23,495 samples with the results of 1,539 samples awaited and overall 5,67,000 tests were conducted by the state thus far. Recovery rate stands at 70 percent in Telangana against the national average of 67 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-registers-single-day-high-of-2200-covid-cases/articleshow/77423356.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: MGM hospital didn’t use ventilator mask & my dad died, rues son||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 has exposed the inadequate amenities at Warangal’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital as allegations of neglect and lack of facilities have surfaced time and again. In the latest case, the son of a patient, who passed away battling Covid-19, has accused authorities of negligence. Harshith Beera took to Twitter no Friday to express his frustration. Speaking to TOI, Beera said: “On July 25, my father Prasad Beera passed away as the hospital staff could not find a mask for the ventilator. I spent close to an hour sourcing the mask.” He said his troubles did not end there as young doctors did not know how to operate the new ventilators. “I was told that the hospital has a new model of ventilators. The doctor was not able to operate this and took 20 minutes to plug in the old ventilator. Within minutes my father passed away,” said the student. What was shocking to Beera was that 40 minutes after his father’s death, he saw a sealed mask lying in a box placed on the ventilator. “When I questioned the staff who came to pick it up, they turned their back,” said the student, implying that the mask had been there all the time.  In-charge superintendent Dr Nagarjuna Reddy said: “There have been no issues in operating the ventilator machines. We will investigate the matter.” Beera, however, said that not just the ventilators, even getting a bed was difficult at first. “All the private hospitals said they were full. At MGM Hospital, we were asked to find a bed ourselves.” Even after doing this, his father was not given medication on time. When challenged, the staff allegedly even denied the patient was with them. “This is because they kept losing my father’s case sheet. Once I found it on the doctor’s room after a three-hour search, then again in the nurses’ room,” said Beera. The MGM hospital has been at the centre of a series of controversies from videos of patients voicing out their anger over the lack of facilities, the flooding of certain wards and the resignation of the superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mgm-hosp-didnt-use-ventilator-mask-my-dad-died-rues-son/articleshow/77423368.cms||Uttara Varma
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||After 4-month hiatus, IIT-H to open Monday||Hyderabad: After a break of almost four months, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) is all set to hold its doors open for students in a phased manner from August 10.  As per the senate decision, PhD research scholars and students pursuing masters of technology (MTech) and masters of design (MDes) will be allowed into the campus in batches of 70.  There are close to 1,500 PhD and masters students enrolled with the IIT-H and the institute has chalked out a detailed plan on reopening of the institution.  To begin with, the institute has already identified PhD scholars, who need to come to the campus for their experimental research. The research scholars identified by the faculty have been asked their choice and only those who choose to come to campus are being allowed to return.“To enable PhD students to carry out their experimental research amid this pandemic situation, we have decided to invite our PhD students, particularly those in their final year, to the campus. All precautionary measures have been put in place and will be followed to ensure the safety of our students,” said Prof BS Murthy, director, IIT-H.  After the PhD students, who need experimental facilities for their thesis, MTech/MDes students, whose thesis depends on experimental work, will be the next batch to be allowed in the campus. “The first batch is expected to arrive on August 10, 2020. Each batch of students will be self-quarantined for 14 days in one of the hostels before they are allowed to occupy their regular hostel rooms,” reads a statement issued by IIT-H to TOI.  After self-quarantine, students will be allowed to have their meal in the mess by maintaining social distance. After the first batch of students complete their self-quarantine and move to their regular rooms, they will be under observation for a week or two before the next batch of students are allowed into the campus. This process will be continued until the need for social distancing is lifted by the government. “Initial batches of students will be from Telangana and the neighbouring states. Once the national transportation services are improved, PhD students from other states will be invited to return,” reads the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-4-month-hiatus-iit-h-to-open-monday/articleshow/77422424.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Bar owners await clarity over licence renewal||VIJAYAWADA: Bar owners are in a quandary with the state government yet to signal when business can resume. As bars are yet to open to the public, licence holders are waiting before renewing licences. With the new bar policy brought by the state government in December 2019 ending in litigation, bar owners are uncertain whether to pay licence fees according to the old or the new policy. Earlier, bar licences were issued for five years from 2017 to 2022, with the fee payable every year. The annual licence term for bars ends on June 30 and licences have to be renewed with a 10% increment in fee. However, after the regime change in 2019, the YSRC government brought in an excise policy to implement liquor prohibition in a phased manner. The government proposed to reduce the number of bars by 40%, a move that was challenged by bar owners in the high court which stayed the policy for the time being. In the meantime, bars have remained shut in the state since March 22 since the lockdown was imposed. With more than four months of business lost and no clarity on when bars will be allowed to open, bar owners are seeking relief from the government to reimburse the loss in business days in the new licence term. Some bar owners have moved the high court to protect their licences. As they have not paid the requisite fee to renew licences because of losses due to the lockdown, they have sought relief that their licences not be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bar-owners-await-clarity-over-licence-renewal/articleshow/77421202.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Amaravati||Now, apply online for quarantine exemption||AMARAVATI: Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a GMR Group-led consortium, has announced that it has developed Air Suvidha, a first-of-its-kind portal where India-bound international passengers can fill in mandatory self-declaration form and apply for exemption from institutional quarantine process. This facility is expected to help many passengers bound for Andhra Pradesh. As per guidelines of the ministry of civil aviation, the portal will be available for all international arrivals from Saturday. According to Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) CEO, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, Air Suvidha will make passengers’ journey more convenient in a contactless way as they will not be required to fill in hard copies of the forms on arrival. Passengers seeking exemption under five specific categories will need to fill the e-form available on the website of Delhi Airport ‘www.newdelhiairport.in’. They will have to submit it along with supporting documents, including copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, there is no such time limit for other passengers filling in the self-declaration form. Jaipuriar said all the applications will be auto-routed to the respective state governments, depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self-declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organisation (APHO), under the ministry of health and family welfare. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to the passengers. Those who will be granted exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at their respective airports, and walk out hassle-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-apply-online-for-quarantine-exemption/articleshow/77425979.cms||Samdani MN
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||3 booked for water meter tampering in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three persons were booked for tampering with water meters in a raid by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) team in Jeedimetla on Friday. “Hari Roy and Ismail of Modi Builders & Realtors were involved in the offence. The owners took the help of a meter reader, Ghanshyam Patil,” HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer B Ravi Chandan Reddy told TOI. “The water board had short-listed certain agencies to supply quality Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) water meters to its consumers for the past several years. Taking advantage of this, the flat owners tampered with the the meters so that they pay lesser amounts towards water bills. With the help of Ghanshyam, they damaged the AMR meter and manipulated the meter reading,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-booked-for-water-meter-tampering/articleshow/77422427.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Mumbai pilot an ex-IAF officer||Mumbai: Commanding pilot Deepak V Sathe, 59, who is believed to have died on the spot, was a former Indian Air Force officer. Sathe lived in Mumbai’s Powai with his wife Sushma and two sons. His older son Shantanu got married on March 8, days before the lockdown began. Shantanu works in the USA while Sathe’s younger son Dhananjay is employed with a corporate firm in Bengaluru. A neighbour said, “Sathe and I were squadron mates in the IAF, flying MiG-21s in the 1980s during our bachelor days. We have not received an official confirmation from Air India Express (about his condition). We fear the worst although we have not lost hope as yet. His wife Sushma is a strong lady and is quite composed. We are making arrangements for her to travel to Kozhikode on Saturday.” The family originally hails from the Konkan although his parents later moved to Nagpur. Sathe was a wing commander in the IAF from where he retired and joined Air India about 10 years ago. In fact his late father and brother were Army officers. He flew the Airbus 310 for AI before moving on to Air India Express on Boeing 737. He had a passion for flying, said a distant relative who is a senior lawyer. Sathe studied in Cambrian Hall School, Dehradun. Old school friends who are also from the defence forces, called up his home to pay their condolences. Meanwhile in Pune, former IAF vice chief, Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale, said, “It is very unfortunate to lose a brilliant officer in this manner.” Sathe was from the 58th course of the National Defence Academy (NDA). “He passed out from the Air Force Academy with a Sword of Honour in June 1981. He was a fighter pilot and served as a test pilot in the IAF. He was an excellent squash player too,” he said. Gokhale, who investigated the 2010 Mangaluru plane crash in which 158 passengers were killed, said, “The accumulation of rainwater on the runway surface in the rainy season is the riskiest thing for any pilot. There is a standard operating procedure set up by DGCA for clearing water from the runway. The inquiry panel will check this aspect during the investigation.” He said, “The flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder of the aircraft must be in a good condition as there was no fire in the aircraft. These two will give the exact information about the aircraft and the conversation between the main pilot and the co-pilot. This will give the real-time information of the aircraft at the time of the accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mumbai-pilot-an-ex-iaf-officer/articleshow/77423379.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, apply online for quarantine exemption||AMARAVATI: Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a GMR Group-led consortium, has announced that it has developed Air Suvidha, a first-of-its-kind portal where India-bound international passengers can fill in mandatory self-declaration form and apply for exemption from institutional quarantine process. This facility is expected to help many passengers bound for Andhra Pradesh. As per guidelines of the ministry of civil aviation, the portal will be available for all international arrivals from Saturday. According to Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) CEO, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, Air Suvidha will make passengers’ journey more convenient in a contactless way as they will not be required to fill in hard copies of the forms on arrival. Passengers seeking exemption under five specific categories will need to fill the e-form available on the website of Delhi Airport ‘www.newdelhiairport.in’. They will have to submit it along with supporting documents, including copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, there is no such time limit for other passengers filling in the self-declaration form. Jaipuriar said all the applications will be auto-routed to the respective state governments, depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self-declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organisation (APHO), under the ministry of health and family welfare. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to the passengers. Those who will be granted exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at their respective airports, and walk out hassle-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-apply-online-for-quarantine-exemption/articleshow/77425978.cms||Samdani MN
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bar owners await clarity over licence renewal||VIJAYAWADA: Bar owners are in a quandary with the state government yet to signal when business can resume. As bars are yet to open to the public, licence holders are waiting before renewing licences. With the new bar policy brought by the state government in December 2019 ending in litigation, bar owners are uncertain whether to pay licence fees according to the old or the new policy. Earlier, bar licences were issued for five years from 2017 to 2022, with the fee payable every year. The annual licence term for bars ends on June 30 and licences have to be renewed with a 10% increment in fee. However, after the regime change in 2019, the YSRC government brought in an excise policy to implement liquor prohibition in a phased manner. The government proposed to reduce the number of bars by 40%, a move that was challenged by bar owners in the high court which stayed the policy for the time being. In the meantime, bars have remained shut in the state since March 22 since the lockdown was imposed. With more than four months of business lost and no clarity on when bars will be allowed to open, bar owners are seeking relief from the government to reimburse the loss in business days in the new licence term. Some bar owners have moved the high court to protect their licences. As they have not paid the requisite fee to renew licences because of losses due to the lockdown, they have sought relief that their licences not be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bar-owners-await-clarity-over-licence-renewal/articleshow/77427645.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Amaravati||Bar owners await clarity over licence renewal||VIJAYAWADA: Bar owners are in a quandary with the state government yet to signal when business can resume. As bars are yet to open to the public, licence holders are waiting before renewing licences. With the new bar policy brought by the state government in December 2019 ending in litigation, bar owners are uncertain whether to pay licence fees according to the old or the new policy. Earlier, bar licences were issued for five years from 2017 to 2022, with the fee payable every year. The annual licence term for bars ends on June 30 and licences have to be renewed with a 10% increment in fee. However, after the regime change in 2019, the YSRC government brought in an excise policy to implement liquor prohibition in a phased manner. The government proposed to reduce the number of bars by 40%, a move that was challenged by bar owners in the high court which stayed the policy for the time being. In the meantime, bars have remained shut in the state since March 22 since the lockdown was imposed. With more than four months of business lost and no clarity on when bars will be allowed to open, bar owners are seeking relief from the government to reimburse the loss in business days in the new licence term. Some bar owners have moved the high court to protect their licences. As they have not paid the requisite fee to renew licences because of losses due to the lockdown, they have sought relief that their licences not be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/bar-owners-await-clarity-over-licence-renewal/articleshow/77427646.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Prisons dept plans 10,000 capacity jail in Mankhurd||Pune: The state department of prisons has told the public works department (PWD) to prepare a plan for a 25-storied prison with capacity to accommodate 10,000 inmates, on a five-acre plot at Mankhurd in Mumbai. “We are planning to create this facility on the lines of the Miami mega prison in Florida, US,” additional director general of prisons Sunil Ramanand told TOI on Friday, adding, “The new complex would go a long way in decongesting the Arthur road jail.” A formal proposal regarding the multi-storied prison will be submitted to the state government after the plan is readied by the PWD department, said Ramanand. He explained, “State prisons traditionally have one- or two-storied structures spread horizontally. There is no prison spread vertically. The government had allotted a five-acre plot at Mankhurd a few years ago. We decided to initiate a proposal to construct a 25-storied jail facing skywards on the lines of the Miami mega prison.” The structure will include office and residential quarters for jail staff with separate entry and exit, among other facilities. “This is a first-of-its-kind proposal aiming to house undertrial prisoners arrested in Mumbai. The PWD is working on the plan and estimates required to construct the facility. We will follow up with the government to sanction the project at the earliest.” The Arthur road jail, with a capacity for 804 prisoners, now houses around 1,814 inmates. Of 60 prisons in Maharashtra, the government has constructed six new jails at Taloja, Sindhudurg, Jalna, Nandurbar, Washim and Gadchiroli since 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prisons-dept-plans-10000-capacity-jail-in-mankhurd/articleshow/77423370.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 8, 2020||Pune||Dismissed cop among five behind dacoity||Pune: The Pune rural police on Friday claimed to have established the identity of the five men involved in armed dacoity of ornaments worth Rs17 lakh at a jewellery shop at Kapurhol, about 40km from the city, on Thursday evening. “One of the five men is a dismissed police constable, Sachin Magare, who escaped from Jalgaon jail a week ago after stealing the pistol from a jailer there. He was earlier arrested in an armed robbery case ,” superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandip Patil said. “We are in touch with the Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur police for tracing the five men and have asked the Kolhapur police to seal their borders to prevent them from escaping to Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dismissed-cop-among-five-behind-dacoity/articleshow/77423377.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, apply online for quarantine exemption||AMARAVATI: Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a GMR Group-led consortium, has announced that it has developed Air Suvidha, a first-of-its-kind portal where India-bound international passengers can fill in mandatory self-declaration form and apply for exemption from institutional quarantine process. This facility is expected to help many passengers bound for Andhra Pradesh. As per guidelines of the ministry of civil aviation, the portal will be available for all international arrivals from Saturday. According to Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) CEO, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, Air Suvidha will make passengers’ journey more convenient in a contactless way as they will not be required to fill in hard copies of the forms on arrival. Passengers seeking exemption under five specific categories will need to fill the e-form available on the website of Delhi Airport ‘www.newdelhiairport.in’. They will have to submit it along with supporting documents, including copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, there is no such time limit for other passengers filling in the self-declaration form. Jaipuriar said all the applications will be auto-routed to the respective state governments, depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self-declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organisation (APHO), under the ministry of health and family welfare. A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds will be emailed to the passengers. Those who will be granted exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at their respective airports, and walk out hassle-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-apply-online-for-quarantine-exemption/articleshow/77421186.cms||Samdani MN
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Eleven of a family fought and won Covid battle together||HYDERABAD: A Covid-19 positive patient in Mailardevpally in Rangareddy district, who had four members of his family and six members of his extended family also testing positive, showed the way forward on tackling the virus by self-quarantining themselves at home, maintaining social distance, helping one another and finally defeating the virus. Apart from Daramoni Suresh (45), his wife Subhashini (36), two daughters (14 and 13) and an eight-year-old son, Suresh’s mother-in-law (55), his brother-in-law (34), brother-in-law’s wife (27) and their 11-month-old baby girl, plus Suresh’s cousin (49) and his wife (44) had all tested positive for Covid-19 on July 15. Thanks to home isolation for 15 days, they all are healthy and back on their feet now. Dr MadhushaA school assistant, Suresh said it’s all about family bonding during these tough times that helped them overcome the Covid-19 fears. While he developed the symptoms on July 11 after attending the funeral of a close relative, Subhashini and the children developed the symptoms two days later. “After attending the funeral, I felt uneasy and immediately got myself tested. My test results came positive. I have co-morbidities also. My wife and children also got themselves tested and all of their reports came positive on July 15,” he told TOI. Soon after his extended family members and relatives developed symptoms, Suresh called them to his Laxmiguda residence. With the test results of six of them also coming positive, all the family members stayed in the house till they recovered fully. “My children even attended online classes,” Suresh recalled. “Since we had decided against going to hospital and fight it out by quarantining ourselves, it was a long haul,” Subhashini said. “But, it paid the dividends. Neighbours shunned us and were scared to come near the house.” A cousin from Bengaluru, Madhusha, who is a doctor, was counselling them on how to face the virus. “I gave them psychological and emotional support. Expect for my cousin Suresh and the 11-month-old niece, the treatment for others (asymptomatic) went off smoothly,” Dr Madhusha told TOI. “The baby also had some health complications but she has also recovered fully now,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eleven-of-a-family-fought-and-won-covid-battle-together/articleshow/77423376.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Now, RWAs to allow Covid cremations in Cantonment area||SECUNDERABAD: Interaction of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials with the resident welfare associations (RWAs) has resulted in hassle-free burial of the Covid-19 victims’ bodies in the Cantoment area. The RWAs have realised that the patients are already spending a lot in private hospitals for treatment and, therefore allow the cremation/burial of the dead on humanitarian grounds. Initially, the RWAs had raised objections over the cremation of bodies at the crematoriums in the area. They also objected to the dead bodies being carried inside residential colonies. “We received complaints from the kin of the deceased about the hardships they face in giving the dead a decent burial,” said a senior SCB official. “Responding to the complaints, we interacted with the RWAs of the areas where crematoriums and burial places are located. We warned them against imposing restrictions against burials, mainly of those who died due to Covid-19. We asked them to ensure that the rituals are conducted smoothly. We also told them that criminal cases will be registered against the RWAs if they violate the Cantonment Board orders,” said the official. “Till date, 20 people have died due to Covid-19 in the Secunderabad Cantonment,” the SCB official said. Hindu crematoriums are located in Bowenpally, Gun Rock, Trimulgherry and Marredpally, while Muslim burial grounds are in Bowenpally, Karkhana, and Marredpally. Initially, we restricted the rituals as there were apprehensions that the virus can also spread from dead bodies. But after our interaction with SCB officials, we realised that it was inhumane to not allow final rites||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-rwas-to-allow-covid-cremations-in-cantonment-area/articleshow/77423380.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||ISB inks pact with Telangana to study impact of Covid-19, govt schemes on weavers||Hyderabad: Premier city-based B-School, Indian School of Business (ISB), will be working with Telangana government to study how the pandemic has impacted weavers’ families and how effective the current welfare schemes have been in easing their pain. In the near-term, ISB will be providing recommendations to improve the effectiveness of these schemes and suggest measures to build assured market, systematised production, product and design development to increase the net income of weavers. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) to this effect was inked between ISB and Telangana department of handlooms and textiles on the occasion of National Handloom Day. ISB Professor Ashwini Chhatre and Telangana IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan inked the MoU in the presence of Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao. Pointing out that about 40,000 families in Telangana depend on weaving activity, Rao said that the government recently released Rs 93 crore for weavers under the ‘Nethanna Ku Cheyutha’ (Thrift) scheme well before the mandatory lock-in period of three years to provide relief in Covid times. He also added that 20,554 weavers have been enrolled under the Chenetha Mitra, the yarn subsidy scheme. He said the government has allocated Rs 15 crore for the revival of the Pochampally Handloom Park and the foundation stone has been laid for the Gadwal Handloom Park, where the works will begin soon. Besides, ISB, the state department of handlooms and textiles also inked an MoU with the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) to conduct research on the development of sustainable textile yarn dyeing to reduce the hazardous impact of dyeing on weavers and the environment. It also inked an MoU with United Nations Development Programme, India, to work on livelihood opportunities through skill upgradation and market linkages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isb-inks-pact-with-t-to-study-impact-of-covid-19-govt-schemes-on-weavers/articleshow/77422440.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Opposition party leaders detained||Hyderabad: The party president of TJS, along with 65 other members of CPI and TDP were taken into preventive custody after they gathered near chief minister’s officer, demanding better treatment for Covid-19 patients. According to police, the gathering was in violation of the government guidelines in view of Covid-19 outbreak. They had also not taken permission and were obstructing the traffic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/opposition-party-leaders-detained/articleshow/77422437.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 volunteer succumbs to virus in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 outbreak has claimed the life of 59-year-old Covid-19 volunteer and animal lover Emandi Narayan Rao, known for his charitable activities in distributing meals to the poor and destitute during the pandemic and the lockdown. Rao was a garment merchant and treasurer of a trustee board of a temple in the city. He is survived by his mother, wife, son, daughter-in-law and grandchild. A dedicated vegan and well-known for his love for animals, Rao would visit all 16 dog feeding stations in the city as well as distribute vegan food for street-dwellers and the poor. The lockdown could not stop his activities. A regular on Visakhapatnam’s roads, he handed out vegan meals and took care of street dogs till July 27, when he was admitted to a government hospital complaining of ill-health.He tested positive for Covid-19 and passed away on July 29. Close friend and animal lover Pradip Kumar Nath said, “His house is in Alipuram, one of the deadliest containment zones in the city. We had requested him several times to not come out during the pandemic. But he would proudly say feeding street dogs and serving the poor is an essential service and in such services you can’t be absent for a single day.” His friends in the city’s animal lovers’ groups remember him as someone who could be relied upon because of his sense of responsibility and punctuality, adding that every day, the 300-odd dogs at each of the 16 feeding centres would wait for Rao. “Besides his happy family, he has left behind several street dogs in this city. We will definitely miss him,” added Nath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-volunteer-succumbs-to-virus/articleshow/77421222.cms||Arpit Basu
August 8, 2020||Nashik||RTPCR lab opened at civil hospital||Nashik: The facility at the Nashik civil hospital will be able to conduct 200 swab tests daily and the speedy arrival reports will help curb cases of Covid-19 in the city, said district guarding minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday. “In the near future, the lab’s testing capacity will not only be increased, but it will also be useful for conducting tests of other diseases like swine flu,” said Bhujbal while inaugurating the RTPCR lab. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rtpcr-lab-opened-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/77419827.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 8, 2020||India||India’s recovery rate at 68% as 13.8L beat Covid||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 20 lakh mark on Friday after a record 62,538 cases were added in the last 24 hours, even as two-third of the total patients have also recovered. The total recoveries have jumped to 13,78,105, with 49,769 patients getting better in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate now stands at 68%. The average daily recovery (7-day moving average) has increased from around 26,000 cases to 44,000 cases in the last two weeks, the Union health ministry said. In the last 24 hours, 886 people died. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in the country now stands at 41,585. The Covid fatality rate is now at around 2%. India is also consistently increasing Covid-19 testing to ensure timely detection and treatment of cases — which is crucial to ensure a high recovery rate and fatality rate amid rising number of cases. Over 6.4 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The tests per million has seen a sharp increase to 16,513. “In a testament to the consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre and the state/UT governments, India continues its track record of testing more than 6 lakh Covid-19 samples each day for the fourth successive day,” the health ministry said. The 7-day moving average in daily tests conducted has significantly improved from around 2.7 lakh on July 14 to around 5.6 lakh on August 6. The ministry said while the cumulative testing rose from 1.2 crore on 14th July to 2.2 crore on 6th August, the positivity rate has seen a rise from 7.5% to 8.9% in the same period. “Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially, but as the Delhi experience has amply shown, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, tracking and timely clinical management,” the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-recovery-rate-at-68-as-13-8l-beat-covid/articleshow/77424897.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||DMRC, tourism body told to remove debris from Yamuna floodplain: DDA||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday said it had already directed all agencies, including Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, to remove any construction material or debris found lying on the Yamuna floodplain. The directive was issued after images surfaced on social media of the debris lying on the floodplain. DDA said a site inspection of the area was carried out earlier this week during which the materials were also spotted. “Images of debris and other waste were highlighted last week and a team had carried out an inspection around Signature Bridge and Nizamuddin Bridge. All violations were noted and in this case, directions were issued to the agencies to pick up any debris or material that may have been dumped or left behind,” said a DDA official. Only a few days ago, the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) had given DDA more time to file an action-taken report on the status of debris and biomedical waste found dumped along the floodplain. DDA has also been asked to take action and fix accountability against its officers who are not “conversant with the ground reality” and have not provided facts to the committee. “The vice-chairman of DDA is requested to institute a system that is efficient and reliable enough to actively prevent ingress on the floodplain. When it is being reported so frequently on social media with graphic details, DDA must respond promptly,” the monitoring committee said. “The delay in giving responses is also being highlighted and is resulting in public apprehension that nothing is being done,” the committee has pointed out. It appears that officials concerned “depend on others without checking” to give information, the panel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-tourism-body-told-to-remove-debris-from-yamuna-floodplain-dda/articleshow/77422540.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Bhadradri deputy DMHO dies of Covid||HYDERABAD: In what could be a first such casualty among government doctors engaged in fighting the pandemic in Telangana, deputy district medical and health officer (DMHO) of Bhadradri Kothagudem Dr G Naresh Kumar died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment in a hospital in the city, on Friday. Dr Naresh was in charge of the Covid quarantine centre in Manuguru from where he was said to have contracted the virus. He was shifted to Hyderabad after his condition worsened. The health official’s demise is the sixth death among those working in the frontline. Health minister Eatala Rajender expressed grief over his death. “It is sad to hear that Dr Naresh lost his life a week after testing positive for the virus,” the minister said. The Telangana Government Doctors’ Association has demanded Rs 1 crore ex-gratia to his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhadradri-deputy-dmho-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77423406.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Crash at Karipur airport rekindles memories of 2010 Mangaluru accident||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The accident that happened at Karipur airport on Friday night has striking similarities to the 2010 Mangaluru air crash. In both cases Air India flights met with the disaster and both airports have ‘table-top’ runways, which need adept negotiation skills for the pilot to land. It was on May 22, 2010 that an Air India Express Boeing 737-800 flight from Dubai to Mangaluru over shot the runway while landing at Bajpe airport and fell into a cliff. Of the 166 passengers on board, only seven survived. The final conversations between Air traffic control (ATC) and the pilot prior to the landing showed no indication of any distress. Like the Mangaluru accident, Karipur crash too happened when the flight was attempting to land. The captain of the aircraft which crashed at Mangaluru, Z Glucia, was an experienced pilot with 10,000 hours of flying experience and had 19 landings at the Mangalore airport. Co-pilot S S Ahluwalia, with 3,000 hours of flying experience had as many as 66 landings at this airport. Both the pilot and co-pilot were among the victims. An investigation into the accident later found that the cause of the accident was the captain’s failure to discontinue an ‘unstabilised approach’ and his persistence to continue with the landing, despite three calls from the First Officer to ‘go-around’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/crash-rekindles-memories-of-2010-mangaluru-accident/articleshow/77423408.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC staff to run fuel outlets, corpn eyes Rs 20 lakh/mnth||Hyderabad: After earning a revenue of over Rs 1.2 crore within two months through cargo and parcel services, the cash-strapped Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is now planning to rake in another Rs 20.6 lakh per month by setting up fuel outlets which will be run with the help of RTC employees. The corporation has signed an MoU with oil companies for 92 outlets including HPCL at 61 locations and with IOCL at 31 locations in the state. It has decided to run these outlets on its own after a service provider from Karimnagar Zone opted for a premature termination of the agreement. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, who virtually inaugurated operations of the fuel outlet at Janagaon in Karimnagar zone, said that the remaining outlets - Hanamkonda, Mahabubabad, Bichkonda, Birkur and Asifabad — will become operational from August 15. “With the operation of these fuel outlets, TSRTC will get a revenue of around Rs 20.6 lakh per month which includes Rs 17 lakh in the form of commission and Rs 3.65 lakh in the form of lease rentals. The outlets would be run with the help of RTC employees, who have become excess due to the introduction of private hire buses,” said Kumar. This apart, the TSRTC is also mulling 50 mini cargo vehicles with a capacity of 3 tonnes each. The larger vehicles that are currently operational have a nine tonne capacity. Officials expect a further rise in revenue once the inter-state and city bus services are restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-staff-to-run-fuel-outlets-corpn-eyes-rs-20-lakh/mnth/articleshow/77422458.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Weavers’ park in Jogulamba Gadwal district soon, says KTR||HYDERABAD: A weavers’ park will be developed in Jogulamba Gadwal district soon, industries minister KT Rama Rao said on Friday. He said this while presenting awards to 18 weavers on the occasion of national weavers’ day. While Krishnaiah of Kothakota and Gajula Narayana of Siddipet were presented the awards in Hyderabad by the minister, the rest were handed over the awards by district collectors. Jogulamba Gadwal collector Shruti Ojha presented the award to weaver Gaddam Anitha for the silk and linen saree that she made. Appreciating Anitha for the state award, the collector said three nominations had been sent for the Konda Laxman Bapuji awards. “Gadwal sarees are famous all over the country. Weavers will have to study to market situation and changing trends and make sarees accordingly,” Ojha said. Anitha was presented with a memento, an appreciation certificate and a cash award of Rs 10,000. In view of the Covid-19 situation, Ojha released Rs 12.43 crore for the weavers’ society members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/weavers-park-in-jogulamba-gadwal-district-soon-says-ktr/articleshow/77422482.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||HC ticks offcity private hospital||Hyderabad: Virinchi Hospital, which was stopped from treating Covid-19 patients for its alleged unethical methods of billing the patients, approached the Telangana HC on Friday questioning the decision of the government. However, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy called the bluff of the hospital and said it should have adhered to the fee capping as told by the government. When hospital’s counsel said patients in ICU are being treated and cancellation of their treatment midway would affect their lives, the judges described ‘ICU patients theory’ as a fig leaf the hospital was using to challenge the government’s action. “If your concern for the lives of the patients was so genuine, then you should have adhered to the fee capping GOs issued by the state. Under the pretext of patients, you came to this court,” the HC told the counsel. The government, on August 4 cancelled the permission to the hospital to treat Covid patients. The HC also refused to hear the matter urgently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-ticks-offcity-private-hospital/articleshow/77423382.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana couple found dead in Kodaikanal||Kodaikanal: A young man and his wife, hailing from Telangana, were found dead here on Friday. It is suspected that they may have killed themselves, police said. The couple, in their mid twenties, were found dead in their rented house by police and the bodies have been sent for postmortem to a government hospital. Preliminary enquiries revealed that the couple, who were staying here for about a year, neither ventured out of their house nor answered calls of neighbours for at least two day, arousing suspicion and the locals alerted police. The couple were said to be dejected as they were “unable to go to Australia” for work. A bottle of pesticide was found near their bodies and a sucide note written in Telugu has been found, police said, adding a probe was on. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-couple-found-dead-in-kodaikanal/articleshow/77422518.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Firemen at Sal still on rescue duty||BICHOLIM: Athough incessant rain in the Bicholim taluka subsided and water had receded from areas submerged in Sal, the Chapora river continued to rise as water was released into it from the Tillari dam. Bicholim station fire officer Shripad Gawas said fire personnel are still deployed with a raft at Sal to rescue villagers in distress. The in-charge of Bicholim taluka disaster management cell, Pravinjay Pandit, told TOI that 451.9 cumecs of water was released from the Tillari dam on Friday. Heavy rain in the Tillari interstate irrigation project area led to the rise in the level of the Tillari river to 41m, just 2m short of danger mark of 43m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/firemen-at-sal-still-on-rescue-duty/articleshow/77423416.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC’s directions over 23 years hanging fire||AHMEDABAD: The tragic death of eight patients in a horror blaze at Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura on Thursday once again proved that fire prevention has never been an emergency issue for city administrators. A tokenist gesture was made when the word ‘emergency’ was used to rechristen the fire brigade as ‘Ahmedabad Fire & Emergency Services’ a few years ago. For 23 years, the Gujarat high court has been directing the government to follow certain norms to prevent fire tragedies. But the directions do not seem to have borne any fruit. The 22 young lives lost last year in Surat were just another testimony of the disregard for the court’s numerous reminders in various litigations over the past two decades. Ahmedabad municipal commissioners have over the years filed six affidavits in the high court and two affidavits in the Supreme Court promising strict compliance with fire safety norms. Numerous PILs were filed by Lok Adhikar Sangh, Shivlal Purohit, Prakash Nambiar and others to prevent fire tragedies. When pressure mounted, the state government came up with the Gujarat Fire Prevention & Life Safety Measures Act in 2013. The rules were not framed for a year. It took yet another litigation in the high court in 2015 for its implementation. The implementation of the new law, however, did not bring any relief for the cities in Gujarat. Municipal corporation areas were exempted from the new law. The penal measures introduced were limited to villages and small towns only, said a lawyer involved in this litigation since the beginning. In 2009, 2012, and 2016, the city’s fire department went on a sealing overdrive, when the HC asked tough questions over fire safety norms. During the last such drive in 2016, court complexes and various hospitals were named in the defaulters’ list. The civic body’s exercise to review fire safety measures and fire NOCs came once again under HC scrutiny in a contempt of court petition, which is pending in the court for the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hcs-directions-over-23-years-hanging-fire/articleshow/77422492.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Commander (59) from Powai an ex-IAF test pilot||Mumbai: Commanding pilot Deepak V Sathe (59), who is believed to have died on the spot, had served as a test pilot in the Indian Air Force. Sathe lived in Nahar Zinnia building in Powai with his wife Sushma and a son. His older son Shantanu, who works in the US, got married on March 8, days before the lockdown began. The younger son Dhananjay is employed with a corporate firm. The family originally hails from the Konkan. Sathe was a Wing Commander in the IAF from where he retired and joined Air India about 10 years ago. In fact his late father and brother were Army officers too. Sathe flew the Airbus 310 for AI before moving on to AI Express on Boeing 737. tnn A neighbour in Powai said, “Sathe and I were squadron mates in the IAF, flying MiG-21s in the 1980s during our bachelor days. We have not received an official confirmation from Air India Express (about his condition). We fear the worst although we have not lost hope as yet. His wife Sushma is a strong lady and is quite composed. We are making arrangements for her to travel to Calicut on Saturday.” He had a rare passion for flying, said a distant relative who is a senior lawyer. Sathe studied in Cambrian Hall school, Dehradun. Old school friends who are also from the defence forces, called up his home to pay their condolences. Meanwhile in Pune, former vice chief of the IAF Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retd) said, “It is very unfortunate to lose a brilliant officer in this manner.” Sathe was from the 58th course of the National Defence Academy (NDA). “He passed out from the Air Force Academy with a Sword of Honour in June 1981. He was a fighter pilot and served as a test pilot in the IAF. He was an excellent squash player too,” he said. Gokhale, who investigated the Mangalore plane crash in which 158 passengers were killed in 2010, said, “The accumulation of rainwater on the runway surface in the rainy season is the riskiest thing for any pilot. There is a standard operating procedure set up by DGCA for clearing water from the runway. The inquiry panel will check this aspect during the investigation.” He said, “The flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder of the aircraft must be in a good condition as there was no fire in the aircraft. These two will give the exact information about the aircraft and the conversation between the main pilot and the co-pilot. This will give the real-time information of the aircraft at the time of the accident. It will help the inquiry panel find out the exact reasons behind the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/commander-59-from-powai-an-ex-iaf-test-pilot/articleshow/77424254.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s journey towards Covid-19 peak enters in top gear||Nagpur: With record-breaking 40 deaths in a day on Friday, Nagpur is now climbing the hill to the pandemic peak in top gear. With over 2,500 cases reported in just first seven days of the month, Covid-19 situation is worsening by the day. Sudden spike in Covid-19 cases has increased worries of all Nagpurians including health officials and administration. Senior doctors in the administration and members of Nagpur Covid-19 task force said this could be a sign of community spread, though government is shying away from accepting it officially. “NMC conducted a Covid-19 testing camp in Jaripatka two days ago. Total 109 persons got themselves tested. Out of them, 35 tested positive. This means sample positivity rate is more than 30%. If such a large number of people is testing positive in random tests, what more you need as a proof of community spread?” asked Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). “Earlier also, similar camps were held in Jaripatka and the positivity rate has always been above 25%. Most alarming is that many of those who got themselves tested were just casual walk-ins without any contact to the earlier positive patients,” Dr Rughwani added. A senior member of Nagpur Covid task force said the declaration of community spread must come from the horse’s mouth. “Personally, I believe there is a community spread in city and district as well. But, government authorities and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) must declare it,” he said. “India is big country and different regions will reach at peak at different times. After Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Kolkata, now cities like Pune and Nagpur are witnessing peak. This will be followed by rural area,” the doctor claimed. Increasing number of cases is still not of a great concern, but the increasing number of Covid-19 deaths is a major cause of worry for the authorities. Late reporting of patients with aggravated lung fibrosis is one of the reasons, said treating doctors. “Pulmonary fibrosis is a lung disease that occurs when lung tissue gets damaged and scarred. Recovering from this condition is difficult in case patient comes late,” said a doctor. As medication is not available on Covid-19, authorities are now gearing up to provide off-label plasma therapy to serious patients. “Serious patients will be given plasma therapy. We have collected more than 450 bags of plasma for the Project Platina plasma therapy trial. But, this is not just a research activity. We want to save people’s lives. So, plasma therapy will be available for serious patients in Nagpur soon,” said Dr Mohd Faisal, state coordinator of Project Platina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-journey-towards-covid-19-peak-enters-in-top-gear/articleshow/77422534.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Last resort: 90% Covid-19 patients on ventilator lost battle in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Low survival rate of coronavirus-infected patients intubated on ventilators has been observed in Punjab, suggesting lapses in the care of critical patients. The mortality rate among the patients on ventilators is as high as 90%, according to the state health department officials, and most of the patients were elderly, either having comorbidities or late to seek treatment in hospitals. As Punjab is witnessing a steep surge in Covid-19 cases, there has also been a manifold increase in the number of patients requiring oxygen, intensive care units (ICUs) and ventilator support. The health department data reveals that in the month of May, only three patients had required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. The next month, 21 patients were put on ventilator support, while 82 required oxygen. In July, as many as 181 patients required oxygen support, 89 were admitted to ICUs and 63 needed ventilator support. In the ongoing month, till August 6, 36 patients required ventilators for advanced respiratory support, 15 oxygen and 31 ICU support. As on August 6, 26 patients in critical condition were on ventilator. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, a pulmonologist, confirmed that about 90% of patients put on ventilator died. Explaining the reasons, Dr Bhaskar said most of the patients, who required intubation to help in breathing, were elderly and suffering from comorbidities. In many cases, there was also delay in approaching hospitals for treatment, he added. Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, said patients are put on a ventilator when their lungs fail to perform the breathing process. By the time a patient is put on a ventilator, in most cases, the infection has already done an irreversible damage. “The survival rate of patients on ventilators is very low,” said Dr Mann, adding that early detection and treatment is the only way to bring down the mortality rate. “The process of testing needs to be expedited, so that treatment of infected people can be started at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/last-resort-90-covid-patients-on-ventilator-lost-battle-in-punjab/articleshow/77422521.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman hangs self after losing spouse to Covid-19||HYDERABAD: A 55-year-old housewife hanged herself on Friday, a day after her husband died of coronavirus in Ameerpet limits. The victim was identified as Dache Narmada, a resident of Yellareddyguda Ameerpet. On July 31 her son, D Pravan Kumar (34), an IT employee tested positive for Covid-19, and was in home quarantine. On Tuesday, her husband, D Vijay Kumar (58) also underwent test for coronavirus and later turned positive. The father and son were staying on the first floor of the house. “Narmada was staying on the ground floor, taking care of her son and husband during the isolation period,” said SR Nagar police. On Thursday, her husband, Vijay Kumar died while undergoing treatment for coronavirus. According to the family, Narmada was upset over her husband’s death. A case of suspicious death has been registered in SR Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-hangs-self-after-losing-spouse-to-covid/articleshow/77423410.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers: NEP will strip poor of quality edu||Hyderabad: Claiming that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 will take quality education away from the poor, government teachers on Friday urged the Centre to re-examine the policy and implement it at a later stage. Speaking at the virtual round table conference, organized by the Telangana State United Teachers Federation on NEP, Chava Ravi, a government teacher and general secretary of the federation, said that NEP is a step towards centralization, privatization, and corporatization of education. “The policy is silent on the RTE Act. NEP will help private and corporate schools and students from the economically backward families will get affected,” said Ravi. Teachers said the main problem with NEPs has been their implementation and not aim. They pointed out that even in NEP, 1968, it was mentioned that 6% of total GDP should be allocated to education and there should be a common school system. “Even now there is no common school system and the 6% budget is not allocated to the education sector. First, these should be implemented to reform education,” said K Jangaiah, president of the federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-nep-will-strip-poor-of-quality-edu/articleshow/77422514.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||NHRC orders Rs 1 lakh relief to activists, lawyers||HYDERABAD: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has ordered the Chhattisgarh government to pay Rs 1 lakh each as compensation to seven lawyers of a fact-finding team from Telangana Democratic Front, as well as six human right activists from Delhi. The activists and lawyers were detained, and put in jail for six months on charges of aiding Maoists. The NHRC, in its order, said: “The case pertains to the alleged harassment and intimidation by Bastar police against the human rights activists, lawyers and academicians who were working on the ground to assist the poor tribals against police high-handedness and human right abuses.” The commission took suo motu cognisance of the case in 2016, and held a series of proceedings. The NHRC order read, “In our considered opinion, these persons would have certainly suffered great mental pain and agony as result of the registration of false FIRs against them by the police, which is a violation of human rights and state government shall compensate them.” The commission ordered a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to seven lawyers of the fact finding committee from Telangana, identified as Ch Prabhakar, B Durga Prasad, B Ravindranath, D Prabhakar, R Lakshimaiya, Mohammed Nazir and K Rajendra Prasad. B Ravindranath, who was on surveillance list of security agencies, in a message, said, “We were detained on December 25, 2016, and were in jail for six months. The Sukma court dismissed the case. The mental agony we faced was huge, but this is a reprieve.” The NHRC order read, “We recommend and direct the government of Chhattisgarh through its chief secretary to pay a sum of Rs 1 lakh each as monetary compensation to persons professor Nandini Sundar, Archana Prasad, Vineet Tiwari, Sanjay Parate, Manju and Mangla Ram Karma.” The commission said the Chhattisgarh chief secretary shall submit a compliance report along with proof of payment within six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nhrc-orders-rs-1l-relief-to-activists-lawyers/articleshow/77422523.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Yoga lessons for Covid-19 patients||Nashik: Patients admitted at the dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) in Sinnar will now get tips on yoga and respiratory exercises on television sets. Senior medical officers at Sinnar DCHC said that so far, six LED TV sets had been set up and plans were afoot to install 10 more. Nirmala Gaikwad, medical superintendent of the Sinnar rural hospital, where the DCHC has been set up, said MLA Manikrao Kokate took efforts in setting up the TV sets through donations for the benefit of patients admitted at the facility. Sinnar DCHC is the only DCHC where TV sets have been installed so far. “Patients admitted in every ward of the Covid facility will be guided on yoga and respiratory exercises at regular intervals to boost their immunity,” said Gaikwad. Meanwhile, there are over 500 active cases of Covid-19 in Sinnar. There is a continuous flow of people from across the state and the country to Sinnar. Given the surge in Covid-19 cases, Sinnar town, which has a population of around 80,000, was a containment zone for more than a week which was lifted recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yoga-lessons-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77419850.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Record 1,063 +ve, death toll now 539||Chandigarh: For the second consecutive day, Punjab recorded the highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Friday, registering 1,063 new patients and 23 deaths. Fresh cases were reported from all 22 districts, of which 64.44%, or 685 cases, were from six districts. Punjab’s overall tally stood at 21,930 and the death toll rose to 539. The health department shifted 23 cases added in the August 6 tally to other states. The virus claimed the lives of nine people in Ludhiana and three in Amritsar. Three deaths were reported in Jalandhar and two in Fatehgarh Sahib, while one person each died in Sangrur, Patiala, Kapurthala, Fazilka and Nawanshahr. The trend of high number of deaths is expected to continue as 29 patients are in a critical condition and on ventilator support, while 117 have been put on oxygen support. The situation in Ludhiana continued to be bad. It recorded the highest number of new cases for the 11th straight day. In all, it got 296 new cases, of which 36 were contacts of positive cases and 26 patients were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Patiala got 122 new patients, including 87 new cases and 32 contacts of positive cases. In Mohali, 77 people were tested positive and 70 in Jalandhar. The test reports of 67 people came positive in Amritsar, 53 in Gurdaspur, 49 in Bathinda, 41 in Pathankot, 37 in Barnala, 32 each in Sangrur and Ropar, 29 in Tarn Taran, 26 each in Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 19 in Faridkot, 16 in Fazilka, 15 in Mansa, 14 in Moga, 13 in Muktsar, 11 in Nawanshahr, and seven in Ferozepur. It was the only district to have cases in single figures. As many as 381 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 14,040.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-1063-ve-death-toll-now-539/articleshow/77422535.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||Rs 900 crore assistance for MSMEs sought||Surat: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has sought a special package of Rs 900 crore from the central government for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in the gems and jewellery sector who are engaged in making gold jewellery, diamond cutting and polishing, semi-precious stones and imitation jewellery. In a virtual meeting with Nitin Gadkari, union minister of MSMEs, GJEPC chairman Colin Shah on Friday informed that India is the fifth largest exporter of gems and jewellery in the world accounting for $36 billion worth of export and that the industry employs over 37 lakh people. According to Shah, almost 85% of the units fall under the MSME category. Since it is highly labour-intensive and export oriented, a comprehensive package of Rs 900 crore has been sought from the government. “GJEPC has plans to set up model manufacturing workshops, focusing on upgradation of skill development programmes. Introduction of technology upgradation fund (TUF) will benefit the MSME sector by enabling clusters to infuse advanced technology to augment productivity, reduce cost, improve quality and spur innovation to make them globally competitive,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-900-crore-assistance-for-msmes-sought/articleshow/77421180.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man makes singer’s fake profile, held||HYDERABAD: An aspiring singer was arrested by cyber crime sleuths of Cyberabad police on Friday for allegedly creating fake profiles in the name of a popular Tollywood female singer and spreading misinformation. Cyberabad police said they arrested Chaitanya, who had created various fake accounts on social media in the name of a female singer. After the singer came to know that the accused was claiming to be her manager and spreading other misinformation about her, she approached the police. Chaitanya created the profiled to trap the singer’s fans, according to the police. “In addition to this, Chaitanya had organised an event in the name of the singer at Sanapa village in Anantapur district in February. Moreover, he claimed to have carried out several social welfare activities and concerts in her name to increase viewership of his pages on social media and to trap her admirers,” the cyber police said. The accused was nabbed in Anantapur and brought to Hyderabad. He had come to Hyderabad a while ago with an aim to become a singer. As he was financially weak, he decided to create fake accounts and become popular by uploading his songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-makes-singers-fake-profile-held/articleshow/77422546.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur district alone reports 40 of Vidarbha’s 45 Covid deaths on Friday||NAGPUR: The increasing graph of Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha took a never-before leap on August 7 with 45 casualties reported in a day. Of these, 40 deaths were reported from Nagpur district only. Amravati reported three deaths, while Akola and Yavatmal one each. With this, total Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha has reached 587, with 200 of them reported in the first seven days of August. Surge in the number of cases also continued, especially in Nagpur and Amravati. With Nagpur’s 669 and Amravati’s 108, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases reached 20,848 on Friday. It took 150 days for the region to reach this mark, but last 4,000 cases came in just five days. Buldhana (81), Washim (57), Yavatmal (34), Chandrapur (28), Akola (28), Gadchiroli (23), Bhandara (10), Wardha (8), and Gondia (7) registered new cases. Total 441 patients recovered in a day on Friday. They include Nagpur (252), Amravati (49), Akola (41), Buldhana (29), Yavatmal (21), Chandrapur (12), Wardha (9), and Gondia (7). Total 12,772 patients have recovered from Vidarbha which means the recovery rate is 61.25%. Vidarbha continued to stay considerably below the state’s recovery rate of 66% and national average of 67%. AMRAVATI: Three Covid-19 deaths and a spike of 108 cases on Friday took the district’s toll to 86 and patient count to 2,872. A report from civil surgeon’s office on Friday said a 70-year-old woman from Vanipura in Karanja Lad town of Washim district, a 62-year-old man from Paratwada and a 47-year-old man from Gandhinagar in Old City, Badnera, died during treatment at Covid Hospital today. The 100-plus spike is the third the district has reported this month and the fifth overall. The highest of 146 was reported on August 2. With 49 getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients reached 1,902. This left 884 under treatment, including 21 in Nagpur. The rural belt again reported 34 cases today to take its count to 689. Nine of them came from Daryapur that took its count to 38. Four cases came from Dharni that took its count to 47. Achalpur tehsil also reported four cases to take its count to 36 while two cases each came from Bhatkuli, Paratwada, Teosa and Chandur Railway that took their count to 32, 31, 11 and 16, respectively. Single cases came from Nandgaon Peth, Walgaon, Shirajgaon Kasba, Morshi, Chandur Bazar, Chikhaldara, Anjangaon Surji, Shirala and Rahatgaon. Badnera reported seven cases to take its count to 225, while Chaitanya Colony reported its first spike of four. Four cases also came from Bhaji Bazar and Shankarnagar that took their respective count to nine and 30. Krushnanagar too reported four cases to take its count to 23. Deorankarnagar, Rampuri Camp and Rukmininagar reported three cases each to take their count to four, 13 and 41, respectively. Two cases each came from Rahulnagar, Yashodanagar, Ravinagar, PDMC, Kalyannagar and Mangilal Plot while single cases came from 27 localities. AKOLA: A 61-year-old man from Jatharpeth area of Akola died during treatment on August 7. He was admitted since July 28. This took total Covid-19 death count of Akola to 122. However, the number of new positive cases is coming down. Total 28 cases were reported from Akola district in a day on Friday taking total number of cases to 2,908. On the other hand, 41 patients got discharge on Friday taking the number of recovered patients to 2,345. Recovery rate of Akola is still above 80%. Total 441 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: The city recorded one more death of Friday, 40th of the district. Including the deceased, who was a 73-year-old woman from Yavatmal city, there were 34 new patients on August 7. Total 21 patients were discharged after recovery with which total number of patients recovered from Yavatmal surpassed 1,000-mark and reached 1,015. At present, 337 patients are under treatment in Yavatmal. Total 122 persons are admitted in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal. CHANDRAPUR: District registered a spike of 28 cases taking the total of Covid-19 patients to 777 on Friday. In all, 12 patients were discharged during the day taking the tally of cured patients to 438, while 339 patients are under treatment. As no death was reported on Friday, toll stands at two. Health authorities claimed that spike in the number of patients is due to increased tests being conducted across the district. Out of total 28 cases detected on Friday, 17 tested positive with the help of antigen tests. Of these, 15 are from Ballarpur city. Officials informed that out of total 777 patients, 15 belong to age group between zero to five years, 56 to age group of six to 18 years, 482 patients are between age group of 19 and 40 years, 191 belong to age group of 41 to 60 years and the number of those above 60 years is 33. Total patients include 554 males and 223 females. Those detected positive in Chandrapur include 681 from district, 42 from other districts of Maharashtra and 54 from other states. BHANDARA: Ten new persons — five from Bhandara, two each from Lakhni and Mohadi and one from Lakhandur tested positive in the district on Friday. This took the total number of patients to 352. With 231 of them recovered and two deaths reported earlier, total 119 patients from Bhandara are under treatment. Six of them have been referred to Nagpur. GONDIA: Seven Corona positive cases were registered in the district on Friday while seven patients recovered. Positives include one from Shastri Ward, two from Ekodi of Gondia, two from Tiroda tehsil, one each from Sadak Arjuni and Amgaon tehsils. BULDHANA: Once again, Buldhana reported 81 positive patients in a day taking the total number of cases to 1,768. With 29 discharged in a day, number of patients who recovered surpassed 1,000-mark and reached 1,019. With 35 deaths reported till date, total 714 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. Total 526 reports were received on Friday in the district. Till date, Buldhana has conducted more than 13,000 tests. WASHIM: With 34 new patients on Thursday late night and 23 on Friday, the district reported 57 new cases. With this, total cases surged to 870 here. With 21 patients getting discharge, number of recovered patients is now 491. Washim has reported 18 deaths. Total 361 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: Eight more persons tested positive for coronavirus in the district, while nine were discharged on Friday. Five men and three women are among the positives from Wardha (4), Deoli tahsil (3), and one form Selu. A 30-year-old man from Sewagram, 47-year-old man, 40-year-old woman from Hanuman ward and 22-year-old youth from Dr Zakir Hussain Colony of Wardha, 62-year-old man, 50-year-old woman and 18-year-old boy from Zadgaon village of Deoli tahsil, 50-year-old woman of Selu are among those tested positive. After discharge of nine patients today, there are total 34 patients undergoing treatment. GADCHIROLI: With 12 jawans from Wadsa CRPF Battalion, two police jawans from Aheri, and three from Dhanora police station — total 23 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Gadchiroli. With this, total number of cases reached 694. Of them, 510 have already recovered, and one death was reported in May. Total 183 patients are under treatment in Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngp-dist-alone-reports-40-of-vids-45-covid-deaths-on-fri/articleshow/77423146.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||No train via Melghat: CM’s final stamp||NAGPUR: The 15th Maharashtra wildlife board meeting, chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Friday unanimously rejected the upgradation proposal of railway line through Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district and also ordered the setting up of an expert committee to consider translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur district. He also rejected the neutering proposal of tigers saying it should be the last resort. Also, Kanhargaon in Chandrapur district is set to be the 62nd protected area in the state. According to sources who attended the meeting, Thackeray also showed keenness to declare Mogarkasa, near Ramtek, a conservation reserve. He has sought proposals to declare more protected areas (sanctuaries, reserves and parks). The board members hailed Thackeray for his bold decision to refuse railways permission for broadening a metre gauge line through MTR. Overwhelmed by the drone photography of the tiger reserve showing the railway line and forest, the CM asked officials to submit aerial pictures as evidence while submitting proposals. “For me development doesn’t mean only constructions. The government is committed to protect forest and wildlife. Officials should study whether proposals match with public demand. No easy ways should be found to divert forest land at the cost of environment. This is why I decided to reject railway line upgradation between Akot and Khandwa through MTR,” Thackeray is learnt to have said. With this, the state has closed the chapter on the issue and the railways will have to look at the optional route outside the reserve. At Friday’s meeting, Kanhargaon was to be declared a conservation reserve. But board members Kishor Rithe and Bandu Dhotre opposed it as during the 14th meeting held on December 6, 2018, the plan to make Kanhargaon a sanctuary had in-principle nod. “The opposition to sanctuary by people was stage-managed by FDCM as major area belongs to the corporation,” they stated. The Kanhargaon sanctuary proposal includes 24,862 hectare (248.62sqkm) area of FDCM and 1,638 hectares (16.38sqkm) hectare area of territorial forest under the Central Chanda division. Both combined, it makes a 265sqkm sanctuary with no villages inside it. To the opposition remarks by officials, CM said, “Do we ask tigers when we divert their areas for projects? Forest officials should prepare such proposals with a positive mind. They should tell people about the benefits.” On the translocation (50) and neutering (20) of tigers issue — first reported by TOI in May — Thackeray suggested to study steps being taken in others states. “A national meet should be held and expert views sought,” he added. Debi Goenka, who represented BNHS, said, “I’m overwhelmed the manner in which CM supported the forest and wildlife issues. He gave a patient hearing to all proposals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-train-via-melghat-cms-final-stamp/articleshow/77423171.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor asks Tukaram Mundhe not to hike water tax||NAGPUR: Mayor Sandip Joshi has asked municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe not to increase water tax by 5% this financial year. In a letter to Mundhe, Joshi said that people had lost their jobs or were not getting full salaries due to the lockdown. Businesspersons’ income had gone down sharply. Under such conditions, further burdening them with taxes was inappropriate. Joshi said that municipal commissioner had the power to increase water tax by 5% every five years. However, he should postpone it by one year and do it from 2021-22. As permission of state government was needed for this purpose, a proposal should be sent to Mantralaya in this regard. “The sky will not fall down for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) if water tax is not hiked this year, but people will get a lot of relief,” he said. “NMC is the guardian of people of Nagpur. It has to help them during times of their dire need,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-asks-mundhe-not-to-hike-water-tax/articleshow/77423097.cms||Ashish Roy
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Loan up to Rs 10,000 for hawkers||NAGPUR: Hawkers, whose livelihood has been badly hit by lockdown, can avail working capital loan up to Rs10,000 under Pradhan Mantri Pathvikreta Atmanirbhar Nidhi. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started assistance cells in every zone office to disburse these loans. The hawkers who had registered with NMC on or before March 24, 2020, will be eligible. All four categories – A, B, C and D – can apply. The applicants will not have to furnish any collateral for these loans. They will have to return it in equal monthly instalments. Those who return it within the stipulated period or before it will be eligible for more loan. The rate of interest will be 7% as instructed by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The loan amount will be deposited in the applicant’s account in three equal instalments. Those who apply digitally will get cashback facility. The interested persons should apply through the website www.pmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.in by going to their nearest civic services centre (CSC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/loan-up-to-rs10000-for-hawkers/articleshow/77423109.cms||Ashish Roy
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospital held Covid victim’s body till bills were cleared: NGO||NAGPUR: A private hospital allegedly refused to hand over the body of a Covid-19 positive patient to relatives for the funeral over clearance of bills. The hospital had continued to treat the positive patient for seven days even though it lacks permission for Covid-19 services, and was also treating non-Covid patients in the same building. The patient (53-year-old female from Balaghat district in MP) died at 10.15am on Friday and her funeral took place only at around 11pm. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe have appointed NGO Together We Can to create awareness among people and also help positive patients and their relatives in case of any problems. The NGO said the patient was admitted at the private hospital on Amravati Road, Wadi, on July 26 for some swelling in kidney and pneumonia. As per norms, the hospital was supposed to get the patient tested for Covid on the first day. The laboratory with TOI shows the swab sample was collected on August 1, and positive report received on August 2. NGO president Joseph George told TOI, “The patient’s family complained about hospital refusing to hand over body till the bill was cleared. Relatives claimed it charged Rs30,000-40,000 per day since admission. After a doctor at the hospital refused our request to give possession of the body, even though it was a Covid-19 patient, I informed the officials.” George said, “The relatives contacted some politician to get the bill settled at around 6.30pm.” One of the hospital doctors refused to give the hospital’s version of the events, and directed TOI to speak to the hospital owner, but refused to give his contact number. Wadi police said there was no complaint from any relative of the deceased. A major violation by the private hospital was continuing treatment of positive patient in same building where inpatients and non-Covid OPD patients were being treated. As per norms, the hospital has to seek permission and set up Covid-19 isolation ward as per ICMR guidelines. District civil surgeon VD Paturkar, who is nodal officer for Covid-19 for entire district, confirmed to TOI he did not give the hospital permission to continue treatment of positive patient. Collector Ravindra Thakre said, “The hospital should have given possession of the body. I have asked the tehsildar to verify the bills, and whether there was a delay in giving possession of body over the bill. I also directed him to verify whether bills were above the government approved rates.” Thakre, however, justified the private hospital’s decision to continue treatment of positive patient. “My officials said the patient was on ventilator and could not be moved to government DCH. The hospital had contacted GMCH for admission but was told to continue treatment,” he said. Many other patients have been shifted on ventilator from private hospitals to government-run DCH for treatment as per ICMR protocols, to prevent spread of the disease. Even after the hospital handed over the body, there was confusion among staffers of Wadi Municipal Council, hospital and police. Instead of directly taking the body for funeral, the body was taken to IGGMCH at around 8pm, where doctors had to explain the procedure. Then, NMC employees were called and the body was taken for funeral at 11pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosp-held-covid-victims-body-till-bills-were-cleared-ngo/articleshow/77423159.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||12 oxygen devices for SCR hospitals||Hyderabad: South Central Railway’s (SCR) three hospitals, including the Central Railway Hospital in Lalaguda, will get high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen devices to strengthen the treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients. HFNC units are particularly useful in early treatment of Covid-19 patients, who require regular flow of oxygen. While Rail Vikas Nigam Limited has donated 10 devices, Ultra Tech Cements and Bharathi Cements have donated a unit each as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. “These devices play a crucial role in providing timely treatment to Covid-19 patients, particularly those suffering from respiratory problems. With the support being extended by the firms under CSR , the medical facilities at these hospitals are being strengthened,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-oxygen-devices-for-scr-hospitals/articleshow/77422537.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Women cricketers awaiting prize money for four years||VADODARA: They made the state proud by reaching the finals of the senior women’s national cricket tournament four years ago. The Baroda women’s team was even lauded by the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) for its achievement in 2016. But these achievers are yet to get their share of prize money announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The senior women players have been waiting for the prize but they haven’t got any clear answer from the BCA. “The BCCI had announced Rs 10,000 prize money per player for the finalists in that tournament. We were told that the prize will be given once the BCCI sends it to the BCA. We have been waiting since four seasons but the prize money hasn’t been given to us,” said a senior woman cricketer. Baroda had played against Madhya Pradesh in the finals of the one-day cricket tournament at Himachal Pradesh in 2015-16 season and ended up as runner-up. BCA officials admitted that the women’s team hasn’t been given the prize money yet. “The prize money is to come from the BCCI but it hasn’t arrived yet. We are expecting to get the money within a month following which we will give it to the women cricketers,” said BCA secretary, Ajit Lele. When asked about the reason behind the delay, Lele said, “Due to Lodha committee reforms, payments were not released by the BCCI on time.” But women cricketers say that such delays are demotivating for the women players. “It is not just about the money. The team performed well and it expected the association to recognize its efforts. But such undue delays in giving even the prize money affects the morale of the players, especially when the association spends substantial money on improving cricketing standards,” a woman player said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-cricketers-awaiting-prize-money-for-four-years/articleshow/77420823.cms||Tushar Tere
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: HC seeks govt report on razing temple||HYDERABAD: The high court on Friday directed the state government to furnish it the map pertaining to the construction of a ring road around Yadadri temple and also facts pertaining to the alleged dismantling of an ancient Hanuman temple. It also wanted details on cutting down an old banyan tree to pave the way for the ring road. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a plea filed by Telangana Vanara Sena president N Rami Reddy. The bench had restrained the authorities from dismantling the temple and the banyan tree. The state government furnished a report on this, but it lacked evidence. “Needless to mention, the restraint order issued earlier will continue,” the bench said and posted the case to August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-govt-report-on-razing-temple/articleshow/77422542.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Stamp duty for vendors and MSMEs waived||Hyderabad: In a measure that is likely to benefit over one lakh Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and 3.5 lakh street vendors in the state, the Telangana government has waived stamp duty on various instruments executed by them to avail loans from the banks and financial institutions under Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line Scheme (GECL), credit guarantee scheme and PM street vendors’ Atmanirbhar Nidhi. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued GO 92 exempting stamp duty on Friday, which will be in operation till October 31. He said that during a meeting with collectors and bankers, the issue of many MSMEs and street vendors facing difficulty in paying stamp duty of Rs 1,000 and Rs 400 respectively, especially during the pandemic, came up, following which chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the officials to take necessary measures. “Street vendors will get a loan of Rs 10,000 each at very low interest rate, without any guarantee. The total benefit to the street vendors is likely to be Rs 350 crore. Similarly, MSMEs may get a loan support of Rs 7,300 crore in two Atmanirbhar schemes,” Somesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stamp-duty-for-vendors-and-msmes-waived/articleshow/77422525.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Man threatens to kill BJP leader, booked||Nashik: Ambad police have registered an offence against a man for allegedly threatening to kill a BJP corporator on Friday night. Corporator from ward no 29 Mukesh Shahane stated in his complaint he was acquianted with the suspect. Around 12:30am on Friday, Shahane said that the suspect video called him. The suspect allegedly used explicit language and threatened to kill him. After he disconnected the call, the suspect arrived at his residence an hour later. Brandishing a sharp weapon and a firearm in his hand, the suspect hurling abuses at Shahane and threatened to kill him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-threatens-to-kill-bjp-leader-booked/articleshow/77419867.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Asymptomatic, but now has fever and coughing||Ahmedabad: A Paldi businessman was one of the 49 Covid-19 patients admitted to Shrey hospital where eight persons died in Thursday’s blaze. This man had made a desperate call to the fire brigade when he was surrounded by flames and smoke. He survived but he has now developed high fever and constant coughing after the fire. Bhavin Shah, 45, a resident of Shantivan Society in Paldi and a garments trader, was admitted to Shrey hospital in Navrangpura on July 30. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 but was asymptomatic till the fire broke out. “I saw a man whose clothes were on fire running out of the ICU ward,” Shah said. “First, I closed doors of our ward where two more patients had been admitted. As smoke began entering my ward, I called the fire brigade at about 3am.” Shah went on to say: “It was a horrific sight. And the screams were terrifying.” On his health condition, Shah said, “I never had fever or cough before the fire incident. Since Thursday morning, I am suffering with high fever and constant coughing.” When Shah was still on the call with the fire brigade control room, one of his co-patients told him that they can go down using the stairs. “We kept calm and went outside the hospital from where we were taken to SVP Hospital,” he said. The audio clip of Shah’s call to the fire brigade control room officer has gone viral. Shah is heard desperately seeking help. But the fire control room officer, who sounded drowsy, kept repeating his question on where the fire had broken out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asymptomatic-but-now-has-fever-and-coughing/articleshow/77422552.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee +ves journey to MLA Hostel via CCC, GMC & Mayo||Nagpur: The case of Prakash Sharma (name changed), a resident of Kamptee Cantonment, highlights the chaos in the system. After Sharma, his wife and son tested positive, they kept moving from pillar to post before finally getting a place in the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at MLA Hostel. Before this, the ambulance that took off from Kamptee took them to nearby Waregaon CCC, Government Medical College (GMC) and Mayo Hospital, alleged Sharma. Sharma, who lives in Gora Bazaar locality of the cantonment, said he had gone to the Cantonment Hospital for a review of his wife’s blood pressure. As she was coughing, the doctor insisted them to get a Covid test done and it was found that Sharma, his wife and one son were positive. Their other son was, however, not infected. “The doctor first asked us to go to the centre at Waregaon where patients from Kamptee are kept. We were turned away as the ambulance took us there, and were told that there is no space. We returned to the Cantonment Hospital, from where we were directed to the GMC at Nagpur and then to Mayo Hospital,” he said. “We were not taken in at the GMC and at Mayo Hospital, the staffers asked us to remain home quarantined, which we refused. There is not enough space in our house to remain isolated and my other son has tested negative,” he said. The family was finally admitted to the CCC in MLA Hostel. Sharma said three of them are in the same room. His wife had cough, but that was mild, he insists. Even as the doctor at Cantonment Hospital could not be contacted, another source in the state health department at Kamptee explained the procedure. “Those with mild symptoms or not having enough space at home are sent to the centre at Waregaon. Patients having major symptoms are referred to GMC or Mayo Hospital at Nagpur,” said the source. A senior official handling the Covid affairs at Mayo Hospital said the patients are screened and only those with respiratory problems are taken in. A doctor at GMC said they have been getting a number of walk-in patients who are coming without reference from any local body. The hospital is admitting them if they are found symptomatic. There are enough beds in the hospital, said the doctor. A source said the list of patients from rural areas released by the district health officer (DHO) is not being issued for a week now. The DHO Dr Deepak Selukar, however, denied saying the list continues to be issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-ves-journey-to-mla-hostel-via-ccc-gmc-mayo/articleshow/77422549.cms||Shishir Arya
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC dismisses rumours of treasure trove in old secretariat building||HYDERABAD: Following rumours that a hidden treasure of precious jewels was lying beneath the ‘G’ block in the old secretariat, four Congress leaders on Friday approached the Telangana high court urging it to declare preventing them from visiting the demolished secretariat blocks as illegal police action. Saying that G block was a Nizam-era building constructed 132 years ago, the leaders — Mohammed Ali Shabbir, Anumula Revanth Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav and Konda Vishweshwar Reddy — sought an urgent hearing . However, a bench of of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said it saw no urgency in the matter. Brushing aside the rumours of a hidden treasure, the judges told the counsel about the tragic example of a UP godman, who promised good fortune and asked people to send him into a ‘samadhi’. “They sent him into the samadhi believing his words. But, he never came out of it,” the judges said, asking petitioners’ counsel T Rajnikanth Reddy to show them proof of his claims. When the counsel said there was a controversy on the issue, the judges asked him as to which controversy he was talking about. “Where is the controversy in the matter? We are unaware of any such controversy,” they said, while refusing to take up the matter on an urgent basis. The case, however, may be heard next week when its turn comes up in due course of time. The Congress leaders, in their plea, said that people were being prevented from entering the 4km radius of the secretariat. “Our representations to home secretary and DGP, requesting them to accord permission to visit the demolished site were lying unattended to,” they said. They further said, “Nothing wrong if the state follows a transparent mode and dispels myths.” Raising the treasure trove theory, the petitioners’ counsel said that police cannot stop public representatives from visiting the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dismisses-rumours-of-treasure-trove-in-old-secretariat-building/articleshow/77422555.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 8, 2020||Goa||Mudslide halts traffic movement at Saljini||Margao: A mudslide occurred between Verle and Saljini in Netravali on Friday morning thereby blocking the movement of vehicles to and from Saljini, the mountain village. However, the road was soon cleared. Significantly, as the mudslide occurred around the time the Kadamba bus to Saljini was to pass along the road, the passengers had a providential escape. The driver and conductor of the bus, aided by the passengers and locals, cleared the mud off the road, before the bus proceeded on its onward journey. Mudslides are a common occurrence in Saljini. Two years ago, a landslide on the Verle-Saljini road had led to the village remaining cut off from the rest of the state for two days. Panchayat members led by deputy sarpanch Abhijit Dessai, had then employed their own resources, including men and machinery to clear the mud off the road. Saljini is situated nearly 8km away from Verla from where there is a tarred road leading upto Netravali, a distance of 11 km. Some eight years ago, then Sanguem MLA Subhash Phal Dessai got a motorable road constructed from Verla to Saljini, but attempts to tar the road have been met with resistance from the forest department officials. While the road is motorable during most parts of the year, the road turns into a bad shape after a spell of heavy rains. Villagers have accused the forest department of failing to maintain the road. “The forest department raises objections whenever any slightest infrastructure development work is carried out in the village, but fails to even maintain the existing road, thereby subjecting the residents to severe risks and hardships,” a local said. Villagers pointed out that water gushes forth from the springs in the hills with great velocity which loosens the soil causing landslides. They have underscored the need for executing soil stabilisation measures regularly to prevent any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mudslide-halts-traffic-movement-at-saljini/articleshow/77423427.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC official’s car damaged while razing illegal stalls||Hyderabad: A day after the state government started implementing Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi, GHMC officials were attacked by street vendors and hawkers. The officials escaped unhurt but a car was damaged. A street vendor running a puncture shop at Road Number 4, Ameenpur allegedly smashed the windshield of the car and damaged it with a hammer. The car was attacked soon after his shop, a temporary structure on a pavement, was demolished by civic officials as part of the drive held to remove encroachments. “The car belonged to section officer Tulja Ram,” said Sampath, assistant city planner of Chandanagar circle, who escaped unhurt. An assistant city planner along with a section officer, a staffter and 10 workers visited the Ameenpur road to clear the encroachments and relocate vendors. While at work, around 10 vendors accompanied by 20 people tried to attack them, the officials said. “GHMC officials did not even give a second thought while razing down the temporary structure. Their car has insurance, but none of us have insurance,” said a vendor. A case has been registered against two persons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-officials-car-damaged-while-razing-illegal-stalls/articleshow/77422548.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Need more oxygen beds: Collectors||Hyderabad: With the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the districts, collectors have brought to the notice of health minister Eatala Rajender the lack of oxygen beds and other facilities to curb Covid-19 in their districts. At a video conference with the minister, Mahbubnagar collector S Venkat Rao said that so far there have been 1,123 Covid positive cases in the district out of which 848 are active cases and 895 are in home isolation. He said in the district government hospital and medical college there were 150 beds with oxygen and 100 without oxygen supply. Venkat Rao informed the minister that in the Jadcherla community health centre there were only six doctors. The collector said that since many Covid-19 cases were being reported in the area, the facilities should be upgraded. In addition to doctors, beds and other facilities should be provided, he said. The collector said that the Koyalakonda hospital construction has been completed but was still not being put to use. He urged the minister to appoint doctors, provide beds and facilities at the hospital to make it fully functional as it would benefit people of Narayanapet district too. In a video conference on August 6, Bhadradri Kothagudem district collector M V Reddy too sought filling up of posts of medical personnel in the district.  Eatala said these would be supplied immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/need-more-oxygen-beds-collectors/articleshow/77422545.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 8, 2020||Delhi||5,584 companies served notices by Delhi govt for not filing tax returns||NEW DELHI: The trade and taxes department on Friday sent notices to 5,584 companies for not filing GST returns and 36 firms for defaulting on VAT returns. Many of these companies belong to sectors that Delhi government feels have been unaffected by the pandemic. Deputy CM and finance minister Manish Sisodia observed that nine sectors, including automobile, electronics, e-commerce, insurance, financial services, consulting, pharmaceuticals, security and healthcare, had not been affected by the pandemic. He wrote to the trade and taxes department that around 935 companies in these nine sectors had paid zero taxes and 2,017 companies had paid only 50% tax compared with the corresponding quarter last fiscal. The reasons behind not filing tax returns by companies from unaffected sectors would be strictly scrutinised. The notices were sent under GSTR Form 3A and VAT Section 59(2) after studying tax return filings of around 15,000 companies. Sisodia noted, “In reference to the GST collection for the financial year 2020-21, I have analysed the data of the first quarter. A deep dive analysis was conducted of those sectors whose consumption was unlikely to be affected by the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Some industries, like e-commerce, would have possibly grown in term of sales.” He directed the tax department to undertake further scrutiny of their relatively piecemeal tax payment. To improve Delhi’s revenue deficit, the trade and taxes department had started analysing the return filing status of taxpayers registered under GST. In a meeting held this week, Sisodia was informed that around 15,000 taxpayers were analysed and nearly 970 had not filed returns from January to March. Taking cognisance of these findings, Delhi government has prepared a list of defaulters. An appeal has been made by Sisodia to all companies to immediately deposit their taxes otherwise stringent action would be taken against defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5584-companies-served-notices-by-delhi-govt-for-not-filing-tax-returns/articleshow/77422556.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Residents ensured timely rescue at Karipur airport, saved lives||KOZHIKODE: It was the timely intervention of the residents, who rushed to the accident spot at Karipur airport that saved many lives. As many as 173 persons were admitted to various hospitals in Kozhikode and Malappuram. The condition of 15 is reportedly serious. Riyaz from Balussery in Kozhikode, a passenger, said there were no special announcements during the flight. “I was sitting almost in the middle part, near the emergency exit. The flight took two rounds before landing. Immediately after the accident I was taken out by some people,” he said from a hospital in Kozhikode. “People rushed to the spot after hearing a loud noise. They immediately started the rescue and messages were sent on WhatsApp groups to rush volunteers to the spot. Initially, officials did not allow us to go near the flight. Then they realized the importance of local help,” said Sahal, from Kondotty, a nearby area. Ansar, who saw the aircraft falling, said he couldn’t believe his eyes. “Some passengers were ejected from their seats on impact. People who entered the aircraft initially saved around 50 persons. It took half an hour for fire and rescue personnel to arrive,” he said. All passengers, except two, were rescued within two hours of the accident. The duo, who were stuck inside the plane, were rescued by 11.15 pm. People also helped the police in controlling vehicle inflow and paved the way for ambulances. Rescuers said that the injured were first rushed to hospitals in airport taxis before ambulances arrived. The pilot was unconscious when he was taken out of the cockpit, they said. Rescue workers cut front part of the aircraft to rescue passengers. The injured were rushed to hospitals in Kondotty, Manjeri and Feroke. Since hospitals in Kondotty and surroundings areas have limited facilities and the area being a containment zone; those with grievous injuries were taken to hospitals in Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/alert-residents-ensured-timely-rescue-saved-lives/articleshow/77423426.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Former student files rape case against Jadavpur University's engineering professor||KOLKATA: The Jadavpur police has registered an FIR against an assistant professor of the Jadavpur University’s engineering faculty after a former JU student — now pursuing her MPhil — alleged that the accused had coerced her into a sexual relationship promising marriage, but later broke off the relationship. According to police, the 25-year-old woman said that they were in a relationship between 2018 and March this year. The case was recorded on the basis of a letter of complaint written by the woman, police said. The complaint stated: “On or before 2018 to March 2020, the FIR-named accused person had reportedly dishonestly induced the complaint to undergo sexual intercourse on several occasions with the promise that he would marry her. Subsequently, the accused person walked out of the relationship and disconnected the woman’s calls without marrying her. Thereby he cheated the complaint.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/former-student-files-rape-case-against-ju-engineering-prof/articleshow/77422530.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two masked men steal Rs 1 crore diamonds with a kiss, but run doesn’t last long||NEW DELHI: On August 5 around 3pm, 49-year-old builder Ravi Kapoor was returning from a jewellery store with his wife when he was intercepted by two masked motorcyclists on Rani Jhansi Road in central Delhi. The bikers pointed to his vehicle and asked him to slow down. Kapoor pulled over and got out of the car to be met by a strong odour emanating from rear of the car. But finding nothing amiss after inspecting his car, he got back into the vehicle and was pulling on the seat belt when the unexpected happened. In a bag besides his wife was over Rs 1 crore in diamonds and Rs 10 lakh in cash. Before the husband and wife could react, one of the bikers snatched the bag after opening the rear door and ran to the motorcycle. As the couple stood dazed, the bikers blew them a kiss and sped away. Kapoor called the cops soon after and lodged an FIR. Police said, going by the modus operandi, this was the handiwork of the thak thak gang. Gang members distract the driver and lure him out of the car to temporarily disable the central locking. Then, they steal the valuables on the rear seat or on the dashboard. Generally, there are little chances of a breakthrough in these cases as the gang members come mostly from outside Delhi and leave the city within days of a big loot. Even if arrested, the booty is seldom recovered as the crooks fence it off immediately. In this regard, Kapoor was lucky to not only have his case solved, but also to get his diamonds back. The south Delhi cops were tipped off by an informer that a thak thak module had committed some big theft. The cops enquired from different districts about any mega incident and received confirmatory information from Desh Bandhu Gupta Marg police station where Kapoor had filed the FIR. The cops collected CCTV footage from the areas around the incident site. One clip showed two motorcyclists riding on the wrong side of the road. We zeroed in on one of the accused on the basis of his long hair, and sensitised our informers to the need to identify that person," disclosed Atul Thakur, DCP (South). The long-haired suspect was soon identified as on Sandeep, who had committed a similar robbery of Rs 70 lakh last year. Records confirmed he was free on bail. Immediate efforts were made to nab the criminal to prevent the stolen jewellery from being disposed off. Police teams were deployed in Madangir and Inderpuri, where such criminals are believed to hide. Thorough house searches and the combing of Inderpuri and Madangir areas by several teams led by ACP Swadesh Prakash and inspector Girish, the cops caught both Sandeep and his fellow thief Santosh from a market there. The bike used in crime was also retrieved. Sandeep lives in Inderpuri and Santosh in Madangir. The two men confessed to targeting cars while they rode bikes alongside and splashing oil on the bonnet or rear of car to distract the driver and making him halt. Watch Delhi: Thak-thak gang steals diamonds worth Rs 1 crore, but cops prove smarter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-masked-men-steal-rs-1cr-diamonds-with-a-kiss-but-run-doesnt-last-long/articleshow/77422602.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||NRI develops transmitter to assist glaucoma patients||HYDERABAD: A US-based NRI researcher has developed a wireless transmitter, hardly the size of a sand granule, that can be implanted in the eye to help glaucoma patients. The device can track real-time pressure changes, preventing irreversible damage. It also reduces patients’ exposure to hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Hansraj Bhamra, the team lead at Purdue University, Indiana created the biomedical device not just to help track vitals of glaucoma patients, but also those suffering from cancer, heart disease and other ailments. The device has been implanted in a rat. A paper on the wireless transmitter was published in IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II. Hansraj, who worked with a chip design company in the city and stayed at Madhapur earlier, went to Purdue University to pursue PhD. The 38-year-old is currently working as research and development engineer with a private firm in the US. Speaking about the device, Hansraj said, “Glaucoma patients have to go to their doctors to get a reading of the amount of eye pressure. Research shows eye pressure can change within a 24-hour period, making regular monitoring essential. This device will help patients achieve this on their own.” He adds that if pressure fluctuates, surgeons would get a better chance to intervene and normalise intraocular pressure. The transmitter is not battery operated. “A battery would have weighed down the device, besides raising concerns regarding safety when placed in a patient’s eye. It is currently powered by glasses, which are magnetically coupled with the device inside,” Hansraj adds. The transmitter consumes 7 pico-joule of energy (7 trillionth of a joule) per transmitted digital bit, making it the lowest energy-consuming transmitter in the world. It transmits on a 2.4GHz frequency, which can be compatible with Wi-Fi and has a size of 100 micrometre x 100 micrometre. The device can last 10 years conservatively. “It is crucial, especially, at a time when Covid-19 is wreaking havoc across the globe,” he says. The transmitter can be used to monitor patients’ data at home, reducing contact at hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nri-develops-transmitter-to-assist-glaucoma-patients/articleshow/77422559.cms||Uttara Varma
August 8, 2020||Noida||Ivermectin to be used for Covid treatment in UP, to replace hydroxychloroquine||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Uttar Pradesh government has approved the use of Ivermectin as a new medication for the treatment and prevention of Covid-19. The drug will replace hydroxychloroquine. Health department officials involved with Covid-19 management said that Ivermectin is already being given to frontline health workers. The additional chief secretary of the health department on Thursday directed all chief medical officers to start giving doses of the medicine to individuals being treated for Covid-19, their primary contacts as well as to health workers deputed in Covid care centres. Defining the prophylaxis procedure, usage of Ivermectin has been approved as a preventive healthcare method. Those who test positive, have to be administered 12 mg Ivermectin daily for three days after dinner. Meanwhile, those who come in contact with Covid patients have been advised to take 12 mg dose of the drug on the first and the seventh days. The health workers need to take the drug on the first day, seventh day and the thirtieth day in a month. Additional chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar district, Nepal Singh, said: “We have been giving the said medicines to patients and health workers for months. Now on, primary contacts will be asked to take the required dose.” The health department has clarified that the drug should not be administered to children under the age of two years as well as to pregnant women. Dr Navneet Kumar Verma, treasurer IMA (Ghaziabad chapter), while explaining the difference between the two drugs, said that hydroxychloroquine is essentially an anti-malarial drug while Ivermectin is an anti-parasitic drug — which has been found to be more effective in the treatment of Covid -19. “It is not that the Ivermectin was not being used but, after results were found to be encouraging, the UP government has approved its use. It will replace hydroxychloroquine. Having said that, it is worth mentioning that we are still in a stage of hit-and-trial,” said Dr Navneet Kumar Verma, treasurer IMA, Ghaziabad. “Ivermectin blocks entry of virus at multiple points thereby acting as an inhibitor for covid-19 causative virus (SARS-CoV-2), it has little side effect as compared to hydroxychloroquine which has found to be causing cardiac-related ailments in the long run,” said Verma. The Ghaziabad DM, meanwhile, said use of Ivermectin is prevalent in the district and after state government’s direction hydroxychloroquine will be replaced. “We have enough stock of Ivermectin in the district” informed Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/ivermectin-to-be-used-for-covid-treatment-in-up-to-replace-hcq/articleshow/77423417.cms||Shalabh
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC has dumped software to find NOC defaulters||AHMEDABAD: Following frequent high court battering, two years ago, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had designed a software that was to intimate authorities about high rises or hospitals without renewed fire NOCs. It was quietly shelved. Fire incidents, according to fire officials are also occurring in buildings which were being regularized under GRUDA Act or impact fee law since 2012. This includes many hospitals as well. The last five hospital fire incidents in the city are a clear indication of the fact. Of the roughly 2,600 buildings which should be having fire safety certificates, only 985 applied for fire safety NOCs in 2018 and then never came back for renewal the following year. “No one took the view that hospital buildings and other such highly sensitive structures should be excluded from the GRUDA Act or impact fee. Can the government act on this aspect now if safety of the patients is supreme,” says opposition leader Dinesh Sharma. In case of residential buildings fire safety never makes it to priorities in building maintenance budgets. “Societies avoid fire safety maintenance because the infrastructure is rarely used, unlike bore wells, community streetlights and lift maintenance which takes away huge chunks of society budgets. An annual fire safety maintenance will cost every house roughly Rs 90 to Rs 250 a month. This becomes a conflict point in society meetings and is avoided,” says a senior AMC official who had raised the issue. Also the number of fire stations is far less. Against the requirement of 51 fire stations which is one station for a 10 sq km area the AMC has just 16 fire stations. Getting trained staff or a qualified agency for fire audit is another issue. Every day only a maximum of eight buildings can be inspected. With 18 station officers and seven empanelled private fire auditors mentioned on the municipal website, the mammoth task of inspecting buildings can never be achieved as proposed by the AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-has-quietly-dumped-its-software-to-find-fire-noc-defaulters/articleshow/77422617.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Special train carries goods from Nashik||NASHIK: The Kisan Vishesh parcel train inaugurated by union minister of agriculture and farmers’ welfare and rural development Narendra Singh Tomar and minister of railways, commerce and industry Piyush Goyal on Friday left from Nashik district carrying 49 tonne of agricultural produce. The train picked up 26.5 tonne goods valued at R 1 lakh from Manmad railway station along with 22.6 tonne goods valued at Rs 93,000 from Nashik Road Railway station in the inaugural run. The train was flagged off by the ministers through an online program from New Delhi. They hoped that it would help in contributing towards the doubling of the income of farmers by delivering goods in time and in good condition. “Union government aims to double the income of farmers and this train along with the Farmers Producers’ Organisation (FPO) Scheme would soon lead to a huge change in the agriculture practice. It would contribute to increase in trade, fair value agri-produce for farmers and rate stabilization for the consumers,” Tomar said. Goyal on the other hand, pointed out that the experimental run of Kisan Vishesh starting from Devlali (Nashik Road, Maharashtra) to Danapur (Bihar) via Madhya Pradesh was just the beginning. “The success of this Kisan Vishesh will be when we will be able to transport the goods from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and that will happen soon,” Goyal said. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal thanked the central government and railways for choosing Nashik to launch the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-train-carries-goods-from-nashik/articleshow/77419919.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP asks govt to be strict with pvt hosps||Hyderabad: The newly-formed formed BJP state committee on Friday asked the state government to be strict with private hospitals, while appealing to the hospitals to be compassionate towards Covid-19 patients during the pandemic. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar, who had convened a meeting with available leaders of new state committee at party office, said Covid-19 has spread rapidly as the state government neglected its duties. “We also appeal to the private hospitals to treat patients on humanitarian grounds during this crisis time,” he said. The state committee expressed concern that many people are selling their properties to get treated in big hospitals and are ending up in debts. “We value the services of doctors and other staff during the pandemic but it is also important that people don’t end up in debts because of the high cost of treatment,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-asks-govt-to-be-strict-with-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77422572.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Man dies in bike-tractor crash||Hyderabad: The deputy manager of GVK Bio died after his two-wheeler dashed into speeding tractor on Friday. The deceased, Makkena Venkata Subba Rao had left the house at around 9 am to visit his relatives. When he reached Dayanand Nagar Electric Substation, Malkajgiri a tractor on the opposite direction rammed into his bike. The tractor then ran over him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-in-bike-tractor-crash/articleshow/77422588.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Rain brings respite, but water cuts likely: Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday informed that though the western region of Nashik has received heavy rainfall, a cut in supply of drinking water to the city is likely. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), on Tuesday, had warned of water cuts if the city did not recive any rainfall in the coming few days. However, following that western region of Nashik district did receive bouts of heavy rainfall leading to rise in the water level of the dams. The western region of the district has more than 60% of the dams that store water for Nashik, Aurangabad, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts. Bhujbal on Satuvisited Bhavli Dam on Friday morning and reviewed the water situation in the district besides performing the customary ‘Jalpoojan’.“Rains have been good in the past two days. But given the low water storage in the lakes, after city like Mumbai carrying out the water cuts, even Nashik willl have to follow the suit,” Bhujbal said. On Thursday, the district received 226 mm of rains, Igatpuri taluka received 108 mm of rain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-brings-respite-but-water-cuts-likely-bhujbal/articleshow/77419936.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||751 more infected, 9 deaths in Haryana||Chandigarh: Haryana recorded nine deaths and 751 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, raising the total tally to 467 and 40,054, respectively, in the state. For the third consecutive day, Faridabad continued to lead other districts in the state with maximum number of fresh cases (159), followed by Ambala (79), Fatehabad (63), Sonipat (60), Gurgaon (54), Rewari (49), Rohtak (43), Panipat (38), Palwal (41), Panchkula (30), Hisar (24), Mahendergarh (23), Karnal (20), Kuruskhetra (16), Yamunanagar (15), Sirsa (13), Nuh (8), Bhiwani (8), Kaithal (5) and Charkhi Dadri (3). Of the 40,054 Covid-19 patients in the state, 26,617 are males, 13,426 females and 11 transgenders. The state has 6,143 active cases, while 33,444 have been discharged after recovery. The doubling rate cases in the state is now 27 days. Till Friday, 7,13,061 people had been tested for coronavirus in the state, while 59,743 are under surveillance. Besides, 110 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 16 on ventilators. Also, 804 Covid patients recovered in the state. The highest number of recoveries were from Faridabad, 185.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/751-more-infected-9-deaths-in-haryana/articleshow/77422577.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Many Mumbai college students give online classes a miss||MUMBAI: Even as academic session commences officially across city colleges, online education has run into trouble. Many students are giving online classes a miss, citing poor or lack of connectivity. While some moved to native towns and do not have good network, many even from the city are not attending lectures as they cannot afford data packs, teachers said. Colleges are providing limited infrastructure for online teaching, but for most other resources, teachers are expected to invest themselves. TimesViewEducation has to provide a level playing field and not accentuate societal divide. The gap between digital haves and have-nots is serious, and authorities who frame education policies ought to keep it in mind and bridge it instead of creating a situation where only one set of students have access to quality education. Proper guidelines must be in place and online resources must be provided to teachers if they are to be expected to take up the challenge of online teaching successfully, even if temporarily.Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU), in a letter to the university's administration, accused it of not providing a framework for online teaching, and neither has it issued norms or clarity on who would provide resources to students or teachers, considering rural-urban divide. Though the Mumbai University directive told colleges to reopen on Friday, many had started online classes in June and July. A suburban college teacher said they had combined two classes but attendance did not cross 50%. Initially, there was interest, but after a point many said data packs were not affordable, said the teacher, adding that attendance dropped. BUCTU highlighted the issue, stating that a considerable number of students travelled back to native places. “They are having issues of network connectivity and they lack suitable devices to attend lectures over larger time intervals,” said the letter. The problem is not so much in many city autonomous colleges as they are managing with resources, said a principal. “But most of the university’s over 750 affiliated colleges are finding it difficult. A sizeable number of students do not have a conducive home environment to attend online lectures. We had been writing to the university about this, but they have never responded,” said BUCTU general secretary Madhu Paranjape. Many colleges under the university’s jurisdiction are in rural areas from Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Palghar. “In these areas, getting a cellphone network is a problem, how are colleges expected to run online classes?” said a teacher. The union also said circulars have been issued by the university without understanding the grassroot level situation. BUCTU pointed out that online platforms were meant for business meetings and not appropriate for teaching. Attendance monitoring, proctoring and other administrative work was difficult for teachers, they said. In the absence of resources for online teaching, teachers were depending on resources they can afford. Many colleges have not paid salaries to teachers in the unaided section. It called the university’s August 3 circular, telling 15% staff to report to work, as insensitive. University officials were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/many-mumbai-college-students-give-online-classes-a-miss/articleshow/77422431.cms||Yogita Rao
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Asha workers want timely payment||Nashik: The Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) on Friday presented their demand to the district administration for their remuneration of the past two months and increase in allowances as was being given to the health professionals of the government health departmentAsha workers have the responsibility of carrying out the survey of high-risk contacts of Covid patients and comorbid patients at the village-level.The Asha workers and the block facilitators (BF), whi carries out the reporting of the ASHA workers, said they were unpaid for the last two months (Rs 1000 each month) and they were also waiting for increased monthly remuneration of Rs 1000, as announced by the state government.Savita Patil, an Asha worker, said with meagre protective gear they are looking for suspected patients of Covid and risking their and their families’ lives“We also demand allowances for going in public and conducting surveys to figure out people likely to have contracted the infection This allowance is just the one that medicos are being given by the government,” Sadhana Jadhav, one of the Asha workers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/asha-workers-want-timely-payment/articleshow/77419954.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 8, 2020||Goa||Kin of dead power dept personnel to get govt jobs||PONDA: In a bid to compensate the on-duty death of three workers of the electricity department in an accident at Borim on Thursday, the government will offer jobs to the family members of the deceased in the department. As an urgent assistance to their families, chief minister Pramod Sawant will disburse Rs 7 lakh to each of the three families on Monday in the presence of power minister Nilesh Cabral. Of the three deceased, assistant lineman wireman Sameer Parab, 42, and line helper Sagun Gawas, 28, are from Sakhali, while line helper Pundalik Jalmi, 45,was a resident of Khandola-Marcel. The six injured employees will get a compensation of Rs 20,000 each, said a senior official of electricity department. Sources said Gawas, who hailed from Amona, was the only son and earning member of the family. The mortal remains of all the three deceased were cremated on Friday. Since the accident occurred after truck driver Pradosh Naik, a resident of Shiroda, lost control over the vehicle, he has been booked under provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kin-of-dead-power-dept-personnel-to-get-govt-jobs/articleshow/77423489.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||DTU students seek fee relaxation||NEW DELHI: Delhi Technological University (DTU) students carried out a protest march in the campus on Friday demanding relaxation in fee payment as many of their parents had lost their jobs or faced pay cuts. The students had been told to pay the annual fee of Rs.1.9 lakh by August 5 failing which they would be charged late fees. The protesters said they were not seeking a fee waiver, but wanted to be allowed to pay it in installments or be given more time. Some even questioned the reason behind charging sports and lab fees. “As most of the students have gone home, around 20 of us participated in the protest. We were waiting since afternoon for the administration to meet us, but no one obliged,” said a fourth-year student. In a letter to LG Anil Baijal, the chancellor of the university, the students requested his intervention in the matter. “The vice-chancellor has yet again displayed an absolutely apathetic nature to the concerns of the students and their families who are already under mental and economic stress amid the pandemic. There has been no response from the VC to the emails and letters sent in the past one week,” the letter mentioned. The public relations officer at DTU did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtu-students-seek-fee-relaxation/articleshow/77422625.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Cops call Sarsuna CPM ward coordinator to police station after lockdown-day tests||KOLKATA: The KMC ward coordinator from the Sarsuna area (Ward 127), Nihar Bhakta, was called to the Sarsuna PS on Wednesday after he organised a Covid test camp during the day, when a total lockdown was in force. The CPM ward coordinator said the move was politically motivated and questioned why the KMC and the health department sent the test kits in the first place. Police said Bhakta had violated lockdown rules. “We had no intimation about the programme from the coordinator or the KMC,” said DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-call-sarsuna-cpm-ward-coordinator-to-police-station-after-lockdown-day-tests/articleshow/77422557.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Mane: Efforts required to increase doubling rate in Ahmednagar||Nashik: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Ahmednagar district of Nashik division came under scrutiny during the review meeting conducted on Friday by ministry of health and family welfare’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal, who called for efforts to curb the spread of contagion. Agarwal also appreciated the steps taken by the administration to control the death rate. Divisional commissioner (Nashik) Rajaram Mane, who was present in the meeting of district collectors and health officials from across the state conducted through video conferencing in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, said, “The doubling of Covid-19 cases in Nashik division is around 22 days, while in Ahmednagar it is 8.7 days. This is a cause of concern and we will be working towards making the situation better.”The rate of doubling of Covid-19 patients in Dhule district is 29.6 days and in Nandurbar it is 28.8 days. For Jalgaon, it is 22 days and for Nashik it is 21.7 days.Ahmednagar had controlled the spread of Covid-19 very well till now, but of late the number of cases has started to go up drastically. “If the infection is there, it has to be tested and treated and this will definitely increase the number of patients. We will have to take steps to cut down the rate of infection and this will be achieved in the next fortnight,” Mane assured. During the meeting, it also came to the fore that though the cases in Ahmednagar district is increasing rapidly, the death rate was controlled at 1.5% which is very good. The district has a total of 8,057 positive patients.“As far as tests are being conducted in Nashik division, Agarwal is of the view that RT-PCR tests of all the symptomatic persons who tested negative for antigen tests have to be taken to cut down the possibility of the person being infected,” Mane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mane-efforts-required-to-increase-doubling-rate-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/77419970.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||CMO, 2 cops have infection in Hisar||Hisar: Hisar civil surgeon (CMO) Dr Ratna Bharti was among the 24 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday. With this, the number of cases in Hisar reached 1,089. Also, 13 patients were discharged. Now, there are 298 active cases in Hisar and 781 have been discharged, while 10 have died. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said other patients included a 34-year-old lecturer of Hansi government college, a 42-year-old health employee posted at TB ward, a 30-year-old OT technician from Sewak Sabha hospital, a 52-year-old cop from Dabwali Sadar police station in Sirsa, a 28-year-old owner of a gas agency situated in Uklana, a 43-year-old teacher from Sunder Nagar, and a 38-year-old cop posted in crime branch of Hisar police, among others. Four minors were also among the new patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cmo-2-cops-have-infection-in-hisar/articleshow/77422622.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Owner booked for illegal water line||Hyderabad: The vigilance wing of HMWS&SB on Friday raided the property of Ramireddygari Lakshmi Reddy in Jubilee Hills and found an illegal water connection. “We found that the officials hadn’t sanctioned water connection to this premises. The owner had installed the water connection without proper sanction,” said a senior official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owner-booked-for-illegal-water-line/articleshow/77422612.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA to runfire check||Ahmedabad: After the devastating fire at Shrey Hospital, a Covid-19 designated hospital by AMC, claimed eight lives, the member hospitals of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) have decided to initiate fire audit. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that the fire is a wake-up call for all and they will ensure that the members have fire NOC. “On our own, we are going to hire experts to audit the buildings for fire safety, inspect the fire-fighting equipment and water supply lines for fire department, and also impart training to the staff members,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-to-runfire-check/articleshow/77422647.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Man dies after room catches fire in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 66-year-old man was reportedly charred to death in his room around 5.15am on Friday. The incident was reported from the B-block of Nandankanan in Santoshpur. The victim, Pradip Roy, a retired central government employee, had been asleep in his room alone on the first floor of a three-storey building. Two other family members of Roy, who were sleeping in other rooms, got a burning smell and rushed to his room. “Though the victim got up, his room was already in flames. He could not save himself. We suspect that a short circuit might have caused the inferno. But we also found a cylinder leaking. We are trying to ascertain the cause behind the fire,” said a police officer. The victim was rushed to Baghajatin State General Hospital where he was declared dead. A case has been registered at the Survey Park police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-dies-after-room-catches-fire/articleshow/77422601.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||BJP makes booklet of 100 ‘inflated’ bills to submit to minister||Mumbai: State BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Friday released a booklet, which was a compilation of 100 ‘inflated’ electricity bills received from aggrieved consumers in the state. The bills have been compiled by former MP Kirit Somaiya, who said he collected them from people in 30 cities. “We have bills showing the inflated amount is 10-30 times the normal monthly bills. The bills were among hundreds received from Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Sindhudurg, Kalyan, Vashi and Virar,” he said at a press conference at state BJP headquarters on Friday. Somaiya said his neighbour got a ‘fraudulent bill’ of Rs66,000. “We will submit the booklet to state energy minister Nitin Raut and demand action against errant officials once it is proved the bills were wrongly calculated and inflated,” he said. A senior MSEDCL official said there was no error in bill calculation. “We have been sending meter readers to sites for accurate readings,” the official said, adding that there were 106 webinars and 124 camps by Bhandup division of MSEDCL to redress consumer grievances. Among demands by BJP was that for 2020-21, any increase in tariff should be scrapped. It also demanded that consumers whose average billing consumption for six months did not exceed 100 units should get a complete waiver for the lockdown period. “There should be a 50% subsidy for those consuming 101-300 units during lockdown,” Somaiya said. Few bills in the booklet included Thane consumers who got Rs2,000-3,000 average bills but got Rs31,330 for July; another from Dombivli got a Rs 31,030 bill, and a Badlapur consumer Rs18,210.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-makes-booklet-of-100-inflated-bills-to-submit-to-minister/articleshow/77422433.cms||Somit Sen
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Mishra’s sudden death due to Covid-19 sent shock waves in NU circles||Nagpur: Nagpur University mass communication Board of Studies’ (BOS) former chairman Sunil Mishra’s sudden demise due to Covid-19 has sent shock waves in the city’s academic circles. He breathed his last on Thursday at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), where he was admitted last week. Condolences poured in from all quarters on social media, even from those, who used to dislike him due to his habit of exposing wrongdoings. On a call by Senate member Manmohan Bajpayee, those knowing him instantly agreed to institute a gold medal in his name in the mass communication faculty. “A valiant warrior lost prematurely. An irreparable personal loss to me,” says senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra. After being convicted in the infamous Kohchade scam, Mishra donned the role of a crusader in NU taking direct fight with heavyweights in the education sector and college owners. His bunch of cases in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court against colleges operating without teachers and infrastructure forced NU to disaffiliate them after a long fight. From over 800 colleges a few years back, their numbers have significantly reduced to about 500, due to his petitions. Most of them were operating for siphoning of scholarship amounts and were involved in a multi-crore scholarship scam.In his explosive interview with TOI, he spoke at length on alleged wrongdoings and dirty politics in the university. “He was rarest of rare and worked for the society in his own manner and many could avail benefit of it,” former engineering dean Dinesh Agrawal says. Mishra was also a nature lover and filed many cases in the HC for saving trees of the city. All his petitions were well studied and neatly drafted forcing HC to take cognisance. He never appointed any lawyer to fight his cases and used to argue himself in person in front of the judges. For getting contents for filing cases, the 52-year-old turned into an RTI activist, and used to file applications in dozens. TOI once carried a report on how he managed to file a whopping number of over 7,000 RTI applications in 12 years. When the news about Mishra’s death broke on social media, many disbelieved and called on the journalists to confirm. “Initially, I thought it was a prank. He was like my son,” senior academician Neelima Deshmukh says. Mishra’s tirade against a particular lobby that used to dominate the NU administration earned him a wrath and numerous threats, but he continued exposing them through RTIs. For all offences and complaints against him, he replied with litigations and rule book, fought his adversaries with full throttle and knew NU affairs inside out. “We’re collecting Rs3 lakh required for a gold medal and many from NU circles have responded positively by personally calling me. Dr Mishra had announced Rs51,000 and Agrawal pledged Rs11,000,” Bajpayee says. Despite facing death threats, Mishra continued his fight against the education mafia, NU officials and statutory members single-handedly. He even ran a college, Central India Institute of Mass Communication (CIIMC) successfully till last few years before NU disaffiliated it and removed his teacher’s approval. Terming him as a fighter in real sense, senior academician Ambadas Mohite says he was one man army, who used to give frank opinion without any apprehension. “He used to pursue any matter till its logical end and wrote many letters right from the President to Prime Minister to the governor in his pursuit. If not satisfied, he used to knock judiciary’s doors,” Mohite says, calling him as a truly inspirational personality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mishras-sudden-death-due-to-covid-19-sent-shock-waves-in-nu-circles/articleshow/77422653.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 8, 2020||Nashik||MIDC speeds up two textile park projects in Nashik||Nashik: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has speeded up development of two textile park projects in the district. The MIDC has already developed infrastructure and also started allotting plots in the 84 hectare acquired of the total 113.20 hectare that has been proposed for setting up the textile park in Malegaon taluka of the district. Infrastructure like approach roads, internal roads, streetlights, water supply scheme have been developed on 58 of the 109 hectare that has been proposed for the textile park in Yeola. “We have sent a layout of the textile park proposed in Yeola taluka for approval to our head office in Mumbai. We will start allotment of land in Yeola once we get the approval from the head office,” said an MIDC official. “We will start developing infrastructure on the remaining half once the 58 hectare of the textile park is fully occupied,” said the official. Around 6 million litres per day (MLD) water has been reserved in Nandur Madhyameshwar weir for the textile park in Yeola. The MIDC has already installed a jack-well in the weir to supply water to Vinchur wine park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-speeds-up-two-textile-park-projects-in-nashik/articleshow/77419992.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IGI launches online portal for international arrivals to declare health status||NEW DELHI: IGI Airport has introduced an online portal, Air Suvidha, as a contactless solution for all international passengers flying into the country. They can submit mandatory self-declaration forms about their health status and apply for exemption from institutional or paid quarantine on the website 72 hours before landing in India. With this, passengers would no longer have to fill physical copies of forms. A passenger would also be able to submit group requests for the entire family travelling in the same flight on www.newdelhiairport.in. The portal was activated at 12.01am on Friday. “This can be used from any airport in the country. Their request will be auto-routed to their destination state,” said an airport official. Government guidelines state that from August 8 exemption from seven-day quarantine would be available for certain categories of international passengers, including those coming with a Covid-negative report conducted within 96 hours of flying to India. Those seeking exemption under the five specific categories can fill the e-form along with supporting documents, including a copy of passport, at least 72 hours before boarding the flight. However, no such time cap exists for passengers filling the self-declaration form that will be routed to Airport Health Organization (APHO). “A copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests will be emailed to the passengers. Those given exemption can show it at the transfer area after landing and walk out without any hassle. This process will not only help flyers, but also the authorities in completing the requisite formalities faster and reduce congestion in the arrival hall,” said an official. The passengers would be considered for exemption only if they fall under the five categories, including pregnant women, suffered a death in the family, suffering from serious illness (description to be provided), parents accompanied by children below 10 years and being Covid-negative in a recent RT-PCR test. Airlines might also notify passengers at the time of reservation that the receiving state government could authorise exemptions from institutional quarantine on a case-to-case basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-launches-online-portal-for-international-arrivals-to-declare-health-status/articleshow/77422659.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, cyber crooks offering fake discounts to con people||HYDERABAD: Instances of fraudsters looting people by pretending to be customer service executives of online shopping platforms have seen a rise ever since the lockdown was announced. At least 15 such cases have come to light in the city, where offenders lured the victims with various discounts to dupe them. In one such incident, a 24-year-old private employee from Banjara Hills, who had been buying groceries online ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, lost over Rs 52,000 after a fake customer care executive asked him to fill his details in a form. “The caller introduced himself as a representative of Bigbasket. He asked me to open a link and fill up a form. He informed me that I will have to pay Rs 10 for availing the discount. After filling the details as he instructed me to, Rs 52,000 was deducted from my bank account,” the complainant said. In another incident, a 26-year-old private employee from Rajendranagar lost close to Rs 1 lakh after the fraudsters, claiming to be employees of popular e-commerce site Amazon, called her and said she would win an iPhone worth Rs 30,000 if she makes purchases of a certain amount. The offenders shared a fake invoice letter for the purchase and asked her to pay for refundable charges. The victim realised she was duped when the offender blocked her number after the payment. “As many citizens are relying on online shopping portal after the spread of Covid-19, the fraudsters are taking advantage of the situation and luring the victims by offering fake discounts,” said city cyber crime officer. The cyber crime police is concerned over the increasing cases and has advised citizens to not accept unrealistic offers. “The offenders now manage to obtain customer database on the darknet and use that to lure the victims. They give certain information about recent purchases to make then believe the offer is from a genuine portal. However, no one will ask for money in return for discounts or offers. If the offer seems too good, one should be suspicious,” said the senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-cyber-crooks-offering-fake-discounts-to-con-people/articleshow/77422643.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||6-year-old girl feared drowned in nullah||Mumbai: A six-year-old girl who went missing from her Nalasopara home was feared drowned in a nearby nullah. A search was launched for Rutika Gupta, whose toy was found near an overflowing nullah near her home in Pelhar Phata in Nalasopara (E). Valiv police in Vasai (E) said she was playing at home with a ball. Police have registered a case of kidnapping. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-year-old-girl-feared-drowned-in-nullah/articleshow/77422678.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Amritsar||Longer night curfew in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the “worst affected” cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday, while directing all big cities to prepare integrated management plan for treatment of the virus. A government spokesperson said the change in night curfew timings is limited to these three cities and status quo remains in other parts of the state. Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, which was advanced by a day to apprise the people about his visit to the hooch affected Tarn Taran district, Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment is available in government hospitals. He claimed there were adequate testing facilities available in the state and that four new testing labs would become operational on Monday. Delay in testing and treatment was the main cause for the increasing number of Covid deaths, he said, pointing out that with 26 persons succumbing on Thursday, the toll in the state had gone up to 517 (2.47%). Expressing concern over the steady increase in Covid infections and positivity in the state, which reported 8.50% cases in samples tested in past one week, Amarinder said with the peak projected to come in Punjab by end of August or early September, one could not be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. He also directed an inquiry by the vice-chancellor into the death of a non-Covid patient, Dr Parvinder, at GGS Medical College, Faridkot, after doctors refused to treat him till the file work was completed and Covid test report came, even though he was suffering from low oxygen levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/longer-night-curfew-in-ludh-jalandhar-patiala/articleshow/77426948.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Longer night curfew in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the “worst affected” cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday, while directing all big cities to prepare integrated management plan for treatment of the virus. A government spokesperson said the change in night curfew timings is limited to these three cities and status quo remains in other parts of the state. Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, which was advanced by a day to apprise the people about his visit to the hooch affected Tarn Taran district, Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment is available in government hospitals. He claimed there were adequate testing facilities available in the state and that four new testing labs would become operational on Monday. Delay in testing and treatment was the main cause for the increasing number of Covid deaths, he said, pointing out that with 26 persons succumbing on Thursday, the toll in the state had gone up to 517 (2.47%). Expressing concern over the steady increase in Covid infections and positivity in the state, which reported 8.50% cases in samples tested in past one week, Amarinder said with the peak projected to come in Punjab by end of August or early September, one could not be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. He also directed an inquiry by the vice-chancellor into the death of a non-Covid patient, Dr Parvinder, at GGS Medical College, Faridkot, after doctors refused to treat him till the file work was completed and Covid test report came, even though he was suffering from low oxygen levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/longer-night-curfew-in-ludh-jalandhar-patiala/articleshow/77426947.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Puducherry||Docs try new stem cell therapy to help children with ‘brittle bones’||Chennai: When Devi’s baby was just 45 days old, he fractured his leg. There was no external cause or injury, it just happened on its own, says Devi, a homemaker based in Puducherry. She rushed him to the hospital to discover that he has a condition called Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) or brittle bones, a genetic disease which causes multiple fractures and deformities in children, and in severe cases results in the child becoming wheelchair-bound. Three years after that fracture (and another one when he was two years old), Devi sees hope for her son, the first recruit in the clinical trial of a stem cell treatment at Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, in collaboration with Karolinska Institutet, Sweden. “We have tried everything else. He had his first round of treatment a week ago,” says Devi, whose older child too has been diagnosed with OI, having suffered more than seven fractures in as many years. “OI universally affects 1 in 20,000 children,” says Dr Vrisha Madhuri of the department of paediatric orthopaedics and centre for stem cell research at CMCH, and who is spearheading the trial. The genetic disease causes children’s bones to break very easily, often from the time they are babies – during burping, rolling over, or a diaper change for instance. Sometimes, babies are born with fractures or get them in the mother’s womb. In other cases, symptoms — which include easy bruising, brittle teeth, and breathing trouble — don’t appear until they are almost teens. “This is the first time that a procedure like this is being tried out, where stems cells are injected directly into the weight-bearing bone,” says Dr Madhuri, and adds that the trial is co-funded by the department of biotechnology, Government of India, and VINNOVA Sweden. “This has a better chance of engraftment because the cells are directly homed to bone marrow.” At Karolinska Institutet, the stem cells were injected prenatally, but in India, it is not possible in utero as a majority of parents medically terminate pregnancies if the foetus is discovered to have OI (usually detected within 20 weeks of pregnancy). Around 60% of the children with OI they have seen over the years at CMC have recessive inheritance, meaning it is more likely in consanguineous marriages, says Dr Madhuri. The Boost to Brittle Bones (BOOST2B) trial is looking to recruit 14 severely affected OI children aged under 4 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/docs-try-new-stem-cell-therapy-to-help-children-with-brittle-bones/articleshow/77421369.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Rajkot||Temples around Somnath to close for 4 days||Rajkot: The temples run by Somnath trust, excluding the main Somnath temple, will remain closed for four days during Janmastami to avoid rush of devotees. In a press communiqué on Friday said that “Shree Bhalkatrith, Shree Geetamandir, Shree Lakshminarayan temple and Shree Ram temple will remain closed from August 10 to August 13 for devotees.” It further stated that Balkatirth ‘Darshan’ and Krishna Janm celebration will be streamed live on social media. The main temple will remain open but devotees will need to obtain online passes to enter the temple premises. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/temples-around-somnath-to-close-for-4-days/articleshow/77419967.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nashik||Mission Nashik Zero finds over 3k cases||Nashik: The antigen tests carried out on 29,195 citizens by the 20 mobile clinics in the last 13 days as part of the ‘Mission Nashik Zero’ programme has identified 3,379 Covid-19 positive patients. The ‘Mission Nashik Zero’ programme is being implemented by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) with the help of an NGO and corporators cutting across political parties. The NGO provided the 20 mobile clinics for examining citizens living in slums and containment areas for Covid-19. The process to identify suspected Covid-19 patients started on July 22. Around 2,200 antigen tests are being conducted per day in the city for early detection. The patients identified after the rapid antigen tests are being provided treatment immediately. “Antigen tests are helping us a lot as it takes only 20 minutes to know whether the suspect is positive. On the other hand, the RT-PCR test takes two to three days to give the report of the throat swab samples,” said officials from the civic administration. “We have received a total of 54,000 antigen kits in two phases from the Indian Council for Medical Research. We still have around 24,000 kits. We will continue to conduct around 2,200 antigen tests daily,” said officials. Apart from this, around 700 RT-PCR tests are also being conducted. This means 2,900 tests are being conducted daily to identify Covid-19 patients. “We have also decided to place order for another 25,000 kits considering the rise in the number of patients,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mission-nashik-zero-finds-over-3k-cases/articleshow/77420001.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cheaper e-vehicles the key, say experts||NEW DELHI: The success of Delhi’s new electric vehicle policy, which was termed as “progressive” when its draft was released last year, will be determined on its implementation, particularly in setting up a dense network of charging stations and adequate charging points, experts believe. They added that bringing down the cost of electric vehicles would also be a key factor and a car costing Rs 15-16 lakh won’t be viable even with subsidy unless considerable awareness was created about its benefits. Amit Bhatt, executive director at WRI India, said while the policy was progressive and had ambitious targets, its true success lay in its implementation. “The staffing and functioning of the proposed electric vehicle board and an EV cell within the transport department will be key to how this policy works out,” he added. Aarti Khosla, director at Climate Trends, said a survey of around 300 Delhiites during the lockdown period showed that over 50% were willing to use electric transport if it was affordable and reliable. “The government’s timely decision will allow clean mobility and also rein in air pollution in the future. To make it successful, enough charging points will be needed to make the user comfortable in switching to an electric vehicle. Auto manufacturers will also have to look at reducing the cost of four-wheelers over time,” added Khosla. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said it was commendable that despite the economic slowdown, the policy notification provided the legal mandate for 25% electrification of new vehicles by 2024. “With clear milestones and well-defined targets, Delhi can make the policy a success. The notification has come at the right time, considering the devastating impact the lockdown has had on this sector,” she added. CSE’s analysis of the VAHAN database showed that the registration of electric vehicles dropped by 93.4% between March and April 2020. The sector, however, recovered to some extent by registering a seven-fold increase between April and July, although the numbers were still less than about 50% of the March registration level. Harsimran Kaur, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said for electric buses the issue of land acquisition for depots would need to be sorted out. “While the plan to have 50% e-buses by 2022 is laudable, policymakers should clarify how this issue is going to be addressed. It’s also not clear if incentives are being extended to private stage carriers, which is critical,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cheaper-e-vehicles-the-key-say-experts/articleshow/77422670.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Longer night curfew in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the “worst affected” cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday, while directing all big cities to prepare integrated management plan for treatment of the virus. A government spokesperson said the change in night curfew timings is limited to these three cities and status quo remains in other parts of the state. Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, which was advanced by a day to apprise the people about his visit to the hooch affected Tarn Taran district, Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment is available in government hospitals. He claimed there were adequate testing facilities available in the state and that four new testing labs would become operational on Monday. Delay in testing and treatment was the main cause for the increasing number of Covid deaths, he said, pointing out that with 26 persons succumbing on Thursday, the toll in the state had gone up to 517 (2.47%). Expressing concern over the steady increase in Covid infections and positivity in the state, which reported 8.50% cases in samples tested in past one week, Amarinder said with the peak projected to come in Punjab by end of August or early September, one could not be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. He also directed an inquiry by the vice-chancellor into the death of a non-Covid patient, Dr Parvinder, at GGS Medical College, Faridkot, after doctors refused to treat him till the file work was completed and Covid test report came, even though he was suffering from low oxygen levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/longer-night-curfew-in-ludh-jalandhar-patiala/articleshow/77422661.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Shimla||Minister Covid-19 positive, Himachal Pradesh governer’s appointments cancelled||SHIMLA: A day after Himachal Pradesh power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary was tested positive for Covid-19, Rajbhawan in Shimla cancelled all engagements and appointments of governor Bandaru Dattatraya for seven days as a precautionary measure Also, 28 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported on Friday, while 51 patients recovered. The state’s tally rose to 3,075, with 1,119 cases being active, 1,916 patients having recovered,12 dying and 26 migrating out of state. The cabinet expansion of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led state government had taken place in Shimla on July 30, and the governor had administered the oath of office and secrecy to Chaudhary and two other ministers. The oath-taking ceremony was held at Rajbhawan and few people, including chief minister, cabinet ministers and officials, attended it. Sources said the governor was in good health and his personal physician checked him daily. After his personal assistant was tested positive for Covid-19, Chaudhary had got himself tested and his reports on Thursday confirmed that he, his two daughters and a personal security officer were positive. Among the new cases, four are from Bilaspur, 13 from Chamba, eight from Shimla, and three from Solan. The patients who recovered include one from Bilaspur, two from Kinnaur, 10 from Mandi, 13 from Shimla, and 25 from Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/min-ve-himachal-guvs-appointments-cancelled/articleshow/77422667.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Areas in Behala, Majerhat shrug off containment tag||KOLKATA: The containment zone list in the city saw some major changes on Friday night, hours before the implementation of the second total lockdown in the city this month. The city now has 39 zones, one less than what it had as per the previous list. The biggest highlight was Behala, where two of the most Covid-prone zones in Haridevpur — Basusree Bagan and Sodepur School area — have managed to shed the tag. Two other areas close to Behala — two complexes in Majerhat — too walked out of the list. “The Basusree Bagan area had 18 cases — the highest within a non-slum containment zone at that time. We will continue the surveillance there,” said a senior Behala division officer. Among the new areas that came under containment zone are localities in Phoolbagan, Beliaghata and Alipore. “Another new entrant is Brahmapur under the Bansdroni area. It is a densely populated area with a mixed population. Hence, we have decided to bring it under containment zone,” said an officer at Lalbazar. This belt has witnessed as many 40 positive cases in one month. A couple of positive patients having co-morbidity factors succumbed to the deadly virus in the past three weeks. However, there have been no containment zones in the entire belt spanning a 3km stretch. The fresh list contains merely two slums and seven complexes. The rest of the areas are mixed areas. At the two biggest containment areas of the city — Kankurgachhi-Phoolbagan-Beliaghata in the east and Mukundapur-Patuli-Baghatin on the southern suburbs — it is a picture of similarities. While the one in the east has 11 containment zones, the one in south presently has 10 containment zones. Together, the two zones contribute 21 of the 39 containment zones. Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police have been introducing a subtle change in the manner in which the containment zones are being created — the zones are no longer merely dwelling houses. Instead, any place that has been reporting multiple cases are now being included in the list. This may include a market, a shop located within two flats, a mixed zone of markets and flats and even religious institutions. The Sree Saraswata Gaudiya Asan and Mission off Hazra Road is a Math that has reported a few cases. “We had to bring it on containment list,” said an officer. Talpukur Street Bazar on Baghajatin Station Road (from Baghajatin station ticket counter to Baghajatin branch of a public sector bank) is an example of how a market has been brought under the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/areas-in-behala-majerhat-shrug-off-containment-tag/articleshow/77422634.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||No Mumbai trains for lawyers for now, state tells HC||Mumbai: State government on Friday told Bombay high court it had rejected requests of lawyers to board local trains here for now. When Covid-19 situation improves, it will be “more than eager and happy” to consider permitting them on priority. “Maintenance and improvement of public health has to rank highest, particularly when not only the state but the world is facing the worst crisis due to Covid-19,” said the disaster management (relief & rehabilitation) department secretary’s order on August 5. On August 2, around 4.3 lakh of the state population were affected by Covid-19 and there were 15,316 deaths. The order was submitted to a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Ajay Gadkari by advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan. The order said considering that lawyers constitute an integral part of the judicial system, the state had not imposed restrictions on them. Also, decisions are taken which may cause great inconvenience to various sections of citizens inconvenience. “Balancing maintenance of public health and inconvenience, it does not require recording of reasons to conclude inconvenience so caused must pave way to maintenance of public health of citizenry,” it added. It said due to an extraordinary situation in Mumbai and Mumbai metropolitan region, providing travel to frontline workers/staff had been the topmost priority of the state government. Regarding other offices of nationalized banks, GST, customs, department of post, Mumbai Port Trust and public sector undertakings, they are required as they help in bringing the economy, worst hit by Covid-19, back to normal, it added. It noted that representations have not given details of matters dismissed due to non-appearance of advocates or resulted in prejudice to any litigant or caused hindrance to working of any court or proceedings. It added that increase in frequency of local trains will not redress the issue of overcrowding, especially to strictly observe social distancing among travellers. The judges adjourned the hearing granting liberty to the parties to mention the matter for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-mumbai-trains-for-lawyers-for-now-state-tells-hc/articleshow/77422685.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Driving own vehicle without mask may get you booked||NEW DELHI: You can be challaned for not wearing a mask even while driving a personal vehicle. Police are using this guideline to focus more on two-wheeler riders who are exposed more to the surroundings than four-wheeler drivers. Car users are being mostly fined for the same reason if two persons are found without masks. Though cars are considered a personal space, the cops say the risk of an infection increases with the presence of more than one person inside a vehicle. On average, the cops book 1,200 to 1,500 people daily for riding a vehicle without a mask. Times ViewMasks are an important shield against coronavirus. But to force somebody to wear a mask while alone inside a personal vehicle is going beyond what is required for self-preservation or protecting others. The problem with such unreasonable rules is that they encourage people to violate even reasonable ones.Officers say most of the violators in cars are found near or just outside residential colonies. According to the cops, the most common excuse people come up with is that they have just stepped out for a few minutes for some petty jobs. “We counsel them about how masks protect them from the novel coronavirus infection,” said an officer. “Though a person driving a car is in a closed space, he or she has the airconditioner on in the vehicle and gets exposed to the air outside the moment a door is opened or a window is rolled down. Many car owners are under the impression that they are safe inside their vehicles, but that is wrong,” said a senior officer. People found driving with handkerchiefs wrapped around their faces are also booked. In some cases, people are found wearing the mask on their chin inside the car, which is also punishable. “There is a standard for masks that requires a double-layer protection. It should cover the nose and the mouth till the chin. The handkerchief is not an option especially when someone is riding a two-wheeler. We have asked our men to challan these violators,” he said. A violator is first asked about the reason behind not wearing a mask. If they have a genuine reason, the cops are either providing them with surgical masks or asking them to get one. If the reason is found to be flimsy, they are being detained and booked for violating a government order. Some of the violators who are found to have just stepped out of their home are asked to go back and get a mask before proceeding further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/driving-own-vehicle-without-mask-may-get-you-booked/articleshow/77422684.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt orders fire safety audit of hospitals||Gandhinagar: One day after eight Covid-19 patients died in a blaze at a private hospital in Ahmedabad, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Friday asked officials to undertake a fire-safety audit of hospitals and similar buildings across the state. He asked the state urban development department to compliance with fire safety rules at hospitals, commercial and residential buildings, an official statement said. Rupani also asked civic bodies to make spot visits to check compliance in urban areas, it added. Eight patients died in a fire inside the ICU of the four-storeyed Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura area of Ahmedabad in the early hours of Thursday. Investigations revealed that Shrey Hospital, designated by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to treat Covid-19 patients, did not have a fire safety no-objection certificate (NOC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-orders-fire-safety-audit-of-hospitals/articleshow/77422690.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nashik||503 cases, 681 recoveries in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district has reported 503 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 365 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 18,947 A total of 681 patients have been discharged in the district on Friday, of which 521 patients were from the city. This is the highest number of patients discharged in a single day in Nashik city Seven people from the district, including two from Nashik city, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday. The death toll stands at 585 in the district, including 335 in the city. The district has 4,346 active cases, of which 3,115 are in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/503-cases-681-recoveries-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77420034.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Govt should clear stand on language policy, says Madras HC||MADURAI: A definite stand reflecting the state government’s policy on the two-language formula should be informed to the Madras high court since the chief minister recently stated that the government would continue to adopt only two-language formula in the backdrop of the New Education Policy (NEP) recently announced by the central government. The court was hearing a batch of appeals with regard to the redeployment of surplus teachers at schools. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice R Suresh Kumar observed that if it is the stand of the state to have two-language formula, the court wants a definite commitment by way of a sworn affidavit to be filed either by the chief secretary or by the secretary of the school education department to that effect as to whether the two languages are Tamil and any other language or Tamil and English alone. “If Tamil and English alone are the languages to be taught in schools in the state, will the medium of instruction to be adopted is also by either Tamil or English?” the judges asked. The judges also asked whether the state government has got any reservation to release the grant-in aid to aided schools that shift over their medium of instruction from Tamil to English or both Tamil and English having the ratio of 50:50 or in other ratio. “Whether the government has taken any policy decision to have a complete and comprehensive legislation to deal with private schools (minority and non-minority) (aided or unaided) by which not only the academic and administrative matters, but also service issues/disputes can also be effectively administered and redressed,” the judges asked. Except the Tamil Nadu Private School Regulations Act, 1973 and the Rules, no other legislation is available so far to deal with such issues. All these issues are dealt with and administered only by GOs and administrative instructions issued from time to time, they observed. Instead of having such kind of GOs/ instructions regime, why cannot the government think of having a comprehensive legislation to administer these issues pertaining to private schools and if so, what is the proposal to have such legislation and the time limit within which such legislation can be brought in, can also be spelt out by the government, said the judges. The case was adjourned to August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-must-take-definite-stand-on-two-language-policy-hc/articleshow/77423536.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Shocker for Eknath Khadse: Rs 1 lakh power bill for Jalgaon home||MUMBAI: Senior BJP leader and former minister Eknath Khadse was shocked when he got a power bill of more than Rs 1 lakh for a month for his house in Muktainagar, Jalgaon district. “I approached Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company, so some senior engineers visited my house and advised me to first make the payment, and then they would look into the complaint. I made the entire payment but there has been no redressal of my grievance,’’ Khadse told TOI. Khadse said he normally receives a bill of Rs 15,000-20,000 a month. He said it appeared that the bill was issued without actual reading. “I have installed high power solar panels under the scheme drafted by MSEDCL, as such, surplus power from the solar panels is automatically given to MSEDCL. Under such circumstances, when I received the bill, I was surprised and shocked. Since hundreds of consumers are at the receiving end, I feel that MSEDCL should resolve the dispute on top priority and issue corrected bills,’’Khadse said. Khadse alleged that in view of prolonged lockdown, there was goof up at all levels and inflated bills were issued to the consumers without verification. A senior MSEDCL official admitted that in certain cases, excessive bills were issued, but most of the disputes have been resolved amicably. ``We organized webinar, set up help line and society level meetings. Our officials, attended to each and every consumer separately. We feel that, now there are no complaints,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shocker-for-khadse-rs1-lakh-power-bill-for-jalgaon-home/articleshow/77422686.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Panihati civic chief dies of Covid in Kolkata hospital||KOLKATA: The chief administrator of Panihati Municipality, Swapan Ghosh (64), died of Covid-19 early on Friday morning at a private hospital off EM Bypass. After developing breathing trouble, he was reportedly admitted to the hospital only on Wednesday after which he had tested positive for coronavirus. On Thursday evening, he was put on ventilation support after his condition kept deteriorating. He died around 4.30am on Friday. Ghosh was the chairman of Trinamool-run Panihati Municipality since 2015 and later he became the chief administrator of the municipality after its tenure was over. Earlier, his brother Nirmal Ghosh, the Trinamool chief whip of the Assembly and Panihati MLA, and Nirmal’s son had also tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to the same hospital off EM Bypass. Both the father and son recovered and returned home in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panihati-civic-chief-dies-of-covid-in-city-hospital/articleshow/77422655.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Shocker for Eknath Khadse: Rs 1 lakh power bill for Jalgaon home||MUMBAI: Senior BJP leader and former minister Eknath Khadse was shocked when he got a power bill of more than Rs 1 lakh for a month for his house in Muktainagar, Jalgaon district. “I approached Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company, so some senior engineers visited my house and advised me to first make the payment, and then they would look into the complaint. I made the entire payment but there has been no redressal of my grievance,’’ Khadse told TOI. Khadse said he normally receives a bill of Rs 15,000-20,000 a month. He said it appeared that the bill was issued without actual reading. “I have installed high power solar panels under the scheme drafted by MSEDCL, as such, surplus power from the solar panels is automatically given to MSEDCL. Under such circumstances, when I received the bill, I was surprised and shocked. Since hundreds of consumers are at the receiving end, I feel that MSEDCL should resolve the dispute on top priority and issue corrected bills,’’Khadse said. Khadse alleged that in view of prolonged lockdown, there was goof up at all levels and inflated bills were issued to the consumers without verification. A senior MSEDCL official admitted that in certain cases, excessive bills were issued, but most of the disputes have been resolved amicably. ``We organized webinar, set up help line and society level meetings. Our officials, attended to each and every consumer separately. We feel that, now there are no complaints,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/shocker-for-khadse-rs1-lakh-power-bill-for-jalgaon-home/articleshow/77427963.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 8, 2020||Trichy||CB-CID gets one month to finish ‘custody death’ probe||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday granted one month time to the Tirunelveli CB-CID DSP to complete inquiry into the death of a man due to alleged custodial torture by the Sathankulam police personnel.The court was hearing a petition filed by S Vadivu, a resident of Sathankulam who sought a probe in o the death of her son, Mahendran, who died due to custodial torture.Pursuant to the earlier direction, the CB-CID DSP submitted a status report with regard to the inquiry before the court on Friday. Taking cognizance of the status report, justice R Pongiappan granted one month time to complete the inquiry and submit a report before the court as to whether cognizable offence is made out in the case. The case was adjourned to September 8 for further hearing.Vadivu stated that her younger son Mahendran, 28, was assaulted by SI Raghu Ganesh and inspector Sridhar by keeping him in illegal custody at the police station on May 24. Her son sustained injuries in his head and private parts. Mahendran, who was left off experienced dizziness due to the police assault and was admitted at Tuticorin government hospital and subsequently died on June 13. She stated that she was also threatened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cb-cid-gets-one-month-to-finish-custody-death-probe/articleshow/77423523.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Soon, buy e-tickets on phone, find bus routes in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Soon, you will be able to pay the bus fare using a mobile application, Chartr, and receive an ‘e-ticket’. The app will also be able to track the next bus on any route and its occupancy. Delhi government transport department on Wednesday started a three-day public trial of e-ticketing system in all the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster buses on route 473, which concluded on Friday. The commuters travelling in 31 buses on the route were informed how to download the app and buy e-tickets. State transport minister Kailash Gahlot has constituted a taskforce for timely coordination and implementation of exploring the options of contactless mobile ticketing inside buses, keeping in mind the safety of both the passengers and the conductors. Chartr, which was developed by Rajan Girsa, Atul Jain and Kshitij Shrivastava of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi (IIIT-Delhi), was another part of ensuring safer public transport. Pravesh Biyani, associate professor, IIIT-Delhi, said, the public response to the application was encouraging. The report prepared by the team that carried out the trial would now be submitted to the taskforce, following which a decision to scale up the application could be taken. The application helped commuters buy tickets by scanning a QR code available near the conductor’s seat. They could choose the exact fare or type in the destination if they didn’t know the fare. While using the application, commuters could provide the route number and see all the stoppages. Also, by typing the name of a bus stop, one could view all the buses arriving in the next half an hour with ETA and a colour code showing if it was a DTC or a cluster bus. Apart from buses, the application also provided a route journey of metro, where one has to just put in the starting and destination points. The application is available on Play Store. Chartr was also being integrated with ‘One Delhi’ application developed by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd. (DIMTS), which operates the cluster buses. According to Delhi government officials, larger trials were likely to be carried out in the combined fleet of nearly 6,500 buses in Delhi based on the feedback of the current trial. Apart from the application, IIIT-Delhi was also building a public information system, which would be displayed at the bus stops. Watch Delhi: Soon, buy e-tickets on phone, find bus routes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/soon-buy-e-tickets-on-phone-find-bus-routes/articleshow/77422692.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 8, 2020||India||US relaxes travel advisory, but India still on no-go list||WASHINGTON: The US has lifted the highest level of its global health travel advisory for Americans due to the coronavirus pandemic and restored the previous country-specific system without changing the status of over 50 countries, including that of India and China. The US state department had issued the Level 4: Do Not Travel advisory on March 19, urging American citizens not to travel overseas due to the pandemic. In its latest travel advisory on India issued on Thursday, the state department said: “Do not travel to India due to Covid-19. Exercise increased caution in India due to crime and terrorism.” The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a level 3 (avoid non-essential travel) travel health notice for India, it said. Travellers to India may experience border closures, airport closures, travel prohibitions, stay at home orders, business closures and other emergency conditions within India, it said. The CDC has similarly removed its level 3 Global Covid-19 Pandemic Notice. This important change reflects the reality that health and safety conditions are improving in some countries while potentially deteriorating in others, said assistant secretary of state for consular affairs Carl Risch. By returning to the country-specific travel advisory system, the US is able to give Americans detailed and actionable information to make informed travel decisions, said . “The Covid-19 pandemic poses significant risks for travellers and our destination-specific advisories take into account the latest data and public health and safety analysis on Covid-related risks,” Risch said. Other countries which have been put on the Level 4 of travel advisory include Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Mexico, Egypt, and Brazil. Although the guidance from the state department has been lifted, American travellers continue to face travel restrictions in countries worldwide due to the rising cases of the deadly disease in the United States. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 19 million people and killed more than 713,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 4.8 million cases and more than 1,60,000 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-relaxes-travel-advisory-but-india-still-on-no-go-list/articleshow/77424979.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Fitness buffs in a bind over virus risk at gyms in Kolkata||KOLKATA: To work out or not: now that gyms and yoga centres in the city have reopened, fitness enthusiasts are caught in a dilemma. While some experts say that people are at a higher risk of contracting the novel coronavirus from heavy breathing and sweat droplets if a Covid patient, even if he or she is asymptomatic, works out in the same closed space, for many, exercising strengthens immunity and helps maintain physical and mental balance. People have also been worried, given that a middle-aged corporate professional in Mumbai died of heart attack last month shortly after he complained of difficulty in breathing following a jogging session with his mask on. Experts have advised against wearing an N95 mask during running or heavy exercise. “After four months, when the news of gyms reopening was announced, I was excited. But now, watching the rise in Covid cases, I don’t think it is safe for me to work out in a closed environment, especially as I have an elderly mother at home,” said Mithoon Ghosh, a fitness enthusiast. Sports medicine experts, too, advised not to take the risk of “sweating out” inside a closed space now. “When a person does heavy workout, he sweats and his rate of breathing and exhalation increases, which is extremely risky, especially in an enclosed environment. I have been advising my patients and patrons not to hit the gym yet and to exercise at home,” said Jibak Mukherjee, a sports medicine expert. Echoing Mukherjee, ATK-Mohun Bagan physio Abhinandan Chatterjee said, “I am yet to muster the courage to hit a gym and have been advising our players to practise in the safety of their homes with personal equipment under the guidance of personal trainers. The government circular asks people to wear a visor while working out but I doubt its effectiveness as it protects the eyes, while the mouth is exposed,” said Chatterjee. The central guidelines stated gyms must redesign the floor area to reserve 4sqm for each client and everyone should be six feet apart. Most gym owners said that before reopening on Thursday, they followed the specifications, including regular sanitisation, monitoring of temperature and oxygen saturation level of clients and putting only 10-12 members per slot. But, they said, only 30% members had so far turned up. “We are maintaining all safety measures. We are encouraging members to focus more on breathing, cardio and body weight exercises while abiding by the protocols ,” said Gagan Sachdev of Karma Fitness. Souvik Banerjee, a premium trainer at Core Gym, said they were not letting in anyone without a visor. “It feels a bit odd to work out in a face shield but perhaps this is the new normal,” said Samrat Adhikari, a model and fitness enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fitness-buffs-in-a-bind-over-virus-risk-at-gyms/articleshow/77422664.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tihar inmate dies during surgery, probe ordered||NEW DELHI: A Ugandan woman, who had suffered injuries during a brawl at Tihar Jail in June, died on Wednesday while undergoing surgery at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Though jail authorities said she died due to a cardiac arrest, a magisterial inquiry has been ordered to find out if there was any negligence on the part of the Tihar officials. The 43-year-old woman had dislocated her wrist during the brawl and was treated by a doctor on the jail premises for a month. The authorities decided to shift her to the hospital when she complained of excessive pain. Sources said the woman was lodged in jail number 6 after being arrested under NDPS Act last year. On June 16, she had joined a group of women in a protest to seek bail under the social distancing rule. During this, she got involved in a brawl with the jail staffers, who allegedly used force to push the inmates back inside the premises after they broke open a gate. The woman was taken to the jail hospital when it was found that she had a wrist injury. Doctors said she had a dislocation in the right hand and a basic plaster was applied on it. Within a few days, she started complaining of pain after the jail orthopaedic doctor treated her with “close reduction”. When this did not work, she was referred to DDU Hospital where the doctors decided to go for surgery. Jail sources said the woman’s other parameters were normal and she did not have any comorbidity. However, during the surgery the woman’s condition suddenly deteriorated and she died. A probe was ordered to find out whether she was under medication during her stay in the jail. It would also be probed whether she had suffered internal injuries during the brawl, which had remained untreated. The body was sent for an autopsy on Thursday and the report would be submitted to a magistrate. The Ugandan Embassy was alerted so that the woman’s family members could be informed about her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tihar-inmate-dies-during-surgery-probe-ordered/articleshow/77422703.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: NGT panel files report on ammonia gas leak||CHENNAI: The expert committee constituted by National Green Tribunal (NGT) to look into the ammonia gas leak at a fertiliser manufacturing unit in Manali in May, has submitted its interim inspection report, revealing a lapse that lead to the incident. The report stated that Madras Fertilizers Limited (MFL) restarted operations without installing at least two ammonia sensors at the rear end of the plant, close to the villages where residents reported breathlessness after the gas leak in the third week of May. This was against the directions given by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) after inspection. MFL, in response to the report, said they had placed an order for the sensors but delivery was delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown. The unit management further pointed out that they had complied with other directions from TNPCB to prevent accumulation of toxic gases inside tanks. The safety audit team, which inspected the unit later, pointed out that the isolation valves were not in use due to system upgradation and they were liable to leak. They also stated that damaged buildings, damaged roofs with erosion, corrosion of pipe lines, support structures and elevated platforms can result in serious accidents. The NGT panel finally said members from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Bengaluru, couldn’t participate in the inspection due to inter-state travel restrictions and they needed help from IIT Madras to carry out further work from the first week of August. The panel has been given three more months to complete the report. Next hearing will be on November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-panel-files-report-on-ammonia-gas-leak/articleshow/77421399.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Third patient flees from Samras Covid care centre||Ahmedabad: Another Covid-19 patient on Thursday fled from the Samras hostel on the Gujarat University campus. This is the third instance of a patient fleeing from the Covid care facility on the university campus. As of now, five incidents have been reported of Covid patients escaping from treatment centres. They include three from the Samras hostel and one each from SVP Hospital in Ellisbridge and Asarwa Civil hospital. According to a complaint registered with Gujarat University police, a patient named Bachusingh Kushwaha, 27, a native of Karauli district in Rajashtan, was sent to the Samras hostel on August 5. Dr Siddharth Mehta, 34, a pediatrician with VS Hospital who was given charge of the Samras hostel, told police that Kushwaha was missing from Thursday morning. Another patient who stayed with Kushwaha said that Kushwaha had slept at around 9pm on Wednesday but was not seen on Thursday morning. An officer of Gujarat University police said that Kushwaha’s phone was switched off. “He was taken to the Covid care centre after a team of health department found him Covid positive on Wednesday evening when he was travelling on a bus at Nana Chiloda Circle,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-patient-flees-from-samras-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77422712.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||NCPCR seeks report on boys escaping from govt home||Trichy: The National Commission for Protection for Child Rights (NCPCR) has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident of two juveniles in conflict with law escaping from a government observation home in Trichy and asked the commissioner of police, Trichy city, and Trichy collector to submit a report on the issue. Member of NCPCR Dr R G Anand has sent notices to the officials asking them to investigate the matter and submit a detailed factual report along with authenticated copies of the relevant documents to the commission within seven days of the issue of the letter. Two boys, aged 16 and 17 years, kept as juvenile in conflict with law at the government observation home at East Boulevard Road in Trichy escaped from the home after attacking the security early on Wednesday. The boys had been in the home for the past two months after getting caught for their involvement in a few theft cases in Trichy city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ncpcr-seeks-report-on-boys-escaping-from-govt-home/articleshow/77423575.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Subhash Chaudhari is new NU vice-chancellor||Nagpur: Chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday selected officiating pro-VC Subhash Chaudhari as the new vice-chancellor of Nagpur University. Chaudhari was among the five candidates recommended by the justice Dilip Bhosale search panel on Friday. Chaudhari is the principal of JD College of Engineering and Management. Koshyari appointed Chaudhari as the vice-chancellor for a term of 5 years. Chaudhari has been serving as NU officiating pro-VC for over one month. Chaudhari succeeds SP Kane, whose term ended on April 7. Amaravati vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar was holding the additional charge of NU VC post. The governor had constituted the search committee under the chairmanship of justice Dilip Bhosle, retired chief justice of the Allahabad high court, to recommend to him a panel of names suitable for appointment of vice-chancellor of the university. IIT Kanpur director Abhay Karandikar and principal secretary Sanjay Chahande were the other members. Deputy registrar Waseem Ahmed was the liasoning officer of the panel. Former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande, who served as dean and registrar during Kane’s tenure, was the other candidate from Nagpur in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/subhash-chaudhari-is-new-nu-vice-chancellor/articleshow/77432754.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 8, 2020||Madurai||HC takes serious view of attempt by granite firm to drag hearing||Madurai: Taking a serious view over the attempt made by PRP Exports to drag the hearing in a batch of cases, the Madras high court observed that it is the legal obligation on the part of the court, as per Section 386 CrPC, to proceed with the appeal based on the papers placed before the court without expecting the appearance of the parties.“In view of the consistent attitude shown on behalf of the firm in not proceeding with the appeal by changing the counsel and by making allegations against the court for taking up the matter,” Justice B Pugalendhi said that one more opportunity would be provided and if the parties failed to advance their arguments, then the court would not hesitate to proceed further as contemplated under Section 386 CrPC.The judge observed that he had rejected the plea of the granite firm to recuse himself from hearing this case twice.Further attempts are made to drag the cases which were listed for hearing by the firm by pointing out to a notification dated July 13 issued by the registry on account of Covid-19 pandemic stating that final hearing should be taken up only based on consent of counsels from both sides. The notification was issued based on the request of the Bar members who expressed their practical difficulties in getting instructions from their clients, who are residing in faraway places, while some counsels are held up in their native and remote places, where there is no connectivity. The judge observed that the reasoning on which this notification was made cannot be applicable to the present case, as counsels are in Madurai city which is well connected with internet facility. The judge noted that the firm is taking shelter behind the notification and dictating this court is not supposed to take up the appeal for final hearing.The decision to conduct virtual hearing has been made by the administrative committee, taking into consideration the welfare of all the stakeholders which includes - advocates, litigants and staff. All the magistrate courts in the state are also functioning through virtual hearing and it is not the case that courts are sitting idle, shutting the doors.Citing that the system of virtual hearing is proved to be a success, the judge observed, “Virtual court is a boon to the entire legal fraternity. Even a mofussil advocate residing in a remote village in Kanyakumari can comfortably present his case before this court, the principal seat and even before the Supreme Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-takes-serious-view-of-attempt-by-granite-firm-to-drag-hearing/articleshow/77423545.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 8, 2020||Delhi||CBSE won’t cancel compartment exams||New Delhi: Even as Class X and XII students placed in compartment category moved court demanding cancellation of the retest due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) clarified that the request cannot be “acceded”. It is also of the view that not holding the examination will “adversely” affect the future of students. The board had also received representations from students apart from a petition in the Supreme Court. In Class XII, 87, 651 students were placed under compartment while a total of 1,50,198 Class X students were placed under the category for failing in more than two subjects. This constitutes less than 10% of the total students who appeared for the board exams under CBSE. “The competent authority of CBSE considered the representations and is of the opinion that in case the compartment examinations are not conducted, the future of large number of candidates will be adversely affected. Therefore, the request cannot be accepted,” said Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE examination controller. The board will hold the compartment examination by following the standard operating procedure in view of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-wont-cancel-compartment-exams/articleshow/77438792.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Hospitals conduct counselling sessions to help doctors & healthcare workers beat stress||KOLKATA: Many doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are experiencing symptoms of anxiety, stress, depression and even insomnia. Even as these Covid warriors are going strong physically, the stress factor is taking a toll on their mental health, felt experts. Some hospitals are organising regular counselling sessions for them, particularly for those working in the Covid wards, so that they can go back to the battlefield afresh each day. “A young colleague died a few days ago despite the general belief that the virus is less aggressive on young patients. It is scary but we cannot turn our back on Covid patients,” said a young doctor attached with the Covid ward of a private hospital. The doctor has voluntarily kept himself away from the family for almost two months for their safety. Times ViewA section of healthcare workers and cops has been at the forefront of the struggle. So it is but natural that the disease and the fight against it would take a disproportionate toll on them. Regular counselling and hand-holding, besides the obvious precautionary health measures, are essential. It would also be reassuring if others behave more responsibly at hospitals or on the road to minimise the risk for healthcare workers and police personnel.Sanjay Garg, consultant mental health and behavioural sciences at Fortis Hospital, said some issues like dealing with a new virus, which they did not read in their textbooks, the ever changing guidelines on treatment protocol, staying away from family are taking a toll on the mental health of the frontline warriors. “In addition to counselling Covid patients, we are also conducting counselling sessions for our doctors and nurses once a week in order to help them cope with the stress,” said Garg. A young doctor working at Medical College and Hospital said wearing the PPE itself was stressful. “Wearing the PPE, I cannot eat, drink or even go to the toilet. Enduring and overcoming such distractions in order to concentrate on the patient day in and day out is quite stressful,” he added. “The patients are so terrified and apprehensive. Therefore, in addition to the treatment, we need to pacify and re-assure them. It takes a lot of patience and time. I can’t even sleep at times due to the stress. But I will go on seeing patients despite the stress,” said internal medicine and critical care expert Rahul Jain of Belle Vue Clinic. “Now with hospitals running out of beds, I wonder if I will get a bed in my own hospital in case I get infected,” said a nurse working in a Covid ward of hospital in Salt Lake. “The frontline healthworkers are working under an extremely unique situation and intense scrutiny. It is definitely taking a toll on their mental well-being. They are dispirited. But they know they have to carry on,” said Jai Ranjan Ram, psychiatrist at Apollo Glenagles Hospitals. AMRI Hospitals, too, is conducting counselling sessions for its doctors and nurses. “The fight is against an unseen enemy. We do not know if we are using the right weapon. We do not know when the battle will end. But we should keep going,” said another doctor of a hospital off EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-conduct-counselling-sessions-to-help-docs-healthcare-workers-beat-stress/articleshow/77422674.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 8, 2020||Madurai||HC asks film producer to appear for police inquiry||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday directed film producer K E Gnanavel Raja to appear for investigation in a case registered against him by the Ramanathapuram district police for alleged chit fund fraud. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail petition filed by the producer. Justice V Bharathidasan directed the police not to arrest the petitioner till then. In his petition, Raja stated that he had sold the theatrical rights of his movie ‘Magamuni’ to a person Neethimani based on agreement last year. Neethimani had paid only Rs 2.30 crore and is yet to pay the remaining Rs 3.95 crore as per agreement. Meanwhile, he said that he received a notice from the police asking him to appear for investigation in a case registered by the Ramanathapuram Bazaar police against three people, including Neethimani and his wife Menaka based on a complaint from a person named Thulasimanigandan. The complainant and 58 others, who have invested Rs 3 crore in a chit fund business, have not been repaid by the trio, according to the FIR. Raja said that he was in no way connected with the chit fund business. He filed a petition before the principal seat seeking for a direction to conduct inquiry through video conferencing or after the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the petitioner was apprehending arrest, he moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-film-producer-to-appear-for-police-inquiry/articleshow/77423559.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Cops nab gang that burgled houses of quarantined persons||Nagpur: New Kamptee police have busted a four-member gang, including a bullion trader, for allegedly stealing valuables from houses of a quarantined family at Ravidas Nagar between July 22 and 25. Police have recovered stolen material worth Rs4.77 lakh after arresting the four. The arrested persons have been identified as Shaikh Yaseen, Mohd Arif, Shaikh Sajid Ansari and bullion trader Vikas Kharwade. Ansari was arrested from Raipur in Chhattisgarh. Substantial material was also recovered from Ansari. The gang, which went around searching for residences of quarantined persons, had sold the stolen gold to Kharwade who had moulded them into a brick worth Rs2.56 lakh. The New Kamptee police led by inspector RR Pal, under supervision of zonal DCP Neelotpal, first picked up Yaseen who was spotted at Ravidas Nagar on the day of burglary. It’s learnt, Yaseen had tipped off Arif and Sajid regarding the family who had been quarantined after a woman was found positive. The gang had distributed the booty among themselves after the burglary and also sold some of them to the bullion trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-nab-gang-that-burgled-houses-of-quarantined-persons/articleshow/77422706.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Over 9 lakh Class X students to get results on August 10||CHENNAI: Class X exam results will be announced on August 10, the Tamil Nadu Directorate of Government Examinations (TNDGE) said on Friday. The state government cancelled the board exams due to Covid-19 and is awarding marks based on half-yearly and quarterly exam marks of students, with 20% weightage given for attendance. More than nine lakh students had registered for the exams that were scheduled to be held in March. “The results will be declared at 9.30am on August 10. Candidates can check their results using their date of birth and roll number,” C Usharani, director of government exams, said in a release. Students can access results at www.tnresults.nic.in, www.dge1.tn.nic.in and www.dge2.tn.nic.in. If students have any grievances over their marks, they can submit a grievance form through their schools from August 17 to 25. The forms will be received through the DGE’s website www.dge.tn.gov.in and processed. “The reviewed results will be conveyed through school headmasters,” the release added. Students can get provisional marksheets from August 17 to 25. Schools have been demanding results in the form of grades instead of marks since quarterly and half-yearly exams are usually tougher than board exams. “Most students securing around 80% marks in both these exams score above 90 in board exams. If marks are awarded based on these two exams, students will be disappointed. Grades would be ideal,” a principal said. Officials from the school education department, however, said Class X students will get results as marks, not grades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-9l-class-x-students-to-get-results-on-aug-10/articleshow/77421425.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||B’luru flights from Tuticorin to resume||Tuticorin: Flight services between Tuticorin and Bengaluru that were suspended for more than four months when the lockdown restrictions came to effect will resume from Saturday. This is in addition to twoflight services between Tuticorin and Chennai that have been flying with full occupancy, Tuticorin airport director N Subramanian said. Indigo airlines flight 6e7241 will start from Bengaluru at 7.20am and reach Tuticorin at 9am. The return flight will start from Tuticorin at 9.20am and reach Bengaluru at 11am. It is learnt that all the 72 seats in both the flights have been fully booked for Saturday. The services will be thrice a week and operated till August 22, but is expected to continue beyond that as well. Due to overwhelming demand, one more service between Tuticorin and Chennai will start from August 13. This will be the third flight connecting Tuticorin and fourth to the airport. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bluru-flights-from-tuticorin-to-resume/articleshow/77423568.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Water level rises by 7 feet in Mullaperiyar||Madurai: Heavy rain in the catchment areas resulted in the water level at the Mullaperiyar dam rising by seven feet in a single day on Friday. The water level touched the 130-feet mark against its maximum permitted level of 142 feet. The catchments received 19.8cm of rainfall that continued for 24 hours till 8am on Friday. This resulted in an inflow of 17,746 cusecs of water, highest in the past few months. The water level, which was 123.20 feet on Thursday, crossed the 130ft mark after this inflow on Friday morning.Theni collector Pallavi M Baldev has issued a warning to people living on the banks of the Periyar river about the high level and PWD officials are continuously monitoring the situation at the dam. Rains lashed many parts of Theni district on Thursday and Friday recording an average of 43.6mm on Friday morning. The catchments of the Mullaperiyar dam recorded the highest rainfall of 198.4mm, followed by Thekkadi with 157.2mm. Gudalur-71 mm, Bodinayakanur-12.8mm, Veerapandi- 28mm, Uthamapalayam- 13.6mm were some of the other parts of the district that received rainfall.Vaigai dam’s water level touched the 32.55ft with an inflow of 921 cusecs and 72 cusecs was discharged from it on Friday. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, visited Pottipuram, Ramakrishnapuram, T Pudukottai, Muthaiyan Settipatti and Vembakottai where crops and houses were damaged. Last year, storage level in the Mullaperiyar on August 7 was 1,560 mcft, whereas it was 4,697 mcft this year on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-level-rises-by-7-feet-in-mullaperiyar/articleshow/77423580.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Non-Covid facilities must ensure admission in dedicated hospitals||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Thursday issued an order, making it mandatory for nursing homes and hospitals, which do not have dedicated Covid facilities, not to turn away any Covid patient. The order says such nursing homes and hospitals should not discharge Covid patients requiring medical attention without ensuring their admission to either a government or private Covid facility. The government said any violation to this will lead to penal action. TOI had reported on August 4 that health establishments that do not have Covid treatment facilities cannot leave suspected coronavirus patients to fend for themselves but should arrange for ambulances to shift them to the right facilities. If they can’t do so, they must contact the state health department or Kolkata Municipal Corporation to get an ambulance and seek directions on where to refer the patients. “It has been brought to the notice of the health department that nursing homes and hospitals are discharging Covid-positive patients, still in need of medical attention, without any admission to other dedicated Covid hospitals. Every hospital has been advised in the past, to arrange for an isolation ward for Covid-suspect patients and stabilise them before any transfer to a dedicated Covid hospital,” the order reads. “The Bengal government has also made adequate arrangements for admission of Covid-positive patients in government Covid hospitals and has also arranged for ambulances for transfer of these patients free of cost to either government or private hospitals.”  “For admission in government hospitals and ambulance services, assistance of integrated helpline 1800313444222 may be taken. Similar arrangements have been made in the districts as well. Any violation will invite penal action,” the order reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/non-cov-facilities-must-ensure-admission-in-dedicated-hosps/articleshow/77422694.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 out of 4 patients are now discharged||Ahmedabad: Three out of every four patients who have ever got infected by Covid-19 in Gujarat are now out of hospital, claimed the state health department statistics. The update on Friday mentioned that Gujarat at 5pm had total 51,692 patients discharged, which was 75% of total 68,885 patients in the state. The figure has increased from 71% on July 7 and 67.9% on June 7. Share of active patients as on Friday evening was 14,587, which was 21.2% of total cases, and total deaths were 2,606, which was 3.8% of total cases. Gujarat added 1,074 cases in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, taking the total to 68,885. It was 17th day for the state of recording 1,000-plus daily cases and the highest tally in past five days. The new cases included 231 in Surat, 153 in Ahmedabad, 110 in Vadodara and 90 in Rajkot. With the update, the cumulative tally for Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now stand at 27,587, 14,777 and 5,389 respectively.  The state also recorded deaths of 22 positive patients, taking the state death toll to 2,606. The deaths included 10 in Surat, three in Ahmedabad, two each in Morbi and Vadodara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-out-of-4-patients-are-now-discharged/articleshow/77422732.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||HC clears the way for open book exam at Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday streamlined the process of online Open Book Examinations (OBE) for final-year undergraduates to be conducted by Delhi University from August 10 and also noted that the students were taking the exam in “extreme and extraordinary circumstances.” It issued a slew of directions to safeguard the interests of students and ensure a smooth conduct of the exam. “This court is mindful of the fact that enormous preparations have been undertaken by the students for giving the online OBE. Under such circumstances, the court is concerned about the manner in which the processes can be further streamlined in the larger interest of the students, including the petitioners,” observed Justice Pratibha M Singh. She then directed the authorities to ensure fair opportunity were provided to the students keeping in view the technical problems, including slow or no internet connectivity in various parts of the country. The court clarified that it had not gone into the legal validity of the exam owing to the directions passed by a division bench earlier, and permitted DU to proceed with the online OBE. Noting that there were various technological challenges, and the evaluation was of 70-100 marks for each paper, the court directed the question papers should be made accessible to the students on the university website, and also sent on their email IDs. While regular students would be given three hours, the court said persons with disabilities be given five hours to answer the questions. Everyone would get an additional hour to scan the answersheets and upload or email them. The university was directed to send an auto-generated email informing the students that their answersheets were received. The court also specified that the central email-id for uploading of answersheets was obescript@exam.du.ac.in. Common Service Centres Academy, which runs the centres set up to provide services to the students who do not have infrastructure, was ordered to notify the exam schedule to all its centres by the end of the day. The court also reconstituted the five-member grievance redressal committee that would now be under the aegis of retired high court judge, Justice Prathiba Rani. It will work till the conclusion of the exams. Students can send their grievances at grievanceexam2020@gmail.com and grievance@exam.du.ac.in. Once the OBE process concludes, DU will file a comprehensive report on the conduct of examinations within four weeks, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-clears-the-way-for-open-book-exam-at-du/articleshow/77422731.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Committees set up to study NEP, EIA, says Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TIRUNELVELI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that his government will take a stand on the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020 and the New Education Policy (NEP) based on the recommendations of committees that have been constituted to examine several aspects of the notifications. A decision to set up the committee for new education policy was taken at a high-level meeting held in the Secretariat on Monday last. After chairing a Covid-19 review meeting in Tirunelveli collectorate, the chief minister said, “The Union government has come up with the New Education Policy. A committee has been set up and it will recommend to the state government the aspects that can be accepted or ignored. The state will decide only on that count.” Palaniswami already rejected the three-language formula being promoted by the Centre’s policy. Against the backdrop of opposition from certain sections on the draft EIA notification of the Union ministry of environment and forests, the chief minister said his government has also constituted a committee to review it. The committee will look into the benefits and demerits of the notification. The state government will act based on the committee’s report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-waiting-for-panels-advice-on-nep-eia-says-cm/articleshow/77423573.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||South TN records 29 deaths as central dists see spike in cases||Madurai/Trichy: It was a day of highs in the southern as well as central districts on Friday. The southern districts saw 1,501 fresh cases, the highest in the last three days, and 29 deaths which took the overall toll to 918 while the region now has 14,552 active cases. The eight central districts witnessed an unprecedented spike of 763 fresh cases, up from 432 on Thursday, but the highest daily count so far. Eight deaths were also reported taking its total toll to 196.Theni district saw 351 cases with the active ones now at 2,758, the highest in the region. An official statement said they tested 3,547 samples on Friday and that four people, all men, have died. Tirunelveli had the second district fresh cases of 200 and four deaths while active cases stood at 2,294. Tuticorin had 195 new cases and six deaths, Kanyakumari 187 cases and five deaths, Virudhunagar 101 cases and Tenkasi 117. Dindigul reported 134 new cases taking the total active cases in the district to 578. Madurai continued to have just over 100 cases (109) and recorded two deaths. Active cases in the district have now dipped to 1,786 while the total deaths stood at 278. Among the 109 cases, 31 were detected through fever clinics and also included ILI and SARI cases. Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga reported 43 and 64 cases only and one death each. Among the day’s 29 deaths, Tuticorin accounted for six and Kanyakumari five. Theni, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli had four each, Madurai and Virudhungar two each and Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga one each. The increase of 331 cases pushed the overall tally of central region to 17,038 while the active cases stood at 4,599. The spike could be attributed to the increase in cases in Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Trichy districts which recorded 217, 173 and 105 respectively. Thanjavur collector M Govinda Rao said that most cases were primary contacts and family members of the positive cases. The district tally of 3,701 was the second highest number of cases in the region. Pudukottai district continued to witness high number of cases in recent weeks. On the all-time single day high of 173, collector P Uma Maheswari said, “Of late, almost all the primary and secondary contacts of the index cases are testing positive.” The collector said that the viral load was more now, but they were increasing fever camps and surveillance at the ground level. Trichy district continued to be on top with a total of 4,939 cases with 105 fresh cases. Nagapattinam recorded 78 new cases, Perambalur saw a spike from four on Thursday to 69 cases on Friday. Ariyalur recorded 51 cases, Tiruvarur 44 and Karur 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-records-29-deaths-as-central-dists-see-spike-in-cases/articleshow/77423592.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Spike in PUC compliance after lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In 2019, around 8.3 lakh vehicle owners had got their vehicles checked to get a pollution under control certificate (PUCC) during June and July. During the same period this year, more than 9.2 lakh vehicles have been checked at nearly 1,000 PUC centres in Delhi. There is, however, a rider. Though the PUC centres were opened in May as part of Unlock 1, the number of vehicles on roads was negligible and the picture was no different at the centres. As many vehicle owners landed up at PUC centres for checks and the certificate in June, the overall count was 5,18,948, out of which 5,05,295 vehicles passed the test. Last June, 3,78,838 vehicles were checked but the number increased to 4,48,906 in July last year. This July, however, the number is more than 44,000 less compared to July 2019. “While the numbers are encouraging, we are taking strict action against polluting vehicles. The number of vehicles in June was high because a lot of vehicle owners whose PUCC lapsed during the lockdown had come to the PUC centres,” a transport department official said. “However, the numbers would have been much less if the enforcement wing of transport department had not ensured compliance,” he said. “Total 50 teams of our enforcement wing are on duty day and night to ensure vehicles follow all pollution-related norms since the traffic on road has been going up since the unlock. The traffic police is also penalising defaulters and the challan now is very steep and acts as a deterrent,” he added. While the June count saw a spike compared to last year, the figure in July, when total 4,04,570 vehicles were checked, has seen a dip compared to last year. The official said the department was collaborating with the traffic police to create awareness. “Vehicle owners should not be under the impression that they would be spared despite not having a valid PUCC. They should get their vehicles checked on time at any nearby PUC centre,” he said. “Vehicles need to have valid PUCC or their owners should be prepared to pay a penalty. Motorists can’t pollute under any circumstances,” he said. The figures, though quite high, are much less than the more-than-three-time spike seen in September last year. After the amended Motor Vehicles Act, which hiked the fine for not carrying a valid pollution certificate from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000, was implemented in the capital from September 1, the transport department issued a staggering 14 lakh PUC certificates and the number remained quite high in the ensuing months too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spike-in-puc-compliance-after-lockdown/articleshow/77422767.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Mosque Trust files plaint over malafide social media posts||AYODHYA: The mosque Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board lodged a complaint with Lucknow police commissioner on Friday against mischievous and mala fide social media posts against the Trust. Talking to TOI, Athar Hussain, secretary of the Trust, said, “Some posts were circulated in social media that the Trust was constructing a hospital in the name of Babar and had appointed Dr Kafeel Khan as its administrator. I have lodged a formal complaint with the police commissioner, Lucknow, and released a statement, refuting the rumours on social media. As decided, the Trust will build a mosque, a hospital and community kitchen.” Lucknow police commissioner, Sujeet Pandey, confirmed to TOI that he had received a complaint from the secretary of the mosque Trust, Athar Hussain, about misleading social media posts. “We are looking into the issue,” he said. The Supreme Court in its Ayodhya verdict of November 9, 2019, had mandated 5acre to Sunni Waqf Board in lieu of Babri Masjid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mosque-trust-files-plaint-over-malafide-social-media-posts/articleshow/77423612.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 8, 2020||Kolkata||Rare Abanindranath Tagore works on e-display||KOLKATA: Only a few of Abanindranath Tagore’s original works can be seen in galleries as most of them, being a part of the ‘National Treasures’, are kept away in the reserves of museums. However, prodded by the ministry of culture, three museums on Friday brought out some of his very rare paintings and sculptures for virtual exhibitions on the Bengal master’s 150th birth anniversary. Nearly 200 art works are part of the two virtual exhibitions, one hosted by National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi and the other a joint show by Victoria Memorial Hall and Delhi Art Gallery, Museum (Dag-M). NGMA has 99 Aban Tagore originals, 77 of which were put up for the e-exhibition. They have been divided into four categories: portraits and characters, tradition and sensibilities, unique stylisations and landscapes. “It amazes us to see the details he could bring out on a human face. Take the paintings, ‘Flower Face’ and the ‘Study of Face’,” said director general Adwaita Gadanayak, indicating two rare paintings from the exhibition. The Victoria Memorial-Dag-M virtual exhibition till September 4 will showcase the works of Abanindranath, along with siblings Gaganendranath and Sunayani Devi, both Bengal masters. “People have seen Aban Tagore’s ‘Bharat Mata’ or ‘Passing of Shah Jahan’ in our display, but the challenge is to show them unseen paintings of the siblings, who contributed to nationalism by developing indigenous styles that stood out against those imported from Europe,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator at Victoria. Visitors were additionally treated to a live discussion between art historian Tapati Guha Thakurata and art curator Kishore Singh. Other sessions will include one, where art historian R Siva Kumar will speak on Abanindranath and his series on ‘Arabian Nights’ on August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rare-abanindranath-works-on-e-display/articleshow/77422716.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC refuses stay on draft EIA, but urges it be published in Tamil||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has refused to stay the draft Environmental Impact Assessment-2020 (EIA), but said the notification could be translated to vernacular languages and sufficient time be provided for people to lodge objections. “Karnataka high court has already stayed the proceedings in connection with the draft notification till September 7,” a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha pointed out on Friday, refusing any further relief. The bench then directed the advocate for the Union government to get instructions as to the feasibility of translating the draft to Tamil and publishing the same in panchayat level. This apart, the court suo motu impleaded the Tamil Nadu government as party respondent, as the publication at local administration level has to be done by the state. According to the petitioner-organisation Meenavar Nala Sangam (Fishermen Welfare Association), the Centre ought not have published the draft EIA notification 2020 during the lockdown period. The Centre should have seen that the general public are unable to make their suggestions and objections to the notification as they, along with the country, are fighting Covid-19. Most of the time granted to make objections expired during the lockdown, the association said. This apart, most of the states including Tamil Nadu have extended the lockdown till August 31 and therefore, the last date for filing such objections must be extended, it added. Though the original last date to make objections expired on June 30, the same was extended till August 11 due to the intervention of the Delhi high court. In the same order, the HC had directed Centre to translate the draft to vernacular languages and give them wide publicity. The Centre has so far, failed to implement the second part of the order, the association contended. “In Tamil Nadu, only a negligible percentage of the population can understand Hindi and English, Therefore, it is important that the Centre publish the draft in vernacular languages, particularly in Tamil,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-refuses-stay-on-draft-eia-but-urges-it-be-published-in-tamil/articleshow/77421465.cms||Sureshkumar
August 8, 2020||Kochi||Customs: ‘Resourceful’ people facilitated Swapna Suresh’s escape||KOCHI: Yet again pointing out the strong influence that Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case, enjoyed in the state, Customs on Friday opposed her bail plea claiming that she carried a lot of clout within the state bureaucracy. Special prosecutor for Customs advocate K Ramkumar submitted that the respondent (Swapna) getting free access at all check-posts despite her disclosing her identity, shows the influence she commanded in the corridors of power and among law enforcement agencies in the state. He also talked about a meeting involving the respondent that happened at an apartment around 1am to indicate her influence and involvement in the case. Meanwhile, NIA in a report to remand the mastermind in the operation, KT Ramees and seven others, pointed out the necessity to ‘interrogate consulate officials and high-profile individuals’ to unearth real kingpins and all conspirators in the case. In the Customs case, responding to the defence’s claim that she was innocent, Ramkumar asked, “Why did she then flee with the co-accused?” “They first went to a water-front resort in Varkala. After being spotted by a local body member there, they came to Kochi. They stayed in Kochi before fleeing to Bangalore. She knew that she could easily go to Bangalore which means that she had clout among resourceful persons and they facilitated her escape,” Customs submitted. Customs also said Soumya, wife of Sandeep, another accused, has given concrete evidence regarding the involvement of Swapna. “She says that she made an inquiry about a particular consignment. When it was found to be gold, she in writing requested to send it back. She asked to send it back only because of the situation and that itself is an indication that she had sufficient knowledge about it,” Customs said. Defence countered this argument stating she only drafted the letter at the instance of her employer at the Consulate. Customs also pointed out the influence of Swpana at the consulate to submit that she should be considered a flight risk due to her connections abroad. Defence, meanwhile, also submitted that when she went to Bengaluru, she was not an accused in the cases of NIA or Customs. “Customs implicated her only on July 10,” counsel for Swapna, advocate Geo Paul told the court. He added that Swapna went to Varkala on July 6 and returned to Kochi to meet her lawyer. He added that there were no restrictions to go to Karnataka or Tamil Nadu at the time. “We need legal evidence which is absent in the case,” Paul argued. Court posted the case for pronouncing the order on the bail plea to August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-resourceful-people-facilitated-swapnas-escape/articleshow/77420146.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||12 days after NMC deadline, 8 pvt hosps yet to begin Covid services||Nagpur: Eight private hospitals are yet to begin Covid-19 services even though Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) deadline to them ended 12 days ago. Also, the district administration is yet to bring two trust-run hospitals into use, though they were marked for services four months ago. Considering the spike in Covid-19 positive cases, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had on July 24 issued an order directing 10 private hospitals to be ready to admit Covid-19 patients within 48 hours. Before Mundhe’s order, a private hospital had opened one of its two buildings with 40 beds for Covid-19 with permission from divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. The second building was mentioned in Mundhe’s list. As on Friday, only two of the 10 private hospitals in the list are admitting and treating Covid-19 positive patients. Mundhe’s list also included a trust-run hospital. After Mundhe’s order, two more private hospitals took permission and launched Covid-19 services. As on Friday, the five operational private hospitals had 193 patients, and were close to exhausting capacity. All five had only dedicated half or lesser of their capacity for Covid-19. Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s call and messages. Three government-run Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) are working since March. AIIMS has 50 beds and is now close to full capacity. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) have 1,200 beds of which 624 were occupied at 4pm on Friday. All Covid-19 positive patients in these two DCHs have moderate and severe symptoms. More admission are happening all the time. As both DCHs were short staffed, collector Ravindra Thakre has provided extra staff to IGGMCH. However, the district administration is yet to start the two trust-run hospitals with capacity of 1,200 in Hingna tehsil. One of the two was a Covid Care Centre and later modified as Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC). But there are no patients in this DCHC, said the press release by district information office on Friday. There is huge demand from patients for private hospitals, which are allowed to charge 80% of patients as per government rates and remaining 20% as per their own rates. Private hospitals could ease the burden on government-run DCHs. Mundhe had first ordered 12 private hospitals with over 100 beds to be ready for Covid-19 services. Later, a few names were dropped. The civic chief clarified even the 29 private hospitals with capacity of 50-100 beds may be roped in for services soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-days-after-nmc-deadline-8-pvt-hosps-yet-to-begin-covid-services/articleshow/77422735.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 8, 2020||Madurai||No cases in over 2,000 Ramnad villages for 2 wks||Madurai: Ramanathapuram, a district of over 2,000 hamlets, has something to cheer over as only 7% of them have active cases while the rest have remained free of Covid-19 for the past two weeks. District collector K Veera Raghava Rao said the spread of the disease was seeing a declining trend as out of the 2,306 villages, only 164 had active cases as on Friday. ``Even from the beginning, 1,713 villages did not report even a single case till date. Cases were reported only from 429 villages, and 164 have active cases as on August 7,’’ he said. The district now has 393 active cases of the 3,546 reported till date. In all, 72 people have died and 3,081 have been discharged. Even out of the 219 wards in Ramanathapuram municipality, 51 had no history of any positive case till date while there were 60 active cases at present in the municipality. A long coastline of 237 kms and 180 fishing hamlets saw very few cases compared to other places in the district. Among the many strategies followed included active pursuit of cases, containing the areas, quarantine monitoring through an exclusive control room at the collectorate and a separate telemedicine facility for people isolated at home. In all, 2,325 volunteers had collected data from over 4lakh houses. People were questioned on their health and their awareness levels on personal hygiene was also checked, which was followed up. Fever clinics and 21 field staff visited the houses and ensured that the people gargled using salt water twice a day and drank hot water, washed their hands regularly. Kambsura kudineer, nilavembu kudineer and immunity boosters were distributed on a regular basis in all the places. The district was carrying out 900 tests a day on an average, according to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-cases-in-over-2000-ramnad-villages-for-2-wks/articleshow/77423586.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bought flu medicine? You’re under surveillance in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Popping a paracetamol for fever and fetching medicine for cough and cold from the neighbourhood chemist is a frowned upon but common practise in many households. With Covid pandemic spreading to the countryside, administration in at least three districts-- Gandhinagar, Amreli and Valsad –have mounted Covid surveillance using chemists! Collectors have made it mandatory for chemists to collect contact details of all people who buy medicines for treatment of flu-like symptoms. Chemists have been directed to provide this data to the district administration on a daily basis. In fact, the Gandhinagar collectorate has even prepared an app through which chemists upload data onto a governmental portal. Health department teams then visit the household to test if any member in the family has Covid-19. Gandhinagar collector Rakesh Arya said a pilot project was run in July, after which it was made mandatory for all chemists to provide information to the administration. “The system has helped us to effectively check Covid-19 spread. We now aim to introduce the same system to private practitioners as well,” said Arya. Interestingly, Gandhinagar administration found that 10-15% buyers of medicines for flu-like symptoms provide information details. On an average, about 1,200 persons visit the 500-odd chemist stores in the district every day to purchase medicines for flu-like symptoms. R R Raval, Valsad collector said that there are 151 active covid-19 patients in the district. It was observed people with flu-like symptoms are reluctant to visit a government hospital or health centre. “There are about 300 medical stores and all have been directed to provide data to us. Our health department staff follows up with people who purchased medicines," Raval said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bought-flu-med-youre-under-surveillance/articleshow/77422830.cms||Bharat Yagnik
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Covid positive women advised to plan delivery at tertiary care centres||MADURAI: While Covid-19 infection among newborns is rare, doctors said that co-morbid conditions like premature birth, low-weight at birth and other illnesses could be risk factors and have advised pregnant women to plan their deliveries at tertiary care centres. The district recently recorded the youngest Covid-19 death in the state after a four-day-old infant with co-morbid conditions died on August 2 at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH).Speaking to TOI, GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said that the baby was suffering from meconium aspiration syndrome - respiratory distress in newborns who have inhaled a dark green, sterile faecal material called meconium into the lungs around the time of birth. The baby was born on term by C-section and weighed 2.8kg. “The baby suffered from breathlessness and was on ventilator support for four days. As per norms, the baby was tested for Covid-19 since the mother was Covid-19 positive. In this case, Covid-19 is only an incidental finding and not the actual cause of death,” said Dr Sangumani. GRH doctors said that so far out of the 180 deliveries carried for Covid-19 positive pregnant women, only nine newborns tested positive after birth. All newborns are tested for Covid-19 and mothers allowed to breastfeed only with precautions to prevent transmission. “Till now, Covid-19 is not a major problem for newborns. Less than 1% of babies of Covid-19 positive mothers test positive. Vertical and horizontal transmission after birth is possible but there is no proven evidence for intra-uterine transmission,” said Dr Ashok Rajan, neonatologist at GRH. When it comes to treatment for Covid-19 positive newborns, the neonatologist said that there is no separate recommended treatment other than breast milk which can provide anti-bodies and other immunological factors to help the baby. Dr B Kannan, paediatrician at Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, stressed that deliveries for Covid-19 positive pregnant women must be planned and done only at tertiary care centres which have facilities for newborns with a paediatrician or neonatologist. “All such newborns require monitoring. In paediatric and neonatal Covid-19 cases, mostly there are no symptoms. Their immunity is poor and their response to the antigen is also limited. In newborns, the lungs are capable of adapting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-ve-women-advised-to-plan-delivery-at-tertiary-care-centres/articleshow/77423597.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Most students headed abroad firm on their plans||NAGPUR: According to union HRD ministry, every year around 7.5 lakh Indian students go abroad for education. But due to Covid-19 pandemic, some have deferred their plans, some have cancelled them, while most are waiting to take first flight out. Vishal Jain, Nagpur centre head for GEEBEE Education, said a majority of the students will fly out as planned. “Countries like UK and Ireland have already started flights and our students are going. Though in April and May, many were rethinking their travel plans but now it’s all back on track. For North America, I believe a majority of students will join in January session rather in September. Travel restrictions are currently a problem there,” said Jain. Pankaj Agrawal, CEO and co-founder of Krishna Consultants, said many students were sticking to the plan. “Only 10% students have cancelled their admissions. For others, the admission is intact and classes will be starting online. Universities have confirmed that students can join physically in the next few months and their online classes will be considered at par towards award of degree,” said Agrawal. For some, deferring might be the only choice. Agrawal said, “In some countries the number of seats available is less, hence fees are paid in advance. Canada is one such place where students are paying before the course starts.” He added that from Nagpur, an average of 750 students go abroad for both undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Pushpak Chitnis is headed to the UK for his masters degree but lockdown has delayed the process. “By next week, I will have all the needed to documents to apply for a visa. The lockdown led to delay in processing of loan as well as some government related documents. My session there starts in October and I hope to reach on time if borders open,” said Chitnis. He added his host university had taken a lot of precautions to deal with the pandemic. “I am convinced that if we take ample precautions, safety won’t be a problem at all,” he said. Madhur Kanungo, who is also heading to the UK, said it does not make sense to delay joining his new campus. “There National Health Service (NHS) provides full coverage to us also for a very modest annual premium. So the health infrastructure is good, cases are low and even universities are taking all precautions due to which I will be flying out as soon as my visa is processed,” said Kanungo. He added that upon arrival in UK, he will have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-students-headed-abroad-firm-on-their-plans/articleshow/77422786.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM accuses media of biased coverage||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday asked journalists on what basis they reported allegations against him and his office. Alleging that there was an attempt to unseat him from the office and media persons were aiding that agenda, Vijayan said hope would be dashed and he would remain in the office till people of Kerala want him to be. What had irked the CM during the daily news briefing was a set of questions posed to him on the hearing of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh held at NIA court in Kochi on Thursday. The CM said he wanted a serious probe as the case is of serious nature and he is not concerned about the outcome. “The facts will soon come out. Let’s see whose heartbeat will raise then,” he said. When asked about the statement of Swapna quoted by the NIA counsel in the high court that she had casual association with the CM, Vijayan said what is the big fuss about that. “I am the CM and many people may know me. What is the acquaintance beyond that? What do you want? What your organizations want? Is that to say Kerala’s CM had aided gold smuggling? Are you trying for that? However hard you tried, that wouldn’t happen,” he said. To a further query, the CM said, “People know the truth. You are trying to construct a different narrative. You are attempting to change the public perception. Is that the duty of the media? You are becoming spokespersons of a caucus. On what basis are you carrying news against me who is the chief minister of Kerala? What is the evidence?” He said he was criticising the manner in which media reported the case. “Do you want to portray that the CM and CMO are aiding gold smuggling. You have your reasons to oppose like the political ideology I present. But times have changed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-accuses-mediaof-biased-coverage/articleshow/77420163.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Uncertainty over last sem exam leaves final year students worried||Madurai: With no clarity yet on whether their final semester exams will be conducted amid the pandemic, final year students of various colleges and universities have said that they are being put under undue stress. With some already starting off with the jobs they got through placement and many already starting the admission process for higher studies, many students feel that the exams are simply an unnecessary burden during difficult times.“When all other semester exams were cancelled, why can’t it be so for us with an alternative assessment? It has been over five months now. It is unfair that students still have to keep on preparing for exams when they have already stepped into their future,” said K Chandran, a BA English student who is now preparing for UPSC exams. He said that with these exams to worry about, it is difficult for him to prepare for UPSC exams. C Priya, a final year MCA student, said she has already been placed in an IT company but she still has to pass her exams. “My training is going to begin at the company but on the condition that I clear my exams. Now, I will have to work and also keep preparing for my exams so I can clear it. It would be better for students if the exams are cancelled,” she said.V S Vasantha, registrar (in charge) at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), said that most final year PG students have already got jobs through placement and joined them. “The only condition is that they clear their final exams. Even for PhD entrance exams at MKU, we only consider marks from previous semesters and have already started receiving applications,” she added. Many college professors also questioned the necessity of conducting the exams in such a situation and are instead hoping for an alternative assessment to declare marks for students. “Conducting exams after such a long time is torturous for students. When students have already moved on to their jobs and higher studies, they should not be delayed further. There has already been so much of delay and now even if exams are conducted, it will take more than another month to conduct it and declare results,” said Dr Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uncertainty-over-last-sem-exam-leaves-final-year-students-worried/articleshow/77423628.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM accuses media of biased coverage||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday asked journalists on what basis they reported allegations against him and his office. Alleging that there was an attempt to unseat him from the office and media persons were aiding that agenda, Vijayan said hope would be dashed and he would remain in the office till people of Kerala want him to be. What had irked the CM during the daily news briefing was a set of questions posed to him on the hearing of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh held at NIA court in Kochi on Thursday. The CM said he wanted a serious probe as the case is of serious nature and he is not concerned about the outcome. “The facts will soon come out. Let’s see whose heartbeat will raise then,” he said. When asked about the statement of Swapna quoted by the NIA counsel in the high court that she had casual association with the CM, Vijayan said what is the big fuss about that. “I am the CM and many people may know me. What is the acquaintance beyond that? What do you want? What your organizations want? Is that to say Kerala’s CM had aided gold smuggling? Are you trying for that? However hard you tried, that wouldn’t happen,” he said. To a further query, the CM said, “People know the truth. You are trying to construct a different narrative. You are attempting to change the public perception. Is that the duty of the media? You are becoming spokespersons of a caucus. On what basis are you carrying news against me who is the chief minister of Kerala? What is the evidence?” He said he was criticising the manner in which media reported the case. “Do you want to portray that the CM and CMO are aiding gold smuggling. You have your reasons to oppose like the political ideology I present. But times have changed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-accuses-mediaof-biased-coverage/articleshow/77429783.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot medical college blamed for death||Bathinda: The family of a Covid-19 patient, who died of the disease, has accused the authorities of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot of not taking proper care of the person, which resulted in his death. The 51-year-old man from Karanpur tehsil of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan died on Friday early morning. Randeep Singh, a cousin of the deceased, has alleged that the authorities gave him ventilator support late for want of his signatures, though the patient needed it urgently. Randeep said, “Instead of admitting him to the emergency ward for liver and kidney-related problems, he was put in the ward for suspected Corona patients and was tested. He was declared positive, whereas I and his wife, who were with him for long, were declared negative. I visited him on Thursday night wearing a PPE kit when he told me that nobody even gave him water and his urine bag was full and nobody had bothered to empty it. So I emptied it and gave him water.” The next morning, Randeep was asked to hurry up to give his signatures as the patient had to be put on a ventilator, and after some time, he was declared dead. Guru Gobind Singh medical college principal Dr Deepak John Bhatti said, “A man from Sri Ganganagar district has died and we have informed the Rajasthan government about it. Anyone who is admitted here is treated well.”  Faridkot-based activist Aman Warring said the authorities are not properly taking care of patients, so the state government should look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faridkot-medical-college-blamed-for-death/articleshow/77422791.cms||---
August 8, 2020||India||Inaugural ‘Kisan Rail’ flagged off||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways launched the first ‘Kisan Rail’ train for faster transportation of perishable farm produce in refrigerated coaches on Friday. The inaugural train was flagged off from Deolali in Maharashtra to Danapur in Bihar. While officials said this weekly service is likely to reduce transportation cost by Rs 1,000 per tonne compared to road transportation and reduce travel time, railway minister Piyush Goyal said they were optimistic of running more such trains to see apples transported from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. Flagging off the train, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the initiative would benefit both farmers and consumers. The train will have 10 parcel vans with a total transportation capacity of 238 tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/inaugural-kisan-rail-flagged-off/articleshow/77425018.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Salem||Chennai coronavirus count goes below 1,000 after 52 days; 119 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the first time in 52 days, Chennai recorded fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. According to a state health bulletin, the hotspot reported 984 cases with 1,103 recoveries and 24 deaths for the day. According to Greater Chennai Corporation data released on Friday, the number of active cases in six of the city’s 15 zones has now dropped to 10% of the total cases reported there. Manali zone, for instance, had only 77 active cases, which was just 4% of its total case load. However, the city’s fatality rate continues to be high at 2.12%, with Teynampet recording the highest death rate of 3.02%. As per corporation surveys, the zone has the maximum number of senior citizens and people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, TN recorded its highest death toll of 119 for a single day on Friday, taking the state’s fatalities to 4,690 while 6,488 patients were discharged eclipsing 5,880 fresh cases. TN’s case count touched 2,85,024 with 5,800-plus new infections and active cases stood at 52,759. Covid-19 tally below 1,000 but daily toll highestThe number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai fell below 1,000 on Friday, for the first time in 52 days, while the state recorded its highest toll with119 deaths. Chennai had 984 of the 5,880 fresh cases in the state, which pushed up the case tally to 2,85,024. The cumulative death toll was 4,690. Active cases stood at 52,759. On June 3, hotspot Chennai reported fresh cases in four digits for the first time after recording 816 cases the previous day. For one day on June 16, the city reported 919 cases. On June 30, Chennai reported its highest 2,393 cases, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in the state on that day. While many zones in Chennai have managed to drastically bring down active cases to less than 10%, high case fatality rate in zones such as Teynampet continues to worry public health experts. On Friday, 24 deaths were reported from Chennai. Chennai’s three neighbouring districts together had 873 fresh cases -Chengalpet 319, Kancheepuram 166 and Tiruvallur 388. Ranipet had 253 cases, Tiruvannamalai 252, Cuddalore 212 , Vellore 158, and Kallakuruchi 139. Together the 11 northern districts including Chennai added 3,010 fresh cases and accounted for 52% of the deaths (63). At the end of the day, 54% (28, 988) of cases still under treatment were in these 11 districts. The 10 southern districts together reported 1,501 cases and 29 deaths. Eight of the districts recorded a rise in three digits – Theni (351), Tirunelveli (200), Tuticorin (195), Kanyakumari (187), Dindigul (134), Tenkasi (117), Madurai (109) and Virudhunagar(101). Ramananathapuram (43) and Sivaganga (64) recorded a bouble-digit increase. Tuticorin had six deaths and Kanyakumari five. There are 14,552 active cases in these districts. The central districts together had 763 cases compared to 603 in the west. However, the eight western districts together reported 19 deaths – including six in Salem and five in Coimbatore --compared to eight in the central zone. Coimbatore had 228 fresh cases, and Thanjavur in the central region had 217 cases. Pudukottai (173) and Trichy (105)in the central zone and Salem (168) reported a three-digit increase. Nilgiris (13) reported the lowest rise followed by Dharmarpuri(16). While the central districts had 4,599 active cases, the west had 4,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/city-virus-count-goes-below-1000-after-52-days-119-deaths-across-tn/articleshow/77425070.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Rights body to keep an eye on absent kids||New Delhi: As part of its mission to make Delhi free of child labour by 2023, the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has now instructed local authorities to keep an eye on children who are seen skipping school often, citing it might be a strong indicator of a child in a vulnerable home who is forced into child labour. An official said, “If a child has less than 50% attendance then it needs to be checked whether he or she is safe or not.” The commission has now decided to focus on the attendance of children in Delhi government and municipal corporation-run schools. Newly appointed chairperson of the child rights body Anurag Kundu said that they held meetings with senior officials from Delhi government and the civic bodies regarding child labour. “I have asked them to check attendance after schools reopen in Delhi and also send the list of those children who are absent from several days so that we can reach out to them to check on their safety,” he said. A DCPCR official said that though schools are closed at present due to the Covid-19 pandemic, whenever they open the focus point will be on the registers. “Most of the children — from economically weak backgrounds — are enrolled in schools so details of these kids are already with the educational institution. We need to check the attendance which is the sharpest predictor for determining whether children are in an adverse situation,” the official added. Recently, the DCPCR rescued 25 children being “forced into child labour” from different parts of the city. During the pandemic, they conducted four operations to rescue child labourers. There is also a possibility that during the pandemic, most poor people have lost their jobs and were forced to send their children to work. The child rights body is trying to reach out to such families to try and help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rights-body-to-keep-an-eye-on-absent-kids/articleshow/77438867.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Chennai coronavirus count goes below 1,000 after 52 days; 119 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the first time in 52 days, Chennai recorded fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. According to a state health bulletin, the hotspot reported 984 cases with 1,103 recoveries and 24 deaths for the day. According to Greater Chennai Corporation data released on Friday, the number of active cases in six of the city’s 15 zones has now dropped to 10% of the total cases reported there. Manali zone, for instance, had only 77 active cases, which was just 4% of its total case load. However, the city’s fatality rate continues to be high at 2.12%, with Teynampet recording the highest death rate of 3.02%. As per corporation surveys, the zone has the maximum number of senior citizens and people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, TN recorded its highest death toll of 119 for a single day on Friday, taking the state’s fatalities to 4,690 while 6,488 patients were discharged eclipsing 5,880 fresh cases. TN’s case count touched 2,85,024 with 5,800-plus new infections and active cases stood at 52,759. Covid-19 tally below 1,000 but daily toll highestThe number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai fell below 1,000 on Friday, for the first time in 52 days, while the state recorded its highest toll with119 deaths. Chennai had 984 of the 5,880 fresh cases in the state, which pushed up the case tally to 2,85,024. The cumulative death toll was 4,690. Active cases stood at 52,759. On June 3, hotspot Chennai reported fresh cases in four digits for the first time after recording 816 cases the previous day. For one day on June 16, the city reported 919 cases. On June 30, Chennai reported its highest 2,393 cases, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in the state on that day. While many zones in Chennai have managed to drastically bring down active cases to less than 10%, high case fatality rate in zones such as Teynampet continues to worry public health experts. On Friday, 24 deaths were reported from Chennai. Chennai’s three neighbouring districts together had 873 fresh cases -Chengalpet 319, Kancheepuram 166 and Tiruvallur 388. Ranipet had 253 cases, Tiruvannamalai 252, Cuddalore 212 , Vellore 158, and Kallakuruchi 139. Together the 11 northern districts including Chennai added 3,010 fresh cases and accounted for 52% of the deaths (63). At the end of the day, 54% (28, 988) of cases still under treatment were in these 11 districts. The 10 southern districts together reported 1,501 cases and 29 deaths. Eight of the districts recorded a rise in three digits – Theni (351), Tirunelveli (200), Tuticorin (195), Kanyakumari (187), Dindigul (134), Tenkasi (117), Madurai (109) and Virudhunagar(101). Ramananathapuram (43) and Sivaganga (64) recorded a bouble-digit increase. Tuticorin had six deaths and Kanyakumari five. There are 14,552 active cases in these districts. The central districts together had 763 cases compared to 603 in the west. However, the eight western districts together reported 19 deaths – including six in Salem and five in Coimbatore --compared to eight in the central zone. Coimbatore had 228 fresh cases, and Thanjavur in the central region had 217 cases. Pudukottai (173) and Trichy (105)in the central zone and Salem (168) reported a three-digit increase. Nilgiris (13) reported the lowest rise followed by Dharmarpuri(16). While the central districts had 4,599 active cases, the west had 4,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-virus-count-goes-below-1000-after-52-days-119-deaths-across-tn/articleshow/77425069.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Chennai coronavirus count goes below 1,000 after 52 days; 119 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the first time in 52 days, Chennai recorded fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. According to a state health bulletin, the hotspot reported 984 cases with 1,103 recoveries and 24 deaths for the day. According to Greater Chennai Corporation data released on Friday, the number of active cases in six of the city’s 15 zones has now dropped to 10% of the total cases reported there. Manali zone, for instance, had only 77 active cases, which was just 4% of its total case load. However, the city’s fatality rate continues to be high at 2.12%, with Teynampet recording the highest death rate of 3.02%. As per corporation surveys, the zone has the maximum number of senior citizens and people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, TN recorded its highest death toll of 119 for a single day on Friday, taking the state’s fatalities to 4,690 while 6,488 patients were discharged eclipsing 5,880 fresh cases. TN’s case count touched 2,85,024 with 5,800-plus new infections and active cases stood at 52,759. Covid-19 tally below 1,000 but daily toll highestThe number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai fell below 1,000 on Friday, for the first time in 52 days, while the state recorded its highest toll with119 deaths. Chennai had 984 of the 5,880 fresh cases in the state, which pushed up the case tally to 2,85,024. The cumulative death toll was 4,690. Active cases stood at 52,759. On June 3, hotspot Chennai reported fresh cases in four digits for the first time after recording 816 cases the previous day. For one day on June 16, the city reported 919 cases. On June 30, Chennai reported its highest 2,393 cases, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in the state on that day. While many zones in Chennai have managed to drastically bring down active cases to less than 10%, high case fatality rate in zones such as Teynampet continues to worry public health experts. On Friday, 24 deaths were reported from Chennai. Chennai’s three neighbouring districts together had 873 fresh cases -Chengalpet 319, Kancheepuram 166 and Tiruvallur 388. Ranipet had 253 cases, Tiruvannamalai 252, Cuddalore 212 , Vellore 158, and Kallakuruchi 139. Together the 11 northern districts including Chennai added 3,010 fresh cases and accounted for 52% of the deaths (63). At the end of the day, 54% (28, 988) of cases still under treatment were in these 11 districts. The 10 southern districts together reported 1,501 cases and 29 deaths. Eight of the districts recorded a rise in three digits – Theni (351), Tirunelveli (200), Tuticorin (195), Kanyakumari (187), Dindigul (134), Tenkasi (117), Madurai (109) and Virudhunagar(101). Ramananathapuram (43) and Sivaganga (64) recorded a bouble-digit increase. Tuticorin had six deaths and Kanyakumari five. There are 14,552 active cases in these districts. The central districts together had 763 cases compared to 603 in the west. However, the eight western districts together reported 19 deaths – including six in Salem and five in Coimbatore --compared to eight in the central zone. Coimbatore had 228 fresh cases, and Thanjavur in the central region had 217 cases. Pudukottai (173) and Trichy (105)in the central zone and Salem (168) reported a three-digit increase. Nilgiris (13) reported the lowest rise followed by Dharmarpuri(16). While the central districts had 4,599 active cases, the west had 4,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-virus-count-goes-below-1000-after-52-days-119-deaths-across-tn/articleshow/77425068.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Students hope portal, net will not betray them||NEW DELHI: Final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of Delhi University who were banking on the judiciary are a disappointed lot with the Delhi high court deciding to allow the online Open-Book Examinations (OBE). They are now praying that on August 10, when the exams begin, the DU website works well. While some say they have lost faith in the judiciary, many are relieved that the court has given an extra hour to upload answer sheets. During mock exams, most students had found it difficult to log in, find question papers and upload answer sheets. DU has issued a notice saying any student who can’t upload an answer sheet can email it to the university. “Now there is no option but to appear for the exam in the first phase. I just hope that the portal and the internet work properly,” said Maheswari Rawat, final-year sociology (H) student at Hindu College. “I am continuing with my preparation for entrances. I had prepared during June. Last semester won’t change the overall CGP much.” The university will conduct the second phase offline. The decision was taken after students with disabilities moved the court against the online exams. DU has asked them to submit details of reading materials they require from it. “Suddenly floods are gone, the virus is nowhere in sight, everyone has a perfect internet connection and mental health is restored, so let’s give exams now. If OBE was discriminatory before, what happened now?” an English (H) student wondered. “What was the the entire point of putting students under anxiety by postponing it?” asked Shaurya of Indraprastha College for Women. Teachers said an option of an offline exam at a later date didn’t alter the “discriminatory, unjust and immoral character of OBE”. “The different benches... have acknowledged difficulties faced by students, the lack of preparedness on the part of DU... It is beyond our comprehension why a more credible and uniform system of evaluation could not be adopted,” said Rajib Ray, president of Delhi University Teachers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-hope-portal-net-will-not-betray-them/articleshow/77422832.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai coronavirus count goes below 1,000 after 52 days; 119 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the first time in 52 days, Chennai recorded fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. According to a state health bulletin, the hotspot reported 984 cases with 1,103 recoveries and 24 deaths for the day. According to Greater Chennai Corporation data released on Friday, the number of active cases in six of the city’s 15 zones has now dropped to 10% of the total cases reported there. Manali zone, for instance, had only 77 active cases, which was just 4% of its total case load. However, the city’s fatality rate continues to be high at 2.12%, with Teynampet recording the highest death rate of 3.02%. As per corporation surveys, the zone has the maximum number of senior citizens and people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, TN recorded its highest death toll of 119 for a single day on Friday, taking the state’s fatalities to 4,690 while 6,488 patients were discharged eclipsing 5,880 fresh cases. TN’s case count touched 2,85,024 with 5,800-plus new infections and active cases stood at 52,759. Covid-19 tally below 1,000 but daily toll highestThe number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai fell below 1,000 on Friday, for the first time in 52 days, while the state recorded its highest toll with119 deaths. Chennai had 984 of the 5,880 fresh cases in the state, which pushed up the case tally to 2,85,024. The cumulative death toll was 4,690. Active cases stood at 52,759. On June 3, hotspot Chennai reported fresh cases in four digits for the first time after recording 816 cases the previous day. For one day on June 16, the city reported 919 cases. On June 30, Chennai reported its highest 2,393 cases, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in the state on that day. While many zones in Chennai have managed to drastically bring down active cases to less than 10%, high case fatality rate in zones such as Teynampet continues to worry public health experts. On Friday, 24 deaths were reported from Chennai. Chennai’s three neighbouring districts together had 873 fresh cases -Chengalpet 319, Kancheepuram 166 and Tiruvallur 388. Ranipet had 253 cases, Tiruvannamalai 252, Cuddalore 212 , Vellore 158, and Kallakuruchi 139. Together the 11 northern districts including Chennai added 3,010 fresh cases and accounted for 52% of the deaths (63). At the end of the day, 54% (28, 988) of cases still under treatment were in these 11 districts. The 10 southern districts together reported 1,501 cases and 29 deaths. Eight of the districts recorded a rise in three digits – Theni (351), Tirunelveli (200), Tuticorin (195), Kanyakumari (187), Dindigul (134), Tenkasi (117), Madurai (109) and Virudhunagar(101). Ramananathapuram (43) and Sivaganga (64) recorded a bouble-digit increase. Tuticorin had six deaths and Kanyakumari five. There are 14,552 active cases in these districts. The central districts together had 763 cases compared to 603 in the west. However, the eight western districts together reported 19 deaths – including six in Salem and five in Coimbatore --compared to eight in the central zone. Coimbatore had 228 fresh cases, and Thanjavur in the central region had 217 cases. Pudukottai (173) and Trichy (105)in the central zone and Salem (168) reported a three-digit increase. Nilgiris (13) reported the lowest rise followed by Dharmarpuri(16). While the central districts had 4,599 active cases, the west had 4,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-virus-count-goes-below-1000-after-52-days-119-deaths-across-tn/articleshow/77422815.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 8, 2020||Kochi||Aluva caught between Covid & rain||Kochi: The rising water level in Periyar has compounded the woes of residents in Aluva municipality and neighbouring panchayats where lockdown is in place following the formation of Covid-19 cluster. The municipality along with panchayats like Kadungalloor, Alangad and Chengamanad was severely hit by floods in 201. “By afternoon water had started receding. As the rain water is not getting drained out to the river, there is flooding in areas close to water bodies,” said Lissy Abraham, chairperson, Aluva municipality. Lissy said they had been advising residents to move to safer places. “We have identified shelters but because of the Covid-19 situation everyone is wary of how pragmatic it would be,” she added. The district administration had imposed curfew in panchayats like Keezhmadu, Alangad, Karumalloor, Choornikkara, Chengamanad, Edathala and Kadungalloor apart from Aluva municipality. Some residents in the area, who live close to the river, have started moving household articles to safer elevations within the house. “I would be moving to an apartment near the UC College,” said John Felix, a resident of Thottakkattukara. Meanwhile, water has started entering wards in neighbouring panchayats like Kadungalloor and Chengamanad. “We have started a camp in Muppathadam school and 22 families have been shifted. We are asking people to shift to camps only if they have no other place to go,” said Retnamma Suresh, president, Kadungalloor panchayat. In Chengamanad, water has entered four wards located in low-lying areas. “The situation is not alarming as of now but if we see a repeat of 2018, things would get out of control because we would not be able to meet requirements for shelters because of Covid situation,” said Dileep Kaprassery, president, Chengamanad panchayat. Dileep said the government did nothing after the 2018 floods to clear the silt in streams and canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aluva-caught-between-covid-rain/articleshow/77420201.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||NCW asks complainant to submit proof against Tukaram Mundhe||NAGPUR: The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday held a virtual hearing from New Delhi into the allegations levelled by company secretary of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) Bhanupriya Thakur against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for allegedly denying maternity benefits, mental harassment and humiliation early this year. Mundhe denied the charges levelled against him, while Thakur contended how she underwent a lot of pain due to mental harassment and humiliation meted out to her by the civic chief, sources said. Sharma asked Thakur to submit evidence against Mundhe to the commission and after going through the same, the commission will issue its verdict. The NCW chairperson said the judgment into the allegations levelled against Mundhe will be communicated to the state government and both the parties. In June this year, Thakur had filed a complaint with NCW accusing Mundhe of denying her maternity rights and also issuing her show cause notice to terminate the services. According to Thakur’s complaint, she had to leave her 3-month-old baby at her hometown, 100km away from Nagpur because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic in the city. Mundhe also rejected her request to work from home or guide her how she can bring her infant baby to Nagpur in such a situation where the government had advised not to travel or leave the town with kids below 10 years of age, Thakur had mentioned in her complaint. Following the complaint, Sharma in July issued a notice to Mundhe and sought explanation. Apart from complaining to the NCW, Thakur had also brought this to the notice of smart city chairman Pravin Pardeshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncw-asks-complainant-to-submit-proof-against-mundhe/articleshow/77422820.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Chennai coronavirus count goes below 1,000 after 52 days; 119 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the first time in 52 days, Chennai recorded fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. According to a state health bulletin, the hotspot reported 984 cases with 1,103 recoveries and 24 deaths for the day. According to Greater Chennai Corporation data released on Friday, the number of active cases in six of the city’s 15 zones has now dropped to 10% of the total cases reported there. Manali zone, for instance, had only 77 active cases, which was just 4% of its total case load. However, the city’s fatality rate continues to be high at 2.12%, with Teynampet recording the highest death rate of 3.02%. As per corporation surveys, the zone has the maximum number of senior citizens and people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Incidentally, TN recorded its highest death toll of 119 for a single day on Friday, taking the state’s fatalities to 4,690 while 6,488 patients were discharged eclipsing 5,880 fresh cases. TN’s case count touched 2,85,024 with 5,800-plus new infections and active cases stood at 52,759. Covid-19 tally below 1,000 but daily toll highestThe number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai fell below 1,000 on Friday, for the first time in 52 days, while the state recorded its highest toll with119 deaths. Chennai had 984 of the 5,880 fresh cases in the state, which pushed up the case tally to 2,85,024. The cumulative death toll was 4,690. Active cases stood at 52,759. On June 3, hotspot Chennai reported fresh cases in four digits for the first time after recording 816 cases the previous day. For one day on June 16, the city reported 919 cases. On June 30, Chennai reported its highest 2,393 cases, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in the state on that day. While many zones in Chennai have managed to drastically bring down active cases to less than 10%, high case fatality rate in zones such as Teynampet continues to worry public health experts. On Friday, 24 deaths were reported from Chennai. Chennai’s three neighbouring districts together had 873 fresh cases -Chengalpet 319, Kancheepuram 166 and Tiruvallur 388. Ranipet had 253 cases, Tiruvannamalai 252, Cuddalore 212 , Vellore 158, and Kallakuruchi 139. Together the 11 northern districts including Chennai added 3,010 fresh cases and accounted for 52% of the deaths (63). At the end of the day, 54% (28, 988) of cases still under treatment were in these 11 districts. The 10 southern districts together reported 1,501 cases and 29 deaths. Eight of the districts recorded a rise in three digits – Theni (351), Tirunelveli (200), Tuticorin (195), Kanyakumari (187), Dindigul (134), Tenkasi (117), Madurai (109) and Virudhunagar(101). Ramananathapuram (43) and Sivaganga (64) recorded a bouble-digit increase. Tuticorin had six deaths and Kanyakumari five. There are 14,552 active cases in these districts. The central districts together had 763 cases compared to 603 in the west. However, the eight western districts together reported 19 deaths – including six in Salem and five in Coimbatore --compared to eight in the central zone. Coimbatore had 228 fresh cases, and Thanjavur in the central region had 217 cases. Pudukottai (173) and Trichy (105)in the central zone and Salem (168) reported a three-digit increase. Nilgiris (13) reported the lowest rise followed by Dharmarpuri(16). While the central districts had 4,599 active cases, the west had 4,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-virus-count-goes-below-1000-after-52-days-119-deaths-across-tn/articleshow/77425067.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||PG students of Rohtak varsity want thesis submission online||Rohtak: Students pursuing postgraduation (PG) from various medical and dental colleges of Haryana, affiliated to University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, have urged the university to consider their demand of online submission of thesis. Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, they have cited the risk of catching infection while seeking signatures of supervisors and co-supervisors on the thesis. The health varsity has notified August 31 as the last date of submission of thesis. PG students have said as other colleges and universities throughout India are accepting thesis online, the Rohtak varsity should also start the same. Otherwise students have to go to the houses of their supervisors for their signatures as the colleges are closed. PG students of dental colleges affiliated to the health university said it will be highly risky and difficult to get the signatures of the guides on the thesis as many of the PG students are from outer states and they have to run from the pillar to post to get their thesis signed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pg-students-of-rohtak-varsity-want-thesis-submission-online/articleshow/77422827.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Madurai||MKU EMRC offers training for online classes for faculty||Madurai: The Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has offered its facilities free of cost to all university faculty, affiliated colleges and all state universities for training in handling online classes.In a recent circular, any faculty requiring training for online classes, brushing up their skills or uploading content online have been asked to contact the EMRC to access all facilities free of cost. With online classes already underway, training for faculty is also being prioritised. “Online classes began only from Monday, so it is still too early to comment on the students’ response. Our faculty are already trained to hold classes by making use of power point presentations. Students are used to such classes in classrooms, so they are expected to adapt quickly,” said V S Vasantha, registrar (in charge) at MKU. The registrar also added that periodical review of online classes will be done by a committee to improve the quality.MKU has also offered massive open online courses (MOOCs) through an exclusive government e-learning platform Swayam. The university is offering 40 UG courses and 9 re-run courses under the platform, credits for which will be awarded by MKU. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-emrc-offers-training-for-online-classes-for-faculty/articleshow/77423633.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||We must make agriculture more efficient, profitable: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||CHENNAI: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said there was an imminent need to make agriculture more efficient, resilient, profitable and productive to ensure food and nutrition security to millions. Inaugurating M S Swaminathan Research Foundation’s virtual conference on science for resilient food, nutrition and livelihoods: contemporary challenges, Venkaiah emphasised the need to minimise the pre-harvest and post-harvest losses. “Market infrastructure and the national road and transportation network must be improved. Farmers should be able to get their produce from the farm gates to markets at a reasonable cost,” he said. Investments must be stepped up in improved storage, processing and preservation to retain the nutritional value of food products, rather than investing in highly processed foods, he said. “National food and agricultural strategies and programmes should step up investment in research and development to raise productivity of nutritious foods and help reduce their cost,” Venkaiah said. Eminent agriculture scientist M S Swaminathan said the vision of the government’s commitment to doubling farmers income needed to continue and added that emphasis on rights of women farmers should be taken up legally in the Parliament. Union government’s principal scientific advisor K Vijayaraghavan spoke of learning lessons from the situation such as pandemic. “We need a new model of sustainable development that has less negative impact and zero negative impact on natural resources and our biodiversity and increases our quality of life.” The three-day virtual conference includes sessions ranging from agro biodiversity to gender, from climate change to policy and has eminent speakers across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/we-must-make-agriculture-more-efficient-profitable-vp/articleshow/77421515.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Bhatkhande set to start music therapy courses||LUCKNOW: Bhatkhande Music Institute will be getting a facelift to provide better facilities to over 1,930 students. The institute will soon be taking up several projects on its campus which include installation of smart classes, facade illumination, smart library, recording studio, necessary musical instruments, recordings of archaic and extinct musical instruments, signage board and makeover of two buildings on the campus. Currently, the campus consists of two buildings -- one built in 1852 and other in 1960 – which are in a bad condition and in need of a facelift. At a meeting held with theinstitute's management committee and professors on Friday, Lucknow commissioner Mukesh Meshram decided to revitalise the institute. “The makeover is aimed at converting the institute into a Smart Institute. The place itself is situated under Area Based Development (ABD) of Smart City Mission,” said Meshram. Not only infrastructure makeover, the facelift will also include collaboration with KGMU and SGPGI for adding courses like music therapy. The institute has also been given the task to prepare the academic calendar of year 2020-21. More webinars, seminars, student-teacher exchange programmes, along with activities related to Indian classical music, folk music and other genres will have to be organised for teaching relevance of music to students. Old recording, and transcripts of extinct music and other archaic items will have to be collected by the institute for a museum to be set up on the campus, along with printing and digitising of research journals related to three forms of Indian classical music, including syllabic recital (vadya), singing (gayan) and dance (nritya).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bhatkhande-set-to-start-music-therapy-courses/articleshow/77423687.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||DMK MLA Neelamegam tests positive for Covid-19||Trichy: DMK MLA TKG Neelamegam, 56, of Thanjavur assembly constituency tested positive for Covid-19 and got admitted to government medical college hospital in Thanjavur on Friday. Neelamegam had isolated himself at home after visiting Orathanadu DMK MLA M Ramachandran who had tested positive for Covid-19. Neelamegam underwent Covid-19 testing after which it was revealed he had also contracted the disease. Following the confirmation, he was admitted to the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur.  He is the third MLA from Thanjavur district to get infected by Covid-19. Previously, AIADMK MLA of Peravurani M Govindarasu and Orathanadu MLA Ramachandran, belonging toDMK, had tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-mla-neelamegam-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77423683.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vadodara||Rent cheques given to Sanjaynagar oustees bounce||Vadodara: Relief over the receipt of cheques towards rent proved to be short-lived for many beneficiaries of the Sanjaynagar housing scheme. The cheques for rent given by the developer of the housing scheme bounced for the want of funds sparking a major controversy. Recently, the beneficiaries of the project have alleged that one of the partners in the project had parted ways with the joint venture. However, they argue that this has not been brought on paper to avoid complications. “The partner has quit over a year back,” said Seema Rathod an activist and a resident of the area. Rathod added that rent of about five months was pending to the beneficiaries and the process to disburse this began in June after an agitation. She added that 131 of the cheques issued by the developer bounced. “This came to light after Rakshabandhan. There are 30 beneficiaries who are yet to get rent as they were left out because the process of distribution of cheques was stopped early,” said Rathod. Families ousted from Sanjaynagar in Warasiya were to be given houses in a housing scheme at the same site coming up as a public-private partnership under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY). The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) demolished 1,841 dwellings at the site in July 2017 and those who lost their homes were to be paid a rent of Rs 2,000 per month. As many as 2,637 houses will be constructed at the site for urban poor. The settlement was notified as a slum by the committee formed under the PMAY and tendering was done. After the demolition, the developer, who had bagged the contract, started paying rent to the beneficiaries whose houses were razed. However, a major row was raked up regarding the change of stakes of partners in the joint venture (JV) that had taken up the project. The lead partner at the time of bidding reduced his stake from 51% to 15% even as the stake of others rose to 85% from a minority stake of 49%. Also, there were issues regarding land owned by the state government for an agriculture training centre for beggars and it was not transferred to the VMC for a long time after the razing drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rent-cheques-given-to-sanjaynagar-oustees-bounce/articleshow/77420881.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Maths exam leeway for Class XI kids||NEW DELHI: As a one-time measure, students who have passed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X examination with basic mathematics, can opt for the subject in Class XI. Last year, CBSE introduced two levels of mathematics at Class X — basic and standard, and this was the first batch to appear in the final examinations under the system. Only those who opt for standard mathematics are originally allowed to study the subject in higher classes. According to the board rules, a student who qualifies in basic mathematics will have the option of appearing for standard mathematics at the time of the compartment exams in case he or she decides to pursue the subject at the senior secondary level. However, because of the delay in conducting the compartment examinations due to Covid-19 this year, CBSE has decided that such students will be allowed to directly opt for mathematics in Class XI only in the 2020-21 session, a circular stated. School principals have been asked to check a student’s aptitude and ability before allowing him/her to take the subject. Many students with standard mathematics in Class X, however, find it unfair as they appeared for a difficult paper. “It is unfair on the part of the board. If someone has decided to appear for basic mathematics, he must have taken a conscious decision,” said Aman, a student of a private school. In Delhi government schools, 73% of the students opted for basic mathematics this year. The overall improvement in the Class X results of government schools has been attributed partly to two levels mathematics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maths-exam-leeway-for-class-xi-kids/articleshow/77422843.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Surat||In Gujarat, babies born in times of corona survive on milk of ‘mothers’ kindness’||SURAT: Had it not been for the milk bank, Smruti’s (name changed) newborn child would have been deprived of the much-needed colostrum, the first milk that the newborn is fed by the lactating mother. Not only was she Covid-19 positive, her son too tested positive at Surat Municipal Corporation-run SMIMER Hospital. But thanks to Yashoda, the hospital’s Human Milk Bank, the baby received 400ml milk from donors and four days later he was discharged as a healthy baby. Smruti’s baby is not the only recipient of the magnanimity shown by many willing donors. Three other babies too were fed mother’s milk from this bank. In Anand, the human milk bank at Akanksha Hospital collected 210 liters of mother's milk donated by women who recently gave birth through April-July. “Fortunately, Covid lockdown did not dry up our reserves as mothers did not stop donating. This helped us help nearly 60 babies in the neonatal ICU,” said fertility and surrogacy specialist Dr Nayana Patel. In Ahmedabad, Arpan Human Milk Bank for premature neonates also received eight liters of milk donated by mothers. “The mothers just requested us to collect milk from them from home and we obliged as it helped eight premature and sick children nurse back to health,” said senior neonatologist Dr Ashish Mehta. According to SMIMER Hospital officials, more than 250 Covid-19 positive women delivered babies between March and July at the hospital. During this critical time for the medical fraternity as well as the new mothers, doctors ensured that these babies were not deprived of the liquid gold which is rich in nutrients and antibodies and helps the baby develop immunity. “With the rapid spread of coronavirus in the city, people, especially the new mothers who had tested Covid-19 positive in the hospital were afraid to breastfeed their newborns. We had to counsel them at every step to remove all sorts of misconceptions that they may inadvertently infect their child. Nearly all the women could breastfeed their babies,” said Dr Nirali Mehta, Assistant Professor, Pediatric Department, SMIMER Hospital, told TOI. The first week of August is celebrated as ‘breastfeeding week’ across the country. It creates awareness among lactating mothers about the importance of breastfeeding the newborn for its overall development. “nCov hasn’t deterred our commitment to encourage breastfeeding and also encourage other mothers to donate surplus milk for other needy babies at the hospital. Since March, a total 243 mothers have donated 29,150ml milk to our bank. About 432 newborn babies were given milk from the bank during this period,” Dr Mehta said. Explaining the importance of colostrum, Dr Mehta said: “Availability of safe donor human milk at NICU is critical to ensure that every sick and preterm baby receives human milk within the first hour. Therefore, donor human milk plays a lifesaving role by helping these babies receive the benefits of early initiation and exclusive feeding of human milk.” Project Yashoda, which started at SMIMER Hospital in December 2008, has a mechanism to collect, pasteurize, test, and store safe donor human milk from lactating mothers and provide it to those newborns who are dependent on this milk for various reasons. “Mothers admitted in postnatal wards at SMIMER Hospital and those who come for vaccination of their newborn children are counselled to donate milk. Most agree immediately,” Dr Mehta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-positive-newborns-survive-on-milk-of-mothers-kindness/articleshow/77421232.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad One back with Rs 1 lakh penalty, promises||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Friday opened the seal on Ahmedabad One mall after the mall authorities paid a fine of Rs 1 lakh. The authorities also gave an affidavit stating that they will abide by the conditions laid down by the AMC. The solid waste department of the city’s civic body had sealed the mall in Vastrapur on Monday after officials observed that social distancing norms were not being followed. Nor were customers asked to wear masks. While Ahmedabad One mall reopened, there was utter chaos among retailers there as they were forced to pay and get RAT (rapid antigen tests) conducted on their entire staff. Estimates suggest that about 2,000 salespersons and store owners work at the mall and each are supposed to get tested. “When RAT tests for Covid are conducted at Urban Health Centres for free, why are retailers being forced to pay Rs 750 each for the test?” said a retailer who runs a clothing retail store. “This is unfair and the civic authorities must at least allow us a day’s time to get these tests done at designated Urban Health Centres and produce our reports.” Retailers said that the forceful testing is only adding to their cost of operations, when business has barely picked up. Yet another retailer who operates four stores at the mall, said: “The business is already down and revenues have taken a hit and at such a time, it is unfair to force us to pay for the tests.” He went on to say. “It is especially unfair when there is a facility to get them done for free. Bearing this added cost will only make business more difficult for us.” Sources confirmed that mall owners bore the expense for the tests for the entire staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-one-back-with-rs-1-lakh-penalty-promises/articleshow/77422846.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Stamp people awaiting Covid test results, say health officials||PANAJI: People who are awaiting Covid test results should be stamped to discourage them from moving out till their status is known as they can be a source of infection, health officials said. Very few people stay indoors, while the rest go about doing their business as usual, this is a matter of concern, a health official said “I think such irresponsible people have to be dealt with seriously and need to be stamped to force them to remain at home till the result is received. The infection will spread if the person turns out to be a carrier,” the official said. Recently, a person from a family in Betim suspected to be positive, had his swab sample sent for testing and was told to be in isolation. “The family had a birthday celebration while his result was awaited,” the official said. “After he tested positive, his other family members were tested. A dozen people in his family tested positive, including his neighbour,” the officer said. Dr Smita Parsekar, health officer, Ponda PHC, said that they have observed that people just don’t sit at home after submitting swab samples. “They will go out and do their regular work as if nothing has happened. Some of them will even visit the sub-district hospital to inquire about their test result,” she said. Since the introduction of the antigen test, a result is received faster, earlier it took three to four days to know a result. Another health officer said she came across a case wherein the contact hosted a birthday party, while his test result was awaited. “Not surprisingly, some of his relatives also tested positive,” he said. When such incidents happen, it not only increases the workload for the health department, but inadvertently intensifies the pace of infection. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said a personal secretary of a former mayor, after giving his swab sample, went roaming in the city even though he was unwell. Later his result came positive. “Imagine, the number of people he must have met and given the infection. When educated people like him behave in this fashion, we can’t help it,” he said. A health official said, “The matter does not end after these people test positive. Quite a few of them will even refuse to move to a Covid care centre, while an ambulance is waiting outside the house to pick them up. Then, the mamlatdar has to rush with the police personnel to get such problem makers to a Covid care centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stamp-people-awaiting-covid-test-results-health-officials/articleshow/77423705.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 8, 2020||Goa||Double murder case: HC upholds life for 2||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday upheld the life imprisonment of two convicts, Osban Fernandes and Ramesh Bagve, for kidnapping and attempting to murder two minor children whose parents they had already murdered. The court, however, rejected the state’s government appeal to impose the death penalty. The case pertains to 2013, when Fernandes and Bagve first murdered a man in Ribandar, and then, to cover it up, drove his wife and two children to Anmod ghat. There, they made the children witness the murder of their mother, and then attempted to kill her two children. The minor girl had deposed in trial court that she witness Fernandes and Bagve murder her mother. Then ten years old, she said that after killing the woman, they strangulated her brother and tried to choke her. They then threw them both in a valley in the wee hours of May 14, 2013. Declining the state’s plea to impose the death penalty, a division bench comprising justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said this isn’t a matter that attracts the ‘rarest of rare’ principle, and noted that the death rap can only be imposed when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment. Public prosecutor S R Rivonkar had argued that this case qualifies as a ‘rarest of rare’ one since it’s one of the most heinous crimes committed in Goa. He also pointed out Fernandes’ and Bagve’s unusually cruel conduct in dealing with the parents of minors and the children themselves. However, the court referred to a Supreme Court judgment which held that normally, capital punishment should not be imposed relying only upon the testimony of child witnesses, and an extreme sentence cannot seek its main support from evidence of this kind which, even if true, is not safe enough to act upon for putting out a life. Rivonkar had told the court that the sentences imposed by the children’s court were too lenient, and that the crime shook the collective conscience of the community. He reminded the court that the two convicts also sexually assaulted the minor girl and threw her out of the car. The ghastly incident came to light when Bonaventure D’Souza, the complainant, and Hassan Mulla, returning from Karnataka to Goa, saw the minor girl sitting at the side of the road at 5.30am. She then told him about what had happened, and he called the police. The court complimented D’Souza and Mulla for discharging their civic duty with utmost sensitivity. The bench also observed that they both displayed courage and compassion, which is extremely commendable. “They were indeed good samaritans, who never shirked from their civic duty to render all possible assistance to the two children in extreme distress,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-murder-case-hc-upholds-life-for-2/articleshow/77423693.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Notices served to 6 ex-BSP MLAs in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The notices issued by a single bench of the Rajasthan HC on a petition challenging the BSP-Congress merger in the state were served to six former BSP legislators by the Jaisalmer district judge on Friday. In the morning, a high court official from Jodhpur reached Jaisalmer with the notices. Along with the reader from the office of Jaisalmer district judge and other personnel, he went to Suryagarh Hotel where the MLAs are staying. The notices were served in the presence of Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh and other police officers. The six MLAs, who switched from BSP to Congress in September last year, are required to submit their replies on two petitions moved separately by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP before the high court single bench of Justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal in Jaipur on Tuesday. The petitions argue that the BSP-Congress merger was unconstitutional and call for disqualifying the six MLAs from the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/notices-served-to-6-ex-bsp-mlas-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77425965.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court notice to police complaint authority||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has issued notice to the state government and the Gujarat State Police Complaint Authority (GSPCA) in response of a petition seeking action against Meghaninagar police for alleged custodial torture. In this case, Bharat Maadi and his six friends filed a petition in the HC seeking directions to the police authorities to have them medically examined in custody of cops other than Meghaninagar police and have the authorities pay them compensation of Rs 10 lakh for custodial torture. Their advocate, Nisarg Shah, submitted that Maadi and six others were detained by Meghaninagar police on June 29 and were produced in a chapter case before a magistrate. They were beaten badly by the police inspector, a sub-inspector and constables in the police station. When they complained about this, the magistrate sent them for a medical examination but they were taken under the custody of Meghaninagar police only. The same cops allegedly beat them again. They moved the HC and submitted that they had complained to the higher authorities including GSPCA about the custodial torture, but no action was taken in this regard. Upon their complaint, the HC sought replies from the authorities concerned by August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-notice-to-police-complaint-authority/articleshow/77422854.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Two caught hurling drugs in rubber balls inside Central Jail||NAGPUR: Two goons, Sheikh Wasim (26) and Tabassur Ahmed (24), were nabbed red-handed by the crime branch while tossing two rubber balls filled with marijuana into Nagpur Central Jail last week. Sources stated a mobile phone SIM, batteries and MD drug are also tossed inside in balls from near Barracks Nos 5 or 6. The police action, which was first of its kind, has now thrown open a pandora’s box regarding the alleged illegal activities inside the jail. In 2015, five prisoners had fled from the jail after they had co-ordinated the move using mobile phones. The Nagpur Central Jail, which had grabbed attention in July with sudden spike in Covid inside the premises with 62 jail staffers and 219 prisoners testing positive, is once again under scanner for all the wrong reasons. The action of crime branch has revealed there is a rampant consumption of narcotics and use of mobile phones inside the jail. Two rubber balls, which were seized by crime branch, had ‘Taigar’ written on it. The balls were cut open, filled with drugs, and again sealed using strong adhesive. They were about to be thrown inside from a place near jail’s car washing centre towards Ajni square. The team of API Dileep Chandan, comprising head constable Prashant Kodape, Ajay Rode and Kripashankar Shukla, have seized mobile phones of Waseem and Ahmed before handing it over to the special cell for probe. It is learnt every ball lobbed inside has code words like ‘Lion’, ‘Fish’ and so on. These indicate the name of the recipient prisoner. Police sources claimed Wasim was sending marijuana for his elder brother and another gangster from Dobinagar. Wasim, his brother and Ahmed were arrested around a year ago for attacking their rival over dispute about a gambling den. They were booked for attempt to murder. The three also have other cases against them. It is learnt there is a regular demand of mobile phone batteries as at least three dreaded goons Anna, Naushad, and Sumeet are known to possess phones. “There is a no charging facility in the jail. So the discharged batteries are thrown out of the jail and charged ones are thrown in,” said a source. “There are fixed timings for such activities every day after the rounds of senior officers are over and also seeing the position of the guards,” said a source. According to sources, the role of the jail personnel would also come under scanner as involvement of some of them cannot be ruled out. SP Anupkumar Kumre of Nagpur Central Jail said there was regular patrolling near Barracks 5 and 6 which is supervised by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-caught-hurling-drugs-in-rubber-balls-inside-central-jail/articleshow/77422850.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maoists into cultivation of ganja now, say Vizag cops||Visakhapatnam: Visakha rural police on Thursday claimed to have found evidence of Maoists taking to ganja cultivation in the agency area. The nexus between Maoists and ganja traders came to the fore after the arrest of one Kolakani Kamesh from Maddigaruvu area in G Madugula mandal, which is considered a Maoist stronghold. “We always knew Maoists collect levy from ganja traders. Now we have come to know that they are into ganja cultivation too,” said Satish Kumar, OSD, anti-Maoist operations, Narsipatnam. Kamesh was arrested by G Madugula police on Wednesday. Rs 1.76 lakh in cash, 24 kg of ganja, two steel carriages, 10 detonators, nuts and bolts were seized from his place. Kamesh, during interrogation, accepted that he had been working for Maoists for the last four years. Kamesh said he was contacted by Maoist couple Ashok and his wife Lakshmi, who used to supply him ganja stock. Kamesh, in turn, would sell the stock to ganja traders from Odisha and Maharashtra. “He would use the money from the sale to procure food material, medicines, and even explosives for Maoists. They are now engaging local tribals to cultivate ganja,” Satish Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoists-into-cultivation-of-ganja-now-say-vizag-cops/articleshow/77400756.cms||Siva G
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Notices served to 6 ex-BSP MLAs in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The notices issued by a single bench of the Rajasthan HC on a petition challenging the BSP-Congress merger in the state were served to six former BSP legislators by the Jaisalmer district judge on Friday. In the morning, a high court official from Jodhpur reached Jaisalmer with the notices. Along with the reader from the office of Jaisalmer district judge and other personnel, he went to Suryagarh Hotel where the MLAs are staying. The notices were served in the presence of Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh and other police officers. The six MLAs, who switched from BSP to Congress in September last year, are required to submit their replies on two petitions moved separately by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP before the high court single bench of Justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal in Jaipur on Tuesday. The petitions argue that the BSP-Congress merger was unconstitutional and call for disqualifying the six MLAs from the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-served-to-6-ex-bsp-mlas-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77423686.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Guest workers keen to return but no e-pass||CHENNAI: Developers in the city are struggling to obtain e-pass for guest workers, putting the progress of infrastructure projects worth Rs 15,000 crore in Chennai and suburbs at stake. The city’s construction sector requires about three lakh migrant workers to complete pending work and begin new projects. While builders complain that e-pass applications are subjected to abrupt rejections, Greater Chennai Corporation officials blame incomplete applications and say many developers do not provide necessary details of workers seeking to enter the city. A few developers have already sent buses to northern states to ferry guest workers, while others are arranging fleets from the respective states for the purpose. Camps to accommodate construction workers to maintain social distancing are being readied for them. City-based builder G Selva kumar said a bus sent to Kolkata to bring back migrant workers was stranded due to non-availability of e-passes. “These 30 guest workers were employed in the city and left during the first phase of the lockdown. This has impacted the completion of our residential project that was scheduled to be handed over to homebuyers in August. Now, it may be delayed till November,” he said. A group of migrant workers from Bihar has been stuck at Gudur and Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, unable to enter Tamil Nadu due to lack of e-passes. When contacted, corporation officials denied charges of large-scale rejection of e-passes for migrant workers. Corporation deputy commissioner (works) P Kumaravel Pandian said there were no hurdles to obtain e-passes. “The problem lies with developers because they are not furnishing the necessary details. It is not our fault that incomplete applications cannot be processed,” he said. The corporation staff adhered to state government guidelines on e-passes, he added. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said just 30%-40% of applications for e-passes were sanctioned and the rest rejected. With workers from different parts of Tamil Nadu inadequate to meet the massive demand in the city, builders have been unable to restart construction activity and are awaiting the arrival of workers from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-keen-to-return-but-no-e-pass/articleshow/77421555.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Recovered Covid-19 infected policemen get warm welcome||Trichy: The Trichy city police on Friday organised an event to welcome 20 police personnel, who had re-joined duty recently, after recovering from Covid-19 infection. Trichy commissioner of police, J Loganathan issued a certificate of appreciation to the policemen for fighting Covid-19. The commissioner also appreciated the family members of the policemen for extending care to recover from the disease. The policemen were also been issued a pack of fruits, dates, health drinks, hand gloves and sanitizer. The programme was arranged only on Friday though the personnel resumed duty one month back. As on Friday, a total of 67 city police personnel have been infected with Covid-19, of which 55 were already discharged after recovery. Twelve personnel are undergoing treatment.The commissioner said that the 437 police officers and personnel out of total force of 1,769 have been put through Covid-19 testing. The next batch of recovered policemen will be welcomed next week.Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, A Pavankumar Reddy and deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vetharathinam and other officers also took part. Meanwhile, in order to keep students from KG to Class XII engaged and spend their time usefully with their parents, the city police has planned to conduct a speech and drawing competitions online. Interested students have to send their creativities with their name, address and phone number through WhasApp to 96262-73399 or mail them to coptrc@gmail.com by 6pm on August 13. The topics for the speech competition are: K.G to Class V – Role of students in awareness about Covid-19; Classes 6 to 9 – Field workers in Covid-19 prevention; Classes 10 to 12 _ Productive time of students during lockdown. The results will be declared on August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/recovered-covid-19-infected-policemen-get-warm-welcome/articleshow/77423752.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Army chief visits Lucknow, meets governor, CM||LUCKNOW: Chief of Army Staff, General MM Naravane, visited the Central Command in Lucknow on Friday and appreciated efforts being put in by soldiers in the forward areas operating in difficult weather conditions in high altitude. Later, the chief of staff also paid a visit to Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. According to sources, he discussed about security on UP-Nepal border with the CM. During his visit, Gen Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen IS Ghuman, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Central Command, on both operational and administrative aspects. Gen Naravane appreciated the Central Command for achieving high degree of operational preparedness. “He also expressed satisfaction on the efforts being made to ensure capability enhancement and operational effectiveness of the forces and development of infrastructure in the Central Sector,” a press statement issused by the Central Command said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/army-chief-visits-city-meets-governor-cm/articleshow/77423771.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bypolls: Gujarat HC notice to ECI||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday issued notice to the Election Commission of India over a PIL seeing indefinite postponement of the due byelections on eight vacant assembly seats, on account of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala sought a reply form the election commission with regard to the schedule of the bypolls and posted a further hearing on the PIL for August 19. The PIL was filed last month by a social worker from Radhanpur, Farsu Gokalani. He has sought indefinite postponement of the bypolls for the Abdasa, Morbi, Dangs, Dhari, Karjan, Limdi, Gadhada and Kaprada constituencies. He sought directions to the Election Commission of India not to hold the polls in such circumstances, saying it will prove disastrous for the people. Gokalani contended that this is the time to set up testing centres for Covid-19 and to ramp up testing and not to create polling booths. Holding the elections would cause more trouble as elections and campaigning would only result in more gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bypolls-hc-notice-to-eci/articleshow/77422885.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy to mark separate lane for two-wheelers||Trichy: The city police have embarked on a plan to have a separate lane for two-wheelers on select roads in Trichy city with a view to reducing road fatalities. Revealing the plan on Friday, the commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganathan said that the project was in the pipeline. “We have started working on the project. It is still in the initial stage,” CoP told ToI. Stating that around 80% victims of road accidents in the city were either two-wheeler riders or pillion riders, the commissioner said that the accidents happened either between two bikes or between a bike and a heavy vehicle. “In either case, the victims were two-wheeler riders. It should be curtailed. So, the plan of keeping a separate lane for them has been mooted,” he said. The commissioner said that there will be two lanes – fast and slow. The fast lane will be meant for cars while slow lane will be used by bus and trucks. The two-wheelers will be given a separate lane in the slow lane. “It is not possible to put up medians for each lane. So, we are planning to demarcate lanes with a colour code,” he said. While discussing the feasibilities of implementing the system, the commissioner said that they would give priority for the stretches found to be accidents prone. The police would also identify wider stretches to implement the initiative. The commissioner added that they have taken the corporation and highways department onboard for the discussion to implement the project. Member of the district road safety council, Trichy, M Sekaran welcomed the move. “City roads need such lanes to reduce accidents. If implemented now, it will be more helpful in the years to come,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-to-mark-separate-lane-for-two-wheelers/articleshow/77423766.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||With rising cases in govt offices, public demand online services||Ludhiana: In wake of rising cases of Covid-19 cases in government offices, people are afraid to go to work or to settle grievances. People insist that proper safety arrangements for visitors and the staff should be made in every department. Although there are a few exceptions — the safety arrangements made by the income tax department is being lauded by many — people say it is best that all departments offering services to public do so online. Speaking to TOI, Ashok Juneja, chairman of Punjab Tax Bar Association, said “Members of public, whether taxpayers, professionals or anyone else, should make sure that they comply with all safety norms of Covid-19 and follow social distancing while visiting any department. But at the same time, departments should also ensure proper safety measures within their offices and buildings. Departments should follow the example of income tax department of Ludhiana, which has set high standards of safety. Chief commissioner of income tax himself is leading from the front by supervising arrangements.” According to Vivek Sharma, a prominent tax professional and member of All India Tax Federation, “Cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in the city and cases are cropping up in almost all the government departments. The officers in these departments and people going to there for their work are equally at risk. Therefore, it is imperative that these departments offer services online. Coronavirus is going to be there for a long time and therefore, for everyone’s safety, we will have to find solutions to cut down the need for visiting government offices. Anything is possible in today’s world and when even complicated tasks can be performed through mobile apps and softwares, the departments whether state or Centre should also make use of the technology to upgrade so that the public visits are not needed.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “Be it police, tax department or any other state or central government department, Covid-19 cases are being reported from everywhere and until a vaccine hits the market, it is difficult to contain this virus. The only way to fight it is either to make all the places where public visits totally secure and safe or turn all the processes and tasks for which public has to visit these offices completely online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-rising-cases-in-govt-offices-public-demand-online-services/articleshow/77422895.cms||Mohit Behl
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Provide protection to interfaith couple’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered Morbi police to grant protection to an interfaith couple and the man’s family, and issued directions to ensure their matrimonial life is not be hindered. This was an inter-religious marriage and the girl converted to another religion by notarizing an affidavit affirming her conversion in Madhya Pradesh at the time of the wedding last year. The couple chose the neighbouring state for conversion, because prior permission from the district magistrate is a must in Gujarat, under its anti-conversion law, the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act. On the other hand, the analogous law in Madhya Pradesh only mandates that the person intimate the district magistrate about his/her conversion. However, the couple did not seem to have informed the concerned district magistrate about the girl’s conversion. The HC said in this regard, “Assuming that there is no intimation as required under the Madhya Pradesh law, he will be facing criminal prosecution for any lapse he may have made.” The punishment for not reporting conversion in MP is one year in jail. The couple eloped in 2018 from Wankaner, when the girl was still a minor. Her father lodged an FIR against the man for abduction and offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The couple lived in Rajasthan for a year and then went to MP and got married according to Hindu rites after she turned 18. The HC was also concerned about the affidavit of the girl affirming conversion, because it was notarized two days after the wedding took place. But the police investigator told the HC that this was a typo and the notary as well as the priest confirmed that there was no anomaly, the court recorded this in its order. After police traced down the girl early this year, she was placed in a women’s protection home. She wanted to live with her husband and refused to return to her father, who had filed a habeas corpus petition for her custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/provide-protection-to-interfaith-couple/articleshow/77422896.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Ambulances gather dust at Mangaluru hospital, but govt sanctions new ones||MANGALURU: Shradhanjali Vaahana, an ambulance to transport bodies of the poor, donated by Sasvat and U T Fareed Foundation to Wenlock Hospital, is gathering dust without a driver and proper maintenance, even though the government hospital lacks sufficient number of ambulances. At present, private ambulances are also used to shift Covid-19 patients and victims’ bodies, though there are many ambulances gathering dust inside the Wenlock Hospital premises. In a video conference with the people’s representatives of Dakshina Kannada, deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan had sanctioned 15 ambulances for the district on July 17, but they haven’t arrived as yet. Congress leader and Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said that Shradhanjali ambulances were given to 30 districts when he was the health minister, in memory of his father and former MLA U T Fareed. “Shradhanjali ambulances are provided for government hospitals only for the transportation of bodies of poor people, and thereby give them due honour in death. However, unfortunately these vehicles are still not being utilised. The government should appoint drivers and staff immediately for these vehicles. Similarly, the government also should maintain all ambulances which are not in use,” Khader said. However, the government has plans to bring new ambulances instead of repairing the old ones. Meanwhile, the district administration has also taken the initiative to procure additional ambulances through the state disaster relief fund, and also with the help of sponsors. Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said the government has already sanctioned 15 new ambulances for the district. “Deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan has sanctioned 15 ambulances for the district. I will check the status of the proposal, and do the needful to expedite it,” he said. The MLA added that as per the instructions of the deputy chief minister, the work on increasing the number of oxygen enabled beds at Wenlock Hospital has already begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ambulances-gather-dust-at-mluru-hosp-but-govt-sanctions-new-ones/articleshow/77426782.cms||Vinobha K T
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Desperate times: Migrants plod back to Delhi that shut them out||NEW DELHI: They walked hundreds of kilometres or paid hefty sums to hitch a ride home when things came to a standstill after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced. Now, many of them are retracing their steps, having found the home comforts did not include a steady income. Buses from UP and Bihar are now disgorging a large number of migrant workers at the Kaushambi and Anand Vihar bus terminals. House painter Bablu left Delhi with his wife and two children, vowing never to return. That resolve flailed in the face of hunger. “We left Delhi on a bicycle when we couldn’t get a bus,” Bablu said sheepishly. “It took us more than three weeks to reach Patna and felt glad we made it home.” But reality bit soon. With no money left, he had to eat his words. Back in the city, he said, “I don’t have a job right now, but I am certain something will turn up.” Sunny, 14, who worked clandestinely at a Govindpuri factory, also hiked home, trudging for three weeks to reach Purnea in Bihar. For him, returning wasn’t just one of the options; it was the only one. “In my village, there is nothing for me to do. People also weren’t keen to meet me since they though I could be infected after walking for so many days,” he told TOI. “My father is disabled and my mother left the family many years ago. Returning was easy because many buses were available.” The teenager is happy to be back in the city that he says he feels is more like home than his village. Being back in the capital is a relief for brothers Gaurav and Vikas too. “We had cycled home, but we failed to conserve our money and we ran out of funds on the way. We were at the mercy of our fellow migrants on the same routes,” said Gaurav of their lockdown travails. “We even had to beg for the first time in our lives.’ Somehow, the siblings reached home, but soon after their employer was on the phone asking them to rejoin work. “We told him about our horrible journey home, and he offered to pay us more money on our return,” said Gaurav. An elated Vikas added, “Earlier we each earned Rs 6,000 a month, but now our employer has promised to increase our salaries to Rs 10,000. This means a lot to us.” For a family of six, the return to Delhi was a sad affair. “My brother and his wife died of Covid and we were with the family in our village,” said Santosh. “But my husband feared losing his job if we lingered there, so we decided to return. Thank God, the situation was better when we left and we were able to get transport to our home state.” Mohammad Ismail, his wife and daughter also reached the city from Badayun in UP on their way to Chandigarh, where Ismail has his earlier job waiting. But with thousands back in Delhi, autorickshaws have been quick to take advantage. “The autos are overcharging us because they know we cannot afford a taxi while a bus with its limited capacity is a hassle,” muttered Shashi Kumari, returning from UP after two months. Watch Back to the city: Migrant labourers who left Delhi are coming back||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desperate-times-migrants-plod-back-to-city-that-shut-them-outlack-of-opportunities-back-home-breaks-resolve-on-never-to-return/articleshow/77422903.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 8, 2020||Trichy||32K elders in Trichy being traced for screening||Trichy: Trichy corporation has identified around 32,000 senior citizens aged above 70 years for fever screening. The civic body employees through phone calls and text messages have been inviting them to appear for fever screening if they display any Covid-19 symptoms. A majority of the victims among the 45 Covid-19 deaths recorded so far in Trichy have been identified as senior citizens with comorbidities. The corporation after extracting the contact information of the senior citizens in all four zones has passed on the data to bill collectors and revenue assistants in all the 65 wards here. For the past two weeks, the bill collectors across Trichy have reached out to 14,000 citizens aged 70 years and above. “We ask them if they are experiencing any Covid-19 symptoms. Symptomatic persons will be requested to visit the nearest fever camp or urban primary health centre. They will refer our (bill collector’s) name and register their details at the UPHC,” a bill collector in Ariyamangalam zone said. As a result of the phone calls made, around 1,600 elderly people from each zone have appeared for the screening, of which 300-350 symptomatic people have undergone RT-PCR test. The ward-wise database of senior citizens is shared with the urban primary health centres to keep a track of the visitors appearing for fever screening. Trichy Corporation said that the early intervention will help them to prevent Covid-19 spread among the vulnerable population. “In Ponmalai zone, of the 320 swabs collected from the senior citizens we approached, 5% of them tested positive. Such early intervention will help us to curtail casualties. We will survey all the 32,000 senior citizens identified through the electoral roll,” Trichy Corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/32k-elders-in-trichy-being-traced-for-screening/articleshow/77423776.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Ambulances gather dust at Mangaluru hospital, but govt sanctions new ones||MANGALURU: Shradhanjali Vaahana, an ambulance to transport bodies of the poor, donated by Sasvat and U T Fareed Foundation to Wenlock Hospital, is gathering dust without a driver and proper maintenance, even though the government hospital lacks sufficient number of ambulances. At present, private ambulances are also used to shift Covid-19 patients and victims’ bodies, though there are many ambulances gathering dust inside the Wenlock Hospital premises. In a video conference with the people’s representatives of Dakshina Kannada, deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan had sanctioned 15 ambulances for the district on July 17, but they haven’t arrived as yet. Congress leader and Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said that Shradhanjali ambulances were given to 30 districts when he was the health minister, in memory of his father and former MLA U T Fareed. “Shradhanjali ambulances are provided for government hospitals only for the transportation of bodies of poor people, and thereby give them due honour in death. However, unfortunately these vehicles are still not being utilised. The government should appoint drivers and staff immediately for these vehicles. Similarly, the government also should maintain all ambulances which are not in use,” Khader said. However, the government has plans to bring new ambulances instead of repairing the old ones. Meanwhile, the district administration has also taken the initiative to procure additional ambulances through the state disaster relief fund, and also with the help of sponsors. Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said the government has already sanctioned 15 new ambulances for the district. “Deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan has sanctioned 15 ambulances for the district. I will check the status of the proposal, and do the needful to expedite it,” he said. The MLA added that as per the instructions of the deputy chief minister, the work on increasing the number of oxygen enabled beds at Wenlock Hospital has already begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ambulances-gather-dust-at-mluru-hosp-but-govt-sanctions-new-ones/articleshow/77421595.cms||Vinobha K T
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: BYJM members protest outside Cong leaders’ offices/residences||Ludhiana: On Friday, the office bearers of Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) staged a protest against the deaths of many innocent people due to spurious liquor outside Congress leaders’ offices and residences, including cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. BJYM claimed that Congress MLAs were responsible for these deaths as they enabled those who made spurious liquor. BJYM demanded strict action against those who are behind the incident. BJP district president Pushpinder Singal and district president of BJYM Mahesh Datt Sharma staged protest outside cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu office near Kochar Market. Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu came to meet the protesting leaders and offered them water to drink. Ashu and Sandhu asked BJP leaders to come inside and resolve the issue peacefully instead of staging protest at the road. However, the office bearers of BJYM refused to budge and continued staging protest. BJP district president Singal said, “So many people lost their lives when such kind of liquor was served to them and it happened all because of Congress MLAs’ and leaders’ support.” He said chief minister Amarinder singh opened liquor vends even in lockdown saying state exchequer suffered loss. Singal alleged that such kind of illegal activities cannot flourish unless there is political patronage. BJYM district president Sharma said, “The people will not forgive the Congress leaders and government for this incident. Many families have lost their sole bread earners, children lost their parents and mothers lost their sons.” He said the CM should take action against own party leaders for giving shelter to such people. However, Ashu said like BJP even Congress wants to punish those who are involved in this case and justice will be done to the families of the victims. The protest also took place outside residences of MLA Surinder Dawar and Rakesh Pandey, but protest outside Sanjay Talwar residence was declared cancelled as Talwar and his family tested positive for coronavirus. Meanwhile, the police registered a case against protesting BJYM leaders for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and or staging protest outside MLA Surinder Dawar’s residence without permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-byjm-members-protest-outside-cong-leaders-offices/residences/articleshow/77422906.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Peon drowns at flooded south Mumbai road on way home||MUMBAI: A 42-year-old Dongri resident walking home from work drowned in waterlogged SVP Road near Khetwadi in south Mumbai on Wednesday evening during heavy rain. The body of Abdul Karim, a peon in a carpet firm, was found on the road the next morning when water receded. The breadwinner lived with his wife, two children, blind father and cancer-survivor mother. “Two trees had fallen close to the spot where the body was found. We are clueless how he lost his balance in water,” a relative said. The postmortem report said he died due to drowning. Abdul had informed his wife around 7pm on Wednesday that there was water-logging and he was trying to take a bus from his workplace near Babulnath temple. Later, when she tried to contact him, his phone was unreachable. The family made two attempts to search for him on his route but called it off due to heavy water-logging. His relative Mohammad Adil said, “Around midnight, we approached Dongri police with a missing person complaint. On their suggestion we visited Gamdevi police too but there was no information.” The family tried to search for him along the stretch he would take daily but there was waist-level water. They tried to enter the stretch from both sides after taking alternative routes too. They returned home but around 6am, the wife decided to try again, and walked over 2km, when she noticed a man lying on the road. Few people were standing nearby and the wife called one of them to help her drag the body to the footpath. She informed others in the family, who informed police and BMC. An ambulance took the body to hospital and a post-mortem report stated that Abdul died due to drowning. Local MLA Amin Patel said, “The government pays Rs 4 lakh compensation if someone dies of natural disaster. But I have sought Rs 10 lakh considering his family’s condition. He was not at fault but struggling to reach home on a waterlogged road like many others, it’s the moral responsibility of government to compensate the family. I requested police to check CCTV footage along the route.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/peon-drowns-at-flooded-sobo-road-on-way-home/articleshow/77422923.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Brought to hospitals late, 4 die of Covid||LUCKNOW: Lack of awareness among people about “breathlessness” as a Covid-19 symptom continues to be a major factor contributing to coronavirus deaths. On Friday, four more patients died of Covid as they were brought to hospital in the advanced stages of the infection. Total five deaths were recorded on the day, pushing the toll to 138. Of these, 111 patients have died in the past 30 days or one death every seven hours. TOI had highlighted earlier that 60% of Covid deaths were of patients who went to the hospital in the last stage of the infection. Three such deaths due to respiratory and multiorgan failures occurred at KGMU on Friday. Among them was a 68-year-old man from Buddheswar Colony admitted with severely damaged lungs on August 1. “The patient’s oxygen levels kept dropping despite ventilator support,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A 73-year-old resident of Motinagar was admitted with severe lung and kidney infection and died at KGMU within 28 hours of admission. A man (40) from Shiv Colony on Para Road, who had tuberculosis, died from respiratory failure. A 22-year-old woman from Rakabganj, who was shifted to Integral Institute of Medical Sciences (IIMS) on Friday morning from a private hospital died of respiratory failure within hours of admission. “She had critically damaged lungs and was on oxygen support but collapsed due to double pneumonia,” IIMS director said Zafar Idrishi. The death of a government teacher, who died in Era’s Lucknow Medical College on Thursday, was also reported on Friday. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old woman from Hardoi also died Covid-19 ward died due to respiratory failure at KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/brought-to-hospitals-late-4-die-of-covid/articleshow/77423782.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Bureaucratic hurdles come in way of LIT’s solid waste mgmt||Ludhiana: Although Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has installed static compactors at various locations, they are of little use right now. The officials are still waiting for the arrival of BS VI vehicles to lift garbage from compactors site to main garbage dump for solid waste management. LIT officials claimed that they have floated tenders for purchase of vehicles and soon they will be able to get the compactors functioning. LIT had installed static compactors at SBS nagar Sham Nagar, Lodhi club road, behind Orient Cinema, Rishi Nagar Polytechnic, Jawahar Nagar, behind Lord Mahavira temple and Sarabha Nagar J block. The structures are ready and static compactors machines have also reached the sites. Nearly two years are gone since the project was floated by LIT. Earlier, there was dispute over spots chosen for installation. The issue is sorted out, only one location near Chattar Singh Park is still being worked out. Meanwhile, executive engineer of LIT, Boota Ram said, “We can only spend money on BS VI vehicles, as we have clear cut directions to get only these vehicles. It took time because we had sought approval from the local bodies department and now it is granted so we have floated tenders for the same.” He said it will not take much time now and soon everything will come on track. Notably, even the static compactors under smart city mission are still at tendering stage. These static compactors are to be installed for controlling the garbage mess at the secondary garbage collection dumps. In the absence of these static compactors in the past, the civic body could not improve its ‘swachhta survekshan’ ranking, as garbage was lying in the open. Moreover, there are health hazards when garbage is left openly, as stray animals scatter garbage around attracting more flies and mosquitoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bureaucratic-hurdles-come-in-way-of-lits-solid-waste-mgmt/articleshow/77422909.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 7 cops among 707 new Covid cases||LUCKNOW: With transmission rate showing no sign of relenting, the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 700-mark in a day for the first time, taking the tally beyond 11,500 on Friday. Seven cops posted at Hazratganj police station and a nurse at SPM Civil hospital were among 707 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours at the rate of 30 cases every hour. The overall case load now stands at 11,512, of which 6,090, including 216 on Friday, have recovered. According to health department sources, 27 cases were reported from Alambagh on Friday followed by Hazratganj with 21, Mahanagar (18), Rae Bareli Road and Hasanganj (15 each), Gomtinagar Extension (14) and Indiranagar 13. The seven police personnel of Hazratganj police station testing positive had come in contact with the five found to be infected on August 3. “The police station has been sanitized and a list of more cops who came in contact with the infected is being prepared,” said Anjani Kumar, station house officer. “A nursing staff tested positive during random sampling,” said Dr Ajay Tripathi, in charge of the isolation ward at Civil hospital. Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said directions have been issued to non-Covid private hospitals to make arrangements of ambulances for shifting patients diagnosed with Covid-19 in their facilities to a designated Covid facility. This will reduce workload on government ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-cops-among-707-new-corona-cases/articleshow/77423792.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy semi-ring road project deadline extended for 3rd time||Trichy: For a third straight time, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has missed the deadline to complete a portion of the semi-ring road project that links five national highways (NH) passing through Trichy city. Citing the lockdown restrictions and unavailability of skilled labours, authorities have yet again sought two more months to complete the link road.Trichy semi-ring road interlinks Trichy-Thanjavur, Trichy-Pudukkottai, Trichy-Madurai, Trichy-Dindigul and Trichy-Karur NHs in the southern part of Trichy city. The decade-old project proposal after facing several hardships made some progress in late 2019. A portion of the semi-ring road linking Thuvakudi (on Trichy-Thanjavur NH) with Mathur (on Trichy-Pudukkottai NH) was slated to be completed by January 2020. However, citing northeast monsoon, the deadline to complete the 14 km stretch was postponed to March 2020. While officials said that the portion of the semi-ring road will be completed in two months that is at least by May 2020, four months on, the authorities have yet again failed to commission the road. The link road between Thuvakudi and Mathur will significantly reduce the traffic congestion in Trichy city’s Palpannai, Thiruverumbur and TVS tollgate since people heading to Trichy airport from delta districts and industrial estates on Pudukkottai NH will opt the Thuvakudi-Mathur stretch instead of entering the city. “There is a delay in availing construction materials including bitumen due to the lockdown. Many of our skilled labourers are in their native place. We are having only 50% of the actual workforce that we managed to source locally,” an official source with NHAI said. As a bridge in the stretch between Thuvakudi and Mathur is yet to be completed, officials said that the road will be commissioned in a couple of months. Similarly, the other part of link road connecting Mathur with Panchapur (on Trichy-Madurai NH) is also making slow progress. An RoB proposed near Kumaramangalam between Mathur and Panchapur is yet to be constructed, officials said that the design of RoB has been sent to the southern railways for approval.The consistent delay in commissioning the road infrastructure has disappointed the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-semi-ring-road-project-deadline-extended-for-3rd-time/articleshow/77423789.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi eateries pledge to fight crafty landlords||NEW DELHI: Restaurateurs in the city started a chain message titled ‘Pledge of Solidarity’, where a recipient states ‘I Pledge’, adds the name of his or her outlet and forwards it to colleagues in the profession. The pledge states that at a trying time when the food and beverages industry is at a standstill and restaurateurs are fighting multiple battles, they mustn’t be done in by real estate manipulations. Many restaurant operators will be forced to vacate premises either on their own or under duress, the pledge cautions. With the commercial arrangements finalised in the pre-Covid era no longer relevant, the message adds, many landlords may use pressure tactics such as non-refund or deduction of deposits and court cases. “In these circumstances, the least we can do is to take a pledge to not allow the landlords to take advantage of the situation and collectively agree that we will not poach each other's premises without obtaining an NOC/Go Ahead from the vacating fraternity member, either directly or through the landlord. We also must pledge to never work with real estate consultants who show our occupied premises to prospective new tenants at the behest of our landlords without the above-mentioned NOC or Go Ahead,” reads the pledge. Within 12 hours of floating the message on Friday, over 300 restaurants signed their support for the cause. While indications of resumption of business from hospitality outlets was heartening, many restaurateurs said that non-cooperation by landlords and state and central governments could kill Delhi’s lounges and bars. Even though most food-centric spaces are reopening and Yogeshwar Sharma of Select Citywalk asserted that the food court there was resuming work, the reluctance of diners to visit even ‘credible spaces’ could prove challenging for lounges and bars. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle, a company that operates popular, ‘high-energy’ outlets such as Lord of the Drinks, Tamasha, DragonFly Experience and Diablo reported that sales are mere 7% of what they were last year. Since social distancing protocols are already in place, Sukhija felt allowing alcohol service could be a step in the right direction. One of the signatories of the pledge, Sukhija argued that if alcohol was not allowed to be served, many outlets would think it financially unviable to reopen. “The closures and joblessness will actually happen now. Without alcohol sales, many restaurants, lounges and bars cannot muster the courage to reopen and survive,” he asserted. Navneet Kalra of Town Hall echoed Sukhija’s views and pointed out that even though diner confidence was improving by the day, resumption of alcohol service would bring the business earnings back to at least 60% of pre-Covid days. Kalra felt this was the time for authorities to be supportive and to allow terraces to reopen and alcohol to be served because all outlets were running at reduced capacities due to social distancing regulations. Jasjit Singh of Tenali the Andhra Kitchen said the initial response to his food space reopening has been heartening, but he still hasn’t thrown open the doors to his other two outlets, Shibuya and La Latina Tapas Bar, both of which rely heavily on alcohol sales. “The industry is totally dependent on the support of the administration and the landlords right now,” Singh said. “Food places and unique concepts are able to stay afloat somehow on dine-in and home delivery services, but bars have it tough at the moment.” Permission to serve alcohol will also enable many restaurants to return to functioning with full workforce. Almost the entire bar staff in most of the outlets are currently on leave without pay. A lounge operator disclosed that he had 60 employees, but only needs 12 every day to run the place because of the reduced daily footfall resulting from the alcohol ban. And yet, restaurant operators see hope in the regular enquiries they have been receiving from their patrons. Restaurateur Ashish Begwani, who runs two of the most buzzing spaces in the city, Ophelia and Toy Room, revealed he got round 25 calls a day about the reopening date. With both his outlets located in five-star hotels and reliant on alcohol sales, Begwani says he will be ready to resume business the moment alcohol service is permitted in five-star hotels. Watch Delhi eateries pledge to fight crafty landlords||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-eateries-pledge-to-fight-crafty-landlords/articleshow/77422925.cms||Amin Ali
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy apartment a containment zone||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has established a containment zone sealing an entire apartment situated on Vayalur Road here on Friday, after three occupants residing in two flats tested positive for Covid-19. The urban local body has instructed sanitary supervisors to conduct random checks in flats across the city to verify whether standard operating procedures are being followed to prevent Covid-19 spread. Health officials said that the apartment complex near Bishop Heber College in K Abishekpauram zone has reported three positive cases including a doctor. A family member of the doctor also tested positive. Meanwhile, a woman in another flat in the same apartment, who recently returned after attending an event in another city tested positive after developing symptoms. Since multiple cases were reported and the flats attract street vendors and housemaids from other parts, the corporation established a containment zone. “We have appointed one of our workers to help the residents buy essential commodities. Since residents will access the common access area causing the spread to escalate further, we have insisted them to stay inside,” a sanitary official with the corporation said. Taking note that apartments are becoming potential hotspots, the civic body has insisted gated communities to avoid using lifts and calling bells. “Most of the apartment residents contract the infection at the workplace. To prevent the spread within the community, our employees were told to supervise the standard operating procedures followed in gated communities,” said S Sivasubramanian, commissioner and special officer of corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-apartment-a-containment-zone/articleshow/77423802.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar registers maximum +ve cases in a day||Patna: Bihar reported the maximum single-day Covid-19 cases so far as well as record 71,520 tests in the last 24 hours on Friday. While noted Katihar surgeon Dr D N Poddar was among the 12 more casualties, the 3,646 fresh cases took the state Covid tally to 71,794 as on Friday. The death toll also mounted to 400. Dr Poddar died at AIIMS-Patna. The previous highest single-day positive cases were 3,521, reported in the state on Sunday. Also, 35,619 tests were conducted that day. Out of the 71,794 Covid patients, 46,265 recovered and 25,127 were still under treatment either in various hospitals or at home. As per the health department bulletin, four deaths were reported from Patna, taking the toll to 71 in the district so far. Two persons from Vaishali also died, taking the district toll to 11. Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Munger, Nawada, East Champaran and Saran reported one death each. The department stated that 2,445 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 64.44%. Two Covid patients died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Its nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the one was a 75-year-old man from Sadaquat Ashram area while another was a Muzaffarpur man (50) with a medical history of asthma. He had tested negative on July 29, but his report after his death was found positive for Covid-19. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal officer incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight Covid patients died, including the two reported by TOI on Thursday. Among the six deceased, an 82-year-old woman was from Kurji locality and a 74-year-old man from New Azimabad Colony, both in Patna. Patna registered over 500 fresh Covid-19 cases on the second consecutive day. A total of 566 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the district tally to 12,160 on Friday. However, with 8,015 recoveries, there were 4,074 active cases in Patna. Katihar has reported 211 cases, the second highest after Patna on Friday. Other districts with large number of cases included East Champaran (188), Nalanda (162), Banka (128), Vaishali (125), Bhagalpur (124), West Champaran (118), Rohtas (114), Sitamarhi (113), Muzaffarpur (109), Samastipur (105) and Purnea (104). Hot water dispensers installed at PMCH, NMCH Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said hot water dispensers were installed at PMCH and NMCH on Friday on the demand from Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment there. “We have installed one dispenser each today and additional one will be put up in both the hospitals. This week, we will also provide such dispensers to all Covid facilities in Patna division,” said Agarwal. He said the district had sufficient beds for Covid-19 patients. As against around 4,000 beds available at different centres, only around 1,000 were occupied, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-maximum-ve-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77420959.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Woman dies of Covid, kin blame delay in shifting to hospital||LUCKNOW: A government primary school teacher died of coronavirus within hours of admission at Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC) on Thursday. The teacher was shifted to the hospital four days after being diagnosed with Covid-19. The husband of the deceased and the hospital where she was being treated earlier both blamed the authorities for delay in treatment. They claimed that their calls to health and district authorities to shift the 35-year-old woman patient to a Covid hospital went unattended for four days. Refuting the charges, district administrative officials said that the husband and the hospital were contacting a ‘channel’ no longer in use. Balaganj resident Bina Kumari was diagnosed with Covid after being admitted to Vivekanand Polyclinic and Hospital (VPH) on August 1 with low blood pressure, diabetes and abdominal pain due to gallbladder stones. “As our hospital is not a Covid facility, after giving primary treatment, as per protocol, we called the administration’s Covid helpdesk several times for shifting the patient to a Covid hospital. We were told that an ambulance will be sent as soon as a bed is available. We also sent a text message to health officers on August 2 and email to the chief medical officer’s office on August 3, but got no response,” said senior consultant Dr Vishal Singh, VPH. VPH secretary Swami Muktinathananda also confirmed that the hospital tried its best to contact authorities. Brijesh Kumar, husband of the deceased, alleged, “I also called the CMO helpline several times but to no avail. On August 5, I got the number of Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) and informed it about the status, but the ambulance arrived after five hours. It shifted my wife to Era’s Lucknow Medical College where she died within 10 hours of admission.” Bina Kumari is survived by her husband and a 7-year-old son. Meanwhile, chief medical officer Lucknow said he was not aware of the incident. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, when contacted, asked to call chief development officer Manish Bansal. The CDO said, “The hospital and the husband of the deceased earlier approached the channel that is no longer in use, but we reacted immediately after ICCC was informed. The ICCC also calls patients who test Covid-19 positive after getting the list from the labs, but in this case, the phone number of the patient was found to be switched off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-dies-kin-blame-delay-in-shifting-to-hosp/articleshow/77423804.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt’s new industrial policy offers capital subsidy||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government on Friday unveiled a new industrial policy, offering subsidies on fixed capital investment, land on long-term leases and special incentives to companies that relocate to the state from other countries. The policy aims to create jobs, boost manufacturing, balance regional development and create ‘an innovation driven ecosystem’. It has taken a bold decision de-linking incentives from the state goods and services tax (SGST) due to the complexities in tax calculation. Instead of SGST/VAT reimbursement, a capital subsidy of up to 12% of fixed capital investment will be given to large industries for setting up manufacturing operations in the state. There is no ceiling on how much can be given to a particular unit in incentives. Addressing the issue of high land cost, which was keeping industry from investing, the government announced that industries will get land on long-term leases of up to 50 years at 6% of the market price. Under the new policy, the Gujarat government will offer special incentives to companies planning to relocate from other countries. “The new industrial policy looks to re-energise the state’s industrial sector Covid-19 outbreak,” said Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, while announcing the policy for the next five years. The government has also identified 15 thrust sectors, which will get additional incentives. The government said a separate policy for the services sector will be announced soon. The policy envisions spending Rs 8,000 crore every year on industrial development or Rs 40,000 crore over five years. “Gujarat stands first in terms of the number of industrial entrepreneurship memorandums, with 51% of the IEMs filed in India in terms of value in 2019. During this time of the coronavirus pandemic, we are coming out with a policy aimed at creating more jobs, improving manufacturing and having an innovation-driven ecosystem towards making an ‘Atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) Gujarat,” the CM said. Industry players hailed the new industrial policy announced by the state government. Chintan Thaker, co-chair of the Assocham Gujarat state council, said, “A new industrial policy was long awaited, and the state government has very extensively considered a slew of sectors. Capital subsidy being directly credited to the businessmen’s accounts will be ease of doing business in a true sense. The special focus on micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) was the need of the hour and will go a long way in letting these industries expand and thrive. Apart from the core sectors, the government has also laid special emphasis on sunrise sectors, which will aid the all-round development of the state.”  Durgesh Buch, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), said, “The new policy will be beneficial to industry. The capital subsidy and land leasing will help boost investors’ morale and help bring in investments. At the same time, the move to set up affordable housing in the industrial sectors will be in interest of workers. It reflects the political will to walk the extra mile. Having said that, we expect that provisions in the policy are effectively implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govts-new-industrial-policy-offers-capital-subsidy/articleshow/77423002.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chandigarh||MC razes illegal portion of building n ear Chand Cinema||Ludhiana: The civic officials razed an illegal part of a building near Chand Cinema on Friday, following a complaint from city-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal. The officials had served a notice to the building owner for dismantling the stairs of building, as they were illegal and were constructed on the road. The building is already sealed. This complex was under construction against norms and there were many shortcomings in the building. First of all, no parking space was designated in the complex despite the fact that more than 60 shops were being constructed in 267 square yards of land. The building plan was approved, but two additional floors were being constructed in the building. The building is not fulfilling the fire norms and other safety standards. MC officials had written to police for registering an FIR against the owner of the building. A letter was sent to powercom as well asking them for not giving electricity connection to the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-razes-illegal-portion-of-building-n-ear-chand-cinema/articleshow/77422959.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka may be much more than official data suggests||BENGALURU: There appears to be a lag between the actual number of positive cases and those disclosed by the government for some time now. While the gap was just a few hundred in mid-July, it has risen to a staggering 7,000 cases on August 4, a scrutiny of daily new cases and deaths has revealed. For example, as per the government, the total number of cases in Karnataka on August 6 was 1,58,254. However, as per the government’s daily bulletin, patient number 1,63,741 and eight others who are yet to be officially reported as Covid-19 positive, have already died, indicating that patients between 1.58 lakh and 1.63 lakh have not been reported on the day. A TOI analysis from July 15 to August 6 shows dozens more people, whose patient IDs indicate cases beyond the total cases declared, have succumbed to the disease. The trend kicked in from July 15 — data going back to June 29 has been checked — and has been consistently so except for two days since. If patient number 47,325, who was declared deceased in the bulletin on July 15 indicated 72 more cases than the total number declared on that day, patient number 1,53,342 reported dead in the August 4 bulletin shows that there were at least 7,120 more cases than the total number announced. Asked when a patient number is generated, health director Omprakash Patil said: “It is done after the sample of a person tests positive.” He, however, couldn’t immediately say why there was a gap in reporting cases each day over the past 22 days. Suresh Shastri, joint director, health and family welfare department, said: “Cases reported by districts up to a certain time on a day are added, and if there are patients beyond this that are reported as dead, they will be accounted for in the total number of cases the next day. We will give more information on this.” Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, said, earlier, details of people testing positive were collected from the district surveillance officer manually and checked against the ICMR portal and then a patient number was generated. But, there was a time lag. “Now, we’ve moved to an online system where we download positive reports directly from ICMR portal. We think there could be duplication at some labs due to technical issues. The other issue could be testing of follow-up patients, which also shows positive,” she said. While IDs of the dead show the minimum number of cases that might not be reported, there could be more. “For instance, on August 6, there could already be a patient whose ID is beyond 1,63,741, but you wouldn’t know as s/he may be under treatment and the number is not accounted for in the deaths’ table or the cases in the official bulletin,” one expert, who wished to remain unnamed said. Earlier death audits showed several patients die within 24 hours of reaching a hospital, indicating that some patients who died may have been accounted for in the total cases in the next day’s tally. There are also patients who survive who were unreported. On August 3, patient number 1,40,056 was reported discharged, while the total cases were 1,39,571. This means this person had tested positive at least 10 days earlier to have been discharged.  But medical education minister K Sudhakar insisted the state wasn’t fudging data. “There is no misreporting. We need to first understand the reporting process to understand why there is a mismatch between patient numbers and deaths. All samples which test positive in the lab are uploaded on the ICMR portal and are then updated in our state's Parihar portal. Positive cases uploaded in ICMR’s portal includes repeat positives -- those who tested positive in Karnataka and admitted in other states or other districts of Karnataka which will reflect in the district where they have tested positive. The district then either approves or rejects cases or transfers cases based on the origin of the infected person. If the cases belong to different states or the same person has got tested at multiple labs, then those patient numbers are not reflected in the positive cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cases-in-karnataka-may-be-much-more-than-official-data-suggests/articleshow/77421677.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fake Covid report foxes doctors at SGPGI, probe on||LUCKNOW: In a shocking incident, authorities at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences came across a fake Covid-19 status report. Taking cognizance of the matter, the authorities lodged an FIR with the SGPGI police station on Friday. “We have come across a couple of incidents which show that certain criminal elements were trying to fleece poor patients, staying in hotels and guest houses in the proximity of the institute, in the name of cheaper and faster Covid-19 testing. Therefore we lodged an FIR in the matter,” said Prof SP Ambesh, head of security committee. He stated that in one such incident, Covid-19 report of a patient undergoing treatment at the Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) was forged to create a fake report to facilitate treatment of another patient. Prof Ambesh warned people to be wary of such criminals who were putting the life of scores of patients and health workers in danger. According to the FIR, Dr Shashank Pandey – a resident doctor posted in the cardiology MICU – was verifying documents related to a patient and his attendants from Gonda.  Upon entering the unique identification and registration number generated for every patient, no match was found. So he enquired about the matter and rang alarm bells. Station house officer (PGI) KK Mishra said, “We have lodged an FIR under charges of dishonesty, forgery of valuable documents and misusing a genuine official document in the case.” A team has been assigned to investigate the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fake-covid-report-foxes-doctors-at-sgpgi-probe-on/articleshow/77423813.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Business||State’s IT exports beat lockdown blues, stay above 22k cr in April-July||Pune: Technology firms in Maharashtra, primarily from Pune and Mumbai, exported over Rs 22,000 crore of software in the lockdown months of April, May, June and July, indicating limited impact of the shutdown on the sector. This has been revealed in the provisional figures of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), units of which account for at least 50% of export revenue generated by IT firms, including those in the special economic zones (SEZs). “A lot of companies migrated to work from home and after initial troubles, achieved a 100% productivity and, in some cases, did even better,” a senior STPI official said. Some firms like Icertis, with over 1,000 employees in Pune, have declared continued work from home till year-end. Icertis has, in fact, started hiring for remote working positions. Other companies have also declared a work-from-home policy at least till October-end. “The numbers indicate that there has not been a massive impact on software exports, with most of the companies saying that things are improving,” Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Maharashtra director, STPI, said. Pune and Mumbai contribute to the over 90% of exports in the state. “Despite companies losing a few clients in the first quarter, it looks like business will pick pace from mid-August onwards,” an IT official said. In FY2018-19, Rs 85,000 crore worth of software was exported from the STPI units in Maharashtra. In FY 2019-20, it grew marginally to Rs 87,000 crore. IT leaders said it was likely that the export figures would be close to the figures of the previous two years and that the world was opening up for business faster-than-anticipated should help. “If that happens, it will be no mean feat. The industry and its employees have worked very hard to keep clients engaged across geographies. I can say that the jobs lost will come back. However, I am not sure if these jobs will be office-based. The roles will change,” a human resource representative of an IT firm said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/states-it-exports-beat-lockdown-blues-stay-above-22k-cr-in-april-july/articleshow/77423007.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Admission guidelines out after colleges fill seats||Trichy: The higher education department finally released the admission guidelines for arts and science colleges on Friday, but only when most colleges have completed their admissions to various courses. The guidelines are released every year primarily to prevent violations in admission process by self-financing colleges. The document comes with vital instructions on the process of carrying admissions, so delayed release is as good as not issuing guidelines at all, say academicians. This especially when there is no proper mechanism to monitor admission process in these colleges. Admissions to arts and science colleges had started the day the results of state board class XII were published on July 16. The admission guidelines were not released on that day, but now a copy of the guideline dated July 18 has been circulated in the public domain on Friday. The same is yet to be updated in the official website of the directorate of collegiate education. It is pointed out that self-financing colleges are the main violators of the guidelines, be it in cost of application, rule of reservation, publishing of rank list and admission to self-financing courses before aided courses. “Among the serious breaches is admissions to the self-financing courses in aided colleges which get filled before admissions to aided courses,” said former president of AUT K Pandiyan. He says one can find that all money-spinning courses in self-financing colleges are forcibly filled first by managements. Thus, even meritorious students are forced to pay hefty sums to join these courses, he said. There is no uniform fee structure for self-financing colleges which have multifarious courses, unlike professional colleges, says T Nedunchezhian, a retired college professor from Trichy. Self-financing colleges fix their own fee. For instance, for a BCom degree course in the heart of Trichy city, a student would have to shell out about Rs 25,000 while in the suburbs it is around Rs10,000. There is no proper mechanism to monitor the irregularities that eventually affect the students, he said. Often, the regional joint director of collegiate education remained silent on the complaints of violation by colleges and absence of admission guidelines acts to the advantage of these colleges, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/admission-guidelines-out-after-colleges-fill-seats/articleshow/77423824.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||13 new cases take Nilgiris’ tally to 931||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 13 new cases of novel coronavirus on Friday, taking its tally to 931, of which 154 are active cases. All the new cases were reported from Kotagiri and Coonoor taluks. Five of them were women. The state also included one more Codid-a9 death from the district in its bulletin, taking the toll officially to four. However, at least nine patients had succumbed to the virus in the hill district so far. At least 17 patients recovered and were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment on Friday. With this, 773 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far. The recovery rate stands at 83%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/13-new-cases-take-nilgiris-tally-to-931/articleshow/77423016.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Jamtara gang duped pensioners, spent money to build homes||LUCKNOW: Members of the Jamtara gang in Jharkand, who amassed crores of rupees by fleecing pensioners, used to splurge the money on holidaying and constructing houses. After the arrest of nine members of the gang, Lucknow police has recovered aeroplane tickets, receipts of holiday inns and documents of houses constructed by the fraudsters. According to police, the gang operated in winters and enjoyed during summers and spring season. Assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell, Vivek Ranjan Rai told TOI that over Rs 13 crore was amassed by the arrested men identified as Rupak Mandal, Gopal Mandal, Lallan Mandal, Yoganand Prasad, Pramod Kumar Mandal, Neeraj Mandal, Harihar Mandal, Ranjeet Mandal and Rahul Arya. We are still searching records of the accused persons. We recovered records of flight bookings made by Rupak to various islands in India. Properties in the name of Pramod Kumar Mandal and Yogananda Prasad were found in Jamtara in Jharkhand,” he said, adding that a team was working to track 11 other members of the gang. Rai said the gang had set up its own call centre from where they lured pensioners who had little knowledge about online banking. Later, the gang used to get their internet banking option activated and used to get money deposited as fixed deposit and asked for their password during the process. “The gang members offered loans against FD to gullible pensioners and then used to transfer the loan amount to their own accounts and withdraw it later,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jamtara-gang-duped-pensioners-spent-money-to-build-homes/articleshow/77423820.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||New startup policy based on talks with stakeholders: Department||PANAJI: Days after Goa’s IT and startup stakeholders claimed to be in the dark about the proposal to bring in the Goa Startup Policy 2020, the department of information technology (DoIT) shot back, and stated that the government has adopted a “consultative and participatory approach” while preparing the revamped policy. The department, which is headed by IT minister Jennifer Monserrate, said that the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC) held consultations with government departments, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) and startup ecosystem stakeholders. “For over a month, the SPC has been conducting online surveys and consultations with all startup ecosystem stakeholders and detailed feedback and policy inputs of 105 have been received,” said a department official. At present, 88 startups have been certified by the SPC, and of these, Startup India and DPIIT have recognised 69 startups. SPC estimates around 150 startups in Goa and 12 incubators cum co-working spaces. “For the Goa Startup Policy 2020, the department has taken a consultative and participatory approach doing consultation with Goa government departments, central government, DPIIT and startup ecosystem stakeholders in Goa,” an official said. The statement comes after Goa Technology Association questioned the move to revise the existing startup policy when several startups have failed to benefit from the startup schemes. The “growing conjecture and speculation” about Goa Startup Policy 2020 had to be addressed, said officials. The Goa Startup Policy 2017 offered 14 incentives and the SPC has received 77 applications from startups for these schemes. Of these 77 applications, 68 startups applied for just three schemes, while nine applications were for five schemes. The remaining six schemes got no takers, the department said. Goa Startup Policy 2017 expires in September. The IT department also said that the Goa Startup Policy 2020 is being designed with a post Covid-19 world in mind. “The SPC and DoIT have an open door policy, encouraging and welcoming all ecosystem stakeholders and request they too adorn the same constructive and participative approach,” said the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-startup-policy-based-on-talks-with-stakeholders-dept/articleshow/77423013.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Sri Lankan don had done nose job to hide identity||COIMBATORE: Sri Lankan don Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka had undergone a nose job in Balaji Nursing Home at RS Puram in the city in February this year to hide his identity, said a CB-CID source. According to the source, Lokka told doctors he was planning to act in movies and he wanted to correct his nose by making it a little bigger. The surgery was performed on February 19 and he was discharged from the hospital three days later on 22. He was accompanied by Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari and her friend Dhyaneswaran. The source said, “He got the nose job done with an intention to hide his identity. We have collected details from the hospital.” Doctors have hand over photos of Lokka that they had taken before and after the plastic surgery to the investigation agency. The hospital authorities, however, refused to speak about the surgery. Lokka used to visit Royal Fitness Club on Vilankurichi Road at Cheran Maa Nagar regularly for workout. “He identified himself as Pradeepsingh. He joined the gym along with Dhyaneswaran in August 2019. He mostly came for workout in the evening hours. He did not speak to anyone, including instructors. He used to spend more than an hour in the gym daily,” said Prabhu, who runs the gym. He said Dhyaneswaran had stopped coming to the gym after a few days. “When we asked about him, Pradeepsingh said he had gone to his hometown and would return soon.” Pradeepsingh, Prabhu said, had renewed his membership in January this year. “We had collected his photograph and mobile number. We were in a state of shock when the media unravelled the real identity of Pradeepsingh, who Dhyaneswaran told us hailed from northern parts of India. We have handed over the documents to police.” Meanwhile, Amani Dhanji, 27, of Colombo, who was arrested for hiding the identity of Lokka, was lodged in the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai on Friday morning. Dhanji had been staying with Lokka since February 2020. It was Dhanji who took him to a private hospital, where doctors declared Lokka brought dead on July 3. Dhanji was two months pregnant when she was picked up by the city police on Sunday. She suffered an abortion while being taken to a magistrate. She was subsequently admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. She was discharged on Thursday afternoon and taken directly to the Puzhal Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lankan-don-had-nose-job-to-hide-identity-cb-cid/articleshow/77423010.cms||A Subburaj
August 8, 2020||Goa||Identify ‘other’ Roy Naik, Cong tells BJP||Panaji: BJP’s organisation secretary Satish Dhond must identify which Roy Naik had links with the drug mafia, said Congress as it reminded the BJP karyakartas that while in opposition, the BJP had demanded a CBI investigation and had forced assembly proceedings to be adjourned six times. In 2010, the BJP had alleged that Congress MLA Ravi Naik’s son Roy was part of the drug dealer-police nexus. As the then opposition leader, Manohar Parrikar had sought a CBI probe and had also demanded that Ravi Naik should step down as the home minister. “It is in the interest of the state that the BJP karyakartas must demand with their organising secretary to provide them with the information about Roy, who was involved in drug trade,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar. On Thursday, BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanawade gave a clean chit to the Congress legislator’s son and said that the BJP was referring to another Roy Naik when they made the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/identify-other-roy-naik-cong-tells-bjp/articleshow/77423009.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Rajkot||Mosquito breeding found at 90 premises in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) found mosquito breeding at 90 premises including hotels, restaurants and malls in the city on Friday. The civic body held inspections at 130 location. According to RMC’s press release, the teams found mosquito breeding at prominent places like Fortune Hotel, Reliance Mall (on 150-foot ring road), D-Mart (Kalavad road), Jaddus Restaurant, Lijjat Papad, K K Hotel, Balaji Dining hall, Davat Family, Park-in hotel, Jenis Palace hotel. Notices were issued to owners of the these premises and administrative charges were collected from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mosquito-breeding-found-at-90-premises-in-rajkot/articleshow/77420426.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Lankan Air Force plane suffers snag, lands at INS Hansa||Panaji: A Sri Lankan Air Force (SLAF) AN-32 transport aircraft made an emergency landing at naval airbase INS Hansa, Goa on Friday after the aircraft suffered a technical glitch just after take off from the naval airbase. The aircraft, part of a three aircraft formation, had landed at Goa for refuelling while enroute to Ukraine for complete overhaul. Indian Navy engineers detected the fault and repaired the aircraft and the three Antonov AN-32s are now expected to fly out on Saturday. The Indian Navy’s Ilyushin Il-38 shares the same Ivchenko AI-20 turboprop engine that powers the AN-32. The Sri Lankan embassy expressed its appreciation to the personnel at INS Hansa for the immediate assistance. “We express our deep appreciation to the Indian Navy for rendering assistance to a Sri Lankan Air Force aircraft and the crew in Goa. It was indeed a gesture of true friendship and cooperation,” said the embassy in a statement. As per initial reports, the lead aircraft in the formation took off from INS Hansa ,but the crew detected a malfunction moments later and requested permission to return to INS Hansa. “The SLAF is grateful to the defence wing of Indian high commission in Sri Lanka, Navy and IAF for vital technical assistance given to SLAF aircraft in Goa,” said the Sri Lankan Air Force in a tweet. The Indian Air Force operates similar AN-32 twin-engine turboprop transport aircraft. The aircraft, a workhorse of the Indian Air Force (IAF), help transport troops and replenishments for forward bases. According to Sri Lankan media, the lifespan of the three of Sri Lankan AN-32 aircraft had ended and the aircraft were headed to Kiev, Ukraine for overhaul. Ukrainian engineers had assessed the three airframes in May this year before clearing the aircraft to fly 6,500kms to Ukraine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lankan-air-force-plane-suffers-snag-lands-at-ins-hansa/articleshow/77423024.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 8, 2020||Goa||Views sought on Mapusa, Panaji land use maps||Panaji: The North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) on Friday put up the land use map for Mapusa and the land use register for the Mapusa planning area for public scrutiny. The NGPDA has invited suggestions and objections from citizens within 30 days, said authorities. In a similar manner, the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority has issued a public notice regarding the preparation of the land use map and land use register for the Panaji planning area. Objections and suggestions have to be conveyed in writing within 30 days. “GPPDA will hear all persons concerned who submit their objections and suggestions in writing,” said an official. In June 2019, the state government has directed NGPDA to revise the Mapusa and Panaji outline development plans (ODP) by preparing a land use map and register for both. Subsequently, in September 2019, Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate was appointed as GPPDA chairman, while St Andre constituency MLA Francis Silveira as chairman of NGPDA. The ODPs for Panaji and Mapusa were prepared in 2016, but at that time NGPDA chose not to prepare a land use map and register, which is one of the main reasons for starting the ODP process afresh, said TCP officials. Since then, authorities have tried to map every structure, whether residential, commercial, government and even some utilities to ensure that land utilisation is clearly depicted in the ODP. The planning body has also identified encroachments on government and private land. Incidentally, the town and country planning board, which met a week ago, had accepted the draft ODPs for Arpora-Nagoa-Parra planning area and the Bambolim planning area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/views-sought-on-mapusa-panaji-land-use-maps/articleshow/77423020.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Chip in ID card to track LMC sanitary workers on duty||LUCKNOW: Sanitary workers of Lucknow Municipal Corporation will now be tracked with the help of a chip embedded in their identity cards, with an aim to ensure timely and efficient services to citizens. Under the Smart Cities Mission, the civic body is all set to issue identity cards with Near Field Communication (NFC) chips that will enable the supervisor to track their location in a 500-metre radius. The supervisor will not have to roam around in lanes and bylanes to keep a tab on workers. Instead, she/he will get the locations of all the workers in a locality within seconds after entering the locality. TimesViewUsing technology to fix accountability and efficiency is a good move, but LMC will have to ensure that it wins the confidence of staff before rolling out the plan because earlier such moves led to Rs 3 crore loss to it as the plan was rolled back. Though employees’ union has agreed this time, there is a possibility that some workers may oppose it or find a way to dodge the system. So, LMC needs to address genuine woes of staff and identify the odd ones out.The decision to introduce the system has been taken in view of complaints that sanitary workers do not report for duty at many places. Explaining the functioning of NFC chips, officials said that it comes under standard communication protocols and is based on radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “In simple words, NFC chips are global-positioning system (GPS) devices. When activated, the tracking device given to the supervisor can locate sanitary workers within 500-metre radius.” LMC has about 10,000 sanitary workers on roll. Of these, around 6,000 are permanent and the remaining ad hoc. For the first phase likely to start from August 28, LMC has placed an order of 5,000 NFC chips with a Pune-based private company at a cost of Rs 19 lakh. In 2018, LMC had distributed 6,000 GPS-enabled smart watches costing around Rs 3 crore among workers to keep track of them. The move yielded good results as 26 sanitary workers were caught skipping duties. However, it had to be withdrawn after a few months due to opposition from the employees’ union as workers had to bear the expense of buying a SIM card and recharging it regularly to keep watches operational. This time, officials said that they had written to the workers’ union explaining the new technology and the need to introduce it. The system will help workers also as chips will keep an account of their working hours and nobody will be able to make false charges that they were not present on duty, leading to wage cut. Further, a worker will not have to pay anything from his pocket to get the chip recharged, they added. Nagar Nigam Karmchaari Sanghtan secretary Anand said, “We have understood the functioning of the technology and agreed for the implementation of the new system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chip-in-id-card-to-track-lmc-sanitary-workers-on-duty/articleshow/77423831.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 8, 2020||Delhi||1,192 fresh Covid cases, 23 fatalities in 24 hours in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,192 fresh cases of infection by the novel coronavirus on Friday, down from 1,299 recorded on Thursday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi now stands at more than 1.42 lakh, while the death toll has mounted to 4,082. According to the latest bulletin released by the state health department, 23 fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours. For the last few days, the Covid-19 related fatalities were 15 or less. The number of active cases rose from Thursday’s 10,348 to 10,409 on Friday, with the recovery rate around 89%. Of the total beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 10,502 (77.3%) were vacant, 7,244 beds in Covid care centres have no patients, even though 2,278 of these are being used for quarantine purposes of travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. The number of vacant beds in Covid health centres is 397 and the number of people in home isolation stands at 5,367. Even though less than one-fourth of the dedicated Covid-19 beds are occupied at the moment, Delhi government officials don’t plan to deescalate the arrangements at the moment as there are apprehensions of resurgence. “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been contained at the moment, but we can’t be complacent,” a Delhi government official said. “We need to be very cautious and everyone has to continue maintaining social distancing, wear masks and keep washing hands at regular intervals.” The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 17,773 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 5,612, with total tests adding up to 23,385. Till date, total 11,43,703 tests have been conducted in Delhi and the number of tests done per million, as on Friday, was 60,194. On Friday, the number of containment zones stood at 477.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1192-fresh-covid-cases-23-fatalities-in-24-hours/articleshow/77423018.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Govt officials to seek written exemption from home quarantine||Pune: State government officials travelling inter-state have been told to apply for written exemption notes from the local authority if they need to join duty immediately and request for exemption from 14-day home quarantine. Many officials visit Mumbai and Pune and there are complaints that government officials though stamped are showing their I-card and taking exemption from the compulsory 14-day home quarantine and joining duty. All local authorities have issued directions stating that they need to seek exemption two working days prior to the arrival.A Bihar cadre IPS officer investigating actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case was told to follow the mandatory 14-day home quarantine. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had in an order said that some government officials after reaching from other states show their government I-cards and secure exemption. The order issued by additional municipal commissioner P Velarasu clarified that any exemption request for any government servant for contributing in office has to be made in writing at least two working days before arrival stating full details of the work and elaborating the importance of the work and justifying their request for home quarantine exemption.All persons without the written exemption given by the respective local authority shall be stamped without exception and shall compulsorily home quarantine themselves for 14 days. The staff deployed at the airport from the respective corporation areas shall not grant exemption at their level, states the orders which will be implemented by the Pune authorities too.According to the nodal officers appointed, the clarification is to reiterate that such discretion should need prior sanctions. An officer said when an IAS officer who was part of the central team from Delhi arrived at Pune airport, the office intimated the local authority and permissions were sought as the person was to return back in two days so the essential home quarantine was not required. The entire process is as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Domestic Air Passenger issued on May 25. The order at page number 5 reads that all the passengers arriving in the state will be stamped on their left hand for identification and will have to be compulsorily undergo home isolation for a period of 14 days as per protocol. They shall self-monitor their health and local district, municipal administration will be authorised to give exemption in home isolation for contributing to an office or for other important work after checking passengers.PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal confirmed that they were giving exemptions to officers who were travelling for official purpose as per the state government’s SOP. As per the SOP, the additional commissioners of the municipal corporations are appointed as the nodal officers for the purpose of these guidelines who will coordinate with the protocol officers of the collectorate office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-officials-to-seek-written-exemption-from-home-quarantine/articleshow/77423026.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Red alert sounded in Valparai, Anamalai||Coimbatore: The state government on Friday sounded red alert in the hilly regions in the district based on the meteorological department forecast that such areas, especially Valparai and Anamalai Hills, would receive more than 20cm rainfall in the next 48 hours. Roofs of three houses in the city were, meanwhile, collapsed on Friday, while at least 50 trees were uprooted in the heavy rain and wind across the district. Valparai had recorded 23cm (230mm) rain through Thursday morning and night. The rain has already battered Anamalai and surrounding areas, where power supply was cut off five days ago due to tree fall and damage to electrical poles. Speaking to TOI, S Balachandran, deputy director, Indian Meteorological Department, said the red alert was mainly sounded in the hilly regions bordering Kerala. “Areas such as Valparai and Anamalai will receive more than 20cm rain, accompanied by extremely heavy winds, in the next 48 hours. While Southwest monsoon is generally strong, when rain lashes the hilly regions, the impact will be more. Plains will see only dark clouds and light rainfall.” Valparai municipality and taluk officials said they, along with the highways department, have kept six earthmovers and 10 chainsaws on standby to clear trees and electric poles, if uprooted, and restore traffic and power supply at the earliest. Valparai municipality commissioner Paun Raj said, “We have placed sandbags in two places, where there were small landslides. We have moved 14 people, who were living along the Valparai river, to a relief camp after water entered their houses. We are providing them food and bed. The water in their houses is slowly draining out.” He said the intensity of rain has actually come down on Friday. Residents, however, said many of them have been living without electricity for the past five days. Mohammed, a resident of Valparai, said, “Power was cut off in areas in and around Sholayar Dam and Cincona that recorded 290mm rain on Thursday, and Chinna Kallar and Nallamudi a couple of days ago. At least 5,000 people live in these localities.” He said the Valparai-Kerala highway that leads to the Athirapally falls has been blocked due to landslide and uprooted trees. Local administration minister S P Velumani, meanwhile, inspected the Bhavani river. At least 25,000cusecs (cubic feet per second) water from the Pillur Dam is released into the river after the water level in the dam touched 97ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/red-alert-sounded-in-valparai-anamalai/articleshow/77423035.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Sero survey in Aurangabad dist from Aug 10||Aurangabad: The district administration has decided to conduct ‘sero survey’ in the district from August 10 under which it will collect samples of over 4,000 citizens residing in the Aurangabad municipal corporation limits and nearly 2,000 samples from those in rural areas. Sero survey is a process involving the collection of blood samples from a person to determine if he/she is infected with coronavirus. It also helps to identify if the person was infected with the contagion in the past. District collector Uday Chaudhary said that the survey would be conducted in a transparent manner and that those chosen for the purpose would have to fill up a consent form. Chaudhary held a meeting with the officials concerned regarding the preparations for the sero survey between August 10 and 18. He said that the survey would be conducted in the city area between August 10 and 15 while between August 16 and 18, it would be conducted in Bajajanbgar and Waluj Mahanagar areas. According to Chaudhary, people need not panic due to the survey as it is for their betterment. He said that people should come forward and extend co-operation as the survey will be like a mere blood test. “It would be conducted randomly and samples collected would be sent to the laboratory for examination,” he said. This study would help authorities to identify the impact of the pandemic in the district and would help devise new strategies to tackle the disease, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sero-survey-in-aurangabad-dist-from-aug-10/articleshow/77421686.cms||---
August 8, 2020||World||Snubbed by OIC on J&K, Pak threatens to revolt||NEW DELHI: With the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) not acceding to Pakistan's request for a meeting of foreign ministers on the Kashmir issue, Islamabad has threatened to break ranks with the organisation which calls itself the collective voice of the Muslim world, indicating the lack of traction over the changes in Jammu and Kashmir a year after they were implemented. While calling for a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in keeping with Pakistan's expectations, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said this week that Islamabad could look at seeking a separate meeting with Islamic countries which supported Pakistan on the issue. "If you cannot convene it, then I'll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir," he said. While there was limited resonance for Pakistan's arguments even last year, this time the global preoccupation with Covid-19 and the concerns arising from China’s aggressive actions in its neighbourhood and its deepening confrontation with the US has meant that there is no mindspace for Islamabad's bid to flog the Kashmir issue and the nullification of Article 370. Except for Turkey, Pakistan has found little public support even from countries which it claims to have on its side. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was the only leader to again express support for Pakistan's position on Kashmir. There has also been scant support for Pakistan elsewhere, with a few routine statements emanating from Europe. Even US congressional committees, while noting the absence of normalcy in J&K, have acknowledged that there are serious security and counter-terrorism challenges. India has described Turkey's remarks as factually incorrect, biased and unwarranted. "We would urge the government of Turkey to get a proper understanding of the situation on the ground and refrain from interfering in matters internal to India," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The main reason behind the OIC’s inaction is said to be Saudi Arabia’s reluctance to accept Pakistan’s request for the meeting. Riyadh’s support is crucial for any move at the OIC, which is dominated by Saudi and other Arab countries. Another key member, the UAE, has also been cold to Pakistan's pleas. During a virtual meeting of the OIC contact group on Jammu and Kashmir held “on the request of Pakistan” on June 22, Qureshi had urged the grouping to “step up its efforts” to resolve the Kashmir issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/snubbed-by-oic-on-jk-pak-threatens-to-revolt/articleshow/77425031.cms||---
August 8, 2020||India||Snubbed by OIC on J&K, Pak threatens to revolt||NEW DELHI: With the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) not acceding to Pakistan's request for a meeting of foreign ministers on the Kashmir issue, Islamabad has threatened to break ranks with the organisation which calls itself the collective voice of the Muslim world, indicating the lack of traction over the changes in Jammu and Kashmir a year after they were implemented. While calling for a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in keeping with Pakistan's expectations, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said this week that Islamabad could look at seeking a separate meeting with Islamic countries which supported Pakistan on the issue. "If you cannot convene it, then I'll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir," he said. While there was limited resonance for Pakistan's arguments even last year, this time the global preoccupation with Covid-19 and the concerns arising from China’s aggressive actions in its neighbourhood and its deepening confrontation with the US has meant that there is no mindspace for Islamabad's bid to flog the Kashmir issue and the nullification of Article 370. Except for Turkey, Pakistan has found little public support even from countries which it claims to have on its side. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was the only leader to again express support for Pakistan's position on Kashmir. There has also been scant support for Pakistan elsewhere, with a few routine statements emanating from Europe. Even US congressional committees, while noting the absence of normalcy in J&K, have acknowledged that there are serious security and counter-terrorism challenges. India has described Turkey's remarks as factually incorrect, biased and unwarranted. "We would urge the government of Turkey to get a proper understanding of the situation on the ground and refrain from interfering in matters internal to India," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The main reason behind the OIC’s inaction is said to be Saudi Arabia’s reluctance to accept Pakistan’s request for the meeting. Riyadh’s support is crucial for any move at the OIC, which is dominated by Saudi and other Arab countries. Another key member, the UAE, has also been cold to Pakistan's pleas. During a virtual meeting of the OIC contact group on Jammu and Kashmir held “on the request of Pakistan” on June 22, Qureshi had urged the grouping to “step up its efforts” to resolve the Kashmir issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/snubbed-by-oic-on-jk-pak-threatens-to-revolt/articleshow/77425028.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed covid hosp becomes security compliant||Aurangabad: Authorities at Beed’s Covid-19 hospital have now taken up a series of safety measures including installation of CCTV cameras, staffer to maintain entry and exit logs, additional staffer for being with the police deployed at the hospital to keep a check on any unwanted entry or exit. The loopholes in the security measures of the hospital came to the fore after a murder accused fled from the hospital. Moreover, the Beed police also shot a warning letter to the hospital authorities asking them to fill in the security loopholes. Considering the emerging situation that required admitting arrested suspects to the Covid hospital or care center if they tested positive for the contagion, the Beed police had carried out a security audit of the hospital a couple of months back. At the time, they came across a series of loopholes. The security audit report was shared with the government hospital authorities asking them to patch up the loopholes and install manual as well as technology-based filters to keep a check on the entry and exit at the hospital. Much to the dismay of police authorities, none of the security measures were found to be in place at the hospital. The accused who had allegedly murdered a 60-year old temple priest in Kej tehsil in April this year was arrested in July. After completion of his police custody, he was remanded to judicial custody where he was found to be Covid-19 positive. He was then admitted to the Covid hospital in Beed. Taking advantage of security loopholes, the accused fled away from the hospital on July 29 without even being accosted. Beed police rushed to the spot only to find that none of their recommendations made in accordance to the security audit were fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-covid-hosp-becomes-security-compliant/articleshow/77421692.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 8, 2020||Goa||‘Resolve land issues of Selaulim dam’||Panaji: Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar on Friday submitted a memorandum to ministers of water resources and revenue, urging them to resolve the long-pending issue of rehabilitating the farmers and families affected due to the Selaulim irrigation project. Gaonkar said that both ministers should jointly resolve the problems, and emphasised on the need for change of classification of land at the Vaddem and Valkini rehabilitation sites from class-II to class-I so that ownership rights can be granted to the affected families. He also said that a survey should be undertaken of the rehabilitation sites at Vaddem, Valkini and Uguem to ascertain the open space, encroachments and regularisation of land to ensure proper utilisation of the available area. The Sanguem MLA said that a verification of agricultural and housing plots alloted to 643 affected families as per the list compiled by the water resources department revealed that some of them are yet to be granted ownership of the land, and called for a re-verification to ascertain the facts. He also said that an additional 72 affected families have not been granted any such benefits under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/resolve-land-issues-of-selaulim-dam/articleshow/77423034.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Cops move body in car after ambulance drivers refuse to do it||HUBBALLI: Police shifted a man’s body in a car boot to a mortuary on Friday, reportedly because no ambulance driver was ready to do it. Hubballi Town Police Inspector MS Patil said: “We were forced to shift the body of Akram Pasha in a car after 108 ambulance drivers refused to do it for fear of the pandemic. HDMC and KIMS ambulance drivers also declined to do it. Finally, a taxi driver known to us came forward to do the needful.” He added that police personnel put their lives at risk as they shifted the body without wearing PPE kits. A video of the incident went viral on social media and some persons, without bothering to ascertain the reason, unfairly criticised police. Pasha, 20, of Teerthahalli in Shivamogga district, came to Hubballi recently and stayed at a lodge. He hanged himself in his room on Thursday night. The reason for it is yet to be ascertain, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cops-move-body-in-car-after-ambulance-drivers-refuse-to-do-it/articleshow/77426631.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: 30 cops test positive in Karur district in two days||KARUR: A total of 30 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days in the district. They are among the 150 people who were tested at the office of district superintendent of police. While most of them come from different places in the district, health officials said that their contacts will be tested in a few days. With 706 positive cases reported so far, Karur is among the districts with least Covid-19 positive cases. It has started reporting more cases in the last few days. A traffic police personnel had tested positive a few days back in Karur town, which was followed by a few more positive cases. It was then decided to test all the 150 police personnel working under the superintendent of police, said a senior health official from the district. Most of the positive cops were asymptomatic and were asked to quarantine themselves at home. With more people coming from Chennai and other states a few weeks back, health officials had held talks with village heads to create quarantine facilities for people returning to Pallapatti. While this measure has helped in bringing down cases rather than home quarantine of asymptomatic cases, a senior health official stressed on the need to start more Covid care centres in the district. As of now, only one Covid care centre is established in Karur town. The district administration is taking steps to establish more care centres which may bring down cases in the coming days, said health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/30-cops-test-positive-in-karur-dist-in-two-days/articleshow/77423838.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||129 JEs, tech assts in PWD promoted||Panaji: The government on Friday promoted 129 junior engineers (JEs) and technical assistants at the public works department (PWD) to the post of assistant engineers (AEs). The decision was taken at a Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) departmental promotion committee meeting. “A total of 98 engineers were promoted in the civil engineering section, and another 31 promoted in the mechanical/electrical engineering section,” said GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha. He said that to be promoted to AE, a JE has to have at least seven years of regular service, and a technical assistant must have at least three years of service. “This is the first promotion that these engineers have been granted in their careers,” Noronha said. “They have put in more than 25 years of service, and many of them are due to retire within the next two-three years, while some will retire this year.” He said that the delay in promotions was on account of the earlier culture of ad hoc promotions across government departments and delays in processing promotion proposals. He said it’s only in the past few years that GPSC has taken a strong stand in not concurring with ad hoc promotions, but encouraging regular promotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/129-jes-tech-assts-in-pwd-promoted/articleshow/77423029.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Cops move body in car after ambulance drivers refuse to do it||HUBBALLI: Police shifted a man’s body in a car boot to a mortuary on Friday, reportedly because no ambulance driver was ready to do it. Hubballi Town Police Inspector MS Patil said: “We were forced to shift the body of Akram Pasha in a car after 108 ambulance drivers refused to do it for fear of the pandemic. HDMC and KIMS ambulance drivers also declined to do it. Finally, a taxi driver known to us came forward to do the needful.” He added that police personnel put their lives at risk as they shifted the body without wearing PPE kits. A video of the incident went viral on social media and some persons, without bothering to ascertain the reason, unfairly criticised police. Pasha, 20, of Teerthahalli in Shivamogga district, came to Hubballi recently and stayed at a lodge. He hanged himself in his room on Thursday night. The reason for it is yet to be ascertain, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-move-body-in-car-after-ambulance-drivers-refuse-to-do-it/articleshow/77426629.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Cops move body in car after ambulance drivers refuse to do it||HUBBALLI: Police shifted a man’s body in a car boot to a mortuary on Friday, reportedly because no ambulance driver was ready to do it. Hubballi Town Police Inspector MS Patil said: “We were forced to shift the body of Akram Pasha in a car after 108 ambulance drivers refused to do it for fear of the pandemic. HDMC and KIMS ambulance drivers also declined to do it. Finally, a taxi driver known to us came forward to do the needful.” He added that police personnel put their lives at risk as they shifted the body without wearing PPE kits. A video of the incident went viral on social media and some persons, without bothering to ascertain the reason, unfairly criticised police. Pasha, 20, of Teerthahalli in Shivamogga district, came to Hubballi recently and stayed at a lodge. He hanged himself in his room on Thursday night. The reason for it is yet to be ascertain, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-move-body-in-car-after-ambulance-drivers-refuse-to-do-it/articleshow/77426628.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||CDRI advanced research centre kindles hope to tackle virus menace||LUCKNOW: With the country struggling against a spike in the spread of novel coronavirus, a scientific institute in the city has paced up its efforts to set up a state-of-the-art virus research centre. CSIR-Central Drugs Research Institute is coming up with an advanced virus research centre which will be second only to the National Institute of Virology of Pune. The centre will be dedicated to research on viruses and the development of therapeutics with a focus on SARS coronavirus, Japanese Encephalitis and the dengue virus. It will be set up with the support of both central and state governments with a fund of Rs 100 crore. “The advanced virus research centre will come up in a couple of months. Apart from coronavirus, in Uttar Pradesh, even Japanese encephalitis and dengue do not have proper therapy. For early diagnosis, a centre like this will help in specifically targeting these viruses that are taking a toll on people’s health,” said CDRI director Prof Tapas Kumar Kundu. Work in the lab will also include projects with prestigious institutions like KGMU. This would be the first such research institute in the country where both research and therapeutics will be the focus, he said. From understanding the virus to developing its antidote, the centre will play a crucial role, Kundu added. Already a biosafety level 3 laboratory has been set up at the institute for clinical, diagnostic, teaching, research work. Work here is performed with agents that may cause serious or potentially lethal diseases to people through inhalation or may contaminate the environment. Work on live viruses is conducted in such a laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cdri-advanced-research-centre-kindles-hope-to-tackle-virus-menace/articleshow/77423847.cms||Mohita Tewari
August 8, 2020||Pune||PMPML awaits nod to start airport bus service||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will resume bus services from the Pune airport once they receive green signal from the authorities. Officials said that the airport authorities have permitted them to park two buses at any point in time inside the airport premises. “The PMPML’s service in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits is expected to start soon. The Pune airport authorities have agreed to allow our buses to pick up and drop passengers to and from the airport. Currently, services of PMPML buses are sought when a flight lands at the airport under the Vande Bharat Mission,” PMPML’s traffic manager Anant Waghmare told TOI. “Discussions are being held and a survey is being carried out to identify the routes and the number of buses to ply along the airport route. Two buses can get inside the airport premises, pick up and drop passengers. Once they move out, the next two buses can enter, and so on. A similar plan is being drawn up for the Pune railway station as well,” he said. Last year, the transport body stopped its airport bus service on the ground that the route was not viable and the airport authorities were not providing space for them to park. PMPML buses used to earlier run on two routes touching the airport and connecting Hinjewadi phase-3 and the Pune railway station. PMPML sources said that they are hoping to get permission to start limited operation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad by mid-August. “PMPML has suffered a loss of more than Rs100 crore so far. The survey will give us an idea about the potential routes,” another official said. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh had said earlier that the airport was facing serious parking problems resulting from total closure of the parking number 1. Another PMPML official said, “This is a good opportunity for PMPML buses to capitalise on. The number of routes will be more than what it was,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-awaits-nod-to-start-airport-bus-service/articleshow/77423031.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||7-day lockdown begins in Barmer, Balotara||JAISALMER: Looking at the increasing Covid-19 cases in Barmer city and Balotara city, curfew has been imposed in selected places there for seven days from Friday. On the other hand, cases are increasing in Jaisalmer too. Three BSF jawans of a battalion at Dabla were found positive on Thursday evening. Cases are increasing in the army as well. Two cases have been reported from Jaisalmer military station, while two cases from army battalion in Pokhran. Jaisalmer district in-charge secretary KK Pathak in a meeting with officers expressed the need for better efforts and gave necessary directions. District collector Ashish Modi and SP Ajay Singh among other officers were also present during the meeting. Barmer district collector Vishram Meena with regard to the lockdown starting from Friday said that in selected areas, where maximum infection has been reported, the prohibitory orders have been imposed announcing zero mobility under Section 144, which will continue till midnight of August 13. He said prohibitory orders are imposed in wards 2, 3 7, 10, 11, 32, 48, 49 and 50 in Barmer city and in ward number 7, 11, 16 and 30 in Balotara city. Collector said that all government offices, private offices, autonomous institutions, petrol pumps, LPG, post office, bank, insurance, government hospitals, private hospitals, veterinary hospitals, all medical-related firms, medical colleges, local milk sellers and milk dairies will remain open, and law and emergency services will also remain open. He said in the permitted category, personal vehicles of personnel, vehicles of security forces, on-contract vehicles (who should have valid vehicle ID or pass) can go to office and home. In funerals, maximum 20 people can participate. Personnel of oil companies residing in curfew areas can move after taking permission from district transport officer or concerned sub-divisional officer. According to Meena, apart from the lockdown areas in Barmer and Balotara, remaining markets will remain open as per the permitted time from 9am to 5pm. Similarly, previous system will prevail at vegetable markets at both places. Entry of general public will remain banned and wholesalers and retailers having ID will be allowed to enter. There will be night curfew from 9pm to 6am in the entire district as per the preventive measures and there will be total prohibition on movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-day-lockdown-begins-in-barmer-balotara/articleshow/77423032.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Cops move body in car after ambulance drivers refuse to do it||HUBBALLI: Police shifted a man’s body in a car boot to a mortuary on Friday, reportedly because no ambulance driver was ready to do it. Hubballi Town Police Inspector MS Patil said: “We were forced to shift the body of Akram Pasha in a car after 108 ambulance drivers refused to do it for fear of the pandemic. HDMC and KIMS ambulance drivers also declined to do it. Finally, a taxi driver known to us came forward to do the needful.” He added that police personnel put their lives at risk as they shifted the body without wearing PPE kits. A video of the incident went viral on social media and some persons, without bothering to ascertain the reason, unfairly criticised police. Pasha, 20, of Teerthahalli in Shivamogga district, came to Hubballi recently and stayed at a lodge. He hanged himself in his room on Thursday night. The reason for it is yet to be ascertain, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-move-body-in-car-after-ambulance-drivers-refuse-to-do-it/articleshow/77421699.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid tally zooms past 6K-mark in dist with 228 cases, toll crosses 100||Coimbatore: The district breached the 6,000-mark on Friday when it logged 228 Covid-19 cases. Now, the tally stands at 6,227, of which 1,580 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 101, with the state including five more deaths from the district in its bulletin. At least 224 patients also recovered and were discharged in the day. For the first time, municipalities and blocks outside the city corporation limits accounted for more than 34% of the cases. Rural areas, including semi urban municipalities, recorded 83 of the 228 cases. Mettupalayam vegetable market has become a hotspot with 24 wholesalers and their contacts testing positive for the virus. Earlier, the market’s president and a wholesaler were hospitalized after developing Covid-19 symptoms. The Mettupalayam municipality, from where another four cases were reported in the day, is now in the process of tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the patients to contain the spread. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The other four are members of a family. They were in close contact with an earlier positive case.” Karamadai recorded seven new cases, which are also linked to the Mettupalayam vegetable market cluster. A family of 10 was tested positive for the virus at Madhampatty at Thondamuthur. “They got the virus from a family member, who runs a jewellery manufacturing unit in Selvapuram. So, the source of the infection was from the city corporation limits,” the official said. Another 60-year-old man had also contracted the virus from a patient from the city limits, he said. In the city corporation limits, the cases were spread across Chinnavedampatti, Ganapathy, Ganapathypudur, Vadavalli, Venkitapuram, PN Pudur, Seeranaickenpalayam, Peelamedu, Gandhipuram, Sundakkamuthur, Raja Street and RG Street, among others. The deceased comprise a 73-year-old man who was admitted to a private hospital on July 22 and died of respiratory difficulty on Thursday, an 86-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension who died in a private hospital two days after hospitalization on Thursday, a 67-year-old woman who died in the ESI Hospital after 13 days of hospitalization, a 70-year-old woman who died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday and a 75-year-old man with coronary artery disease who died on Thursday, two days after admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-tally-zooms-past-6k-mark-in-dist-with-228-cases-toll-crosses-100/articleshow/77423075.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Keep Ganesh celebrations low-key: Goa deputy CM||MARGAO: With the threat of Covid-19 in the air, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar has suggested that community Ganeshotsav celebrations be kept a subdued affair this year. Kavalekar chaired a meeting of representatives of Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandals and purohits from Salcete and Canacona at the Matanhy Saldanha administrative complex on Friday and discussed the precautionary measures to be put in place at the community celebrations.  Kavalekar said that the purpose of the meeting was to sensitise the mandals and purohits about the need to put in place all precautionary measures during the celebrations. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for the festival would be issued by the state administration shortly, he said, but the mandals have been asked to avoid fireworks and processions that will attract crowds. “Even mahaprasad (community serving of meals) won’t be held,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keep-ganesh-celebrations-low-key-dycm/articleshow/77423079.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Aurangabad||4 women among 7 succumb to Covid; 96 more test positive||Aurangabad: Seven people died of Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital and in private hospitals while 96 fresh Covid cases were reported across the district on Friday. Of the 15,876 cases in the district, 11,676 have been discharged after recovery from different hospitals while the number of active patients is 3,681. A total of 513 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported so far. Those who died at the GMCH included a 27-year-old man from Bajajnagar, Jaibhavani Chowk, 61-year-old woman from Hudco TV Centre and a 65-year-old man frm N-11 Hudco. Those who died at private hospitals include a 46-year-old man from Altaf Colony, and three women from Manisha Colony (27), Bajajnagar (57) and Cidco area (62). Of the 96 positive cases reported on Friday, 74 are from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limits and 22 from rural parts of the district. Meanwhile, the GMCH administration said that 220 patients are being treated in the hospital. The condition of 123 is critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-women-among-7-succumb-to-covid-96-more-test-positive/articleshow/77421701.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Citizens make healthier, organic choices amid nCoV||Pune: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have affected consumer behaviour for the better, encouraging people to make sustainable choices. “Since the lockdown we have been buying organic, pesticide-free fruit and vegetables grown by local farmers. We knew about the benefits of eating organic but we never gave it much thought. Now, I see a difference and the extra cost does not really add up to much,” said Manali Thakkar, a resident of Aundh. The change in purchase trends stems from the lockdown situation that restricted supply of imported foods and shifted focus towards local small businesses. “People have become much more aware of terms such as ‘organic’, ‘sustainable’, ‘farm to table’, ‘artisanal’, ‘vocal for local’ and so on. Also, the fact that we are fighting a virus has made people more aware about immunity and a healthful lifestyle,” Karen Anand, founder of a pop-up market for local producers, said. She added, “ People should look for products without artificial flavour or colour, and fruit and vegetable are grown with little or no pesticide.” For many, the lockdown period provided a chance to think about what makes a healthy meal. “We realized that packaged snacks have much more calories and high sugar content, not to mention preservatives. We found a local brand that provides snacks in fun flavours made from locally grown vegetables that are dehydrated and seasoned,” said Menon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-make-healthier-organic-choices-amid-ncov/articleshow/77423054.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Four more people succumb to Covid-19, toll touches 70 in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s active tally of Covid-19 cases shot up to 2,282 on Friday after 337 new cases were detected. This is the third time in the past seven days that the daily count has crossed the 300-mark. The fatality count also touched 70 after four men succumbed to the disease. A 78-year-old man from Vasco who was undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital died on Thursday. A 62-year-old man from Mapusa who was brought dead to North Goa district hospital in Mapusa, also tested positive. A 30-year-old man from Bicholim and an 80-year-old man from Sada-Vasco, both having comorbid conditions, died in Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. There were 17 new cases detected in the state’s capital, taking its count to 85. As many as 14 people living in the slums behind Goa College of Architecture at Altinho tested positive, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. One of the persons who tested positive is a security guard at GMC. Officials faced problems in relocating the patients to a Covid care centre as they refused to move. Finally, except one family, the others were shifted following the mayor’s intervention. The family, the mayor said, have two children — one is two months old and the other two years old. “We will check on the family on Saturday,” he said. “They wanted to remain in home isolation, but it was not feasible as their homes don’t have independent toilets. The houses are closely located. We convinced them to go to a Covid care centre,” he said. The area was sealed after a 29-year-old resident of the area died of the disease this week. About 25 houses were sealed and swabs samples of the residents were drawn. The results were received on Friday. Authorities will have to seal 25-30 houses in another locality at Altinho, as two cases have been detected there. “It is a slum area, so we can’t take chances,” he said. Three persons also tested positive in Bhatlem, while two cases each were detected in Dona Paula and Caranzalem. Madkaikar said he is worried about cases being reported in Bhatlem, an area that is crowded and comprises huts, buildings and small houses. Cortalim primary health centre witnessed a spike with 43 new cases detected. 19 new cases were detected within the jurisdiction of Mapusa urban health centre. A health official said cases were reported from all over Mapusa. Valpoi also saw 14 new cases, including three cops attached to Valpoi police station who tested positive. Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit said the number of plasma donors have increased to 39. He said 1,008 vials of Remdesvir donated by Cipla to the state government will be administered to patients as per protocol laid down by GMC and health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-more-people-succumb-to-covid-19-toll-touches-70/articleshow/77423039.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||No respite from rain in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris continued to experience more rainfall as the average rainfall recorded in the district on Friday stood at 131.7mm against 111.1mm on Thursday. However, the strong flow of wind subsided as the residents heaved a sigh of relief. While Gudalur recorded 349mm of rainfall, Devala recorded 360mm. On Thursday, Gulaur and Devala recorded 335mm and 220mm of rainfall respectively. Upper Gudalur and Pandalur registered 330mm and 247mm on Friday against 305mm and 181mm the previous day respectively. Emerald recorded 192mm of rainfall while Ooty and Coonoor registered 56mm and 20mm respectively. While 125 people are housed in temporary relief camps in Ooty taluk, 457 people are housed in Kundha taluk accounts for five camps with 457 people. The affected people were from Inbasagar Nagar, Vinobhaji Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Nehru Nagar and Anna Nagar, among other colonies. Twenty-six huts were damaged in Kundha taluk, besides few more trees were uprooted, according to revenue divisional officer, Ooty, D Suresh. According to the district administration, relief work in affected areas is underway by SDRF, NDRF, Fire and Rescue Services and TNEB. After 48 hours, power was restored partially in Ooty. Places such as Missionary Hill, Havelock Road, Nondimedu and Doddabetta areas have been experiencing power cut for the third day. According to TNEB officials, four teams comprising 40 people from the neighbouring district Coimbatore have been pressed into work to restore power. Over 100 electric poles were reportedly damaged owing to the gusty wind and treefall in the past three days. At Puliamparai and Padanthurai in Gudalur taluk, crop damage was reported owing to the heavy rains. “About 10.2 hectares of banana field and 1 hectare of chowchow field were damaged completely due to heavy rain,” said Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director of horticulture. He said, “Around 20 hectares of fields with different standing crops are flooded. However, water would drain in another day. There would not be much damage.” At least 11 houses in Pakkana tribal hamlet in Pandalur taluk were flooded. The residents of the hamlet were shifted to nearby relief camp, according to officials. Meantime, minister for municipal administration, rural development, S P Velumani and minister for animal husbandry, Udumalai Radhakrishnan inspected the rain affected areas in Gudalur taluk and Ooty town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-respite-from-rain-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77423090.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||Showcause notice to 4 pvt facilities over ‘inflated bills’||Pimpri Chinchwad: A committee appointed by the Pune divisional commissioner has issued showcause notices to four private hospitals in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits on the charges of issuing bills on Covid-19 patients and admitting asymptomatic patients, asking them to them reply within a week.According to the committee’s findings, asymptomatic patients were admitted to the hospitals despite instructions not to do so. The committee also found exorbitant charges mentioned for personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. The hospitals have been advised to recalculate the patients’ bills and refund the difference.N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner (income tax department) and chairman of the committee, said the panel had received a few complaints about the exorbitant charges by the private hospitals, following which the committee members visited the facilities.Babu has instructed the private hospitals not to demand deposits from the patients’ relatives and rather focus on admitting the ailing people. He said the committee members would regularly visit the hospitals based on the nature of complaints and investigate the matters.He instructed the hospitals to set up a separate entry/exit point for Covid-19 patients and put up a board mentioning the charges for Covid-19 patients according to the government guidelines.A chief executive officer (CEO) and spokesperson from one of the hospitals said they had not received any notice and would be able to comment only after receiving it.The CEO of another hospital, which was served notice, said they were operating as per the government protocol. Their reply was ready and would be submitted in a day or two, the official added.A director of another private hospital said when the region was suffering because of the pandemic, the government should adopt a flexible approach. The system should ensure that the frontline workers such as nurses and housekeeping staff got paid on time as they were risking their lives too, the director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/showcause-notice-to-4-pvt-facilities-over-inflated-bills/articleshow/77423089.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Lucknow||Follow rituals online: Shia board’s Muharram advisory||LUCKNOW: The All India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB) on Friday issued its Muharram advisory, asking people to follow all norms of social distancing, wear masks and wherever possible, take part in Muharram rituals online or via TV channels broadcasting them. The first month of the Islamic calendar, Muharram is a mourning period in remembrance of Imam Husain—Prophet Muhammad’s grandson—his family and companions who were martyred by Yazid in Karbala (Iraq) in 680 AD. The 14-point advisory issued by board president Maulana Syed Saim Mehdi and general secretary Maulana Yasoob Abbas also said that all mosques and imambaras with carpets and floor covers should ensure disinfecting the space before and after every majlis (sermon). Clerics said that the advisory was in accordance with the guidelines by ayatullahs from Iraq and Iran including grand Ayatullah Ali Al Sistani. Children, pregnant women and the elderly have been advised to stay at home and use online and other mediums to be part of the sermons. Water and food distributed among the poor as ‘tabarruk’, should be packed and sealed, and guidelines issued by administration should be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/follow-rituals-online-shia-boards-muharram-advisory/articleshow/77423892.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: TCP notifies 65 change of zone requests under Section 16B||PANAJI: The town and country planning department (TCP) has notified 65 requests for change of zone in the Regional Plan 2021. Affected persons have been asked to submit their objections within two months. Except for two proposals, the remaining requests seek conversion of land to settlement area under Section 16B of the TCP Act. The requests for change of zone pertain to land marked as orchard, natural cover and paddy fields. Of the 65 requests, TCP has rejected 20 applications, all of them in Ponda taluka, as the land is earmarked as a protected reserve forest. Nine requests have been deferred till a slope analysis and site inspection can be conducted. The remaining requests for change of zone, which have been granted provisional clearance, are subject to public objections and reports from the agriculture, forest and water resources departments, chief town planner Rajesh Naik said. “The TCP Board had directed that the proposals should be published and comments from the public be sought. Further deliberation will take place after receipt of reports from relevant departments and on receipt of comments, if any, from the public, after two months,” the notification said. At its 168th meeting held on January 27, the TCP Board reviewed the proposals and had recommended that they should be notified for public feedback. Copies of the maps and a note containing the proposed changes have been kept for inspection at the TCP office. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-notifies-65-change-of-zone-requests-under-sec-16b/articleshow/77423081.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Pune||PMC takes three private hospitals under its wing||PUNE: The civic body has decided to take three private healtcare facilities — Devyani Hospital, Poona Hospital and Inlaks Budharani Hospital — under its wing, adding at least 180 more beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI, “All beds in these hospitals would be reserved for Covid-19 positive patients. Among non-Covid cases, only emergency surgeries would be allowed at these facilities.” He said, “These hospitals will continue to be managed by their respective managements. We just intend to secure all their beds for Covid-19 treatment. An order pertaining to this has been issued.” Kumar said the civic administration had taken this initiative to ensure that all Covid-19 patients got treatment on time. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) would consider taking more hospitals in its control if the demand for beds soared further, he said.  There is, however, a shortage of beds still. Orthopaedic surgeon Shrirang Limaye of Devyani Hospital in Dahanukar Colony said, “We have reserved 70 oxygen beds and 10 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients voluntarily at our 120-bed facility. The hospital has not been taken over, as I run it in the capacity of a single owner (proprietorship).” Naresh Dave of Poona Hospital said, “The PMC has reserved 170 of the total 210 beds of the hospital for Covid-19 patients.” Rhea Punjabi of Inalks and Budharani Hospital could not be contacted for her comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-takes-three-private-hospitals-under-its-wing/articleshow/77423083.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||Seven years after Kedarnath tragedy, govt forms panel to find ways to retrieve bodies||Nainital: Seven years after flash floods killed thousands in Kedarnath and its neighbouring areas, the state government on Friday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it has constituted an expert committee to explore ways to retrieve the missing bodies. The submission was made by the counsel appearing for the state government before the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik. The court was hearing a PIL filed by social activist, Ajay Gautam, seeking directions to retrieve the missing bodies, many of which now lie several metres below the rocks. Ajay Veer Pundir, the counsel appearing for the petitioner, told TOI that the committee will have an expert from the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology as well as Geological Survey of India and the Archaeological Survey of India. The committee will be headed by the IG State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). “We had argued in the court that there are several thousand families still waiting to cremate their family members who died in the tragedy. At the same time, we are also aware of the fact that the sensitive ecology of the upper Himalayan region should not be damaged in the process. Now that the government has constituted the expert committee, a hope has been reignited for thousands of families that they will be able to perform the last rites of their family members,” Pundir said. A government counsel appearing in the case confirmed that the committee has been formed and that the court has directed them to make the report of the expert committee public. “We had informed the court that a committee has been formed to explore the ways to retrieve those bodies. The court then directed us to make the report public,” he said while adding that after the submission, the court has disposed of the petition. The June 2013 cloudburst and the ensuing flash floods in the upper Himalayan region had swept through the hill districts of Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh. According to a report by the National Institute of Disaster Management, around 4,000 people died in the floods. The data given by the state government to the HC suggests that around 680 bodies or skeletal remains have been retrieved or identified so far. The HC had, in July 2018, also directed the state government to collect DNA samples of all the remains and skeletons, and perform a proper burial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seven-years-after-kedarnath-tragedy-govt-forms-panel-to-find-ways-to-retrieve-bodies/articleshow/77419053.cms||Prashant Jha
August 8, 2020||Dehradun||No Kedarnath darshan without Covid test, even for Uttarakhand residents||Dehradun: The Rudraprayag district administration has asked pilgrims, including those hailing from Uttarakhand, to get tested for Covid-19 before visiting the shrine. In case they don’t take a test, the administration will conduct tests before allowing them to visit the temple, an advisory issued by the district administration said. Talking to TOI, Vandana, district magistrate, Rudraprayag (who uses only her first name), confirmed that Covid-19 test has been made mandatory for all pilgrims. Even an antigen test will be considered valid, she added. “The decision has been taken as the cases are rising every day in the plains like Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar. Even we found two people positive at the check post here after the antigen test. Hence, as a precaution, we have now made Covid-19 test mandatory,” she added. As per Devasthanam Board’s protocol, the residents of Uttarakhand can visit any temple by only getting themselves registered on the board's website. People coming from outside the state have to either get the RT-PCR test report of the last 72 hours or else have to undergo a mandatory 14 days quarantine before visiting the temples. Meanwhile, 32-year-old priest Santosh Trivedi who is staging dharna clad only in bare minimum clothing outside the Kedarnath temple - situated at 11,330 feet above sea level - to express his dissent on the formation of Devasthanam Board by the state government since June 12, on Friday, announced to take ‘Jal Samadhi’ in case the government does not withdraw the Devasthanam Act and the Board. Talking to TOI, Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teerth Purohit Char Dham Mahapanchayat, a body representing the priests of the Char Dham shrines, said that several other priests are also ready to stage a similar protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-kedarnath-darshan-without-covid-test-even-for-uttarakhand-residents/articleshow/77420550.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 8, 2020||Jaipur||Man from MP found murdered in Jhalawar||KOTA: A 40-year-old man from Agar district in Madhya Pradesh was hacked to death in Chowkdikalan village under Dug police station of Jhalawar district late on Thursday night. Police have lodged a case of murder against unidentified persons of the same village, however, the accused are yet to be nabbed. The body was handed over to family members after postmortem on Friday morning. “The blood-stained body of Kishore Singh, which had multiple injuries with sharp weapons, was recovered from a drain near an agriculture field in Chowkdikalan village on Friday morning,” SHO Dug police station Rajpal Singh said. Kishore had come to Chowkdikalan village to meet his maternal uncle on Thursday noon, he added. Initial investigation revealed that Kishore was returning to his village, which is hardly 3km from Chowkdikalan, when he stopped at a farm in the village where he joined in for a liquor party with one Laxman Singh and some other unidentified persons of the village, the SHO said. Prima facie, a brawl was likely to have erupted between Kishore and Laxman, following which Laxman and others hacked him to death and dumped his body into a nearby drain, he said. On the report by Tufan Singh, the maternal uncle of the deceased man, police lodged a case of murder against Laxman and others under Section 302 of IPC. The reason behind the murder would be clear only after the arrest of the key accused, however, police teams have been sent to trace his location, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-from-mp-found-murdered-in-jhalawar/articleshow/77421769.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||BJP calls on Governor seeking Marandi’s appointment as the Leader of Opposition||Ranchi: The Jharkhand unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday called on governor Droupadi Murmu and sought her intervention in the appointment of Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi as the leader of opposition in Jharkhand Assembly. A three-member BJP delegation, comprising state president Deepak Prakash and general secretaries Aditya Sahu and Pradeep Verma, met Murmu at Raj Bhawan and claimed the Mahagathbandhan government of JMM, Congress and RJD, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, is gagging democracy by delaying the appointment of Leader of Opposition. “The government’s intentions over the appointment of leader of opposition is not right. It appears that the government wants to run Jharkhand Assembly without a leader of opposition and speaker Rabindranath Mahto is not announcing the name under the government’s pressure,” Prakash told reporters. Earlier, the BJP had written to the Election Commission and the CM urging appointment of Marandi as the opposition leader. The BJP legislative party of 25 MLAs had elected Marandi as their leader in the budget session of the assembly which was held between February and March. Responding to the BJP delegation’s visit, state finance minister and Jharkhand Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said, “The matter is pending with the Speaker, who is considering all the legal aspects before making his decision. The BJP must wait for his decision.” Besides Marandi’s appointment as leader of opposition, the matter of his merger into the BJP is also pending in Jharkhand Assembly. Earlier, the EC had upheld the JVM-P’s February 11 merger into BJP as valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-calls-on-governor-seeking-marandis-appointment-as-the-leader-of-opposition/articleshow/77423365.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Man accuses Ranchi University for not getting degree in Maithili, writes to governor and CM||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: Denied a degree by Ranchi University, a student of Maithili of the 1992-95 batch knocked the doors of officials, including the chancellor of Universities, for justice after 25 years. The former student in a letter to Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu and chief minister Hemant Soren alleged that he was deprived of graduation degree in Maithali language due to failure of the university to conduct the Part-II and Part-III examinations. Pramod Kumar Mishra, a student of ABM College in Jamshedpur,said he passed Part-I but the Part-II and Part-III examinations did not take place as the professor failed to provide question papers to the University. He said that he raised the issue before university officials in the subsequent years, but failed to get justice. Mishra said that he should be provided a graduation certificate by awarding average marks based on his Part- I performance. He alleged, “The irresponsible act of the faculty members ruined my academic career as I could not pursue a masters.” He claimed that the existing faculty in Kolhan University (KU), was carved out of RU later on, has not been able to draw the syllabus of Maithili language so far. Asked as to why he is raising the matter after such a long gap, Mishra said that since there is a demand to scrap the department of Maithili in absence of students, he found it apt to highlight the apathy of the University officials. He said, “The teachers say that there is no use of framing the syllabus in absence of students. However, I contend, how can students enrol when there is no syllabus?” KU spokesperson A K Jha said that there were eight students when KU was carved out of RU and recently 15 students completed there honours course. However, after they passed out, no fresh admissions have taken place. Jha said the varsity is not aware of Mishra’s matter. “Since its formation in 2009, the University has not received any application relating to the matter of the said person,” Jha said clarifying that the issue of Mishra is related to RU hence KU is not responsible for the wrongdoing. Meanwhile pro-vice chancellor of RU Dr Kamini Kumar refused to comment on the mater saying that no representation has come before them. She said, “I will be able to answer only after looking into the matter. It is a 25-year-old issue.” She said RU does not have a department in Maithili since there were no takers. She, however, refused to say when was the department shut down or what were the conditions back in 1990s when the examination department did not hold examination for the particular language paper. “The area under the jurisdiction of RU is primarily a tribal belt with very less Maithili speaking people. There has been no appointment of teachers of Maithili language for years,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/man-accuses-univ-for-not-getting-degree-in-maithili-writes-to-guv-cm/articleshow/77430399.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Man accuses Ranchi University for not getting degree in Maithili, writes to governor and CM||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: Denied a degree by Ranchi University, a student of Maithili of the 1992-95 batch knocked the doors of officials, including the chancellor of Universities, for justice after 25 years. The former student in a letter to Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu and chief minister Hemant Soren alleged that he was deprived of graduation degree in Maithali language due to failure of the university to conduct the Part-II and Part-III examinations. Pramod Kumar Mishra, a student of ABM College in Jamshedpur,said he passed Part-I but the Part-II and Part-III examinations did not take place as the professor failed to provide question papers to the University. He said that he raised the issue before university officials in the subsequent years, but failed to get justice. Mishra said that he should be provided a graduation certificate by awarding average marks based on his Part- I performance. He alleged, “The irresponsible act of the faculty members ruined my academic career as I could not pursue a masters.” He claimed that the existing faculty in Kolhan University (KU), was carved out of RU later on, has not been able to draw the syllabus of Maithili language so far. Asked as to why he is raising the matter after such a long gap, Mishra said that since there is a demand to scrap the department of Maithili in absence of students, he found it apt to highlight the apathy of the University officials. He said, “The teachers say that there is no use of framing the syllabus in absence of students. However, I contend, how can students enrol when there is no syllabus?” KU spokesperson A K Jha said that there were eight students when KU was carved out of RU and recently 15 students completed there honours course. However, after they passed out, no fresh admissions have taken place. Jha said the varsity is not aware of Mishra’s matter. “Since its formation in 2009, the University has not received any application relating to the matter of the said person,” Jha said clarifying that the issue of Mishra is related to RU hence KU is not responsible for the wrongdoing. Meanwhile pro-vice chancellor of RU Dr Kamini Kumar refused to comment on the mater saying that no representation has come before them. She said, “I will be able to answer only after looking into the matter. It is a 25-year-old issue.” She said RU does not have a department in Maithili since there were no takers. She, however, refused to say when was the department shut down or what were the conditions back in 1990s when the examination department did not hold examination for the particular language paper. “The area under the jurisdiction of RU is primarily a tribal belt with very less Maithili speaking people. There has been no appointment of teachers of Maithili language for years,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-accuses-univ-for-not-getting-degree-in-maithili-writes-to-guv-cm/articleshow/77423454.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||6 deaths in state, tally crosses 16k||Ranchi: As many as 47 security personnel in the city and 65 prisoners of the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Hotwar near here tested positive for Covid-19 virus on Friday as the state’s cumulative caseload surpassed the 16,000-mark. Six fatalities were also reported from across the state on Friday. Of them, two deaths were reported from Hazaribag while one death each was reported from Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Palamu and Ramgarh, taking the state toll to 151. On Friday, the state has 8,840 active cases while 7,491 have recovered. Late on Thursday night, 11 security personnel deployed at JMM president and former chief minister Shibu Soren's official residence also tested positive, putting a restriction on entry to the house. According to the district health department, 30 jawans of the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), 10 personnel from the state criminal investigation department (CID) and seven personnel from Bariatu police station were among the 160 fresh infections which were detected across Ranchi till 9 pm on Friday. Earlier in the day, state women’s commission’s former chairperson Mahua Manjhi tweeted that she has tested positive for the virus. As on Friday night, the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand stood at 16,482. While 618 new infections were detected since morning, 108 infections were reported overnight, the state integrated disease surveillance program (IDSP) cell said in its Covid-19 bulletins. While Ranchi reported the most infections on Friday, new cases were also detected across 22 districts. Giridih reported 109 infections followed by Dhanbad (59), East Singhbhum (56), Hazaribag (53), Bokaro (26), Chatra (23), Ramgarh (24), Sahibganj (19), Seraikela-Kharsawan (16), Deoghar (15), Lohardaga (12) and Khunti (10). Meanwhile, the Ranchi administration lodged FIR against 36 people in the city for flouting the mandatory 14-day home quarantine after returning to the state. In a statement, the district public relations office said the persons are residents of Tupudana, Argora, Dhurwa and Jagannathpur police station limits. “They were found outside their homes during the surprise inspection drive conducted by the administrative teams at their homes to ensure compliance,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-deaths-in-state-tally-crosses-16k/articleshow/77422810.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic brings counter-insurgency training in Jharkhand to a standstill||Ranchi: Training of police and para-military forces for counter-insurgency operations has come to a standstill in Jharkhand because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The training is conducted by the Counter Insurgency and Anti-terrorist (CIAT) School, which has its branches at Neterhat, Padma, Musabani and Tendrgram, for the personnel before their induction in anti-extremist operations in the state. A team of retired Army officers is responsible for conducting the programme. Sources said a newly inducted Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) battalion, which was about to undergo training on the prevailing circumstances in Jharkhand, has been kept in waiting. The SSB needs to undergo a month-long training at CIAT. Similarly, the last batch of police sub-inspectors, who joined service, has undergone only a part of the training exercise before the school was shut. A large section of them is yet to undergo the jungle warfare drill. Besides, refresher courses for Small Action Teams (SAT) are also deferred. Under normal circumstances, CIAT trains about 600 personnel in a course and around 3,000 personnel in a year. The entire training schedule for 2020 has, however, been disrupted because of the pandemic. Colonel Khalid Khan, retired, who heads the CIAT, said, “Under the prevailing Covid-19 conditions, the risk of infection among the personnel is high. It is difficult to maintain social distancing during running, firing and several other exercises during the training. In fact, trainees have to often wrestle with each other, hence, the school has been shut.” He said a break of four months will not impact the counter-insurgency skills of the existing police and the para-military forces. Col Khan added that his team is all geared up to start the training as soon as the government approval comes to start the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-brings-counter-insurgency-training-in-jharkhand-to-a-standstill/articleshow/77423423.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||CNI, Chotanagpur diocese rift widens||Ranchi: The rift between Chotanagpur diocese and its parent body, the Church of North India (CNI), widened further on Friday after the latter tried to take over the premises of the diocese located at the Human Potential Development Centre in Bahubazar area here. Following the incident, the diocese said it has formally started the process to rename itself to make the separation from the CNI official. The diocese has been part of the CNI since 1970. Officials of both the diocese and the CNI said the action initiated against each other is illegal. While Vikla Bakhlaa, general secretary of the Chotanagpur diocese said it will not give up its properties to CNI, the latter said the decision by individual churches deciding on separation is unconstitutional. In its defence, Bakhlaa said, "On July 27, the diocese had announced its decision to break away from the CNI umbrella to protest the unjust action of the synod, the highest policy-making body of the CNI. A section of the CNI synod had been engaging in anti-church activities in Jharkhand and an internal probe committee set up by us had even held that this section has been trying to illegally divert precious church properties at Chaibassa in West Singhbhum for commercial purposes. The CNI synod was duly informed but of initiating disciplinary action against the culprits, the synod set up a probe committee to investigate B B Baskey, the bishop of Chotanagpur diocese. We were thus left with no option but to announce our separation from CNI." CNI moderator and country head, Prem Chand Singh, who is stationed in Jabalpur, told TOI, "As per the CNI charter, an individual diocese does not have the right to separate from the parent body. The decision of the Chotanagpur diocese is unconstitutional. B B Baskey has been ordered to go on a long leave and was engaged in many wrongdoings. We have appointed Joljus Kujur as the moderator commissionerate for Chotanagpur to head the CNI affairs in Jharkhand." On the ownership of CNI properties in Jharkhand and neighbouring Odisha, Bakhlaa said the properties of the diocese are registered only under the Chotanagpur Diocesan Trust Association for the past 129 years and not under the CNI. Stating that there is hardly any scope for rapprochement, Bakhlaa added, "We are currently working to adopt a new name for the diocese." Early on Friday morning, tension prevailed at the diocese office complex after Kujur and supporters of CNI Church tried to enter the building to assume charge of the premises. It was strongly opposed by the diocese members. Kujur said, "We had tried to enter the premises with the help of the district administration. I was supposed to take over charge from the bishop. Since he was not present, the assumption of charge of the premises was not possible." Bakhlaa said, "We showed all our documents to the accompanying police and other officials."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cni-chotanagpur-diocese-rift-widens/articleshow/77422853.cms||Tapas Biswas
August 8, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant files defamation suit against BJP MP||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren has filed a defamation suit against BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey at a court in Ranchi. On Thursday night, Dubey posted a screenshot of the e-court’s portal which showed the CNR number (JHRN020004002020). The screenshot said Soren as the petitioner and one Prashant Kumar as his advocate. The case (No: 151/20), which was filed on August 4, was admitted in the court of sub-judge 1 and was heard on August 5. The next hearing of the case is on August 22. Dubey wrote: "The allegations of rape and kidnapping were labelled by a girl in Mumbai and you have filed a case against me and not the girl. I thank you, for now, I have the opportunity to fight the CM like Saryu Rai ji." He was referring to the case filed by MLA Rai against former chief minister Raghubar Das. Speaking to the TOI, Dubey claimed that as per the legal provision, Soren did not send him a legal notice. "I am yet to get a notice about the case," he said. In Ranchi, Soren’s office remained tight-lipped on the matter. When asked about it at Project Building in the evening, Soren said: "This is a legal matter and I will not comment on it. You may ask the other person who believes in talking more." In July, Dubey had written to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and Union home minister Amit Shah, to reopen a seven-year-old rape case against Soren, which was filed by a Mumbai woman and was later disposed of. Responding to Dubey’s letter, Soren had taken to Twitter and asserted that he will answer Dubey’s allegations legally. The duel between Dubey and Soren originated after an FIR was lodged against the former in Deoghar for buying "Benaami property". The FIR was lodged after Dubey accused Soren and senior JMM functionaries of investing "ill-gotten money" in properties in Kolkata and Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-files-defamation-suit-against-bjp-mp/articleshow/77422888.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 8, 2020||India||'Record 160m watched pujan live on TV’||NEW DELHI: A record over 160 million people tuned in to watch the live telecast of the Ram Temple ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5, resulting in a viewership of more than 7 billion viewing minutes across the TV universe in India, according to estimates by Prasar Bharti. The information was shared by the public service broadcaster’s chief executive officer, Shashi Shekhar Vempati, on Twitter. The Prasar Bharati chief also said the viewership of 160 million was limited to the live coverage of the event by Doordarshan, which was picked up and carried by nearly 200 TV channels during the main event between 10.45 am and 2pm on August 5, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the ground-breaking ceremony. Prasar Bharati had planned extensive coverage of the Ayodhya event. It had also aired a special live show from Ayodhya on the eve of the ceremony from the Saryu Ghat apart from continuous breaking coverage of events in Ayodhya from 6am on the day of the Bhoomi Pujan. Prasar Bharati has subsequently translated PM Modi’s speech in multiple Indian languages including Ladakhi, Odia, Kannada. The extensive coverage though came in for criticism from the Left parties which said it was inappropriate and unconstitutional for the state-run public broadcaster to telecast live a religious event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/record-160m-watched-pujan-live-on-tv/articleshow/77425042.cms||Swati Mathur
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||Shops sealed, people without masks penalised in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Several shops and business establishments in the state capital and its owners were penalized by the district administration for failure to adhere to the Covid-19 SOPs. The action has been initiated at the behest of the district collector and would continue. According to a statement by the district administration four shops Pure Dairy Farm, Thermal Medical, Lucky Studio and Jain Kirana and Hardware Store were sealed and a penalty of Rs 4,000 was recovered from them. All these establishments were located at Station Bajaria area. Likewise, the officials penalized people not wearing masks in public in Shahjehanabad areas and recovered a prnalty of Rs 3,200. The district collector has directed the SDMs to initiate penal action against violators of Covid-19 protocol in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shops-sealed-people-without-masks-penalised-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/77425043.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Now, drive at 60 kmph in city for a month||Nagpur: Now, motorists can drive at a speed of up to 60 kmph within city limits. A notification to this effect was issued by joint commissioner of police Nilesh Bharne a couple of days ago. As per the joint CP’s communication, the enhanced speed limits for vehicles including motorcycle/scooter, car, bus, truck and autorickshaw will be applicable from August 5 to September 4. A review will be done after a month to decide on further extension in the period. The union road and transport ministry had in 2018 increased the speed limits nationally from 50 kmph to 70 kmph. But the city police had not taken any decision to increase the speed limit. It was revised after receiving a communication from the additional director general of police (traffic) to enhance the speed limits for vehicles plying on city roads, said a source. The city police had not changed the speed limits for a couple of decades despite improvement in city’s road infrastructure during the regime of the then municipal commissioner T Chandrashekhar. The city police have officially hiked the city’s speed limit for two and four wheelers to 60 kmph on internal lanes and major thoroughfares, confirmed an official from DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali’s office in Civil Lines. For autorickshaw, the earlier speed limit was 20 kmph on internal lanes and 30 kmph on ring road. It has been increased to 50 kmph on internal lanes and major thoroughfares and 60 kmph on ring road. Traffic expert Vinay Kunte said: “The new speed limit for different category vehicles are all right, provided everyone honestly follows traffic rules. When 90% of people in India take pride in breaking traffic rules, how are roads going to remain safe? The basic rule for driving fast is to give way to other vehicles who are going straight. How many people in India know about giving Right of Way to others? “If the speed limit is increased without enforcing the Right of Way rule, it will be like giving a burning torch in the hands of all the monkeys driving on the roads,” he said. Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association, welcomed the move. “The earlier prescribed speed limit for in city was extremely slow. In the past, I had stated that if speed limit challan is implemented then 99% vehicles will be fined for speeding. Most of the drivers are sensible, they know the safe speed limits and it hardly matters to reckless drivers,” he said. “The purpose of enhancing speed limit may be defeated if traffic signals are not synchronized. Traffic police and NMC should synchronize traffic signals, especially on main roads, so that traffic moves without inordinate stoppages. It will automatically help in bringing down pollution and improve mileage of vehicles. Secondly, NMC should also keep roads in good motorable condition,” said Renu. According to traffic police, this year till July 31, the city roads witnessed 91 fatal accidents in 303 other accidents. Traffic police study reveals that most of the accidents occurred due to over speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-drive-at-60-kmph-in-city-for-a-month/articleshow/77421987.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Parents protest against fee hike by city school||Nagpur: A day after TOI reported about plight of Narayana Vidyalayam students whose online classes were stopped by the school management due to non-payment of fees, their parents staged demonstrations in front of the office of deputy director of education Anil Pardhi in Civil Lines. Parents said that the school had hiked the fee against the rules. Holding a banner under the title of ‘Narayana Parents Association’, the protesters demanded urgent action against the school authorities for “flouting” guidelines issued by the government in its resolution (GR) of May 8 and also guidelines issued by education officer (secondary) Shivling Patwe on June 3. The GR was stayed by the Bombay High Court after school owners approached it. The officials reportedly refused to cooperate with the agitating parents. Neither Pardhi nor Patwe responded to call and messages by TOI. In fact, Patwe isn’t responding to TOI’s calls since Thursday. Many private schools in city have been facing such face off with the parents over fees ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck. According to aggrieved parents, they were forced by the Narayana school management to approach the deputy director as the former “failed to respond despite many representations and meetings”. Calling school’s move to stop online classes of their wards as a “blatant violation of Right to Education (RTE) Act” where every student was entitled for compulsory education, they demanded immediate action against the Narayana management. “The new management is responsible for massive fee hike against the rules. When my kid was admitted to nursery in earlier management under Naidu and Sons, it was around Rs30,000. Now, the new management under Agnihotri Group of Institutions from Wardha have doubled it to Rs60,000 from this year,” said a parent terming it as a sheer loot. Citing the education officer’s letter, parents claimed that the school should have ideally charged only tuition and term fees, but they were charging entire fees. “If schools are closed, our children aren’t using the library, laboratories and computers. Even other activities like craft and sports are not being held. Still, the school management is forcing us to pay entire fees, which is completely unethical,” they said. Flaying the concept of online classes, the parents complained that it had not only put extra burden on them but also making their wards continuously watch the mobile phones risking their eyes. “Even primary students were being offered online coaching for no reason and for that they’re charging hefty fees ignoring the fact that many of us have lost sources of income and while those earning salary are facing massive deduction. They must think sympathetically about how parents would survive in such torrid times,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-protest-against-fee-hike-by-city-school/articleshow/77422020.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Renewable energy: State has achieved 44% of 2022 target||Nagpur: Out of the total renewable energy target of 2022, the state has till date achieved about 44%. This was revealed in the latest analysis ‘The Curious Case of India’s Discoms’ by energy economist Vibhuti Garg and research analyst Kashish Shah from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA).As per the National Electricity Plan 2018, the state has set a clean energy target of 22 gigawatt (GW) to be achieved by 2022. According to the analysis, the renewable energy installed capacity in the state as of June 2020 is 9.7GW. “The figures highlight the need for a strong policy and investment drive to achieve the target,” the analysis stated. Highlighting the reasons for the state-owned discoms’ unsustainably high cost of power, the analysts said low efficiency of Mahagenco’s power plants is to blame. “Mahagenco plants also face water shortages, which affect their output. Before 2016, plant closure due to lack of water was still counted towards plants’ availability and operators would recover fixed costs for the duration of non-availability. But since 2016, non-availability of the plant because of water shortage does not count as a force majeure,” they stated.Shortage of coal resulting in low plant load factor (PLF) is another reason behind high cost of power. PLF is the actual power generation out of total installed capacity and indicates a plant’s performance. Experts have maintained that for a plant to be technically viable, the PLF should be more than 50%.However, as per the analysis, PLF for state and privately-owned plants supplying power to MSEDCL in the fiscal 2019-20 was extremely low at 51% and 48% respectively. The PLF of state-owned power generators in the state was higher at around 60%, but not all the power generated from these plants was allocated to MSEDCL.“While shortage of coal resulted in low PLF for capacity installed in the state few years back, some amount of thermal generating capacity is still subject to fuel shortages and is lying idle. However, MSEDCL has to keep paying high fixed charges for such idle capacity, even if the capacity is not dispatched,” it added. Analysts concluded that the state discom has entered long-term power purchase agreements and is buying high-cost power when there is cheap electricity in the market. “MSEDCL should harness solar energy for electricity supply in rural areas to reduce agricultural consumers’ dependence on MSEDCL’s daytime power. It should promote the installation of solar water pumps, and farmers that install them should be subsidized,” the report recommended.It added that the state needs to retire its old plants, which consume much more coal per kilowatt hour than modern plants, as well as causing air, fly-ash, and water pollution. “The central government needs to put a policy framework in place and incentivise states to retire old thermal plants without putting a financial burden on states. Given the state’s high renewable energy potential, Maharashtra should promote the deployment of more large-scale, grid-connected, renewable energy projects,” the analysis stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/renewable-energy-state-has-achieved-44-of-2022-target/articleshow/77422065.cms||Manka Behl
August 8, 2020||Bhopal||Time table out for Madhya Pradesh board special exams||BHOPAL: The MP Board of Secondary Education has released the time table for the special exams for students of class 12 who were not able to appear in the remaining exams due to Covid-19 infection, isolation or home-quarantine earlier. The department decided to hold the exams for the students again to prevent the risk of infection to other students. Special exams will be held on August 17, 19 and 21. Students who enrolled for the special exams providing the certificates of home isolation and home quarantine, or their Covid-19 reports will be able to appear in the exams in their own districts. The list of students appearing for the exam from each district has been made available to the district education officers. The board will conduct exams for 15 subjects in these 3 days between 11 am to 2 pm. Students have been strictly guided to cover their face with masks or cloth, and maintain social distancing at the exam centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/time-table-out-for-madhya-pradesh-board-special-exams/articleshow/77425052.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Protesters still on chimney despite appeal from minister||Chandrapur: Despite appeal from state energy minister Nitin Raut to project affected people (PAP) of Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS), protesters who are atop a 275-metre tall chimney of the power station for last three days refused to climb down and end their agitation on Friday.Raut, in a meeting held with Chandrapur guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar, MP Balu Dhanorkar, MLAs Pratibha Dhanorkar, Kishor Jorgewar and Mahagenco officials, called upon the agitators to scale down and discuss the issue without putting the administration in a spot of bother in the time of Covid-19 pandemic.According to Mahagenco officials, the appeals from the minister, Wadettiwar, Dhanorkar and the two MLAs fell on deaf ears. Seven PAPs including two women, who are working as trainees at CSTPS for nearly a decade, had scaled the tallest chimney of unit no. 8 and 9 on Wednesday to press their demand for regularization in job. They are being paid a nominal stipend while many of them have crossed the age limit to become eligible for permanent jobs. There are in all 652 such PAPs in CSTPS. The protesters claimed that the people’s representatives and Mahagenco officials have said there will be no talks unless they scale down the chimney.The protesters atop the chimney are facing shortage of food supply and water, yet continuing with their agitation braving the rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protesters-still-on-chimney-despite-appeal-from-minister/articleshow/77422087.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||10 lakh vacancies on Delhi govt job portal filled, 9 lakh still available||NEW DELHI: More than nine lakh jobs are available on the Delhi government job portal that was set up last month to help both jobseekers get employment and employers to hire their required manpower. So far, 6,271 companies have posted 22 lakh jobs on the job portal, of which 10 lakh vacancies have been filled. Nearly 3.5 lakh entries were cancelled due to duplication. The government will be launching a poster campaign from next week to increase awareness about the portal. For almost 12.6 lakh aspirants, the portal was their first experience of a job hunt. Employment minister Gopal Rai said the number of those seeking employment on Rozgar Bazar on jobs.delhi.gov.in is less than the number of jobs available. "There are over nine lakh jobs available, while the number of applicants is 8.6 lakh," said Rai, adding, "Till date, 22 lakh posts have been offered by employers on the portal." Most applicants on govt job portal from outside DelhiNearly 3.5 lakh entries were cancelled due to duplication, while there were also some fake opportunities listed. Many of those who have registered on the portal seeking employment are from outside Delhi. An analysis of the portal revealed that more jobs were available than were sought, implying that the capital’s economy, battered by the Covid-19 lockdown, has a huge potential to bounce back. The government has allowed multiple sectors of the economy to open, and migrants who left the capital due to the uncertainty about economic activities are returning. “Various industries are facing a workforce crunch because people left Delhi. At the same time, many people have lost their jobs,” pointed out Rai. “To synchronise and match these two needs, Delhi government launched jobs.delhi.gov.in. The Rozgar Bazaar has created a new model for the employment process during the pandemic.” Saying that the Rozgar Bazaar had become as much a model as Delhi’s multi-approach fight against the coronavirus, the employment minister said the government was careful to keep a watch on what was being posted on the portal. It had formed a task force to analyse these posts, he said. He added, "Till now, nearly 10 lakh vacancies were closed by employers, meaning they have been able to recruit the required people. But nearly nine lakh job vacancies are still open, and employers are looking for the right candidates." Aditya Birla Group, Flipkart, HDFC Bank, HDFC Life, Kotak Mahindra, Assam Tea, Shangri La Hotel, Reliance, G4S Security, Amba Embroidery and Amazon are among the top companies who advertised their need for people on the portal. "The most demanding job categories are those related to backoffice processing, data entry, customer support, teaching, sales, marketing, business accounting, warehousing, administration, front-office management, human resources, infotech, computer hardware and delivery," the minister elaborated. The Delhi government also appealed to the capital’s youth to register on the portal and requested people to aid those who had no access to the internet. Watch Delhi govt job portal: 10 lakh vacancies filled, 9 lakh jobs still available||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-lakh-vacancies-on-delhi-govt-job-portal-filled-9-lakh-still-available/articleshow/77425054.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Irate villagers chase, pelt stones at Tipeshwar tigers||Nagpur: In a shocking incident, Kobbai villagers adjoining Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary, 180km from here, took to sticks and stones to shoo away a tigress with her two sub-adult cubs that had come to feed on a cattle carcass on Thursday evening. A preliminary offence report (POR) has been registered against unidentified culprits who threatened and heckled foresters and also abused women forest staff involved in monitoring the tigers. According to sources, the tigress from Tipeshwar with four 18-month-old cubs strayed out of the sanctuary. For the last 4-5 months, the tiger family was frequenting farms and fringes of Sunna, Andharwadi, Kopai, Kopamandi and Kobbai villages close to the sanctuary. All these hamlets are in 2-3km radius from the sanctuary. The tigers have also killed at least seven bovines in the last four months. Trouble started last Saturday when there were series of cattle kills in Kobbai and disturbance by frustrated villagers did not allow tigers to feed on the prey. The tigress with two cubs frequented in the perennial waterbody surrounded by thickets on village outskirts. Yavatmal honorary wildlife warden Ramzan Virani says, “The conflict reached flashpoint due to lack of early intervention from wildlife officials. People retaliated as for four months, no compensation has been paid for cattle kills. Foresters do not consider tigers their baby once they step out of the sanctuary.” However, Tipeshwar DFO (wildlife) Subhash Puranik says, “The jurisdiction where tigers are moving is under territorial wing. The tigers are on separation stage and hence are scouting for new territory. We have undertaken several community development works in these villages under Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee scheme. We are ready to pay cattle kill compensation from tiger foundation.” “The conflict is bound to happen as many villagers are involved in trespassing by grazing cattle in sanctuary area. As we have booked several offences, they are speaking against us,” said Puranik. On Wednesday morning, villagers detained forest guards and told them to summon RFO on the spot. When RFO reached the spot, he was also held back. Meanwhile, the tigress killed a cow on Thursday morning. “When ACF reached the spot for investigations, he too was detained demanding presence of Pandharkawda deputy conservator (DyCF) KM Abharna. All were let off after DyCF promised to hold a meeting on Friday,” they said. However, in between, some villagers attempted to kill the tigress and cubs by poisoning the carcass. “We were forced to remove the carcass. We handled worse situation than this during T1 case in 2017-18, but people were patient and never attempted to poison cattle kills. Straying of tigers from Tipeshwar is not new and I’m really shocked at people’s behaviour,” admits Abharna. Eyewitnesses said on Thursday when the tigress was seen with two cubs near the perennial waterbody, irate villagers chased her with axe and sticks in hand and also threw stones to ward off her in the Tipeshwar forest. The monitoring forest staff was also heckled and abused by the mob, which wanted senior officials to visit the spot. “We are monitoring the animals for the last one month by posting foresters in shifts, but in the last few days our staff is facing harassment. We are also taking police help to resolve the situation,” said Abharna. “This is a wake-up call for forest officials. The memories of tigress Avni, who was shot dead owing to severe man-animal conflict in the same division, are still fresh. To avoid Avni-II, both wildlife and territorial wings need to work coordinately and department should immediately release cattle kill compensation,” said conservation photographer Sarosh Lodhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/irate-villagers-chase-pelt-stones-at-tipeshwar-tigers/articleshow/77422108.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 8, 2020||Nagpur||Suspense builds up as guv interviews 5||Nagpur: The suspense over Nagpur University’s new vice-chancellor continued on Friday as there was no communication from the chancellor’s office in Mumbai till late evening. Five candidates were interviewed by chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari throughout the day on Friday. He grilled them on various issues, particularly on their vision of developing one of the oldest universities in the country. As per Nagpur University officials, the chancellor may declare the new VC’s name on Saturday. NU pro-VC (officiating) Subhash Chaudhary, his predecessor Vinayak Deshpande, former Nanded University pro-VC Ganeshchandra Shinde, ICT Mumbai professor Sunil Bhagwat and Norwegian University of Science and Technology professor Mohan Kolhe are in the fray for the top NU post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suspense-builds-up-as-guv-interviews-5/articleshow/77422146.cms||---
August 8, 2020||India||Death toll in Kerala plane crash rises to 17; 2 pilots dead, all 4 crew members safe: Air India Express||KOZHIKODE: The death toll in the flight crash landing incident at Kozhikode in Kerala rose to 17, the Air India Express informed on Saturday. While the two pilots are among the deceased, the four-cabin crew members on board the aircraft are safe. "Air India Express Limited regrets to confirm that its flight IX-1344 from DXB (Dubai International Airport) to CCJ (Kozhikode International Airport) was involved in an accident on August 7, 2020 at Calicut. Our thoughts and prayers are with all the passengers and crew and their families. We would like to inform that as of now there are 17 confirmed deceased including two pilots. The four-cabin crew members are confirmed safe," the air carrier said in the statement. Emergency Response team members, as well as Special Assistance Team members, have been pressed into service from Cochin, Mumbai and Delhi to render all possible assistance to the passengers as well as to the family members, it added. Moreover, the Air India Express has arranged a "special relief flight from Mumbai and Delhi" for rendering humanitarian assistance to all the passengers and their family members. It has also established a passenger information centre and a toll-free number has been made available for the family or friends of those who may have been on board flight IX-1344. "The toll free number is 1800 2222 71. For those calling from outside, please call international country code," it added. Air India Express Dubai- Kozhikode IX-1344 flight, carrying 190 people on board from Dubai under the Vande Bharat Mission, skidded off the runway at Karipur Airport in Kozhikode on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/death-toll-in-kerala-plane-crash-rises-to-17-2-pilots-dead-all-4-crew-members-safe-air-india-express/articleshow/77425057.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Subsidies, loans, charging network in Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government on Friday launched its ambitious Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy, which aims to boost Delhi's economy, reduce pollution levels and generate employment. Announcing the launch of the policy, which was notified on Friday morning, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was one of the most progressive in the world and will make Delhi a world leader in the field of electric vehicles. The policy aims to push the adoption of EVs by creating an entire ecosystem in Delhi - giving incentives for buying EVs and for scrapping old vehicles, pushing for more EVs as commercial vehicles, creating a robust charging infrastructure, ensuring funding through various sources, which include a congestion charge, and a monitoring mechanism to ensure timely implementation. Aim to have a charging station every 3km, says KejriwalThe CM said Delhi government wants electric vehicles to comprise 25% of the newly registered vehicles across the city by 2024, compared to only 0.2% at present. It wants five lakh electric vehicles in Delhi in the next five years. "Electric vehicles are quite costly today. The Delhi government will be giving financial incentives so that more and more people purchase electric vehicles," he said. The government is providing a subsidy of up to Rs 30,000 on the purchase of electric two-wheelers, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, freight vehicles etc and Rs 1.5 lakh on cars. This is in addition to the incentives and subsidies provided under Centre’s FAME-II scheme. The government will also offer loans to people at low-interest rates to purchase vehicles, and registration fees and road tax will be waived. Kejriwal said one of the many reasons people do not purchase electric vehicles is that charging is not as easily available as, say, petrol pumps. "Keeping this in mind, a huge network of charging stations will be created in Delhi. Our target is to create 200 charging stations in the next one year in the city. Our aim is to have a charging station every 3km," he added. "We have prepared the electric vehicle policy in Delhi after working hard in the past 2-3 years and holding discussions with consumers and experts," Kejriwal said. He observed that China is considered to be the leader in EVs, but, in the next five years, Delhi will be leading the way. "In the past few days, the Delhi government has taken various measures to kickstart the economy. We launched the Rozgaar website, we reduced the price of diesel, we allowed street vendors to start operating and undertook many other measures," he said, adding that the EV policy would boost Delhi’s economy and help create jobs. "In the past five years, the people of Delhi have worked together to reduce pollution levels by 25% but we have to reduce them further. During the pandemic, we saw that there was a drastic reduction in PM10 and PM2.5 levels. We could see clear skies and feel the clean breeze," he said. "Now when we are opening up the economy and moving towards a normal life, we do not need the kind of development which leads to pollution. Let us come together and build a Delhi of the future, which is a Delhi with clean air and where we can breathe easily, and which is sustainable. This EV policy will work in that direction of reducing pollution levels, boost the economy of Delhi and create jobs for people," he added. Kejriwal said wide-ranging consultations were held, experts from across the country were consulted and electric vehicle policies of many other countries were studied to incorporate all the good points. He said that the policy would be reviewed after three years and, if required, changes will be made. A state electric vehicle board, chaired by transport minister Kailash Gahlot, will be constituted for effective implementation of the EV policy, besides setting up a dedicated EV cell and a state EV fund, which will encompass all the expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/subsidies-loans-charging-network-in-delhi-ev-policy/articleshow/77425077.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 8, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Red alert in Coimbatore, Nilgiris after IMD forecasts heavy rain||COIMBATORE/MADURAI: The state government has issued red alert for Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts following IMD’s forecast that rain could intensify in the region on Saturday. The two districts are already battered by four days of intermittent rain. Several hundred acres of agricultural and horticultural crops have been damaged. Fields in many parts of the two districts are completely submerged in water. Heavy winds uprooted trees, disrupting power supply. Gudalur, near Ooty, received 349 mm and Devala received 360 mm rain on Friday. Valparai in Coimbatore district received 230 mm rain. The two districts are gearing up to prevent loss of life and damage to properties as rain is expected to intensify. IMD deputy director S Balachandran said red alert in Coimbatore district was mainly issued to the hilly regions bordering Kerala - Valparai and Anamalai area. There would be heavy rainfall and strong winds for the next 48 hours, he said. More than 1,000 people have been accommodated in many relief camps in different parts of the Nilgiris district. Five relief camps are functional in Kundha taluk alone. RDO D Suresh Kumar said 26 huts were damaged in Kundha region. Eleven houses in a tribal hamlet at Pakkana in Pandalur taluk of the Nilgiris are marooned. NDRF, SDRF and fire and rescue personnel are engaged in rescue operation. There is a respite from gusty winds as of Friday evening. Power was restored in Ooty after a gap of 48 hours. However, Missionary Hill, Havelock Road, Nondimedu and Doddabetta areas continue to be in darkness even after three days. Tangedco is replacing 100 electric poles, which were badly damaged when trees fell on them during gusty winds. Many houses in Anamalai region in Coimbatore have not had power supply for the past five days. Minister for municipal administration, S P Velumani and minister for animal husbandry, Udumalai Radhakrishnan inspected the rain affected areas in Gudalur taluk and Ooty town on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-red-alert-in-coimbatore-nilgiris-after-imd-forecasts-heavy-rain/articleshow/77425085.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Red alert in Coimbatore, Nilgiris after IMD forecasts heavy rain||COIMBATORE/MADURAI: The state government has issued red alert for Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts following IMD’s forecast that rain could intensify in the region on Saturday. The two districts are already battered by four days of intermittent rain. Several hundred acres of agricultural and horticultural crops have been damaged. Fields in many parts of the two districts are completely submerged in water. Heavy winds uprooted trees, disrupting power supply. Gudalur, near Ooty, received 349 mm and Devala received 360 mm rain on Friday. Valparai in Coimbatore district received 230 mm rain. The two districts are gearing up to prevent loss of life and damage to properties as rain is expected to intensify. IMD deputy director S Balachandran said red alert in Coimbatore district was mainly issued to the hilly regions bordering Kerala - Valparai and Anamalai area. There would be heavy rainfall and strong winds for the next 48 hours, he said. More than 1,000 people have been accommodated in many relief camps in different parts of the Nilgiris district. Five relief camps are functional in Kundha taluk alone. RDO D Suresh Kumar said 26 huts were damaged in Kundha region. Eleven houses in a tribal hamlet at Pakkana in Pandalur taluk of the Nilgiris are marooned. NDRF, SDRF and fire and rescue personnel are engaged in rescue operation. There is a respite from gusty winds as of Friday evening. Power was restored in Ooty after a gap of 48 hours. However, Missionary Hill, Havelock Road, Nondimedu and Doddabetta areas continue to be in darkness even after three days. Tangedco is replacing 100 electric poles, which were badly damaged when trees fell on them during gusty winds. Many houses in Anamalai region in Coimbatore have not had power supply for the past five days. Minister for municipal administration, S P Velumani and minister for animal husbandry, Udumalai Radhakrishnan inspected the rain affected areas in Gudalur taluk and Ooty town on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-red-alert-in-coimbatore-nilgiris-after-imd-forecasts-heavy-rain/articleshow/77425084.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Out of prison for 'good conduct', man stabs girl in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Krishan alias Kake, the burglar charged with brutally assaulting a 12-year-old girl inside her house in Peeragarhi with a pair of scissors after injuring her head with a sewing machine, has been found to be a habitual offender. In 2006, Krishan was jailed for battering a woman to death with a brick for trying to stop a break-in attempt at Sultanpuri. The same year, he had tried to kill his brother after getting caught stealing from his house. Though he had been imprisoned for life, he was released on bail in 2016 for "good behaviour". However, he went back to committing burglaries in colonies housing labourers. During interrogation, the 33-year-old claimed that he was an alcoholic and would commit burglaries to sustain himself. Girl continues to be in critical stateFollowing the altercation with his brother, his family disowned him. He then started living on the footpaths in Mangolpuri and eating at langars. On Tuesday, Krishan had gone to Peeragarhi looking for a house to burgle. “He would usually target rooms on the first and second floors of houses so that passersby wouldn’t notice him,” said a police officer. However, this time people were present in the rooms on the first and second floors of the house he had targeted. When he reached the staircase on the third floor, he found the door of the girl’s house open and entered inside. There were 18-19 rooms on this floor, all of which were locked. He then started to steal the household items. The girl soon realised his presence and raised an alarm. Hearing her shouts for help, Krishan hurled a sewing machine at her head. The girl’s parents work at a denim factory, so they had sewing equipment in the house. Despite being injured, the girl grabbed his shirt and tried to hold him back. He then picked up the pair of scissors lying next to the sewing machine and stabbed her multiple times in the abdomen. When she started bleeding profusely, he fled the house. After scanning through footage of CCTV cameras in the area, police rounded up 150 suspects. Zeroing in on one person was tough as they were all wearing masks. Finally, Krishan was spotted in a video footage walking out of the colony without a handkerchief covering his face. His criminal antecedents gave him away. Meanwhile, the girl continues to be in a critical condition at AIIMS. She was shifted to the neurosurgery ICU on Friday. She has been put on a ventilator as her platelet count is low. She might undergo surgery after her platelet count improves. No surgery can be conducted immediately as she has swelling in her brain and her blood pressure is not stable. A team of doctors from neurosurgery, paediatric surgery, and gynaecology departments are monitoring her condition constantly. “The girl’s condition is critical, but salvageable,” said a source. Watch Delhi: Man stabs 12-yr-old after being released from prison for 'good conduct'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-of-prison-for-good-conduct-man-stabs-girl-in-delhi/articleshow/77425099.cms||---
August 8, 2020||India||OCI card-holders from US, UK, Germany and France can visit India||NEW DELHI: Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders from the US, UK, Germany and France, with whom India has signed ‘air bubble’ arrangements, will be allowed to visit the country, the home ministry announced on Friday. Other foreigners from these countries have also been allowed to avail Indian visa facility for business, medical and employment purposes. According to a home ministry notification, Indian citizens have also been allowed to travel to these countries on any type of visa. Other countries may be included under this scheme in future, the notification said. The home ministry said it has further considered the need for relaxation of visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals who want to travel to India and Indian nationals intending to visit other countries in the context of the ‘air bubble’ scheme. It has been decided that OCI card holders holding passports of countries that may be included in such a scheme in the future will be permitted to enter India, the notification said. Indian missions of these countries will grant appropriate visa, provided papers of the applicants are in order and there is no adverse input about them. It would be for the airlines concerned to ensure that there is no travel restriction for Indian nationals to enter the country concerned with the particular visa category before issue of tickets, the home ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oci-card-holders-from-us-uk-germany-and-france-can-visit-india/articleshow/77425126.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses August’s average rainfall in seven days||MUMBAI: With the active monsoon spell this week, Mumbai has surpassed the entire August’s normal average rainfall of 585.2mm in the first seven days of the month itself. The city has received 597.6mm of rain between August 1 and 7. The India Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, had recorded 268mm of rain in the 24-hour period ending Tuesday 8am and 162mm of rain in a 24-hour span ending Thursday 8am—together they had contributed to over 70% of the normal average August rain. The prevailing weather conditions that gave Mumbai and its adjoining areas these intense showers, weathermen said, were due to a wellmarked low pressure area, a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels and strong south westerly/westerly monsoonal flow over Arabian Sea. Friday saw some respite from the heavy spells. In the 24-hour period ending Friday 8.30am, the IMD Colaba observatory recorded 25.2mm of rain and the IMD Santacruz station 79.2mm. And Mumbaikars can expect further relief as the IMD has forecast light to moderate rain for Saturday, Sunday and Monday in parts of the city and adjoining Thane. The break, however, may be short lived as heavy rain at isolated places is expected on Tuesday (August 11). “Over the 24 hours from Thursday to Friday, parts of Mumbai, Thane Navi Mumbai received moderate to heavy rain. However, the rain intensity in the suburbs and adjoining areas, like Navi Mumbai, was more. From August 10-11 again a further increase in rain is possible,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy directorgeneral (western region), IMD. Meanwhile, on Friday, the total water stock in the seven catchment area lakes which cater to Mumbai was 6.7 lakh million litres (46% of the total required quantum)—a 5% rise from Thursday as big lakes like Modak Sagar and Middle Vaitarna finally saw rainfall in triple digits. The total required water stock is 14.5 lakh million litres by October 1 for the city to go without a water cut for the rest of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-crosses-augusts-average-rainfall-in-seven-days/articleshow/77425096.cms||Richa Pinto
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Gym owners in Chennai chalk out plans for 50-plus in fitness loop||CHENNAI: Radha Narasimhan was a regular ather gym in Madipakkam until the pandemic struck. News of gyms reopening from August10 should have brought a smile to her face, but the 51-year-old private bank employee is disappointed people over 50 won’t be allowed. “… I feel the government’s decision may have been on the harsher side but you can’t do anything else other than doing little workouts, walking inside the confines of your home and hope for things to get better,” she said. Several people have been affected by the decision, which is based on the premise that people over 50 are more vulnerable to contract the Covid-19 virus. Ajit Shetty, owner of Score, seemed a little surprised. “Many above 50 are regulars at any gym facility and remain extremely fit. I would have understood had the government announced that those above 60 can’t work out as,” he told TOI. Introducing a special time slot for 50-plus members may not be possible at least in the first few weeks, but Ajit plans to start online classes via Zoom calls for them. “These are tough times. With the help of our trainers, we plan to start online classes where we will teach them the basics of working out from homes. It is important for people from all agegroups to stay in the best possible shape,” Ajit said. Those over 50 may account for 10%-15% of the total clientele in most gyms, but owners are going the extra mile to keep them in good spirit. Revoke Gym’s Sobika Gupta plans to extend membership of such people by the number of months they missed. “If a 50-plus member hasn’t made use of the facility from the start of the lockdown the time he/she is finally allowed — we will extend membership by that many months without extra charge,” she said. She also plans to conduct online sessions for those missing out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gym-owners-in-chennai-chalk-out-plans-for-50-plus-in-fitness-loop/articleshow/77425136.cms||Prasad RS
August 8, 2020||India||To boost J&K growth, Rs 6,000cr of pending projects cleared in 1 year||SRINAGAR: In the year following neutering of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, 2,273 infrastructure projects worth Rs 5,979 crore, which had been pending for the past 5-10 years, were sanctioned and 506 completed even as J&K Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam describes the efforts to bring good governance and development to the erstwhile state as “work in progress”. Some of the works done so far include strengthening of the panchayat structure, completion of Phase 1 of Jhelum flood mitigation project, creation of 10,000 jobs and opening up 50 new degree colleges. Stating that fulfilling the aspirations of people of J&K will take time, Subrahmanyam said: “I think we need patience. We have got the institutional architecture in place and we are moving ahead step by step. Once we get the development process in place, once we get the jobs going, once we see the investment growing, you will find people in a different frame of mind.” Describing the erstwhile state of J&K as “broken” and with no “system” due to years of misgovernance, corruption and “unbelievable levels of fraud” committed by past regimes led by a handful of powerful families and institutions controlled by them, Subrahmanyam, a Chhattisgarh-cadre IAS officer, said he was sent to J&K by the Prime Minister with a clear direction to “clean up the state, reform it and hand over to the people of J&K their ‘amaanat’ (valued possession)”. The chief secretary said he and others have been working to create a robust institutional infrastructure which is free of corruption. Projects pending for over four decades like the Shahpur-Kandi project were started, J&K Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation created last year to complete projects languishing for 5-10 years, panchayat elections held successfully and the intricacies of transition of J&K from J&K Constitution to Constitution of India, from a state to Union territory, and from one state to two Union territories, followed through. Stating the transition was made painful by the fact that J&K was “crumbling” due to years of neglect and corruption, Subrahmanyam said the priority is now to “erect a robust panchayat system”. He said a cadre of panchayat officers will be created, who will also handle accounts. A panchayat secretariat is being created and all the 4,300 panchayat bhavans will have a standardised design. Subrahmanyam said bypolls to over 12,600 vacant posts of panch and sarpanch in J&K would be held as soon as Covid situation improves. On the feeling among some Kashmiris that not enough has been done to fulfil their aspirations post-Article 370, he assured that delivery of jobs, growth and development would happen but added that reconstruction of the UT does not happen overnight. “It’s a work in progress,” he said. On the impact of Covid-19 on J&K, the chief secretary said while the pandemic has set the UT back by 7-8 months, the agriculture sector, on which nearly 75 lakh people are dependent, and government employees, who total 4 lakh and have around 16 lakh dependents, were unaffected. The sectors hit are tourism, shops and transportation. But somehow, the people of J&K are more resilient when it comes to lockdowns, having witnessed many separatist-induced shutdowns, he said. “I can say confidently say that Covid-19 impact on J&K GDP will be the least among all states/UTs,” he said. On plans for Global Investment Summit, Subrahmanyam said it may well be pushed to next financial year in view of Covid crisis. He did add that many businessmen have evinced interest in investing in J&K, not so much for high returns but for “the sheer love for Kashmir”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-boost-jk-growth-rs-6000cr-of-pending-projects-cleared-in-1-year/articleshow/77425150.cms||Bharti Jain
August 8, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s 19.1% positivity rate twice the national average||MUMBAI: Maharashtra continues to have the highest positivity rate (PR) in the country at 19.1%, more than double the national average of 8.9%. Experts say the numbers are indicative of the continued spread in the state, with certain districts having a PR of more than 25-30%. Telangana, with a positivity of 13.3%, and Delhi, with 12.5%, occupy the second and third positions. With testing volumes going up in a big way across states, including Maharashtra, positivity rates have seen quite some disruption. ‘Chain of transmission not broken in Maharashtra yet’The introduction of the faster and cheaper rapid antigen tests, debated for their higher false negativity rates, have altered the testing scene, although experts are worried as these tests overtake the gold standard RT-PCR tests in many regions. State officials often quote higher testing figures to explain high positivity rates. Maharashtra has completed 25.7 lakh tests since January, of which over 10 lakh were done in July alone. But when the figures are compared with Tamil Nadu or UP, the explanation doesn’t hold ground. TN, which has tested over 30.9 lakh samples, has a PR of 9.2%, and UP, which has carried out 28.9 lakh tests, has a rate of 3.9%. Karnataka that has tested over 16 lakh has PR of 10.2%. Professor Soumitra Ghosh from TISS said if the state’s positivity rate has remained consistently high, it means the infection is spreading. “Essentially the chain of transmission has not been broken,” he said. A state official, however, said, “Positivity rate has already started to show a marginal dip, but we will see a steady fall from next week.” The PR hovered between 19-19.8% for all of July before coming to 19.1% on Friday. The official added the state’s daily positivity rate used to be as high as 33%. “Maharashtra is perhaps going through its peak while other states could have just started seeing an increase in cases,” the official said. Nationally, the testing rose from 1.2 crore on July 14 July to 2.2 crore on August 6 and the PR from 7.5% to 8.9%. “Although higher number of tests will push the positivity rate initially, but as the Delhi experience has shown, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as isolation, tracking,” the health ministry said in a statement on Friday. Experts said Delhi’s PR reduced due to uptake in use of antigen kits. Delhi’s PR that was above 20% declined to less than half after antigen tests were done in big numbers—a model which many states, including Maharashtra, UP and Andhra have begun following. The daily RT-PCR tests in UP have stayed stagnant while antigen tests have gone up, bringing down PR. The week that ended on August 3, an average 93,770 samples were tested in UP every day — highest in India in absolute numbers. 30,000 were done using RT-PCR method and over 60,000 tests with antigen method. In TN, which has done most tests in India, there is an official policy to not use rapid antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtras-19-1-positivity-rate-twice-the-national-average/articleshow/77425152.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Three sons dump father for Rs 3 crore property, arrested Siddipet district||HYDERABAD: Three sons of a 79-year-old man in Siddipet district have been arrested for abandoning their father after grabbing his Rs 3 crore property and throwing him out on the streets. All the three sons are now lodged in Huzurabad jail while their father is in a government hospital after he fell sick at the old age home he was staying. The victim, Pothu Mallayya of Shankarnagar in Madhira village under Koheda police station, was left to fend for himself after the sons divided the property among themselves. One of the sons has let the mother stay with him as she has another six acres registered in her name, cops said, adding that her gold and silver ornaments were also taken away by the three men. Villagers took pity on Mallayya, admitted him to old-age homeDespite police and revenue authorities’ intervention, the sons — Pothu Ravinder (52), Pothu Janardhan (48) and Pothu Sudhakar (45) — did not bother to take care of their father and even threatened villagers when they gave food to the septuagenarian. Some villagers took pity on Mallayya and admitted him to the oldage home. According to police, the sons bought land elsewhere with their share and one of them even constructed a house. With Madhira VRO giving a written complaint against the sons, Koheda police booked cases against the accused and produced them before court which remanded them to judicial custody. “The three sons have shown that they are heartless. Despite counselling and persuasion by villagers, police and revenue authorities, they refused to budge and did not come forward to take care of their aged father,” Koheda SI Raj Kumar said. The sons were booked under Section 24 of Maintenance and Welfare of Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The imprisonment under this section is three months and ₹5,000 fine. Based on a statement of Mallayya that his sons had forced him to sell away his property to divide it among themselves and later abandoned him, they were also booked under IPC Section 420 (cheating). This is a non-bailable offence and carries an imprisonment of up to seven years if convicted. In addition, IPC Sections 290 (nuisance) and 323 have also been added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-sons-dump-father-for-rs-3-crore-property-arrested-siddipet-district/articleshow/77425074.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 8, 2020||Delhi||Let us open: Gym owners to Delhi lieutenant governor||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi government sent a fresh proposal to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking his permission to allow hotels, gymnasiums, yoga centres and weekly markets to reopen in the capital to kickstart the economy, Delhi Gym Association has also written to the LG over the issue. Last week, the LG had rejected the government decision on the resumption of operations by hotels and weekly markets, saying that the Covid situation in the capital has improved but continues to be fragile. The government has requested the LG to reconsider the proposal, which seeks approval for opening of gyms and yoga centres too. A source said that the LG will analyse the current Covid situation and then take a final decision on the proposal. The gym association wrote to LG Baijal on Friday, underlining that small and medium businesses are reeling under severe crisis right now. It also pointed out that Centre's guidelines allow the gyms to open under Unlock 3.0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/let-us-open-gym-owners-to-delhi-lieutenant-governor/articleshow/77425160.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Chennai||Eight acres of urban forest to come up in Chennai’s central region within one year||CHENNAI: The city is set to get about eight acres of urban forest in the next one year. Two green lungs covering half-an-acre have been completed, and three more, over eight acres, are to come up at Vysarpadi and Anna Nagar, Greater Chennai Corporation officials said. P N Sridhar, regional deputy commissioner, central region, said workers had begun levelling land near VR Mall in Anna Nagar and at Vysarpadi. “Initially, we plan to remove invasive species and create a dense forest that would act as a lung space. Our plan is to create one forest in every zone but it depends on the availability of space,” he said. Only native species are being used and each forest will have at least 40 varieties including small herbs, shrubs, flowering plants and canopy trees, all maintained by ward officials, NGOs and residential welfare associations. The bio-degradable solid waste generated will be used as manure for the forests. A study conducted by the corporation in 2018, with biodiversity organization Care Earth, found that of the 426 sq km, only 64 sq km was covered with vegetation — 9% had green cover and 9% was under forest cover. It was also found that 2,000 trees can help consume 12 tonnes of carbon dioxide annually. The corporation proposes to plant about two lakh saplings, with 23,000 planted along road sides and in open reserved sites in 2019. The city has about 525 parks and commissioner G Prakash had earlier asked zonal officials to create urban forests in every zone. Alby John, regional deputy commissioner (south region), said they were nearing completion of a forest in Alandur. “It is about 20 cents of land. In fact, we created the first one in Kotturpuram which was about 20,000 sq ft and next at Valasaravakkam which was 6,000sqft. Both have grown really well. We plan more such urban forests in the city as they are need of the hour to mitigate urban heat island effect. This small high-density vegetation also creates a habitat for biodiversity and is self-sustaining. In our region, we will have a total of five such urban forests by the end of the year,” he said. S Ramachandran of Easy Forest said, “People usually think urban forests are manmade. These forests give us almost same benefits that natural forests provide. Since we use wet degradable solid waste from nearby areas, it in fact creates a balance in the ecological cycle. ” For details, contact easyforestoffice@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eight-acres-of-urban-forest-to-come-up-in-chennais-central-region-within-one-year/articleshow/77425157.cms||Komal Gautham
August 8, 2020||Business||Birla Corp to expand Durgapur cement plant||Kolkata: M P Birla Group flagship Birla Corporation is planning to expand existing capacity of its grinding cement plant in Durgapur with an investment of Rs 72.5 crore. “Demand of premium slag-based cement in eastern region is expected to be robust. In view of the same, it is proposed to carry out the expansion of the existing capacity of grinding cement plant at Durgapur by installing one cement mill (VRM) having capacity of 0.24 MTPA. Post-expansion, the capacity of grinding cement plant at Durgapur will increase to 1.5 MTPA after the above expansion,” it added. The cement major has reported a 53% year-on-year (Y-o-Y) fall in its consolidated net profit to Rs 65.7 crore in the first quarter ended June 30, from Rs 140.6 crore in the year-ago period. Its revenue from operations during the June quarter this fiscal also fell over 35% y-o-y at Rs 1,221.9 crore compared with Rs 1,883.8 crore in the year-ago period, according to the BSE filing. According to the company, sudden lockdown in the third week of March had also led to pile up of inventory at the depots which was liquidated during the quarter. “Birla Corporation managed to protect realization despite subdued demand and across the board inventory pile up. Realization for the June quarter at Rs 4,906 per tonne was 0.5% lower than the last year, mainly because of the soft prices prevailing in the east. The 5% drop in EBITDA per tonne at Rs 981 for the June quarter was on account of low fixed-cost absorption, low capacity utilisation and the adverse situation prevailing in some of the key markets of the company,” the company said in a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-corp-to-expand-durgapur-cement-plant/articleshow/77423710.cms||---
August 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Revenue booster: AP gets ready to revise land values||AMARAVATI: The Andhra Pradesh government has set the stage to revise land values in towns and cities across the state. Revision of land values will help the government earn additional revenue as stamps and registration fees on land are collected on the basis of the booking value. Deputy chief minister Dharamana Krishnadas, who is also the revenue minister, reviewed the progress made in the project with principal secretary Rajath Bhargava and commissioner Siddhartha Jain at the camp office on Friday. Officials informed the minister that proposals regarding revision of land values have been received from joint collectors of all districts. They said that the administration has secured scientific land value analysis from the sub-registrar level in order to assess the situation on the ground. Joint collectors have compiled the reports filed by sub-registrars and sent them to the government for upward revision of land values in a majority of districts. The government wanted to revise land values from August 1 itself. However, it took time to analyse the situation in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The government has also invited suggestions from the public on the basis of the draft report published on the government website. Principal secretary Rajath Bhargava said, “We have prepared a comprehensive report for revision of values. We are taking feedback from the public into consideration.” The government’s registration revenue has hit rock bottom in many districts owing to the Covid-19 outbreak as land transactions have come to a grinding halt. Sources said that with the exception of Visakhapatnam, no other district is witnessing significant activity on the land registration front. The state government has decided to rationalise land values by revising book values and equalising it to the near-actual market value. In most cases, the book value (that is, the value fixed by the government) will be lower than the actual sale value in the market. Deputy CM Krishnadas said, “Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will take the final call on the issue.” Minimum revision will be around 10 per cent, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revenue-booster-ap-gets-ready-to-revise-land-values/articleshow/77420235.cms||Samdani MN
August 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kailasagiri hilltop park set to undergo major makeover||Visakhapatnam: Kailasagiri Hilltop Park, the popular tourist destination in the city, is all set to undergo a major transformation as Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has launched Rs 56.5 crore worth redevelopment works. Cyclone Hudhud, which brought the city to its knees in 2014, had severely damaged the hilltop park too. Consequently, World Bank approved a credit of Rs 1,550 crore out of the total project cost of Rs 2,220 crore under Andhra Pradesh Disaster Recovery Project (APDRP). The counterpart funding from the state government will be Rs 670 crore at the ratio of 68:32. The project is being implemented in the Hudhud-affected districts, including Visakhapatnam, to restore, improve, and enhance resilience of public services. Out of the six components of the APDRP, the component-III deals with protection and restoration of the beachfront. The Kailasagiri hilltop park restoration and redevelopment is a subcomponent of component-III. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the Kailasagiri hilltop park will be developed into a space, which will have lots of nature zones. “At the same time, the park will get several attractions for adventure and entertainment-seeking tourists to spend a fun-filled day and enjoy the hospitality of Vishakhapatnam. A second ghat road will be developed for the convenience of the public,” said Rao. Rao added that the development strategies devised for the redevelopment of park will address the existing shortcomings and create several public amenities to provide them a delightful experience, with several primary and secondary interventions. “The main focus of these interventions is aimed at bringing in more recreational opportunities for tourists along with improving the core infrastructure like water supply, drainage system, irrigation, wastewater treatment system, improvement in electricity network and circulation system. Some of the other major interventions will be creating parking facilities, event area/amphitheatre, amusement area, food joints, viewpoints, gaming area, etc.,” said Rao. The park is located at about 360 feet from the sea level, offering a panoramic view of Vizag city. The major focal point of the park is the statue of Lord Shiva and Parvati. The exquisite statue is made of white marble and has a height of about 40 feet. Apart from the existing ghat road, the tourists can also take the ropeway service to reach the hills. The hilltop park registers around 10 lakh footfalls every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kailasagiri-hilltop-park-set-to-undergo-major-makeover/articleshow/77420267.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 8, 2020||Business||Bata’s Q1 loss at Rs 101cr||Kolkata: Bata India has registered a loss of Rs 101 crore in the first quarter of this fiscal against a profit after tax of Rs 100 crore in the corresponding period last year. The revenue from operations for the quarter was Rs 134 crore, 85% lower compared to the year-ago period due to the lockdown in April & May followed by a graded unlocking across the country. Bata has said that the results in the first quarter of 2020-21 were severely impacted because of disruptions caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The company witnessed a gradual improvement in business once the lockdown was lifted. It has pointed out that the the Company is focusing on controlling its costs-related to retail stores, factories, rentals & operations and drive efficiencies in its value chain. Bata India CEO Sandeep Kataria said: “It was an unprecedented quarter in Bata India’s history. During the quarter we had low sales and no production due to the lockdown. Our stores started opening up in a graded fashion, but running operations was a challenge due to restrictions mandated by local administrations. The results have to be viewed in this context.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/batas-q1-loss-at-rs-101cr/articleshow/77423718.cms||---
