August 9, 2020||Goa||Spanish defender Ivan Gonzalez is Pena’s replacement at FC Goa||PANAJI: FC Goa have completed the signing of Spanish defender Ivan Gonzalez, a player the club tracked for five months. Gonzalez captained Cultural Leonesa this season and has spent four straight years at the club. A popular figure, he had an existing contract. But the club’s failure to qualify for Segunda – Spain’s second division – prompted the defender to give the Indian Super League (ISL) and AFC Champions League a try. Gonzalez is FC Goa’s third new international signing, following in the footsteps of two other Spaniards – striker Igor Angulo and winger Jorge Ortiz. Edu Bedia’s presence here means all four foreign players at the moment are from Spain. “After more than 170 official matches with Cultural y Deportiva Leonesa and five seasons, today we have reached an agreement with our captain Ivan Gonzalez to terminate the contract that united us to give him the opportunity to continue progressing in his career,” the Spanish club said in a statement on Saturday. Once he had secured his release, FC Goa did not lose much time in completing the signing formalities. At 30, Gonzalez still has plenty of football left in him. His name was sounded out much before last season’s campaign ended, and despite other names being suggested to the club, coach Juan Ferrando was convinced that the defender was a perfect fit. “He’s exactly what the club needs. Strong presence on the field and in the dressing room. He’s very good with his feet too, just an FC Goa type of player. You can say he’s a perfect replacement for Carlos Pena, just that he is six years younger,” a source who has tracked the player told TOI after the signing formalities were completed. While India would seem a new experience for Gonzalez, he wouldn’t be all at sea. The presence of Spanish players and coach Ferrando should help. Besides, the defender has played with Ortiz at Cultural Leonesa (2018-19) and trained under Ferrando for a short spell during the 2015-16 season. For four consecutive seasons, plus another one previously, Gonzalez played 167 games for Cultural Leonesa. He still had another year left at the club, but decided to terminate the contract by mutual consent. Interestingly, when Gonzalez landed at the club, he was an established right-back, but coach Ruben de la Barrera converted him into a centre-back. That started a memorable journey, one that took the club to the second division for the first time in 42 years. Gonzalez is reported to have played more than 15,000 minutes in five seasons, making him the second-best capped player at the club. Born in Madrid, he joined Real Madrid's youth setup in 2002 at the age of 12 from local club AD Parla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spanish-defender-ivan-gonzalez-is-penas-replacement-at-fc-goa/articleshow/77438152.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 9, 2020||Guwahati||Chances of Covid transmission in home quarantine is 4% cases: Study||GUWAHATI: The chances of Covid-19 transmission from asymptomatic patients to their family members while in home quarantine is only about four percent, a study has found. The team of researchers headed by Dr Gayatri Gogoi, assistant professor of pathology department at Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH), is monitoring about 25,000 people under home quarantine and educating them on quarantine rules and also providing psychosocial counselling by experts, offering telemedicine consultations of those with health issues and providing regular ration requirement data and SOS inputs in emergency. To date, about 25,000 population within Kamrup (Metropolitan) have been home quarantined and around 19,000 completed the mandatory period. The study was conducted by a team of doctors, in collaboration with Assam Police and Pratishruti Cancer and Palliative Trust in greater Guwahati over the last two months has confirmed that under home quarantine. “We found it is safer for Covid-positive persons, both asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic, to be home quarantined. The chances of spread of the novel coronavirus are very low from the asymptomatic patients. In only 4.06% cases (5 cases during the study), there was evidence of transmission to family members," Gogoi told TOI on Saturday. Till compilation of the data for the study, 123 of the 25,000 quarantined people turned positive in greater Guwahati areas. Lead researcher Gogoi said 101 of the 123 cases were asymptomatic, while only 22 were symptomatic. They found that 81% positive cases detected among those who were put under home quarantine, were in the 20-50 years age group. The authors of the research paper are Dhemaji SP Dr Dhananjay Ghanwat, Dr Faujia S Hakkim and Dr Siddhartha Sarma from Pratishruti Cancer and Palliative Trust Dibrugarh, Dr Jina Bhattacharyya from clinical haematology department of Gauhati Medical College and Dr Sukonya Gogoi of AMCH. Once, the World Health Organization said asymptomatic people don’t transmit the virus, but it later changed the stand. “When we detailed the household conditions of some families where the infection had spread within, we found that their common factor was common toilets for all members. The nature of transmission of the families suggest a strong possibility of transmission through use of common toilets. Three studies have cultured SARS-CoV-2 from stool specimens,” Gogoi said. After analysing data from special quarantine facilities of CISF, BSF and ITBP, they came to a conclusion that it strongly indicates a common source such as toilets, irrespective of their symptomatic or asymptomatic clinical condition, has resulted in the spread of the virus. “Educating people about the quarantine rules (maintaining distancing within homes), safe hygiene practices and monitoring of home quarantined populations to ensure containment of the virus spread is a critical aspect. Very low infection rate in our study could be linked to 82% asymptomatic cases, education of home quarantine rules and strict monitoring by voluntary agencies on the job,” added Gogoi. Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, who included the innovative model of monitoring with civil society organisations involving about 300 volunteers, are offering their services to carry out the monitoring on a completely honorary basis. Barun Purkayastha, DCP (Crime) at Guwahati police commissionerate, who is the nodal officer of Assam Police, said, “This model of work is extraordinary, we are grateful to Pratishruti who have been giving us a big support in home quarantines monitoring."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/chances-of-covid-transmission-in-home-quarantine-is-4-cases-study/articleshow/77438362.cms||Kangkan Kalita
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Minor girl from Assam rescued in Sirsa village||HISAR: A 17-year-old girl from Assam, who had been sold off to a human trafficking racket, was rescued by Sirsa Child Welfare Committee (WC) and police from a Sirsa Jodhka village on Friday night. The girl was reportedly raped and is pregnant. She is now with the Sirsa CWC. Anita Verma, the leader of the team that rescued the girl from a landlord in Jodhaka village, and chairman of the Sirsa CWC, said based on the interrogation of the girl, she was abducted and raped by a man in Assam and then sold to a 40-year-old farmer in Jodhaka village in Sirsa. The girl does not know for how much she was sold for, added Verma. A few days ago, when the girl got hold of a mobile phone, she called her mother, who contacted the CWC in Assam. After which Sirsa CWC was contacted who approached the Sirsa administration. On Friday, the Sirsa CWC with the help of Ding police, rescued the girl from the landlord. Verma said the girl has been subjected to medical examination. "She is three months pregnant. Her family will come to Sirsa, till then the girl will be with committee. An FIR will be lodged on Sunday." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minor-girl-from-assam-rescued-in-sirsa-village/articleshow/77439250.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Clean chit to officials challenge to CM’s authority, says Abhay Singh Chautala||CHANDIGARH: Referring to the clean chit given by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala to the officials of excise department indicted by the special team that probed alleged liquor scam, senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said the move was a challenge to the authority of chief minister (CM). He said that if CM Manohar Lal Khattar failed to take a strict action in the matter, it would a clear indication that CM himself is also involved in the scam. Abhay has sought CBI probe into the entire matter. "The special enquiry team (SET) was constituted by CM Manohar Lal Khattar and the probe panel has indicted some officials of the excise department. However, instant clean chit by a minister on panel's recommendations is an insult to the CM, who had constituted the probe panel. If Khattar is really serious to curb corruption in the state, he should take ‘stern and exemplary' action on the recommendations of the probe panel," Abhay has demanded.The Ellenabad MLA also said today liquor from Haryana was available in several other states, especially Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Bihar, and liquor could not go out of the state without the connivance of the high ups and senior officials of the state. Abhay also criticised the role of home minister Anil Vij accusing that the police department under him had miserably failed to control the transportation of illegal liquor during the lockdown in the state. "Vij should also explain how trucks transported liquor across the state and the police personnel under him failed to take any action," Abhay added. While interacting to media at his Chandigarh residence, Abhay said the alleged kingpin of the liquor scam Bhipinder Singh was also close to Congress's former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda whom he had financially supported during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the latter had unsuccessfully contested from Sonipat seat. "It is also clear from the fact that till date, Hooda has not made a single statement against Bhupinder Singh," he claimed. With reference to the stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir, Abhay said that BJP was an anti-farmer party, as it had immediately implemented the Supreme Court (SC) verdict in the Ram janambhoomi case and started construction of temple, whereas, it has not moved an inch to implement the 2016 SC judgement regarding construction of SYL canal to get Haryana's share of water. "BJP has started the temple construction for political purpose, but the party is against the agrarian community, which is reflected from its action in these two SC verdicts," he added.When asked about the Baroda bypolls, Abhay said he would start visiting the assembly segment from August 16. He said that within nine months of Manohar Lal Khattar led BJP-JJP coalition government coming to power, as many as nine scams had surfaced and his party was gathering documents related to these scams. "I will then approach the high court for a fair probe into these scams by a retired judge of the high court or Supreme Court," he added. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday made it clear that appropriate action would be taken as per the recommendations of the SET in relation to the liquor case. "An SET was constituted to probe the issue and a report in this regard has been submitted by the panel to the home department. Now, the matter would come before me from the home department. I want to make it clear that the corruption will not be tolerated in any manner and an appropriate action in accordance with the recommendations of the probe team would be taken by following the due process," Khattar added. CM made this statement on Saturday during his visit to Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-clean-chit-to-officials-challenge-to-cms-authority-says-abhay-singh-chautala/articleshow/77439251.cms||Ajay Sura
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: DG for animal husbandry department soon||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has given an undertaking before the Punjab and Haryana high court that the state will make a regular appointment to the post of director general, department of animal husbandry and dairying before August 24. The assurance from the state government came during the hearing of a petition filed by Om Parkash Chhikara, joint director (administration) in the directorate of animal husbandry and dairying, challenging the decision of the state government to give interim charge of the DG's post to B S Laura. His main contention was that granting of interim charge to Laura is illegal, as he is not eligible for the post. Earlier, Chhikara had filed a petition before a single bench, which had refused to grant stay on his plea, after which he had filed an appeal before the division bench of the HC challenging the July 3 order giving interim charge of DG to Laura. The counsel for the state government assured the court that the order of giving interim charge would not continue beyond 15 days and on or before August 24, a regular appointment would be made to the DG's post after considering the claims of all eligible candidates. Counsel for the petitioner, however, argued that actually the government is "hell-bent" on permitting Laura on the post on a regular basis without him being eligible for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dg-for-animal-husbandry-dept-soon/articleshow/77439254.cms||---
August 9, 2020||World||Fury over Beirut blast fuels protests, clashes with police||BEIRUT: Public fury over this week's massive explosion in Beirut took a new turn Friday night as protesters stormed government institutions and clashed for hours with security forces, who responded with heavy volleys of tear gas and rubber bullets. One police officer was killed and dozens of people hurt in the confrontations, which played out in streets that were wrecked from Tuesday's blast at the port that devastated much of the city and killed nearly 160 people. Dozens were still missing and nearly 6,000 people injured. The disaster has taken popular anger to a new level in a country already reeling from an unprecedented economic and financial crisis and near bankruptcy. Activists who called for Friday's protest set up symbolic nooses at Beirut's Martyrs' Square to hang politicians whose corruption and negligence they blame for the explosion. The blast was fueled by thousands of tons of ammonium nitrate that had been improperly stored at the port for more than six years. Apparently set off by a fire, the explosion was by far the biggest in Lebanon's troubled history and caused an estimated $10 billion to 15 billion in damage, according to Beirut's governor. It also damaged 6,200 buildings and left hundreds of thousands of people homeless. "Resignation or hang," read a banner held by protesters, who also planned to hold a symbolic funeral for the dead. Some nooses were also set up along the bridges outside the port. Khodr Ghadir, 23, said the noose was for everyone who has been in power for the last 30 years. "What happened was a spark for people to return to the streets." A placard listed the names of the dead, printed over a photo of the blast's enormous pink mushroom cloud. "We are here for you," it read. Dozens of protesters stormed the buildings of government ministries and the headquarters of the banking association, turning their rage to state and financial institutions. Earlier Saturday, the protesters entered the empty buildings of the foreign ministry, declaring it a headquarters of their movement. Others then fanned out to enter the economy and energy ministries, some walking away with documents claiming they will reveal the extent of corruption that permeates the government. Some also entered the environment ministry. Many protesters said they now had only their homes and even those are no longer safe. They blamed the government's inefficiency and political division for the country ills, including the recent disaster that hit almost every home. The violence unfolded on the eve of an international conference co-hosted by French President Emmanuel Macron and United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres aimed at bringing donors together to supply emergency aid and equipment to the Lebanese population. In a televised speech Saturday evening, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said the only solution was to hold early elections, which he planned to propose in a draft bill. He called on all political parties to put aside their disagreements and said he was prepared to stay in the post for two months to allow time for politicians to work on structural reforms. The offer is unlikely to soothe the escalating fury on the street. In central Beirut, some protesters threw stones at security forces, who then released heavy tear gas. Near parliament, protesters tried to jump over barriers that closed the road leading to the legislature. The protesters later set on fire a truck that was fortifying barriers on a road leading to parliament. At least 238 people were hurt in the clashes, and 63 of them needed to be taken to the hospital, according to the Red Cross. Several protesters were carried away with blood running down their faces. At one point, gunfire could be heard, but its source was not immediately clear. The country's ruling class, made up mostly of former civil war-era leaders, is blamed for incompetence and mismanagement that contributed to Tuesday's explosion. "The current leaders' bloodline needs to end. We want the death of the old Lebanon and the birth of a new one," said Tarek, a 23-year-old university student who had prepared a mix of water and paint in a bottle to throw at the police. No peaceful protest would bring about change, he said. Sandy Chlela, a 35-year old from Kousba in the north, disagreed with Tarek. She said she had no illusion that the protests would bring change, but the demonstrations were a necessary expression of anger and puts some pressure on the politicians. "I know it will not change much but we can't act as if nothing happened," the computer programmer said. The state, which is investigating the cause of the explosion, has been conspicuously absent from the ravaged streets of Beirut, with almost zero involvement in the cleanup. Instead, teams of young volunteers with brooms have fanned out to sweep up broken glass and reopen roads. The U.S embassy in Beirut tweeted that "the Lebanese people have suffered too much and deserve to have leaders who listen to them and change course to respond to popular demands for transparency and accountability." Documents that surfaced after the blast showed that officials had been repeatedly warned for years that the presence of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate at the port posed a grave danger, but no one acted to remove it. Officials have been blaming one another, and 19 people have been detained, including the port's chief, the head of Lebanon's customs department and his predecessor. The protests came as senior officials from the Middle East and Europe visited in a show of solidarity with the tiny country that is still in shock. The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, arrived in Beirut for a brief visit. Turkey's vice president and the country's foreign minister met Aoun and said that Ankara was ready to help rebuild Beirut's port and evacuate some of the wounded to Turkey for treatment. At the site of the blast, workers continued searching for dozens of missing people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/fury-over-beirut-blast-fuels-protests-clashes-with-police/articleshow/77439343.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra recovery rate of 67.2% comes close to national average||MUMBAI: While the state’s caseload crossed 5 lakh on Saturday, Maharashtra now has 1,47,048 active cases and Mumbai 19,914. The BMC daily update said that of the 57 victims in the city on Saturday, 41 had comorbidities. Only two of the dead were under 40 years of age, while 13 were between 40 and 60 years of age and 43 were over 60 years old. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai between August 1 and 7 stood at 0.78%, while the doubling rate improved to 89 days. Of the total 275 deaths across the state, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added 137 and Pune division 75, while the rest of Maharashtra reported 63 deaths. In the last 24 hours, 11,081 persons were discharged, taking the total of discharges to 3,38,262 with the state recovery rate at 67.26%, just 1% lower than the national recovery rate of 68.3% on Saturday. The state fatality rate, at 3.45%, is higher than the national rate at 2.04% but is second to Gujarat (3.79%).  Kalyan-Dombivli reported 309 new patients, taking the total number of patients there to 22,155. The twin city on Saturday also reported 10 deaths, taking its toll to 431. Thane recorded 288 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. Since the outbreak began, Thane city has reported 20,970 patients and the death toll there is 673. Also, around 85% of patients (17,829) have been discharged. There were 455 cases from within NMMC areas on Saturday, which makes it the highest single-day Covid statistic for the satellite city so far. This takes the total positive count there to 18,149. NMMC officials said seven deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 461. The PCMC reported 156 positives and five deaths. The total tally there is now 7,873, and deaths rose to 182. Panvel rural added 52 positives but no death was reported. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said though the state has slashed the cap for testing rate and treatment charges, the state health department receives complaints every day. He said collectors, municipal commissioners or division commissioners should conduct surprise visits to at least five hospitals in their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-recovery-rate-of-67-2-comes-close-to-natl-average/articleshow/77439755.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 9, 2020||India||Bhushan contempt case before one bench, stay plea in another||NEW DELHI: Can one bench of the Supreme Court sit in appeal over proceedings pending before another bench? A faux pas by the court registry in the contempt cases against advocate Prashant Bhushan brought about such a situation, forcing the court to undertake an urgent fire-fight to correct the situation. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra is seized of two contempt proceedings against Bhushan - one of 2009 when he gave an interview alleging that half of 16 former CJIs were corrupt, for which he recently expressed regret, but refused to apologise. The other is the suo motu criminal contempt proceedings initiated by the same bench for his two tweets against the present CJI and four former CJIs. When proceedings were on, Bhushanm along with well known journalist N Ram and former editor-turned-politician Arun Shourie, jointly filed a petition challenging the constitutional validity of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, which said it was contempt if anyone scandalised the court with spoken or written words. In the same petition, the trio had sought a stay on the two contempt proceedings pending before the Justice Mishra-led bench. Unfathomably, the registry notified listing of Bhushan-Ram-Shourie petition before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, which meant that the bench would examine whether or not the criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan — pending before the Justice Mishra-led bench — be stayed. The registry told TOI, “A petition titled N Ram and others vs Union of India was filed in the SC praying that certain provisions of Contempt of Court Act are unconstitutional. As per the practice and procedure in use, the said matter should have been listed before the bench which is already seized with similar matter, but it has been listed (before another bench) ignoring established practice and procedure. In this regard, explanations of officials concerned have been called.” The trio’s petition was originally notified to be listed before a bench of Justices Chandrachud and K M Joseph for hearing on August 10. However, a later notification said the case has been deleted from the list of business before the bench. Interestingly, Bhushan, in response to the notice issued to him by the SC in suo motu criminal contempt proceedings for his tweets, had extensively quoted Justice Chandrachud’s speech on freedom of speech and the diminishing returns for judiciary from the use of contempt of court proceedings. Bhushan, Ram and Shourie, who had also come together to challenge the India-French inter-governmental deal for purchase of 36 fully-loaded Rafale fighter jets in 2018, in their petition said they “are seeking a stay on all the proceedings in criminal contempt cases pending against Bhushan, that are either based on the definition of 'criminal contempt' under Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 or are intrinsically linked to the same, during the pendency of the instant writ petition”. The incongruous situation, created because of a mistake committed by the registry in listing the petition before the bench headed by Justice Chandrachud, without even taking the guidance of 'master of the roster' Chief Justice S A Bobde, is being viewed as a serious lapse by the registry top brass. An explanation has been sought from the officials concerned about the lapse. The trio, referred to themselves as “highly respected individuals with outstanding track-record in their respective fields”, and said: “In view of the legal questions of constitutional significance being raised vide the instant writ petition and because of the fact that freedom of speech and expression as well as personal liberty of Bhushan are at stake, it is respectfully prayed that this court may be pleased to stay all the proceedings in criminal contempt cases pending against Bhushan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bhushan-contempt-case-before-one-bench-stay-plea-in-another/articleshow/77439780.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 9, 2020||India||Highest 1-day tally of 65k takes India past 21.5L||NEW DELHI: India crossed the 21-lakh mark in Covid cases on Wednesday on the back of the highest single-day surge in fresh infections — crossing the 65,000-mark for the first time — even as two more Union ministers, Kailash Choudhary and Arjun Meghwal, tested positive. Union home minister Amit Shah and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had earlier tested positive. With 65,410 fresh cases, India’s caseload jumped to 21,50,431, registering more than 60,000 new infections for the third consecutive day. The previous single-day peak, at 62,482 cases, was recorded on Thursday. However, for the first time after three days, the toll at 884 on Saturday was less than 900 on Saturday even as the cumulative deaths crossed the 43,000-mark to reach 43,397. Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge in fresh cases at 12,822, becoming the only state in the country to cross the 12,000-mark, as the total caseload went up to 5,03,084. The previous single-day high was recorded on August 6 with 11,514 cases. However, for the first time after four days of registering more than 300 deaths every day, Maharashtra’s single-day toll was at 275. However, after registering less than 1,000 cases for two consecutive days, fresh infections rose sharply in Mumbai with 1,300 people testing positive on Saturday. The last time Mumbai had touched the mark was on July 22 when 1,310 fresh infections were recorded. The city also recorded a rise in daily toll with 58 deaths. Like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, too, continued to record more than 10,000 cases with 10,080 patients testing positive. With 97 deaths, the state’s cumulative toll rose to 1,939. Besides Maharashtra, at least six states registered the highest single-day Covid peak — Karnataka (7,178 cases), Uttar Pradesh (4,800), Telangana (2,256), Kerala (1,420), Rajasthan (1,171) and Bihar (3,992). Karnataka crossed the 7,000 mark for the first time. The state also crossed the 3,000-mark in fatalities with 93 fresh deaths taking the toll to 3,091. Tamil Nadu recorded a triple-digit toll for the sixth day as 118 fresh deaths took the state’s cumulative fatalities to 4,808. The state added 5,883 fresh cases, taking the caseload to 2,90,907, even as the number of fresh cases in Chennai continued to fall below 1,000 for the second consecutive day in the last 53 days. Another southern metro, Hyderabad, too registered a drop with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area reporting less than 500 fresh infections in a day for the first time in more than two and a half months. Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal crossed the 2,000-mark in fatalities — 47 deaths in the former taking the cumulative toll to 2,028 and 51 fresh deaths taking UP's toll to 2,005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highest-1-day-tally-of-65k-takes-india-past-21-5l/articleshow/77439921.cms||---
August 9, 2020||India||Airport safe, don’t jump to conclusions: Hardeep Puri||NEW DELHI: Responding to fears expressed over Calicut Airport and the controversy over whether this airfield is suited for wide-body operations, aviation minister H S Puri on Saturday night reiterated that the airport is safe. He said that an inquiry into the accident has been ordered and cautioned against coming to instant conclusions regarding the airport or this particular mishap. “…We often find ourselves in circumstances, the response to which defines us. Some of my colleagues in the political system have raised queries regarding Kozhikode air accident without ascertaining facts. It is indeed a fact that several issues were routinely red flagged by DGCA, and were addressed by the airport operator. These pertain to excessive rubber deposits, water stagnation, cracks and other issues…. raising such concerns is the normal work of DGCA (which) also strictly ensures that these are rectified under all circumstances,” Puri said. “Most importantly, as in case of Kozhikode accident, an inquiry has been ordered under Aircraft Act, black boxes of flight IX-1344 have been recovered. I will encourage all to exercise patience and refrain from making speculations,” he added. About the controversy over allowing of wide body aircraft at Calicut in 2018 after being barred in 2015 due to safety fears, the minister said that the Air India Express plane which had met with the mishap on Friday was a narrow body. “As far as wide body aircraft are concerned, DGCA had carried out a thorough assessment and prescribed comprehensive mitigation measures. Airports Authority of India strengthened the runway and thereafter permissions were issued in 2018 for operating wide body aircraft... Instant civil aviation safety expertise by self-styled experts should better be avoided,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airport-safe-dont-jump-to-conclusions-hardeep-puri/articleshow/77440011.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on innovative library services at PU||Panjab University's AC Joshi library hosted a webinar on the topic of 'Innovative Library Services in 21st Century'. Various experts from India's top universities and institutes took part in the virtual event. They talked about introducing various concepts and tools, including e-resources subscription policies, research visualization, institutional repositories, library website, integration of learning management tools, etc to give users or community an altogether different browsing experience. While innovative services/methods were a part of the webinar, the panelists also highlighted the topic of coronavirus during the discussion. Dr Jivesh Bansal, university librarian, introduced the theme while describing information and communication technologies a revolutionary change in information landscape after the invention of printing technology. More than 150 participants took part in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/webinar-on-innovative-library-services-at-pu/articleshow/77440021.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Employment avenues, career opportunities discussed||The recently held webinar at Panjab University was based on the theme of 'Employability of Indian Youth and Career Opportunities'. The event was organised by placement and guidance cell of the USOL University School of Open Learning. It had more than 200 participants. The chairperson of the USOL, Prof Madhurima Mahajan shared tips with the students, whereas Dr Shad Ahmed Khan from University of Buraimi, Oman talked about foreign employment including planning and opportunities especially in the West of Asia. Second presentation was made by Dr Anita Bhudhiraja, joint director of National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology, Ropar Campus. She highlighted options of non technical nature and various short courses for skill upgradation in the field of information technology. Another speaker talked about the gamut of opportunities available in the hospitality sector. Innovative ways of entering the sector and different short-term certificate and diploma courses were also told by the speaker. Later a Q&A session was held which saw a discussion on other career opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/employment-avenues-career-opportunities-discussed/articleshow/77440026.cms||---
August 9, 2020||India||Def reports weren’t uploaded due to Pak tensions: Ex-CAG||NEW DELHI: Rising tensions with Pakistan led to the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) deciding not to put defence audit reports on its website, former comptroller and auditor general Rajiv Mehrishi said in an interaction with TOI a day before he demitted office. Mehrishi said it was decided that certain defence reports and also any future defence-related audit findings would not be put up in view of tensions with neighbouring countries. “There was a lot of tension with Pakistan when we had tabled our report about shortage of ammunition. Though we submit our report before Parliament and the public accounts committee, it should not be easily accessible to Pakistan or China,” Mehrishi said. He cautioned the media to be careful in reporting on such issues as that adversely affects national security. Mehrishi retired on Friday after a three-year stint as CAG and has been succeeded by former lieutenant governor of Jammu & Kashmir G C Murmu. Before being appointed as the CAG, Merishi served as finance secretary and was later appointed the home secretary for a two-year fixed tenure, just a day before his superannuation. He said that all CAG reports, including those on defence services, are submitted before Parliament and to the PAC for scrutiny and available to all stakeholders, except that “we stopped making it a public document” where even a hostile country can access it. Even if these findings are extensively reported in the media, documented analytical findings like the CAG report should not be easily available, he explained. “We also share copies of the defence reports with the media and expect the Press to be responsible in reporting, taking utmost care in writing about exact details of defence preparedness, whether related to arms or ammunition,” the former CAG said. Murmu, who was given the oath of office on Saturday by the President, also served as a secretary in the finance ministry and held important positions in the expenditure department and oversaw the implementation of the goods and services tax as additional secretary. Watch Defence reports not uploaded due to Pak tensions, says former CAG||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-cag-def-reports-werent-uploaded-due-to-pak-tensions/articleshow/77439946.cms||Pradeep Thakur
August 9, 2020||India||Trust to invite Yogi for inauguration event at masjid site||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board for construction of an alternate mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of Babri Masjid, has decided to invite Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for inaugurating the hospital, school, community kitchen, library and other public utility facilities on the 5-acre mosque complex. The Trust, however, made it clear there would be no foundation laying ceremony for the mosque. This comes just 48 hours after Yogi parried questions from the media on participating in the mosque event, saying — Do you think I will be invited? Confirming the decision to invite the chief minister to the mosque site at Dhannipur village, secretary of the Trust, Athar Hussain, told TOI “there’s no provision for laying a foundation stone for a mosque in the four schools of thought in Islam — Hanafi, Hanbali, Shafi and Maliki.” “A hospital, library, community kitchen and a research centre will also be built on the 5-acre land in Dhannipur village. These are public utility projects and we will invite the chief minister Yogi Adityanth to lay the foundation of these buildings,” said Athar Hussain. He said the chief minister will not only participate in the programme, but also assist in construction of these public facilities. Talking about the name of the proposed mosque, Hussain said the name is yet to be decided. “For Allah, namaz is important, not the name of the mosque.” But he clarified the mosque won’t be named after Mughal emperor Babar. Imran Ahmad, member of the trust, said, “Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha has formally given possession of the land to the mosque trust. We have got a certified copy of the revenue record.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trust-to-invite-yogi-for-inauguration-event-at-masjid-site/articleshow/77440024.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 9, 2020||India||After handloom, powerloom board scrapped by govt||NEW DELHI: After the all India handicrafts and handloom boards, the ministry of textiles has disbanded another advisory body — the All India Powerloom Board and notified a change in the status of all eight Textiles Research Associations (TRAs) — saying they now cease to be “affiliated bodies” of the ministry. The TRAs will now be “approved bodies” for conducting testing, research and developmental activities related to the textiles sector. As per the gazette notification the decisions are cited to be in line — as was said in the case of the handicrafts and handloom boards — with the Centre’s “minimum government, maximum governance” principle. It is stated that the step reflects a vision for a “leaner government machinery and for systematic rationalisation of government bodies”. The August 6 notification on the Textiles Research Associations states that from now on, “any disposal, sale, transfer of assets created out of central government grant will require prior specific approval of the ministry of textiles.” Also officials of the ministry in the governing bodies of these TRAs have been withdrawn. On the face of it, the move reduces government presence though any other changes in membership will need to be awaited. The TRAs have been asked to include in their bye-laws the changes that have been notified. The eight TRAs include Northern India TRA in Ghaziabad, Ahmedabad Textile Industry Research Association, Bombay TRA, Coimbatore-based South India TRA, Synthetic and Art Silk Mills Research Association in Mumbai, Man-made TRA in Surat, World Research Association in Thane and Kolkata-based Indian Jute Industries’ Research Association. Earlier, the notification to abolish the All India Powerloom Board was issued on August 4. As per the ministry of textiles website, the board was first constituted as an advisory board in November, 1981. It was reconstituted for a period of two years in December 2013. It had representatives of central and state governments, Powerloom Federation, associations of power loom and textile industry as its members and was headed by the Union minister of textiles as chairperson. According to government sources, the decision to disband the boards follows an assessment that they failed to impact policy-making and became vehicles of “political patronage” with the emergence of a ‘middleman culture’ that did not help the interests of weavers. Officials pointed out that the focus is now on field officers who have the responsibility to reach out to weavers and create links with district, state and central administrations. Watch Change in the status: After handloom, powerloom board scrapped by government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-handloom-powerloom-board-scrapped-by-govt/articleshow/77440040.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 9, 2020||Patna||‘Bihar govt suppressing Covid data’||PATNA: Former Union minister and United Democratic Alliance (UDA) convener Yashwant Sinha on Saturday accused the state government of “suppressing” the number of Covid-19 patients to take political mileage in the upcoming assembly polls. Talking to media persons here, Sinha said the number of people detected positive for the coronavirus was much higher than the figures presented by the state government. Sinha said the officials were misleading the people and releasing fake data to suit the interest of their political bosses. “The government is hiding the actual number of patients due to political reasons. The action of the government should be condemned in the larger interest of common people,” he added. Sinha alleged that the entire government machinery has virtually become defunct and people were fed up with it. He also hinted at fielding UDA candidates on all the 243 assembly constituencies in the state in the forthcoming assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-suppressing-covid-data/articleshow/77437870.cms||Ramashankar
August 9, 2020||Patna||Grand Alliance intact in Bihar, claims Gohil||PATNA: Even though uncertainty looms large over assembly elections in the state, Congress, like other parties, is busy making preparations for the polls. Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP and Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil reached Patna on Saturday to review the task he had given to party members during his previous visit. Gohil’s visit came two days after party’s former president Rahul Gandhi held a virtual meeting with around 1,000 Bihar Congress functionaries and workers. Gohil, who is here for two days, said the sole purpose of his visit was to hold a meeting with party members who have visited districts to oversee poll preparations. “During my previous visit, I had asked party members to go to the districts and get feedback. Some could go, others could not because of floods and Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Gohil said he has no plan to meet any alliance partner leader unlike his previous visit to Bihar when he had dinner with RJD leader Tejahswi Prasad Yadav, high tea with HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and lunch with VIP founder Mukesh Sahni. Asked about the seat-sharing issue and the rumours that some Congress leaders complained to Rahul about RJD’s tendency to delay seat-sharing talks, Gohil said, “No such complaint was made by any party member to Rahul. The seat-sharing issue will be sorted out at the right time,” he added. Gohil said the Grand Alliance in the state was intact. “A joint opposition team from Bihar had recently made a representation to the Election Commission. This showed that there is no difference among Grand Alliance partners in the state,” Gohil said. Asked about Manjhi switching sides frequently, Gohil said, “Even Ram Vilas Paswan had been switching sides. Same is the case with Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.” On Saturday, Gohil met Congress’s legislative party leader Sadanand Singh and former governor Nikhil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/grand-alliance-intact-in-bihar-claims-gohil/articleshow/77437839.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 9, 2020||Patna||Ten receive second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna has given second dose of ‘Covaxin’ to at least 10 volunteers and first dose to 47 people. The phase II of the clinical trial of Covaxin, the proposed Covid vaccine, had started on July 29 at AIIMS-Patna. According to sources, the doctors observed positive data and necessary immune response after 14 days of the first phase of trial. The immunogenicity (ability of a foreign substance, such as antigen, to provoke an immune response in the body of a human) testing of volunteers is also being monitored by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi. The first phase of human trial of Covaxin had started at AIIMS-Patna on July 15. The volunteers have not encountered any health complication or side effects so far. The National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited have jointly developed the first indigenous BBV152 vaccine in the country in collaboration with ICMR. AIIMS-P director Dr P K Singh on Saturday said at least 10 volunteers, who completed 14 days of receiving the first dose, are healthy and fit and the process of testing the antibody level and immune system of volunteers has begun. “This process of immunogenicity testing will continue for 194 days as per the protocol. The follow- ups samplings will be done on days 14, 28, 42, 104 and 194. The report will then be analysed by ICMR,” he said. AIIMS-P is among 12 health facilities in the country where clininal trial of Covaxin has been approved by the ICMR. Dr C M Singh, AIIMS-P superintendent and principal investigator of the human trial process, said in phase I, the institute has so far used the vaccine on 70 people. “The vaccine trial has yielded encouraging results. Before selecting people for clinical trial, we conduct three tests – blood, urine and Covid. We have already closed recruitment of volunteers for the phase I trials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-receive-second-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/77437412.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Record spike in Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A record 24-hour spike of 314 fresh Covid-19 cases in Udupi on Saturday, coupled with 194 cases in Dakshina Kannada (DK) saw the two districts breach the 500 mark for the first time at 508 cases. The two districts on July 30 had reported 446 new cases, with Udupi on that day accounting for 248 cases. Saturday’s development saw the total positive cases reported in DK go up to 7,075 as against 5,919 in Udupi. The day also saw 11 Covid-19 related deaths reported in the districts, with Udupi accounting for five fatalities and DK 6. This saw total fatalities in DK rise to 214 and that in Udupi to 60. Health authorities in the districts discharged 272 patients to bring down active cases in Udupi to 2,717 and in Dakshina Kannada to 3,374. DK has thus far discharged 3,487 patients and Udupi 3,347. Four of the five deaths reported in Udupi district—all patients with co-morbidities—were reported from Udupi taluk with a 56-year-old man from Kundapur being the fifth victim, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, said. On the other hand, Mangaluru taluk in Dakshina Kannada district recorded all the six deaths, and co-morbidities were found in five of these victims, deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said. Mangaluru taluk accounted for 129 of the 194 cases, Belthangady and Puttur 16 each, Bantwal 15 and Sullia seven, 11 cases were patients from outside the district. Influenza-like-illness (ILI) accounted for 98 cases, and the source of infection in 69 patients is being traced, 15 are primary contacts of infected patients and 12 are diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). In Udupi, 156 were primary contacts, 69 were ILI patients, 6 had SARI and source of infection in 79 patients is being traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/record-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts/articleshow/77437848.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Hospital staffers prevent Covid patient’s suicide in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 58-year-old Covid patient left staff of at least two hospitals —a private one in south Kolkata and a government facility in central Kolkata — in shock after he attacked staffers and the security guard on Friday evening before trying to commit suicide. He also allegedly assaulted a couple of patients in the same ward. The patient, originally from Usthi in South 24 Parganas and currently living in Ashoknagar in North 24 Parganas, has now been booked. According to the private hospital, the patient was admitted on August 5. Since his oxygen saturation was low, he was admitted in the isolation ICU. Sources said his family wanted to shift him to a government facility, claiming they were short of funds. Arrangement for the transfer was underway when the first incident took place on Friday evening. The patient allegedly assaulted two nurses — a man and a woman — who were preparing for his discharge, as well as a security guard. The hospital claimed the attack was without provocation. Sources added he also tried to damage the ambulance. “We condemn violence against healthcare workers. The authorities concerned have been informed and they have assured action,” said a source in the hospital. “A case has been registered based on the complaint from the hospital. The patient had some money crisis,” said DC (South) Meeraj Khalid. Even when the patient was shifted to the government Covid hospital, he remained irritated. He was admitted at the fourth four of the Super Speciality Block. Around 7.10am on Saturday, staffers rushed in after they heard someone smashing the window. A casual staffer spotted the patient trying to jump out and alerted the others. “They found that the patient had smashed the window with an oxygen cylinder. The other patients complained that he looked upset and was trying to assault them. By that time, the man was perched on the window ledge. The staff had a tough time, but finally managed to bring him in with help from cops,” a source said. Hospital sources said they are arranging for his counselling. Cops said they are yet to get a complaint from the government hospital, but chairman of patients’ welfare committee Nirmal Majhi said they would probe if the patient gave it in writing that he was overcharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-staffers-prevent-covid-patients-suicide/articleshow/77438257.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Lucky to be alive, crew member joins rescue operation||KOLKATA/KONNAGAR: “Ma, our flight has crash-landed. I am safe. I am trying to rescue passengers now. Will call later.” That was all that 25-year-old Konnagar resident Abhik Biswas could tell his mother Bharati over phone, shortly after the Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board, overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday evening and fell into a 35-foot-deep gorge. The plane was split down the middle. Nineteen people died in the crash. But most of the 184 passengers on board were saved by rescuers and the crew, including cabin crew member Biswas. Among the four cabin crew members, Akshay Pal Singh seated in the rear galley, suffered a leg fracture. But others, including Biswas, who was in the front galley, had a miraculous escape. “Lalit Kumar and Abhik Biswas are absolutely fine. They don’t have any physical injuries and probably walked out of the aircraft themselves. Lalit and Abhik were sent back to their accommodations after necessary tests and procedures,” Air India Express said in a statement. Biswas’s mother said she had been unaware of the plane crash when she received the call from her son. “It was only after the call that I switched on a news channel on the TV and saw the horrific visuals. I couldn’t believe that my son had emerged safe from the wreckage and thanked God. I tried to call him again, but could not reach him,” recounted Bharati, a resident of CS Mukherjee Road in Konnagar. Bharati said she and her husband Ajay spent a sleepless night, glued to news channels. It was only on Saturday morning that the couple could reconnect with Biswas and were relieved to know that he was indeed unharmed. “My son is brave. Even after such a major accident, he didn’t leave the spot but remained to take part in the rescue operation. I am proud of him,” said Bharti. A student of Don Bosco, Liluah, Biswas used to work with IndiGo airlines before joining Air India Express two and a half years ago. Biswas is the younger of two siblings and his father Ajay, is in the construction business. “I have known the family for years. The accident is heartbreaking, but I am happy that Biswas is fine,” said Prabir Ghoshal, the Uttarpara MLA and next door neighbour to the family. Speaking to reporters later over phone, Biswas said he was doing fine but was still under trauma. “I am getting over it. I am doing fine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lucky-to-be-alive-crew-member-joins-rescue-op/articleshow/77438240.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 9, 2020||Patna||Patna airport: ‘Build a new intersecting runway’||By- Mirza FaizanPATNA: Born and brought up in Patna and having made a career in the field of aerospace science for over 16 years now, I have always been concerned about flight operations at the airport in my hometown. I am glad to know that currently work is underway for development of a magnificent terminal building at Patna airport, but what great use can that modern terminal building be if the flyers continue to feel the judder every time an aircraft will land on the short and risky runway. Flight operations are being conducted at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, Patna with scope of almost zero margin for error owing to short runway length. In fact, a 6,797ft-long runway is very dangerous for flight operations and perhaps this is the reason that airlines send their most highly trained pilots for flying the aircraft in this sector. It is due to such situations that Patna airport is highly vulnerable for runway excursion like situation, as it happened at Kozhikode airport on Friday evening. Given the locational constraint for extension of the runway, the authorities can develop an additional intersecting runway. Intersecting runways cross or meet each other within their length and have been developed at many airports across the globe, including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Mumbai, the busiest airport in India. The biggest factor for developing intersecting runways at Patna is that such runways require comparatively less land. There can be multiple options for developing the intersecting runway. The best possible option, according to me, can be a scissor-type intersecting runway starting from Patna zoo or nearby government areas up to the office of BAMETI in Phulwarisharif. This will not require to touch Delhi-Howrah railway line. If the authorities want to extend the existing runway itself, they can go for tunnelling of Peer Ali Marg, commonly known as airport road. Like the main runway at Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, the existing runway at Patna airport can also be extended towards its eastern end over the tunnelled airport road and it can extend inside Patna zoo or nearby areas. While runway extension or constructing a new runway may take some time, authorities should immediately add engineered materials arrestor system (EMAS) at both ends of the existing runway. According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), EMAS uses crushable material placed at the end of a runway to stop an aircraft that overruns the runway. The tires of the aircraft sink into the lightweight material and the aircraft is decelerated as it rolls through the material. In fact, an EMAS towards the hilltop end of the tabletop runway at Kozhikode could have prevented or at least minimised the impact of the accident. As per my knowledge, Patna airport was set up in 1973 when smaller aircraft or narrow-bodied aircraft of Bombardier and others used to operate. We cannot keep operating flights with the same length of runway, when the size of aircraft has expanded manifold. To conclude, I expect that the authorities understand the severity of the situation and develop the administrative willpower to resolve the runway issue for ensuring safe and peaceful flight experience here for years to come. (The writer is a native of Patna and a Texas-based aerospace scientist. He has innovated GRIPS technology, which was designed to prevent runway accidents)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/build-a-new-intersecting-runway/articleshow/77437397.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||SSR suicide: Probe disrupted due to my quarantine, says Bihar IPS Vinay Tiwari||PATNA: City SP (central) Vinay Tiwari, after returning from Mumbai late on Friday night, said the investigation being carried out by the four-member police team in the Sushant Singh Rajput alleged suicide case was disrupted because of his “forced quarantine”. Tiwari was received at the Patna airport by DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. “My quarantine should not be seen as a person’s quarantine. The investigation was quarantined. It was a constitutional right of the state police to carry out after registering FIR in the case in Patna but it got disrupted with my quarantine,” Tiwari said. The SP was quarantined on August 2 by the civic authorities in Mumbai citing Covid-19 protocols after he reached there to coordinate with the Mumbai police in the Sushant case. The SP was exempted from quarantine after two letters were written to the BMC by Bihar Police. “There’s nothing to explain their (BMC’s) behaviour was quite clear in the way they behaved with me but none from the four-member team of Patna police were quarantined in Mumbai by the authorities concerned,” he said, responding to a query if the act of the authorities in Mumbai was unprofessional. The SP said some things need not be said explicitly when asked if his quarantine was a deliberate act to stop the state police’s investigation being carried out in Mumbai. Tiwari said the investigation being done in the case stopped after August 2 when he was quarantined. He said no one came to receive him at Mumbai airport even after his senior and Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma communicated about his travel plan to Mumbai to Maharahstra Police authorities. It was after Tiwari’s quarantine that the state government recommended CBI investigation into the case, which was lodged with Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25 by Sushant’s father KK Singh. He pressed charges of abetment of suicide, unlawful confinement, cheating and criminal conspiracy against actress Rhea Chakraborty, her parents, brother and other known associates in Sushant’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-disrupted-due-to-my-quarantine/articleshow/77437670.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||SSR’s memorial to be ready by year-end: Kin||PATNA: The family of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who allegedly committed suicide in Mumbai, is all set to convert his childhood home in Patna’s Rajiv Nagar locality into a memorial. Sushant’s cousin and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu said on Saturday that the process of converting the Rajiv Nagar home in which Sushant had spent his childhood days into a memorial has already been initiated. “We are waiting for the health condition of Sushant’s father K K Singh to improve,” he told this newspaper over the phone. K K Singh, a retired public servant, is away from Rajiv Nagar residence and living with his daughter in Faridabad. “We will put all his personal memorabilia and belongings there to keep his memory alive,” Bablu, the MLA from Chhatapur assembly constituency, said. Sushant’s books, telescope, flight simulator, guitar, vehicles, table, chair and other articles will be put on display for the visitors at the memorial. “This will be a memorial of a different kind,” said the actor’s cousin. The articles belonging to the actor were handed over to the family on July 24. “Some of the articles have reached here. The memorial will be ready by the end of this year,” he added. The family has also decided to set up ‘Sushant Singh Rajput Foundation (SSRF)’ to help aspiring talents in the field of cinema, sports and science, which were extremely close to Sushant’s heart. The Ford Company chowk and the road from Madhubani to Mata Chowk in Purnia town have already been named after the late actor. The municipal corporation of Purnia has also approved the proposal to change the name of the chowk and the road. Meanwhile, a group of fans of the actor have named Rajiv Nagar Chowk after him and put up a board as a mark of tribute to him. The Patna Municipal Corporation, however, has not approved it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-memorial-to-be-ready-by-year-end-kin/articleshow/77437710.cms||Ramashankar
August 9, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway gears up to tackle Covid-19 in Bihar||PATNA: In view of a sudden spike in the cases of Covid-19 in Bihar, the East Central Railway (ECR) has initiated various steps to contain the spread of the virus at its headquarters in Hajipur and all five divisions. A team of railway safety officials and doctors has been deputed for the purpose. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has expedited the detection of corona cases and conducted tests on railway employees and their family members. “Altogether 1,514 Covid tests have been done so far. Those, who had tested positive, have been quarantined either in their houses or are undergoing treatment at the Danapur railway hospital,” the CPRO said, adding that contactless sanitizer booths had been installed for loco pilots and guards in all divisions of the ECR. Besides, the Aarogya Setu app and face masks have been made compulsory for all the staff while entering offices or station premises. An emergency Covid-19 helpline number has also been released for the employees. The railways has already placed 300 Covid care coaches at Patna, Muzaffarpur, Narkatiaganj, Jayanagar, Barauni, Katihar, Sonepur, Chhapra, Saharsa, Sitamarhi, Siwan, Samastipur, Raxaul, Darbhanga and Bhagalpur stations so that they can be used for isolating patients. “The civil surgeon of each district has been asked to use these in case of an emergency. Each coach, which is maintained by the railways, is equipped with oxygen cylinders and other facilities,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gears-up-to-tackle-covid/articleshow/77437515.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi-Dharwad get Rs 2,242 crore investment||HUBBALLI: Efforts of the government to attract investment for Hubballi-Dharwad by holding the Invest-Karnataka meet appears to be yielding results. The state government has cleared proposals for setting up five projects in the region, involving an investment of Rs 2,242 crore. These projects are expected to create 939 direct jobs and about 10,000 indirect jobs. Land for these projects have already been sanctioned. Large and medium scale industry minister Jagadish Shettar told TOI that the government is clearing industry proposals on a priority basis to boost the state's economy. "Seeing the government’s supportive measures, many investors are approaching Udyog Mitra directly and we have cleared proposals worth of Rs 27,000 crore since March. We are encouraging investors to set their units in tier-2 and tier-3 cities," he said. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary in the commerce and industries department, said those who have received land have two years time to construct their units. HM Revannagowda, managing director, Karnataka Uyog Mitra (KUM), said that three of the five companies, Abellon Goodsteps, Microfinish Trading and Ionidea Enterprises Solutions, had signed MoUs during the Investors Meet in Hubballi. "These MoUs have now been cleared. Tata Motors and Microfinish Pumps approached KUM directly," he said. "Industrial growth has stagnated for almost a decade in Hubballi-Dharwad as no new major industry had come here. Giving the nod for five projects will definitely boost the economy of the region," said Ramesh Patil, former president, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-dharwad-get-rs-2242-crore-investment/articleshow/77437998.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 9, 2020||Patna||IIT-Delhi, Bihar State Pollution Control Board sign MoU||PATNA: The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has signed a memorandum of understanding with the IIT-Delhi to set up a geographical information system-based platform for air quality management. Track the pollution level in your citySigned in the backdrop of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme, the collaboration between BSPCB and IITD will facilitate the setting up of a comprehensive architecture for scientific analysis of air pollution and monitoring in the state as well as provide technical know-how to develop in-house capacity for data analysis. According to BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh, the proposed GIS technology will not only identify geographical areas with poor air quality based on statistical and spatial data, but will also enable ambient air monitoring stations in the state to locate the source of air pollutants in those areas. “At present, there are 11 ambient air monitoring stations in the state while tenders for 30 more stations are in progress. The GIS platform will help to integrate data from across these stations and provide us valuable insight into the source of air pollution at various locations,” said Ghosh. The collaboration which comes at a cost of around Rs 10 lakh will provide for the exchange of technical expertise between IITD and BSPCB. “With the help of GIS software and satellite imagery, we will be able to identify the hotspots of air pollution along with tracking the major source of pollutants using wind trajectory analysis,” Ghosh said. Another deliverable of the collaboration is to identify districts and villages where open burning is prevalent by using satellite data and their role in polluting the air in the non-attainment cities will be examined using wind trajectory analysis. “At present, there are only 3 non-attainment cities in Bihar including Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur. With the setting up of more ambient air monitoring stations and installation of GIS platform, we will be able to identify other non-attainment cities. Thereafter, we can work on devising a plan to mitigate air pollution in these non-attainment cities,” Ghosh added. Additionally, the MoU states that the BSPCB will depute two scientists who will be trained at IIT-Delhi in the use of the GAINS model to study satellite and other data for air quality monitoring and management. The duration of the project is one year. According to the daily bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna stood at 50 in the ‘good’ category on Saturday. Since lockdown, the overall AQI level of air pollutants in the state capital has been oscillating mostly in the category ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’, which is a vast improvement on the pre-Covid days where the AQI was mostly in the range of 350-400 which falls in ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-delhi-bihar-state-pollution-control-board-sign-mou/articleshow/77437954.cms||Arunima Lal
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||NH-766 stretch near Nanjangud cut off following rise in dams’ water level||MYSURU: Rising inflow to Kabini, Taraka and Nugu reservoirs in Mysuru district, prompting a corresponding rise in the outflow from the dams resulted in the National Highway-766 being inundated near the Mallana Moole Mutt in Nanjangud, rendering the stretch unmotorable. Additional superintendent of police, Mysuru R Shivakumar said that, in the wake of the inundation of the National Highway road, traffic had been diverted via Tandavapura, Immavu, KS Hundi and Basavanapura. Outflow from the Kabini, Taraka and Nugu reservoirs had crossed the 80,000-cusec mark and stood at 70000 cusecs late on Saturday. Shivakumar said that normal traffic would resume once the water level in the river receded. The stretch in question is a key component of the highway, connecting Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Police are mulling diverting the movement of heavy vehicles via T Narasipura as a precautionary measure. Nanjangud tahsildar KM Mahesh Kumar said that more than 120 residents of low-lying areas in Najnagud had been relocated owing to the threat of flood. While around 60 are staying at the government centres, the remaining has chosen to stay in the homes of relatives. The tahsildar assured the people that all the necessary steps had been taken in order to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 at the rehabilitation centres. Meanwhile, houses in Nandini Layout, a low-lying area in Hunsur were inundated following heavy showers, confirmed tahsildar Basavaraj. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar, stopped at Hunsur, Mysuru en route to Kodagu, and charged the BJP government in the state of turning a blind eye to the problems people were facing owing to the flood. “The Congress has constituted five fact-finding teams to assess the situation on the ground in Karnataka,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nh-766-stretch-near-nanjangud-cut-off-following-rise-in-dams-water-level/articleshow/77437462.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 65cr Dantli RoB yet to be opened for public||JAIPUR: The Rs 65 crore six-lane Dantli railway overbridge (RoB) which was constructed to ease vehicular traffic near Goner is yet to be inaugurated. The RoB was constructed as the stretch was the busiest rail route of Jaipur railway zone. This two-way rail route connects Delhi to Jaipur with a broad gauge. Most of the time, this railway crossing gate is closed due to movement of trains, creating a roadblock for traffic going from Agra Road to Tonk Road. Naresh Bagra, a local resident, said, “This RoB was proposed to provide uninterrupted traffic movement. Even after spending public money, the state government is not allowing it to utilise the facility,” he said. For the same project, the JDA also took loan of Rs 21.97 crore from the National Capital Regional Planning Board (NCRPB). Sources said, “The JDA has also received Rs 25.85 crore from the Railways. The project is almost complete and can be thrown open for public. JDA is already paying instalments for the project,” sources said. The project was started on July, 27, 2016. The expected date of completion was 22 July 2018. The project, which is already delayed for two years is now waiting for state government’s nod to be thrown open. Kapil Sharma, national general secretary, People’s Green Party, said, “The state government’s ministers and MLAs are sitting in hotel, while public is facing inconvenience for various things. The government should soon dedicate the project, otherwise we will start vehicular movement on our own, like we did at Ajmer road,” he said. A senior official at the JDA said, “The structure of RoB is almost completed. However, as the structure is six lane and road along the railway overbridge is two lane, we are planning to acquire more land to widen the area,” the official further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-65cr-dantli-rob-yet-to-be-opened-for-public/articleshow/77439161.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||State EC’s green signal to local body elections in Bihar||PATNA: The state election commission (SEC) issued a notification on Friday for holding local body bypolls on 21 vacant posts in 12 districts of Bihar. This will be the first election to be held in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, the SEC has made it clear that prescribed physical social distancing norms have to be followed at the polling booths. According to the SEC notification, the bypoll will be held in Saran, Lakhisarai, Rohtas, Bhagalpur, Buxar, Sitamarhi, East Champaran, West Champaran, Madhepura, Darbhanga, Vaishali and Kaimur districts on August 26, while the election for uppramukh of Dighwara panchayat samiti in Saran and upmukhiya of Kharhana panchayat in Kaimur will be conducted on August 27. The electors will exercise their franchise to elect the vice-chairman of zila parishad, pramukh, uppramukh, upmukhiya, sarpanch and upsarpanch in the districts concerned. The SEC has asked all the returning officers of the districts to provide information to the elected representatives about the bypolls by August 18. The SEC has also issued directives to the home and the health departments to make proper security arrangements and ensure that the Covid-19 lockdown norms are followed strictly. An officer posted at the SEC said the election would also be held to elect vice-chairperson of the zila parishad of Saran district. Earlier, the PACS election in the state was postponed in the wake of floods. With the SEC’s nod to bypolls on 21 vacant posts of the local bodies, political analysts are of the view that the state assembly polls will also be conducted on schedule. The election commission has already started the process of the first phase of checking electronic voting machines and voter-verified paper audit trails for the forthcoming assembly polls scheduled to be held in October-November. Chief minister Nitish Kumar recently gave indications that the notification about the assembly polls may be issued in September. “If the bypolls for the local bodies can be held amid the pandemic, why not the assembly elections?” asked a senior IAS officer, considered close to the powers that be. He, however, said the ECI would take a final call on the dates and timing of the polls. Keeping this in mind, even political parties, which have demanded to defer the assembly polls, have started preparations for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-ecs-green-signal-to-local-body-elections-in-bihar/articleshow/77437595.cms||Ramashankar
August 9, 2020||Patna||Spike in corona cases worries Madhepura district admn||MADHEPURA: Covid-19 pandemic is spreading its tentacles in Madhepura where maximum 72 confirmed cases surfaced in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of such cases to 944. A 65-year-old Covid patient died at Jannayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital (JKTMCH) here on Thursday. Of the seven Covid deaths recorded at JKTMCH so far, two deceased hailed from Araria and two from Katihar. “The 65-year-old patient, who died on Thursday, was a resident of Behariganj in Madhepura district. He was an asthmatic,” said JKTMCH deputy superintendent Dr Anjani Kumar. Meanwhile, rapid antigen test was carried out on altogether 1,513 people on Friday. Of them, 72 were tested Covid positive on Saturday. It was maximum single-day jump in Covid cases in Madhepura district. As many as 40 cases have been reported from Madhepura, Murliganj and Singeshwar blocks. Meanwhile, the district administration has allowed local markets to operate from 10am to 4pm. Murliganj Nagar Parishad is planning to enforce four-day lockdown per week to check the spread of the virus. The civic body representatives under leadership of chairperson Shwet Kamal held a meeting with the local traders on Friday to decide on further course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spike-in-corona-cases-worries-madhepura-district-admn/articleshow/77437431.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||Covid test must for all emergency ward patients at JLNMCH||BHAGALPUR: In a bid to ensure early diagnosis and treatment of patients, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here has started Covid-19 screening of all the patients admitted in the emergency wards. The Covid-19 screening is compulsory for all patients, no matter whether they have symptoms of Covid or not. A JLNMCH official said the step has been taken in the backdrop of CM Nitish Kumar’s stress on screening of patients for early detection of Covid-19 infection and opening of more intensive care units (ICUs) in different districts. JLNMCH medical superintendent Dr Kumar Gaurav said all patients admitted or being admitted in ‘emergency wards’ are screened for Covid-19 as a compulsory measure. “If any patient is diagnosed Covid positive, he or she is shifted to the isolation ward. Suspected Covid patients will be kept in specific wards and others in normal wards,” he said. The superintendent said of the 539 Covid patients admitted to the hospital so far, 399 were discharged after treatment. So far, 57 Covid patients have died at the hospital. Altogether 67 Covid positive patients needed oxygen support till date, while 11 patients are on oxygen support,” he added. The superintendent said of the 933 dedicated beds for corona patients at JLNMCH, 55 are currently occupied. “Till date, 2,514 Covid samples have been tested at the hospital. At times, we have to deal with patients leaving the hospital against medical advice. At least 12 such cases have been reported so far,” Dr Kumar said. The number of Covid cases in Bhagalpur district has increased to 3,262. In the neighbouring Banka district, 996 Covid cases have so far been detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-test-must-for-all-emergency-ward-patients-at-jlnmch/articleshow/77437496.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 9, 2020||Patna||Kozhikode plane crash a wake-up call for Patna airport||PATNA: The Kozhikode flight accident, which claimed at least 18 lives on Friday evening, is a wakeup call for the Patna airport, which also has a shorter runway. The DGCA had red-flagged the short runway and obstacles in the approach funnel in 2012 and even withheld the licence for flight operations. Fewer flights with smaller aircraft were operated for a few months till the DGCA re-issued the operating licence after corrective measures were taken up by the authorities to clear the approach funnel obstacles. However, not much could be done to the shorter runway length as there is no scope for expansion. The runway here is 6,797ft (2,072m) in length, which is 748ft shorter than the minimum required length of 7,545ft (2,300m) for safe landing for aircraft such as Boeing 737s and Airbus A320s, as per the guideline of the Federal Aviation Administration, USA. The airport is sandwiched between the Patna zoo and the Phulwarisharif railway station leaving no scope for extension of the runway. The Clock tower, too, is a major obstruction for pilots. Back in 2010, the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC) had cautioned four airports — Patna, Calicut, Mangalore and Jammu — over problems related to the short airstrip. In its report, it pointed out obstacles like non- availability of runway end safety areas (RESA), length of runway and feasibility of instrument-aided landings among others. It also called for an immediate halt for operations of Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 to Patna airport. Deliberations over runway extension and construction of a parallel taxi track were held between the Airport Authority of India (AAI) chairman Arvind Singh and the state government in November last year. While airport director Bhupesh CH Negi Negi refused to comment on the issue on Saturday, another official at Patna airport told this newspaper wishing anonymity that they were in talks with the state government to receive the land for PTT. “The last meeting in this regard was held on February 6 before the lockdown. The AAI Patna would again send the proposal for land requirement,” the official said. Rajender Singh Lahauria, a former director of Patna airport, said several steps were taken in 2015, including pruning of trees at Patna zoo and nearby areas, construction of 90x90m of RESA and several other instruments. “We applied for the operating license for Patna airport in 2015 but it was given in February 2016 after we took several measures,” he added. On immediate measures, Lahauria said the approach light on the aircraft approach funnel needs to be extended up to 720m from 420m on the eastern side of the runway and extension of runway length. In a recent meeting of the Airport Environment Management Committee (AEMC), chaired by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, several parameters were discussed on safety. Agarwal said instructions have been issued for pruning of trees in zoo and nearby areas. “We would take care of other obstructions as well. AAI Patna officials have been asked to submit the report of a list of high- rise residential buildings near the airport premises. They are likely to submit the report in a month, then action of demolition of such buildings with the periphery of airport premises would take place,” he said. He added, “Construction of a new airport at Bihta would be a major relief because it has a longer runway and the land had already been allotted to the AAI for the civil enclave.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kozhikode-plane-crash-a-wake-up-call-for-patna-airport/articleshow/77437335.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Mosque Trust to invite CM Yogi Adityanath for hospital, school foundation||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board for construction of an alternate mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of Babri Masjid, has decided to invite Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for inaugurating the hospital, school, community kitchen, library and other public utility facilities on the 5acre mosque complex. The Trust, however, made it clear there would be no foundation laying ceremony for the mosque. This comes just 48 hours after Yogi parried questions from the media on participating in the mosque event, saying — Do you think I will be invited? Confirming the decision to invite the chief minister to the mosque site at Dhannipur village, secretary of the Trust, Athar Hussain, told TOI “there’s no provision for laying a foundation stone for a mosque in the four schools of thought in Islam — Hanafi, Hanbali, Shafi and Maliki.” “A hospital, library, community kitchen and a research centre will also be built on the 5acre land in Dhannipur village, allotted for construction of a mosque on Supreme Court's directive. These are public utility projects and we will invite the CM to lay the foundation of these buildings,” said Athar Hussain. He said, the chief minister will not only participate in the programme, but also assist in construction of these public facilities. Talking about the name of the proposed mosque, Hussain said, the name is yet to be decided. “For Allah, namaz is important, not the name of the mosque.” But, he clarified the mosque won’t be named after Mughal emperor Babar. Imran Ahmad, member of the trust, said, “Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha has formally given possession of the land to the mosque trust. We have got a certified copy of the revenue record."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mosque-trust-to-invite-yogi-for-hosp-school-foundation/articleshow/77439064.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Woman survives suicide bid, kid swept away in Cauvery||MANDYA: A woman was rescued from being drowned in Cauvery river, even as her young daughter swept away following a suicide attempt at Srirangapatna on Saturday. According to police, Apoorva, 44, a resident of Lakshmisagara village of Pandavapura taluk, with her two-and-half-year-old daughter Kirtana in tow, had allegedly jumped into the river from a bridge on Mysuru-Bengaluru highway. Though the kid swept away in the turbulent waters, passersby spotted Apoorva near the Nimishmba Tample, 2km from where she jumped, and rescued her using a rope. According to them, Apoorva knew how to swim, and the life skill had helped her stay afloat for 2km in the surging river. Meanwhile, police have launched a search operation to trace Kirtana. They suspect the child may have gone miles away because of the heavy inflow of water into the river. Police are interrogating Apporva, and a case has been registered at Srirangapatna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-survives-suicide-bid-kid-swept-away-in-cauvery/articleshow/77437436.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Covid medicine lure: West Bengal man loses Rs 55 lakh||PANSKURA: A businessman in East Midnapore’s Panskura has alleged he was duped of Rs 54.5 lakh by a US-based woman who asked him to supply “raw material for manufacture of a coronavirus vaccine”. Ashish Sau met accused Maria Spencer on Facebook on April 6 and the two regularly chatted on WhatsApp thereafter. Sau said Spencer claimed she lived in a town called Scotland in the US and was the procurement manager of a pharmaceutical company. She told Sau he could earn a commission if he supplied raw material to the company. On her advice, Sau transferred money to accounts of three firms supposedly based in Mumbai and Rajasthan, but none sent him any raw material. After the third transfer, Spencer stopped chatting with Sau and he found all her phones switched off.  East Midnapore SP Sunil Kumar Yadav said, “We have received a complaint and an investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-med-lure-man-loses-rs-55l/articleshow/77437424.cms||Suman Mondal
August 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar opens many new government buildings, praises BCD engineers||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Saturday inaugurated 264 new government buildings worth Rs 1,725 crore, including Bapu Art Gallery at the Bapu Sabhagar here, through remote control from his official residence here. He also laid foundation stones for another 99 buildings worth Rs 2,685 crore of the building construction department (BCD). Thus, a total of 363 buildings worth Rs 4,410 crore of the BCD were launched. BCD minister Ashok Choudhary presided the event. The CM also inaugurated newly constructed buildings of the district transport offices (DTOs) in five district headquarters – Aurangabad, Saharsa, Madhubani, Bhagalpur and Jamui. He also distributed new vehicles and subsidy amounts among 1,000 beneficiaries of the Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojna (MMGPY). The state government provides a subsidy of up to Rs 1 lakh or 50% of the vehicle cost to each beneficiary on purchase of a three-wheeler or four-wheeler under the MMGPY. The CM also laid foundation for the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation’s headquarters building, including its campus in the state capital, Patna DTO’s building and altogether 500 bus stops in different parts of the state. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and around 20 state ministers participated in the event through videoconferencing. Speaking on the occasion, the CM stressed the need for continuous and proper maintenance of all the buildings and asked the state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar to bring out a ‘comprehensive maintenance policy for the government buildings’ on the very pattern of the state’s road maintenance policy. The CM said buildings of altogether 28 departments were either inaugurated or foundations for the new buildings laid on Saturday. Nitish said the BCD engineers hardly had any work during the RJD regime in the state. He said the BCD’s total annual budget in the financial year 2004-05 was just Rs 22.53 crore. “One can easily imagine what kind of work the department’s engineers and officers were doing with such a meagre amount. The BCD’s annual budget in FY 2019-2020 was Rs 2,650 crore. The increase in the department’s annual budget shows how many new buildings are now being constructed,” the CM said. Highlighting the ‘robustness’ of the Patna-based Bapu Sabhagar, which was opened two years back, the CM said the the building was built on a steel structure. “Altogether 22,000 metric tonne of steel, more than what used in the world famous Eiffel Tower, was used in the construction of the Bapu Sabhagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-opens-many-new-govt-buildings-praises-bcd-engineers/articleshow/77437561.cms||Madan Kumar
August 9, 2020||Patna||Many find it stressful to manage kids’ online classes in Patna||PATNA: With thousands of children logging into online learning mode, counsellors in the city receive an increasing number of distressed calls from parents and students seeking advice on how to tackle the psychological stress associated with it. Homemaker Preeti Sinha of Patel Nagar, whose two children are in higher secondary school, said she has been under lots of stress as their classes are held from 11pm to 1pm on weekdays. “Both my children are of the same age. The timings of their online classes coincide due to which I had to buy two devices. I have to juggle between their classes to help them. It becomes very difficult for me to manage their classes simultaneously,” she said. The situation is even worse for working parents as they struggle hard to balance their work and participation in their children’s online classes. “Either my husband or I take a half-day off when there is a special activity scheduled in my child’s digital learning module. Asking for frequent leave is embarrassing and I get anxious about it,” said a working mother of a 12-year-old residing in Police Colony, preferring anonymity. “I am clueless when it comes to handling kids and working simultaneously,” said Riya Sinha of Rajeev Nagar, who is the mother of a 4-year-old son and a 7-year-old daughter. “Since my kids are in elementary school, they are not very well versed with technology. I have to help them with the gadgets. I also fear they might be exposed to unsolicited content on the internet,” she added. Mental health experts say excessive use of online learning mode may induce a sedentary lifestyle among children, which eventually affects their overall well-being. “As more and more children are hooked to their screens, their mental health and psychological growth is at risk. Parents have also never faced this situation before. Hence, they get anxious with this arrangement,” said Swati Sinha, a family counsellor residing in Boring Road. “While some children might feel happy about not going through the entire ordeal of waking up early, dressing up and boarding a bus to school, they do not realize that spending excessive amount of time in front of a laptop can have long-term detrimental effects on their health — physical and psychological both,” she added. Seema Sinha, the principal of St Karen’s High School, said, “As per the central government’s guidelines, we are conducting only 2 classes per day for grade 1 to 8 and 4 classes for grade 9 to 12. The duration of each class is 40 minutes and a break of 20 minutes is given in between. This is done to ensure the well-being of homebound children and parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-find-it-stressful-to-manage-kids-online-classes/articleshow/77437480.cms||Arunima Lal
August 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar government creates 22 exclusive POCSO courts in 11 districts||PATNA: Eleven judicial districts in the state, including the one at Patna, will now have two instead of one court each for handling cases lodged under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in order to bring down the pendency of cases and deliver justice to minors quickly. In addition, all these POCSO courts will be exclusive and special one, which means they can handle POCSO cases solely and there will no more additional burden on them to hear other matters. Earlier, POCSO courts in the state were not exclusive. They used to take up other cases too. The state government’s law department, in consultation with Patna high court, issued a notification in this regard on Friday. All these changes have been made in light of Supreme Court’s direction for decreasing pendency of POCSO cases. As per notification, Bhagalpur, East Chamaparan, Gaya, Katihar, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Purnia, Rohtas, West Champaran and Patna judicial districts will have two exclusive special courts. The reason for providing two courts to these districts is that more than 300 cases under POCSO Act are pending for disposal at these places. In Araria, Aurangabad, Begusarai, Banka, Bhojpur, Buxar, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Jehanabad, Kaimur, Khagaria, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Munger, Nawada, Saharsa, Samastipur, Saran, Sheikhpura, Sitamarhi, Siwan, Supaul and Vaishali judicial districts, there will be one court like earlier. However, these courts will also be exclusive and special and instead of court of ADJ-1, ADJ-VI has been earmarked for the purpose. In Jamui, Kishanganj and Shoehar, court of ADJ-I will continue to handle POCSO cases. Special public prosecutor (POCSO Act, Patna) Suresh Chandra Prasad said around 1,300 POCSO cases are awaiting disposal in Patna alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-creates-22-exclusive-pocso-courts-in-11-districts/articleshow/77437906.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 9, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar takes aerial survey of many districts as floods hit 73 lakh in Bihar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Saturday undertook an aerial survey of different embankments and flood-affected areas in many districts of Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Munger, Purnia and Kosi divisions even as number of flood-affected people in 16 north Bihar districts has crossed 73 lakh-mark. The CM made an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Samastipur, Begusarai and Khagaria districts in the catchment area of Burhi Gandak river. He then flew over many areas in Saharsa, Supaul and Bhagalpur districts which are flooded by Kosi river. Accompanied by the state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to the CM Chanchal Kumar and WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans, Nitish also flew over the Ganga in Bhagalpur and Katihar districts. He later made an aerial survey of different blocks of Katihar, Purnia, Kishanganj and Araria districts which have been flooded by the Mahananda, Parman and Kankai rivers. Nitish later held a review meeting with divisional commissioner and the DM of Purnia at the conference hall of the Chunapur airstrip in Purnia. He took information about the flood situation and Covid-19 from the officials. The CM later flew to Birpur in Supaul district. At Birpur, he inspected eastern embankment of the Kosi river and issued necessary instructions to the officials concerned. Major rivers in north Bihar, on the other hand, have been showing receding trend from last 48 hours owing to reduction in intensity of showers over the last four to five days. As per daily flood bulletin issued by water resources department (WRD) on Saturday evening, the turbulent Burhi Gandak showed falling trend at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samstipur and Khagaria districts, but it continued to flow above the danger level at all four places. Kamla Balan also showed falling trend at both flood gauges in Madhubani district, but continued to flow above danger level. Khiroi, one of the rivers of Adhwara group, which has wreaked havoc in Darbhanga, also showed falling trend at the two flood gauges, but it was flowing above danger level at both places. Bagmati was showing falling trend at three out of five flood gauges in Sitamarhi and at one each flood gauge in Muzafarpur and Darbhanga districts. As per weather forecasts, only light to moderate rainfall is expected in Bihar in the next 24 hours with thunderstorm along with lightning at one or two places.  An officer at Patna Meteorological Centre said monsoon activity was weak in Bihar in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-makes-aerial-survey-of-many-dists-as-floods-hit-73-lakh-in-bihar/articleshow/77438095.cms||Madan Kumar
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru airport has evolved since 2010 crash, says director||MANGALURU: Mangaluru International Airport has put a premium on safety ever since Air India Express flight IX812 crashed on May 22, 2010. Dictated largely by the Gokhale Court of Inquiry (CoI) report that Air Marshal (retd) Bhushan Nilkanth Gokhale, who headed the CoI into the air crash gave, Airports Authority of India (AAI) that owns MIA has invested in upgrading safety aspects that can help avert any such incidents in future. Primary to ensuring safety is the commissioning of instrument landing system (CAT I ILS) as against CAT IIIB ILS in use at Indira Gandhi International Airport at New Delhi last year, says V V Rao, airport director, MIA. In an informal chat with STOI in wake of crash of Air India Express flight IX1344 at Kozhikode, Rao said MIA has internalised the various lessons learnt from the IX812 crash, and has consistently striven to adhere to every single aspect that enhances safety. Accordingly, as recommended by the CoI, fire fighting systems have been upgraded keeping in mind the topography in which they would be required to operate and the air navigational system has been upgraded. MIA now has the very high frequency omni-directional range (VOR) system, a type of short-range radio navigation system for aircraft. The apron has been improved and the new air traffic control tower gives a commanding view of the entire runway, he said. The state government has constructed roads around the airport to enable emergency response vehicles of AAI to reach there within the stipulated response time, addressing a major lacuna that authorities faced when the IX812 crash happened, he said. With every agency involved taking care to upgrade safety measures, Rao said DGCA that regulates functioning of aircraft and airports in India too keeps a tight leash on safety by way of surprise inspections. The aviation safety wing of AAI too carries out periodic and surprise inspections, and their reports are acted on to ensure safety and well being of the stakeholders using the airport, he said. “We have evolved as an airport over the years, especially since the 2010 crash,” Rao said, adding the safety management system as dictated by DGCA guidelines are fully in vogue at the airport. Periodic checks and mock exercises too helps the airport maintain its edge, he surmised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-airport-has-evolved-since-2010-crash-says-director/articleshow/77438119.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 9, 2020||Patna||People change the way they eat to keep coronavirus at bay in Patna||PATNA: With the spike in number of Covid-19 cases in the city and the resultant health awareness, people have shown a massive change in their eating habits as they have started incorporating healthy supplements in their meals to boost immunity. Even though restaurants and food outlets are allowed home delivery services, people are fearful of ordering outside food. They are increasingly moving towards homemade meals enriched with healthy ingredients. Rani Singh, a resident of Punaichak and a thyroid patient, said, “I would cook mouth-watering delicacies like ‘pav bhaji’ or cheese sandwich for breakfast before the lockdown. However, we now start our day with ‘tulsi kadha’ and dates. Also, I make sure to cook at least two green vegetables every day.” Nilly Singh, an IT employee and resident of Bailey Road, said, “I have never had so many homemade meals in my life. Other than healthy meals, my mother also makes sure we have amla juice and chyawanprash every day. We are taking every measure to boost our immunity.” Departmental stores, supermarkets and local pharmacists in the city have witnessed an increase in demand for proprietary supplements, such as multivitamins, vitamin D, vitamin C and zinc tablets. “There has been a hoarding tendency among people. Other than the increase in sale of over-the-counter drugs, such as Paracetamol, antibiotics and vapour drops, there has also been an increase in demand for health supplements, including vitamin C, which, may believe, increases immunity manifold. No matter how much I stock up, these tablets fly off the shelves,” said Pandey Prasad, owner of a pharmacy at Phulwarisharif. The deadly virus has forced people to take care of their health like never before. There has also been an increase in consumption of alternate medicinal options, such as ayurvedic and herbal immunity enhancers. Manoj Pathak, who owns an Ayurveda-based nutrition and wellness food shop in Anisabad, said, “Customers have become proactive about their health. There has been an increase in sale of herbal immunity enhancers, such as giloy juice, tulsi drops, organic honey and ginger juice.” According to Gardanibagh-based nutritionist Prema Sinha, Covid-19 has led to a shift in diet preferences of her clients with many focusing on attaining optimum health as opposed to physical transformation earlier. “Post Covid-19, there has been a paradigm shift in the mentality of my clients. Earlier, they were focused on weight management and skincare, but now they want to work on their overall health and immunity. I customise their diet plan accordingly. I have included super foods, such as chia seeds, moringa drink and probiotics in my clients’ daily diet,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-change-the-way-they-eat-to-keep-coronavirus-at-bay/articleshow/77437452.cms||Arunima Lal
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||‘Popular, focused, brilliant’, school friends, NDA batchmates say Sathe lived by motto ‘service before self’||DEHRADUN/PUNE: Captain Deepak V Sathe, the pilot of the Air India Express flight who died while trying to save the plane that crashed in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday, was remembered by his friends and batchmates on Saturday as someone who used to excel in both academics and extracurricular activities. Sathe was an alumni of Cambrian Hall School in Dehradun, later going on to St Vincent’s High School in Pune and then to the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakwasla. Sudesh Biala, principal of Cambrian Hall, told TOI that “going by the records available with us, Deepak Sathe was a bright student and had stood at the 3rd position among the 49 students who had appeared for the ICSE board exams in 1975 from Cambrian Hall”. He added: “Interestingly, that was the first ever batch in the country to appear for the ICSE class X board exams.” Jyoti Gurung, who was a classmate of Sathe in Cambrian Hall, said, “Deepak was a day scholar and used to live with his family in the IMA (Indian Military Academy) campus as his father was an army officer posted there.” The alumni association of Cambrian Hall also put out a condolence message during the day: “Deepak was a kind, gentle and caring friend, popular amongst his peers. A keen enthusiast of adventure sport, a former Air Force pilot, an accomplished fighter pilot and a test pilot for HAL, Deepak was also a proud recipient of the Sword of Honour award at the Air Force Academy.” Another classmate from St Vincent’s, Brigadier Kevin Mendoca (retired), who was junior to Sathe in NDA, said, “He stood up to the academy’s motto ‘Seva Paramo Dharma’ — service before self — by saving the lives of passengers onboard. He switched off the plane’s engine in time. Otherwise, the plane would have caught fire and it could have been a bigger tragedy.” Recalling his school and academy days, Brigadier Mendoca said, “Sathe was a brilliant student and was focused to join the academy. He cleared the entrance exam in the first attempt and maintained his stellar performance in the academy. He also won gold and silver torches in every term for his excellent performance in academics and sports.” Sathe passed from the 58th course of the NDA, the Juliet Squadron. Another batch-mate of the pilot from Cambrian Hall, Air Commodore Deepak Gaur, who also went on to join the Indian Air Force (IAF) like Sathe, said, “Deepak was a graduate from the IAF Test Pilot School in Bangalore. It has a very grueling course for Air Force pilots and only the best are selected for it.” Air Commodore AK Muthana (retired), who was with Sathe in NDA, told TOI that Sathe had a major bike accident in the mid- 1980s in Chandigarh during his IAF days. “After that accident, everybody thought that his days in the Air Force were over as he had received serious skull injuries which in most cases end one’s career as a pilot. Very few people can make a comeback from such injuries and Sathe was one of those few people. It took him almost two years to get back to flying which was a testimony to his determination and will power.” Mom got news of pilot son’s death on her b’day Shishir Arya Nagpur: It was Neela Sathe’s 83rd birthday on Saturday when she received the tragic news of the death of her son Deepak in an air crash in Kozhikode. Neela’s daughter Anjali Parashar, who lives in Mumbai, had planned to give her parents a surprise by coming to Nagpur. Instead, she had to rush to Kozhikode to collect Deepak’s body. The Sathes have been residing in an independent house in the city’s quiet Bharat Nagar area since the 1950s when Deepak’s father Brigadier Vasant Sathe (now 87) retired from the army education corps (AEC). Deepak’s nephew Yashodhan Sathe told PTI that he had planned a surprise visit to greet his mother on Saturday. “He had last met his parents in March and was constantly in touch with them over the phone. They had last spoken on Thursday,” he said. The couple lost their elder son, 2nd Lieutenant Vikas Sathe, in an accident. He was returning to his unit after a military exercise in 1981. Deepak, too, had met with a major accident in Chandigarh, soon after joining the IAF. “The news of Vikas’s death and Deepak’s recovery almost came together,” said Suvarna Sathe, a relative. A tenant of the Sathes said that they got the news about Deepak’s death on Friday night itself, “but we waited till morning to inform his parents”. He said: “Both the sons dying in accidents would have been too much for the parents to come to terms with. Finally, we had to tell them,” he said. Suvarna shared the reaction of Sathe’s parents, saying, “The mother said why should God take them both the same way, but remained stoic. The father has been blank since he was told. He hasn’t spoken much and has not even shed a tear.” Captain Sathe’s mortal remains will be flown to Mumbai on Sunday to his home in Nahar’s Zinnia, Powai. His wife Sushma Sathe travelled to Kozhikode by a special flight on Saturday morning and his younger son, Dhananjay, too joined his mother from Bengaluru. Captain Sathe’s elder son Shantanu who works at Amazon will also fly in from Seattle and return home on Sunday, relatives said. (with inputs from Hemali Chhapia in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/popular-focused-brilliant-school-friends-nda-batchmates-say-sathe-lived-by-motto-service-before-self/articleshow/77437373.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||CRPF constable duped of Rs 60k in Ajmer dist||Ajmer: A CRPF constable posted in Ajmer was duped of Rs 60,000 in an online fraud. The accused called him impersonating his friend and asked for an OTP, which he revealed to him.On Saturday Constable Roopesh Kumar lodged a complaint with the Alwar Gate police station stating that he got a call from unknown number and the called identified himself as Arjun Singh, who worked with him previously. Kumar said in the complaint that his voice was similar to Arjun Singh and after exchanging pleasantries, he demanded immediate financial help and said that he sent a message.Kumar believed the caller and gave him the OTP that he received. After some time, he got a message that Rs 60,000 had been withdrawn from his account. Kumar called on the same number, but it was out of coverage. Sensing that he had been a victim of online fraud, he went to police station and registered a complaint.In another incident on Friday, Sanju Rathore of Adarsh Nagar became victim of online fraud and lost Rs 27,000.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crpf-constable-duped-of-rs-60k-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/77439188.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||In MP, Ram Van Gaman Path development put on the backburner||BHOPAL: At a time when euphoria over Ram temple is high after the foundation laying of the temple in Ayodhya, the BJP and Congress in Madhya Pradesh have failed to push the development of Ram Van Gaman Path – a path trekked by Lord Ram during his exile. Kamal Nath government which promised development of the path in its 2018 election manifesto failed to resurrect it before it fell in March, this year. Similarly, the cash-strapped Shivraj Singh Chouhan led BJP government, busy fighting Covid-19, too failed to take the project out of the files. Sensing public sentiments, Congress government in Chhattisgarh decided to develop Ram Van Gaman Path and decided to start the work from this month itself. In MP, the project is still on papers. On March 7 the MP cabinet led by the then chief minister, Kamal Nath approved the formation of a trust for the construction of Ram Van Gaman Path from Chitrakoot to Amarkantak. There has been no development on the issue since March. State government dispelled apprehensions on the fate of the project and said that it is in the pipeline and will commence soon. MP adhyatm (spiritual) department minister Usha Thakur said, Ram Van Gaman Path development is a priority for the government and its work will start soon. The project report is ready and arrangement of funds is being made with the help of Centre. Union minister, Prahlad Patel is also taking keen interest in the project and the work will commence soon, she claimed. In July 2019, the Congress government sanctioned Rs 22 crore to develop Ram Van Gaman Path. The detailed project report for the Ram Van Gaman Path from Chitrakoot to Amarkantak in MP was prepared during early 2019.  Congress media vice-president, Bhupendra Gupta told TOI that BJP did nothing to develop Ram Van Gaman Path in its 15 years of rule in MP, but as soon as Congress came into power it took the project seriously. CM Kamal Nath took meetings and also made provision for it in the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-mp-ram-van-gaman-path-devpt-put-on-the-backburner/articleshow/77438272.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Four sisters held for fraud worth crores through kitty racket||DEHRADUN: A kitty racket, run by four sisters, was busted by the Patel Nagar police of Dehradun on Saturday. The four accused are from Nepal and are based in Dehradun. They operated in the Kedarpur area of the state capital and in the last few years were successful in winning the confidence of around 3,000 women, who invested around Rs 10 crore in their kitty. The matter came to light when Dehrakhas resident Vidhya Bhatt approached the police in June, 2019. In her complaint, she alleged that Meenakshi Kharti along with the help of her parents Lal Bahadur and Sunita and three sisters Mona, Madhuri and Manisha ran a kitty in Kedarpur area. She claimed that they had duped her of Rs 5 lakh and even after the maturity of the kitty scheme, Meenakshi and her family refused to give the amount. Patel Nagar inspector Pradeep Bisht said that they did all their monetary transactions in hotels and in the last few years had duped around 2,500-to-3,000 women of the area and adjoining belts. While the father and four daughters were on the run, the police had already arrested the mother. The police team received inputs that they belonged to Nepal and had been staying in the neighbouring country since 2019. An informer told the cops that the four were recently seen near their residence. Following which, a police team headed by a sub-inspector arrested them from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-sisters-held-for-fraud-worth-crores-through-kitty-racket/articleshow/77437379.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||CM’s nod for formation of panels on farmers’ welfare||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday approved the formation of state-level consultative committee and district-level monitoring committees to review the formation of farmers’ producing organizations (FPOs) and their progress in the state.By the year 2023-24, there is a target to set up 10,000 new FPOs across the country. Hence, Gehlot has approved setting up of these committees at the state and district levels with the objective of forming as many FPOs. Through these FPOs, farmers could get better income opportunities.Principal Secretary, agriculture, will be the head of the consultative committee. It will have members from the cooperative, rural development and panchayati raj, animal husbandry, fisheries, agricultural marketing departments and various boards, associations and universities. The general manager of NABARD will be the member secretary of the committee.Similarly, the district-level monitoring committee will be constituted under the chairmanship of the chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad and district development manager of NABARD will be its member secretary.The CM has approved the formation of a state-level committee under the chairmanship of the principal secretary, agriculture, for the establishment and expansion of food processing units in the state under Atmanirbhar Bharat. He has also approved the proposal for the formation of district-level committees headed by district collectors.Gehlot has also approved the proposal to grant registration rights to tehsildars and naeb-tehsildars appointed in 16 different newly-created and upgraded tehsils and sub-districts.He has also approved the proposal to include the assistant commissioner of police as a member, in place of the deputy SP of the area concerned, in the committee constituted to take possession of Nazul properties in Jaipur city.The newly-formed tehsils are Arthuna (Banswara), Raipur (Jhalawar), Sekhala (Jodhpur). The sub-tehsils that have been upgraded are Uchain (Bharatpur), Paota (Jaipur), Dag (Jhalawar), Kanod (Udaipur), Delwara (Rajsamand). Newly-formed sub-tehsils are Kanera (Chittorgarh), Khejroli (Jaipur), Sankra (Jaisalmer), Kudi Bhagtasani (Jodhpur), Mandrela (Jhunjhunu), Rahuwas and Bhandarej (Dausa) and Kherli Mandi (Alwar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cms-nod-for-formation-of-panels-on-farmers-welfare/articleshow/77439197.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Homes for elderly shut in Tamil Nadu, senior citizens face abuse||CHENNAI: Homes for the elderly in the state have largely stopped taking in new residents due to the still raging Covid-19 pandemic and many senior citizens are bearing the brunt. Officials from HelpAge India say they have been getting an increasing number of calls from senior citizens, complaining of harassment and abuse from their family members since they are all locked indoors and have no place else to go. “Until at least a month before the lockdown, we would get about four calls a month on abuse and harassment of the elderly. However, since the past three months, we get no less than six a week,” said Muthukrishnan, senior manager of HelpAge India. Most of them, he said, complained of physical and verbal abuse from their children, and many also tried to reach out to old age homes, but almost all were shut. A few opened earlier this month but they are only allowing people with a certificate saying they are free of Covid-19, he said. “Every time we get a request we put them in touch with the district social welfare officer and get them tested for the virus and later move them to the home,” he said. While requests of helping senior citizens moved to old age homes were many, those that are functioning only take in a limited number of people. “We re-opened last week and since then I have been receiving no less than five calls a day from old and bereaved people, desperately wanting to move out of their homes,” said Senthil Kumar, founder of Brindavanam Old Age Home. “However, despite the increasing number of calls, we can only take in a few people. And we are doing the best we can.” A recent survey conducted by AgeWell Foundation, a civil society organisation, among 5,000 senior citizens across the country including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai found that for 71% of them cases of abuse increased during the lockdown and after. A majority, 56%, said they faced a wide range of abuse including disrespect, verbal abuse, silent treatment, denying food, their daily needs, medical requirements, physical and emotional violence and that they were being forced to go out and work. Over the past one month, senior officials from the state social welfare department have helped move at least 80 senior citizens from in and around Chennai and Kancheepuram to old age homes nearby, following complaints of abuse by their children. “District social welfare officers have intervened in all these matters and taken necessary action,” an official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/homes-for-elderly-shut-senior-citizens-face-abuse/articleshow/77438273.cms||Aditi R
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cash and jewellery worth over Rs 2 crore recovered in just two months||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police seems to be on a recovery spree with figures of seizures in the past two months touching a record high. While it has recovered about Rs 60 lakh in cash, the total worth of recovered jewellery in June and July is pegged at over Rs 2 crore, data released by police shows. Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had earlier instructed all the units to focus on the recovery of snatched/stolen items from arrested criminals before concluding the investigation of a case. On Saturday, cops in central Delhi caught one Sabuddin who used to buy stolen properties. Eight mobile phones that were snatched from different parts of the city in the past one month were recovered from him. Efforts are now being made to track down the snatchers. “We are after receivers and middlemen since recoveries from these people lead us to the entire criminal nexus starting from the robbers to the final users,” said a police officer. He explained that linking these recoveries to the crimes helps them prepare a watertight chargesheet against the criminals. During the post-lockdown period, chances of recovering stolen or robbed items from criminals have gone up due to the decline in the number of illegal businesses that ran from grey markets. “The number of buyers has dipped considerably. The suspension of interstate travel too has reduced the instances of criminals travelling outside the state to dispose of stolen properties,” said a police officer. According to another data, the recovery of illegal items from the possession of criminals saw nearly a 50% spike in the post-lockdown period between June and July. The cops recovered 515 illegal firearms compared with 228 recovered between March and May. Police say the demand for illegal weapons is high in Delhi post the lockdown as criminals released on bail have started going back to committing crime. “The crackdown on weapon suppliers provides a route to track down these criminals as well,” said a senior officer. With commuting to areas like Meerut, Khargone and Munger becoming difficult due to the restriction on movement, arms suppliers were found to have gone local, tapping illegal factories that had been set up within 200km from Delhi. Efforts are being made to bust these as well. The seizure of liquor went up from 54,000 bottles in the months of April and May to 96,484 bottles in June and July. The closure of liquor vends after the lockdown had led to a sudden spike in the consumption of illegal liquor. The cops have also cracked down on drug dealers in the past two months and seized 28kg of smack and 908.7kg of ganja. Last month, Delhi Police’s Special Cell had caught a huge consignment of drugs being ferried in a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cash-jewellery-worth-over-rs-2cr-recovered-in-just-2-mths/articleshow/77439196.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 9, 2020||Chennai||MCC’s superstar prof Rajani dies of Covid||Chennai: ‘Love you pa’… the single sentenced tribute has been flashing across social media posts of Madras Christian College alumni since 6pm on August 7 when word spread that professor P Rajani had passed away, from Covid-19 complications. He was 79 and living with his family in Coimbatore. Rajani, the beloved professor of English literature at MCC for more than three decades, was quite literally the superstar of MCC campus – clad in a loose flowing T-shirt, a pair of jeans and Hawaii chappals, carrying a backpack, his unkempt silver grey hair flying in the breeze as he rode his motorbike through campus, he dressed, dreamed and lived the way he wanted. “Every year, he would head to the Himalayas. He would return with frostbite or breathing difficulties as he was asthmatic, but that never stopped him from going back up the next year. He loved the mountains, he returned to them whatever the consequences,” says professor K Ganesh, Rajani’s student, colleague and friend. Professionally, he directed more than 100 plays in his time at MCC, most of them adapted from books that had made an impression on him (American poet Slyvia Plath, for instance, who was almost an obsession with him, so much so his students would tease him about it). After his retirement, Rajani moved on to teaching at the University of Madras, where he directed plays in Tamil, most of them adapted from poems. At the university, he was also awarded the Tagore Chair for Theatre in 2000. Rajani never married, and lived on campus until his retirement in 1998. “Room number 178,” says Ganesh. “It was professor Rajani’s home for 30 years. And for generations of students, it was a place to hang out, watch cricket, rehearse plays, or just as a refuge.” Rajani would leave his key on a window sill for everyone to use. “The only rule was that books borrowed had to be returned as they were,” says Ganesh. Students say he knew how to tap into their talents and bring out the best in them. “I walked into MCC wanting to be an actress, but it was Rajani who brought out the director in me. He got me to assist him in his plays, then encouraged me to study at the Film Institute,” says filmmaker Priya V, director of Kannamoochi Yennada (2007), Rajani’s student in 1989. Rajani was always ready to help those in need, says Ganesh. “He paid the fees for several students. If anyone needed money, he would just give them what they asked for, and forget about it. It was ironic that people would hound him so they could return the money he had loaned them.” After Rajani retired as professor, he spearheaded MCC’s alumni network. “He brought it alive,” says Ganesh. In fact, when Rajani tested positive, the alumni sprung into action, putting messages out for donors, anything to help ‘Pa’. “There was just everything to love about him,” says Priya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mccs-superstar-prof-rajani-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77438282.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mobile towers to come up near 61 DTC facilities||NEW DELHI: If you live or work near a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus depot or terminal, expect much better connectivity on your mobile phone in the coming days. The corporation plans to licence out space at 61 of its depots, terminals, units and staff residential colonies for installation of mobile network towers. Most of these spaces are in prime locations, for which there will be bidding, and the reserve price has been kept at Rs 14,763 per sqm for mobile towers as a monthly licence fee. Bidders will be allowed to choose and quote for preferable sites. Only the firms registered with Department of Tele-Communications, Government of India are allowed. Apart from the monthly rent, successful bidders will also have to take care of other charges, including electricity and maintenance. Some of the DTC depots where mobile towers are likely to come up are Vasant Vihar, Sarojini Nagar, Sukhdev Vihar, Sriniwas Puri, Kalkaji, Ambedkar Nagar, etc. apart from bus terminals like Nehru Place, Hauz Khas, Mehrauli, Shahdara, Delhi Gate, etc. Spaces will also be leased out for mobile towers at DTC workshops in Okhla and other places and DTC colonies at Rana Pratap Bagh and Hari Nagar. The successful bidders will sign a licence fee agreement initially for a period of six years, which can be extended up to nine years subject to mutual agreement of the parties and successful performance of the contract.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobile-towers-to-come-up-near-61-dtc-facilities/articleshow/77439216.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||Easy-to-cook items preferred pick during Covid times, sales sizzle by nearly 50%||BHOPAL: Sales of packaged food items has reached a new high during the Covid-19 pandemic due to several reasons. To prevent risk of infection by going out to dine and additional responsibilities for parents like cleaning and doing the dishes has made items like noodles, soups and bread the new favourites of many citizens. Dharmendra Tiwari, operations head for Big Bazaar and FBB, Bhopal, said that the demand for packaged food has increased by 50% after Unlock, while it had increased by three times during the lockdown. “People wish to buy in bulk as they are avoiding going out frequently. Noodles and soups and heat-and-eat items like biryani, pulao etc have also seen a high demand. We are selling twice the packaged food as before,” said Tiwari.“Things like cereal, noodles, pasta, soups and baked goods have seen a 30% rise in sales during the pandemic as people are avoiding going out to restaurants and cafes. Children demand fast-food and instead of risking going out to eat, parents are preferring to cook the snacks at home,” said Praveen Baithare, HR head of Ondoor, an online super-store. Families with small children are trying to avoid eating out as far as possible but this doesn’t keep the children form demanding fast-food from time to time. Things like cup-noodles, pasta and frozen snacks are hot selling items online. “My daughters are small and they love pasta and French fries but as I am pretty strict and do not allow them to order food from restaurants, I have to find an alternative from time to time. Frozen smilies, potato-cheese pops and ready-to-make pasta have made things easier for me. I also add some vegetables like carrots, onions, capsicum etc to the pasta and noodles to make it healthier,” said Pramila Agrawal, a homemaker. However, nutritionists advise against the consumption of packaged food items for their high levels of preservatives, emulsifiers . Dietician and nutritionist, Dr Nidhi Pandey, said, “People need to understand that too much of packaged food takes a toll on health as the good bacteria in the gut goes for a toss to be replaced by bad bacteria that cause stomach ulcers, Vitamin D deficiency,in children. ” Instead, she suggested going back to achars and chutneys to make everyday food more tasty, along with home-made snacks like mathri, laddoos .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/easy-to-cook-items-preferred-pick-during-covid-times-sales-sizzle-by-nearly-50/articleshow/77438285.cms||Shuchita Jha
August 9, 2020||Surat||Rapid antigen test free for symptomatic people in Surat||SURAT: In a move to help residents suffering from suspected Covid-19 symptoms get immediate medical attention, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has made the rapid antigen test free not only at the Dhanvantri Raths, but also in its health centres. Official sources said that the health staff at the Dhanvantri Raths and the health centres will decide on performing free rapid test based on the primary health screening of the patients who approach them with suspected symptoms including ARI. “There was no charge levied on rapid antigen test from the very beginning. Now, those having suspected symptoms can visit Dhanvantri Raths or the health centres and get themselves checked,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, adding that only those found with suspected symptoms and ARI will be provided free service. According to Pani, the test facility has already started at Dhanvantri Raths and SMC health centres across the city. City has about 121 Dhanvantri Raths where about 40,000 people get screened for Covid-19. It must be noted that the SMC has appointed two private agencies for carrying out the rapid antigen test of the workers employed in the industrial units including diamond and textile sector. The unit owners will have to bear the expenses for testing of their workers. Last week, the SMC allowed the diamond units to carry out operations with two workers on emery wheel with the mandatory rule for carrying out the rapid antigen test of the worker. It is believed that the SMC has taken the decision for the free testing of the people with suspected symptoms at the Dhanvantri Raths and health centres to avoid the industrial units on taking the undue benefit of the service provided by the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rapid-antigen-test-free-for-symptomatic-people-in-surat/articleshow/77437408.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||The many Manjhis of Bundelkhand: Migrants cut hill to revive pond||BHOPAL: Covid-19 pandemic seems to be a blessing in disguise for the people of Agrotha village in Badamalehara block in Chhatarpur district. Over 100 migrants along with local villagers cut a mountain to bring water to a pond spread in about 100 acres of land. The work will benefit around 5,000 villagers in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region. The pond was repaired under Bundelkhand project 10 years ago at a cost of Rs 10 crore. Earthen bunds were built on two sides of the water body to conserve water. However, the pond could never be filled despite good rainfall as water coming from the forest area over a hillock could never reach it. “The Pani Panchayat Samiti in the village decided to fix the problem during the lockdown this year. Over 100 migrant labourers, who had returned to the village, joined hands and the work was started in April,” said Sanjay Singh of Parmarth Seva Sansthan working for water conservation. It was a herculean task, reminisces Jagat Lodhi of Agrotha village. “A mountain behind the pond was bocking the flow of water to the tank. A vertical cut in the rocky structure would have solved the issue.” “We also used machines to cut stones to make way for water flow,” said local resident Babita Rajput, adding, “We had asked the contractor to cut the mountain when the project was carried out 10 years back, but in vain.” Appreciating the efforts of villagers, Badamalehra janpad panchayat CEO Ajay Singh said, “About 1,500 migrants returned in Badamalehra block. Members of Parmarth Seva Sansthan mobilized some of them for water conservation work and some commendable job was carried out by them.” After good rainfall in June, some water had reached the pond. The villagers now wait for the monsoon to revive the water flow down to the pond from the vertical cut in the mountain. Watch Migrants cut hill to revive pond in tremendous feat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/the-many-manjhis-of-bkhand-migrants-cut-hill-to-revive-pond/articleshow/77438278.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Family to get heath updates of Covid-19 patients on mobile||Bareilly: The health department in Bareilly will share the details of health conditions of "serious" patients undergoing treatment of Covid-19 with their family members over a phone call. Officials said after the patient will be admitted, staff will call their family members to share regular updates.Bareilly's chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, "The patients with mild symptoms regularly talk to their family members over the phone and share updates about their health condition. However, it has come to light that Covid-19 patients who are in serious condition are often unable to talk to their family. To help such families, the hospital staff will call them up to inform about the patient's status."Apart from Bareilly, Budaun district magistrate Kumar Prashant has directed health officials to give health update of the Covid patients to family members in regular intervals. He has also directed officials to compile the phone number of patients’ kin so that health updates can be shared with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-to-get-heath-updates-of-covid-19-patients-on-mobile/articleshow/77436549.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||HC asks litigants to approach DMs on encroachment issues||Jodhpur: With a view to discourage the trend of filing petitions in matters pertaining to encroachment on gochar (village grazing land), aagor/johad (land around water ponds), orans (sacred village forests), river or riverbed, public way or routes and cremation or burial grounds in villages, the high court has advised litigants to first approach the district magistrates.Disposing of three such petitions and advising petitioners to file a detailed representation to the district magistrate of Jodhpur, division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Vijay Bishnoi directed the grievance to be resolved in three months from the date of filing the representation.Citing an order of January last year, the bench said the directions had been given to the chief secretary to set up an effective Public Land Protection Cell (PLPC) in every district headed by district collectors to resolve such matters of encroachments.“District collectors should be required to periodically notify for information of general public to lodge complaints/representations with regard to such encroachments with a specially designated PLPC for rural areas,” the order read.The court observed if the cells play an effective role, the necessity of such complainants approaching this court directly by way of public interest litigation could be done away with.The court had mandated that the PLPC shall get such complaints/representations inquired into by deputing subdivisional officer/tehsildar/naib tehsildar so as to verify whether or not such encroachments have actually taken place on such land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-asks-litigants-to-approach-dms-on-encroachment-issues/articleshow/77439214.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Fake notes: Pak links emerge as 5 arrested||Jaisalmer: Police have arrested four persons and detained a minor in a case of counterfeit notes sent across the border from Pakistan. The smugglers from Pakistan had sent fake currency worth over Rs 8 lakh into India over a period of time. A few days ago, fake notes worth Rs 6.50 lakh, in denomination of Rs 500, were recovered from a youth at Paradia village under Chauhatan police station area in Barmer district. Around three to four months ago, fake currency notes worth Rs 4 lakh were sent into the Indian border. The five arrested persons in the matter have been sent to police remand of five days. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said in the inquiry so far, the name of Pak smuggler Roshan Khan has come to light. Khan, with the help of ISI, had supplied the consignment of fake notes from Nava Tala fencing area of Indo-Pak borders, to Sawar Khan, who then gave it to Akbar Khan, a resident of Paradia. Sawar was involved as a carrier in this consignment. As the field is situated near the fencing, the consignment of fake notes was given to him. The Pak smuggler was earlier in 2014 involved in counterfeit notes’ and heroin smuggling and is a relative of Akbar. Akbar and Roshan used to speak about the consignment of fake currency. SP said that in the inquiry, it has come to light that these smugglers used to mix original notes with fake ones and carry out transactions in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-notes-pak-links-emerge-as-5-arrested/articleshow/77439210.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Driver beaten up, forced to chant Jai Shree Ram in Rajasthan's Sikar||JAIPUR: A 52-year-old Muslim auto-rickshaw driver was thrashed by two persons in Sikar on Friday and allegedly forced to chant pro-Modi slogans. According to the complainant, he was stopped by the accused when he was returning after dropping off passengers. They asked him for tobacco but when he told them that he did not have the brand which the accused wanted, he was thrashed. The accused then asked him to chant ‘'Zindabad Modi’ and ‘Jai Shree Ram’. Though the victim raised the slogans, he was again beaten up by the accused. The incident is of a village in Sikar’s Sadar police station area. The victim was identified as Gaffar Ahmed while the accused, who were in their mid-30s, were identified as Rajendra and Shambhu Lal. Sikar Sadar SHO Pushpendra Singh said, “According the complainant, when he was returning to the village bus stand after dropping his passengers, the accused who had parked their vehicle on the side of the road waived at Ahmed to stop. The duo then asked for tobacco but when the victim said that he did not have it, they asked him say ‘Zindabad Modi’ and when he refused they hit him again.” The victim claimed that he chanted ‘Zindabad Modi’ and ‘Jai Shree Ram’ but the accused again beat him. “Ahmed somehow managed to escape in his auto but the accused soon caught up with him and apparently dragged him out by holding his beard after which they thrashed him again before taking off with his wristwatch and Rs 700,” said the SHO. Ahmed managed to reach home and was admitted to a hospital where he is undergoing treatment for injuries including broken teeth. According to the officials, after receiving information, they arrested the accused and seized their vehicle. Officials also said the two accused were drunk at the time of the assault. A case was registered under SC/ST Act, along with IPC Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 384 (theft), 505 (offence against a community) and others. Watch Rajasthan: Elderly muslim auto driver assaulted, forced to chant 'Jai Shree Ram' slogan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-beaten-up-forced-to-chant-jai-shree-ram-in-sikar/articleshow/77439217.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Kidnapped Moradabad boy rescued fromKaushambi bus terminal in Ghaziabad||Bareilly: Moradabad police on Saturday rescued a five-year-old boy, who was kidnapped from outside his house in Ramlila Ground area under Majhola police station of Moradabad a day before, from Kaushambi bus terminal. The abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 30 lakh for his release. According to the boy’s father Gaurav, a collection agent with a finance company, his son went missing on Friday afternoon after he went out to play and the kidnappers had demanded a ransom of Rs 30 lakh. Police said soon after receiving information, several teams were formed and a search operation for the boy was launched. The number that the accused had used to make a ransom call was put on surveillance and multiple locations were traced. Special police teams raided several public places and on Saturday afternoon, the boy was successfully rescued from Kaushambi bus terminal with the help of Ghaziabad police. Moradabad senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prabhakar Chaudhry said, “The child was found abandoned on a roadways bus at Kaushambi bus terminal in Ghaziabad on Saturday and brought back to Moradabad.” The SSP said, “The kidnappers left the child on the bus and fled the scene, even though they had demanded a ransom of Rs 30 lakh. An investigation is underway and the unidentified accused will soon be nabbed.” The SSP added that IG, Moradabad range, Ramit Sharma announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for the police team that found the missing boy in Ghaziabad. Majhola SHO Rakesh Kumar said an FIR was registered against unidentified accused under section 364 a kidnapping for ransom, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kidnapped-moradabad-boy-rescued-fromkaushambi-bus-terminal-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/77436563.cms||Maria Khan
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Safety first: Many BEd aspirants decide to skip exam||Lucknow: Despite preparing for UP BEd Joint Entrance Examination for months, many students have decided to skip the test in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The candidates said it would be unsafe to appear for the examination at a time when Covid-19 cases in the city are spiralling. “I chose to wait for a year than to take the risk of coronavirus infection. No matter what the authorities claim on social distancing norms but when over a thousand candidates would assemble at a centre, it would be tough to implement safety guidelines. When people are not able to maintain distance at grocery stores, how would they do so at an examination centre where everyone will be in a hurry,” said Ravi Kumar, a candidate. “My centre is at LU (second campus) where there will be over 1,000 candidates. Safety is more important to me than examination. This is not civil services examination where the number of attempts is limited. I will appear next year,” said Divya Malhotra. “On the one hand, the government is asking people not to venture out, on the other, it is conducting examination for lakhs of candidates,” she said. “I have a three-month-old daughter and I won’t risk my life for an examination. Hiring a private cab used by may people and going to a crowded examination centre is nothing but inviting trouble,” said Anvita Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/safety-first-many-bed-aspirants-decide-to-skip-exam/articleshow/77439328.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||No bidders for 70 LMC parking lots||Lucknow: Already reeling under financial crisis, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has been unable to find bidders for more than 70 open parking lots for past two months, which may lead to an estimated loss of Rs 4 crore to the civic body. According to officials, this will eventually affect development work like road repair and construction. LMC auctions parking lots to contractors in April but the process this time started in June due to lockdown. However, despite floating tenders several times, no bidder came forward, saying the cost was too high. Contractors said most parking lots are near malls, markets, complexes and coaching centres but business is low and the lull is expected to continue for several months. Besides 72 open parking spaces, LMC has five underground and multilevel parking lots which are auctioned separately. LMC nodal officer Ashok Singh said, “We invited tenders thrice but did not get any response from contractors. We are planning to give some concession to attract bidders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-bidders-for-70-lmc-parking-lots/articleshow/77439578.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||New flights for Indore, Raipur & Nagpur soon||BHOPAL: At a time when air carriers are cutting down on routes and flights as a pandemic side-effect, a new airline—Flybig—is gearing up to take off from Raja Bhoj airport. The destinations may include— Indore, Raipur and Nagpur. The airline authorities signed a contract with the Bhopal airport. The ticket counter has been set up. However, the operations are expected to start by September-end. After lockdown was imposed, the air connectivity reduced significantly. The number of flights operating from Bhopal fell down to 14 from 44. And the destinations shrunk to mere four cities—Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, from 12 in pre-Covid times. Director of Bhopal airport, Anil Vikram confirms that a contract has been signed between Flybig and the city airport. “They have opened their counter, but ticket sales have not started,” he said. He refused to divulge other information about the operations. Sources said the airline has shown interest to start operation by the end of September. “Cities including Indore and Raipur will be connected in the first phase. It is then expected to take off to Nagpur as well,” said a senior official of the airport. Sources added that the airline will be launched in the near future as few documentation work and formalities are yet to be done. Flyers said that it is good to see that new airlines are showing interest. “Bhopal was doing good in air connectivity. The situation flipped after the lockdown. Amid all this, a new airline showing interest in Bhopal is praiseworthy. I hope that it will soon start the operations from Bhopal airport,” said Vikas Sharma, a frequent flyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-flights-for-indore-raipur-nagpur-soon/articleshow/77438320.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP meets 98% revenue target in July despite Covid-19 crisis||LUCKNOW: Despite an unprecedented health crisis triggered by the Covid pandemic followed by prolonged lockdowns, Uttar Pradesh mopped up nearly 98% revenue target of July this year, compared to the same period in the last fiscal. Finance minister Suresh Khanna, who also holds medical education and parliamentary affairs portfolios, told reporters on Saturday that fiscal indicators point to a definite economic revival and no development project or welfare programme would be affected. “UP is set to outpace other states in revenue collection and we are perhaps the only state which neither delayed or slashed salaries of employees,” said Khanna, while reiterating special allowances frozen by the finance department, had been declared redundant and outdated by the seventh pay commission. Detailing the current status of revenue receipts, Khanna said, revenue collection in July in the last fiscal was Rs 10,926.36 crore while the state mopped up 10,675.42 crore in July this year, which aggregates 97.7% of last year’s collection. “Recalling the mammoth revenue losses during the traumatic days of the pandemic that forced a total lockdown in April and May, he said, the fiscal health is gaining momentum under the leadership of the chief minister whose efforts delivered more than desired results,” said Khanna. “We are confident of crossing the revenue collections of last year,” he said. He, however, admitted a fiscal deficit for July, but said it was not due to poor performance, but because of the pandemic and frequent lockdowns. “The target for July was Rs 15,632.72 crore, but we could achieve Rs 10675.4 crore. To bridge the deficit, the state could restructure and recalibrate targets, but the situation would be reviewed later,” said Khanna, who is the chairman of the chief minister- appointed financial restructuring committee. When asked about the spurt in revenue realisation after the sagging mood in April and May, Khanna said, collections in mining and excise played a key role in the revenue uptick. Additional chief secretary Sanjiv Mittal, who was also present at the press conference, said, the state received nearly Rs 800 crore of the central compensation from the GST head and was likely to get more. Additional chief secretary, home, Avanish Awasthi, said, despite financial constraints over last few months, developmental projects have continued unhindered and UP Industrial Expressways Development Authority received over Rs 2,000 crore as main share for Poorvanchal Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-meets-98-revenue-target-in-july-despite-covid-crisis/articleshow/77439555.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Corona limits Janmashtami revelry to social media this year||LUCKNOW: In view of coronavirus pandemic, temples will host a virtual Janmashtami celebration. The event will be streamed live on Facebook and other social media portals and start with the live webcast of ‘panch abhishek’, followed by other rituals and short cultural programmes. Owing to differences in the panchangas (astrological dates), the festival will be celebrated on both August 11 and August 12. At the fifty-eight year old Madhav Mandir in Daliganj, the festival will be celebrated on August 12. Following the guidelines of district administration, the temple will allow only five devotees to enter the premises for worship. The temple committee members have decided to live-stream the celebration on Facebook and also via video conferencing applications. “After ritual of ‘abhishek’ (coronation ceremony), ‘maha-aarti’ of Lord Krishna will be performed, followed by ‘chappan-bhog’, brought by 56 families associated with our committee. We will decorate the temple like previous years. Although no large gathering will be allowed. Only committee members will perform cultural programmes, including devotional songs dedicated to the lord,” said Anurag Sahu, spokesperson of Shri Radha Madhav Sewa Samiti. Similarly, New Hyderabad’s Khatu Shyam Temple will be performing live ‘aarti’ followed by mini celebration among committee members with an appeal to the citizens to stay home.  No tableaux will be taken out at Reserve Police Lines as well. “In view of the pandemic, we are still deciding about how we will go about the celebrations,” said Brijesh Kumar, of PAC 35, Mahanagar, which has been celebrating Janmashtami since several years. The city’s only ISKCON temple will not host grand public celebrations like every year but to cater to its national and international devotees, the temple will livestream on Facebook and YouTube ‘aarti’ and ‘shankh abhishek’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-limits-janmashtami-revelry-to-social-media-this-yr/articleshow/77439350.cms||Aditi Singh
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nearly 4,500 migrants in shelters needed counselling for mental health during lockdown||NEW DELHI: While the Covid-19 pandemic brought into focus miseries of migrant workers, nearly 4,500 labourers and their families — who took refuge in makeshift shelters in the national capital — were detected with mental health issues and required professional counselling during the lockdown period from April to June. Their anxieties stemmed from loss of livelihood and concerns about family members back home even as they stared at an uncertain future. An assessment by Delhi-based Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) put the prevalence rate of mental health concerns among migrants at 10-15% after its teams visited the shelters housing over 53,548 migrants from April 2 to June 18. The study, likely to be a first in India in terms of the significant sample during the lockdown, revealed that at least 849 migrants were given medication for problems ranging from anxiety, depression to more severe underlying conditions like psychosis and schizophrenia that manifested or got aggravated due to the stress caused by the pandemic. The cases also included alcoholics and drug addicts suffering from withdrawal syndromes. According to IHBAS director Dr Nimesh G Desai, the migrant labourers were also found to have a very high level of resilience despite facing extremely difficult circumstances. He pointed out that the estimated prevalence rate shows that while many required help, the majority did not appear distressed to the levels as to require counselling. “That the outreach was able to detect and reach out to a substantial number of 5,329 distressed migrants reflects that often mental health concerns of this section remain unaddressed in the absence of access to facilities,” he said. Given that the pandemic is an ongoing situation, Dr Desai said it is important to ensure regular access to mental health camps for migrants across states to help them cope with the challenges. Data across five phases of about two weeks each reflected that mental health issues increased soon after lockdown and peaked through May. Also as the access of migrants to food, ration and welfare measures increased, the distress started declining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-4-5k-migrants-in-shelters-needed-counselling-for-mental-health-during-lockdown/articleshow/77439221.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Fire safety needs treatment at Godhra civil hospital||Vadodara: Glaring lapses have come to light at the Godhra Civil Hospital and other state-run Covid-19 care or treatment facilities after the fire at a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad claimed eight lives. It has come to light that fire safety measures are not only insufficient, but virtually non-existent at these hospitals.The fire department of the Godhra municipality had conducted the fire safety audit and also operated the fire extinguishers at the civil hospital. It came to light that the couple of fire extinguishers that were tried by the firemen did not work. They were also installed higher on the walls than the norms.Sources said that other fire safety equipment was non-existent at the hospital. In case of a fire, the hospital would have to depend heavily on fire fighters and equipment of the Godhra municipality. But sources said that the civil hospital was not the only establishment where the situation prevailed. Other Covid-19 treatment facilities and a quarantine centre were also checked subsequently and it came to light that the situation was similar there.Godhra fire superintendent P F Chauhan said that a report regarding the situation was prepared and forwarded to the district administration. He added that corrective measures will now be taken by the establishments to take care of the fire safety there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-safety-needs-treatment-at-godhra-civil-hospital/articleshow/77437438.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 23 more succumb, Punjab fatalities double in 16 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 998 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 23 deaths because of the deadly virus. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 22,928 and the death toll rose to 562. The number of Covid fatalities in Punjab has doubled in just 16 days. Till July 24, the state had recorded 282 deaths. These were reported over a period of four months since the first fatality in the state took place on March 18. However, deaths rose sharply in the last week on July and in August. On Saturday, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 deaths, followed by three in Patiala, two in Amritsar, and one each in Barnala, Jalandhar, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Ropar and Sangrur districts. Also, 820 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state. The highest number of 168 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 139 in Patiala, 120 in Jalandhar, 102 in Amritsar, 91 in Mohali, 72 in Bathinda, 50 in Gurdaspur, 32 in Sangrur, 31 each in Kapurthala and Ropar, 29 in Pathankot, 24 in Tarn Taran, 18 in Faridkot, 17 in Ferozepur, 16 in Muktsar, 14 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 12 in Hoshiarpur, 11 in Barnala, eight each in Mansa and Fazilka, four in Nawanshahr, and one in Moga. In 21 cases, the source of infection was outside Punjab. Also, 21 new patients are jail inmates, 16 are police personnel, nine are frontline workers, and five health workers. The number of active cases in the state was 7,506 on Saturday. Of them, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 1,649 active cases. It was followed by 920 in Jalandhar, 879 in Patiala, 581 in Mohali and 428 in Bathinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/23-more-succumb-punjab-fatalities-double-in-16-days/articleshow/77439220.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Churches seek nod to hold Sunday mass||BHOPAL: The Sunday lockdown imposed by the district administration in the state capital has left the Christian community unhappy as their Sunday mass is being affected.  Many of the city churches have started holding the Sunday mass on Saturdays with five people as per Covid restrictions, but they want a review of the decision. Father Maria Stephan, PRO of the of Bhopal Archdiocese, said that during the pandemic, people want to visit church and pray as it instills a sense of positivity and hope. He had also received many phone calls from devotees requesting permission to open churches on Sunday. “We are abiding by all the guidelines laid down by the administration, but we are very sad that Sunday mass is not able to take place because of the lockdown. I had requested the district administration to look into the matter and allow us to hold the Sunday mass, but we have not received any response,” he said. The churches are holding the obligatory mass on Saturday, 3-4 times in the day so that people may attend the mass at least once a week. But with the strict guideline of not allowing more than five people inside places of worship, not more than a total 20 people can attend mass at each church even on Saturday. “The administration has allowed restaurants to operate with 50% capacity, but capped entry for religious places at five. They can at least see the size of the prayer-halls and the whole church before imposing this guideline. For small churches, they can keep the number between 5 -10 while for bigger ones it should be at least be 20-25 so that more people can find solace in God,” said the PRO. Kenneth Braganza, a private employee, said, “I miss attending the mass on Sunday and have requested the fathers at the church to start online mass. It will not be the same, but something will be better than nothing. My mother used to tell us to strengthen our faith in God during difficult times, and we need the mass more than ever. But we are unable to go.” However, the district administration has no plans to give freedom to the citizens on religious grounds. “We did not permit mosques on Eid to hold namaz with more than five people and neither was the lockdown lifted for Rakshabandhan. There is no plan to allow the churches to open on Sunday. They can live stream the mass for the community. The lockdown was imposed to avoid overcrowding at public places and the whole purpose will be defeated if we allow churches to open on Sunday,”said Arun Rathore, the district administration’s spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/churches-seek-nod-to-hold-sunday-mass/articleshow/77438336.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 23 more succumb, Punjab fatalities double in 16 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 998 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 23 deaths because of the deadly virus. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 22,928 and the death toll rose to 562. The number of Covid fatalities in Punjab has doubled in just 16 days. Till July 24, the state had recorded 282 deaths. These were reported over a period of four months since the first fatality in the state took place on March 18. However, deaths rose sharply in the last week on July and in August. On Saturday, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 deaths, followed by three in Patiala, two in Amritsar, and one each in Barnala, Jalandhar, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Ropar and Sangrur districts. Also, 820 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state. The highest number of 168 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 139 in Patiala, 120 in Jalandhar, 102 in Amritsar, 91 in Mohali, 72 in Bathinda, 50 in Gurdaspur, 32 in Sangrur, 31 each in Kapurthala and Ropar, 29 in Pathankot, 24 in Tarn Taran, 18 in Faridkot, 17 in Ferozepur, 16 in Muktsar, 14 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 12 in Hoshiarpur, 11 in Barnala, eight each in Mansa and Fazilka, four in Nawanshahr, and one in Moga. In 21 cases, the source of infection was outside Punjab. Also, 21 new patients are jail inmates, 16 are police personnel, nine are frontline workers, and five health workers. The number of active cases in the state was 7,506 on Saturday. Of them, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 1,649 active cases. It was followed by 920 in Jalandhar, 879 in Patiala, 581 in Mohali and 428 in Bathinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/23-more-succumb-punjab-fatalities-double-in-16-days/articleshow/77443894.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: 23 more succumb, Punjab fatalities double in 16 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 998 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 23 deaths because of the deadly virus. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 22,928 and the death toll rose to 562. The number of Covid fatalities in Punjab has doubled in just 16 days. Till July 24, the state had recorded 282 deaths. These were reported over a period of four months since the first fatality in the state took place on March 18. However, deaths rose sharply in the last week on July and in August. On Saturday, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 deaths, followed by three in Patiala, two in Amritsar, and one each in Barnala, Jalandhar, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Ropar and Sangrur districts. Also, 820 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state. The highest number of 168 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 139 in Patiala, 120 in Jalandhar, 102 in Amritsar, 91 in Mohali, 72 in Bathinda, 50 in Gurdaspur, 32 in Sangrur, 31 each in Kapurthala and Ropar, 29 in Pathankot, 24 in Tarn Taran, 18 in Faridkot, 17 in Ferozepur, 16 in Muktsar, 14 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 12 in Hoshiarpur, 11 in Barnala, eight each in Mansa and Fazilka, four in Nawanshahr, and one in Moga. In 21 cases, the source of infection was outside Punjab. Also, 21 new patients are jail inmates, 16 are police personnel, nine are frontline workers, and five health workers. The number of active cases in the state was 7,506 on Saturday. Of them, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 1,649 active cases. It was followed by 920 in Jalandhar, 879 in Patiala, 581 in Mohali and 428 in Bathinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/23-more-succumb-punjab-fatalities-double-in-16-days/articleshow/77443895.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||5 more die of Covid complications||Lucknow: August is turning out to be ‘deadlier’ than July with Covid-19 on an average claiming one life every five hours. Five more patients died of respiratory failure due to novel coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours till Saturday evening, taking the toll to 143 since the outbreak. Of these, 47 (33%) have died in August, while July witnessed 76 (53%) deaths with an average of one every 10 hours. In contrast, one patient died in May, three in April and 16 in June. Further, in over 60% cases, patients were brought to the hospital at the advanced stage as most could not gauge Covid-19 symptoms in time. The five patients who died in the past 24 hours also had late realisation of Covid-19 symptoms that delayed diagnosis and treatment. Doctors said patients had had breathlessness for some time but got themselves tested when the condition deteriorated. By the time they reached hospital after reports came positive, their lungs were severely damaged. Two patients who died at RMLIMS included a man (85) from Kanpur Road admitted on July 31 with low blood oxygen levels and pneumonia. Diabetes and high blood pressure made things more complicated. He could not survive despite ventilator support, said Dr Srikesh Singh, medical superintendent Covid-19 wing. A woman (53) from Aishbagh died of respiratory failure after battling for life for 10 days. She was also diabetic, said Dr Singh. In KGMU, a patient (53) died of lung failure hours after admission. Similarly, a 53-year-old man from Rajajipuram suffering from acute respiratory syndrome triggered by Covid-19 died in a private hospital in Gomtinagar and a woman (57) died at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences after respiratory failure caused by double pneumonia. Box Preventive drug for patient contacts ‘Ivermectin’ tablets used for treatment of parasite infestations will be given to people—barring pregnant women and children below two years—found to have been in close contact with Covid-19 patients. These persons will be tested two days after being administered with the medicine, said DM Abhishek Prakash. However, symptomatic persons will be tested immediately, he added. DG health Dr DS Negi said, “Ivermectin helps in stopping the virus from replicating and reduces chances of severity of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-more-die-of-covid-complications/articleshow/77439339.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Family to bring back Capt Deepak Sathe’s remains today||MUMBAI: Captain Deepak Sathe’s mortal remains will be flown back home to Mumbai on Sunday, in Nahar’s Zinnia, Powai. His wife, Sushma Sathe, travelled to Kozhikode by a special flight on Saturday morning, and his younger son, Dhananjay, joined his mother from Bengaluru. Captain Sathe’s elder son Shantanu, who works at Amazon, will also fly in from Seattle on Sunday. Meanwhile, family members in Kozhikode stayed in touch with friends and neighbours in Powai. There was no confirmation on whether his parents, retired Col Vasant Sathe and mom, Neela Sathe, would travel from Nagpur. “The family informed us that the post-mortem was completed by afternoon. Air India would arrange for the transportation of the family along with the mortal remains of Capt Sathe to Mumbai on Sunday. The carrier also arranged for his elder son to be flown in from Seattle,” said a pilot friend who was in touch with the family. Meanwhile, as many pilots woke up to the news of the crash and the death of Captain Sathe, many spoke of his “superior flying abilities” and speculations were rife on what could have gone wrong. “While there are lots of theories on chat groups of pilots, there is one clear message emerging from all that noise: that many who have flown with Captain Sathe and those who even know him from his days in the Indian Air Force, are confident that he must have tried all he could to avert the tragedy,” said a friend who lives in Jal Vayu Vihar. The alumni association of his alma mater — Cambrian Hall — also put out a condolence message. Another junior pilot, who had interacted with him in the Powai complex, said, “The family was very social and they would participate in the gatherings of the complex. He was jovial and had many pilot friends in the locality. He was humble and very grounded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/family-to-bring-back-capt-sathes-remains-today/articleshow/77439239.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 9, 2020||Goa||Panaji to get 17 bio-methanation plants||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will set up 17 bio-methanation treatment plants across the capital to process organic waste in a decentralised manner. This project is part of the Innovation Clean Technologies (ICT) programme initiated by the Centre’s department of biotechnology (DBT). Some of the sites used to set up the bio-methanation units are the Goa reserve police headquarters, campus of Government Polytechnic, Altinho, the Kadamba bus terminus, and campal parade ground. CCP is executing the project through a tie-up with Flycatchers Technology LLP, while funding for the project will come through the finance commission. NOCs for the units will be obtained from the directorate of transport, Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd, CCP, and the department of technical education. In July, the state cabinet relaxed the financial rules and permitted CCP to tie-up with Gujarat-based Flycatchers Technologies LLP for the operation and maintenance of the bio-digester units at a cost of Rs 2.9 crore. “The first unit has already arrived, and we are waiting to install it at the Kadamba bus stand,” said Flycatcher Technologies co-founder Richard Dias. The project is being taken up through the DBT’s biotechnology industry research assistance council (BIRAC), which picked Flycatcher Technologies for the project. The bio-methanation units convert organic waste into biogas, which can be utilised for domestic or commercial cooking. This project was cleared by the CCP council in March, where it was also decided that funds for the project would be sanctioned from grants received by the corporation from the 14th finance commission. Once set up, the decentralised units will help reduce the waste that CCP collects on a daily basis, and will also reduce the civic body’s manpower requirements. The units will have the capacity to process 75-1,000kg of organic waste per day, based on the size of the individual units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-to-get-17-bio-methanation-plants/articleshow/77439236.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM: Make arrangements for those in home isolation||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday directed to issue guidelines pertaining to ‘quarantine’ and ‘home isolation’ again. He was reviewing the Corona virus situation in the state through video conferencing. During the review the additional chief secretary, health Mohammad Suleman informed that Covid positive patients could be placed under ‘home Isolation’ as per the circumstances and the suspected patients could be kept under ‘home Isolation or ‘institutional quarantine’. Stating that arrangement of treatment and monitoring should be made for patients without symptoms, who have their own arrangement and wish to stay at home during the ‘home isolation’. The chief minister asked the health department to prepare a guideline in this context and send it to every district. Chouhan said that corona infection is also spreading in towns and villages. Hence, crisis management groups on the lines of districts should also be formed at sub-divisional level, which will act to control corona as per the local situation. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains has informed that detailed directives have been issued to districts in this context. During the review of Katni district, it was found that the positivity rate for the last 7 days is 7.36%. At present, district has 221 positive and 77 active patients, 139 patients were discharged after recovery and five have succumbed to corona disease. Testing is low in the district. Chouhan directed that testing must be increased and work should be carried out with full alertness in the district. In the review of Singruali district, it was found that new 91 cases have come to the fore in the last 7 days. Twenty-seven cases have been found in district jail. Chouhan instructed that it should be ensured that no people without screening should come to the district. Proper arrangement for quarantine, health screening should be made in jail too, he added. During the district wise review, it was found that highest corona cases i.e. 184, 138, 61, 35 have been found in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior and Morena respectively. Chouhan instructed to pay special attention to all these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-make-arrangements-for-those-in-home-isolation/articleshow/77438343.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases peak again with 109 positive||Vadodara: With fresh peaks registered consistently, Covid-19 seems to be tightening its grip on the city and district. Since Friday evening, 109 persons tested positive taking the total number of cases up to 5,472. The fresh cases were detected from 989 tests conducted in various laboratories in the city. Testing has also gained some momentum in wake of antigen tests being performed on suspected cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed three more persons afflicted with Covid-19 to have succumbed to the virus. With these, the total number of Covid deaths only went up to 109, while the figure excludes deaths due to co-morbidities. The new cases reported in the VMC limits include 28 from west zone, 26 from north, 19 from south and seven from the east zone. The cases are from Karelibaug, Navapura, Waghodiya Road, Ajwa Road, Manjalpur, Makarpura, Chhani, Alkapuri, Gorwa, Sayajipura, Gotri, Vasna Road, Tandalja, Kapurai, Tarsali and Subhanpura. Rural areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 28 new cases which include Dabhoi, Padra, Bhayli, Por, Ranoli, Varnama, Valan, Sherkhi, Sankarda and Karjan. One person from Ahmedabad also tested positive in the city on Saturday. With 67 more patients being discharged from hospitals or home isolation, the total number of discharged patients reached 4,187. At present 1,179 persons are in hospitals including 60 on ventilators and 164 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-peak-again-with-109-positive/articleshow/77437456.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||This new cannabis strain could help treat depression||Lucknow: A variety of cannabis that may help in treatment of disorders like anxiety and depression may soon be a reality. A team of 15 scientists led by Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants’ (CIMAP) senior principal scientist Birendra Kumar will come up with a variety of cannabis that will have high cannabinoid (CBD) – a substance found in the plant which has high medicinal value and low tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a hallucinogenic substance, in negligible amount – which can be used for various medicinal purposes. After a year of research, the team has received successful results. “We will come up with a new cannabis variety having 10-12% CBD which can be safely used for the treatment of various health issues including respiratory and brain disorders. It has been developed with the use of breeding technology. We have identified many strains with varying levels of THC, CBD and cannabinoid terpene which will be valuable in international medicinal cannabis industry,” said Kumar. “India is dependent on foreign countries for drugs made from cannabis which are used in the treatment of cancer, mental disorders and muscular problems. With this variety, the country will have its own drug with high medicinal value. The research is in a package form which will not only give a new variety but also its agro-technology, oil extraction and testing on small animals,” he added. CSIR-CIMAP director Prabodh Trivedi said, “In future, the project aims at characterising strains in detail and prove the efficacy of cannabis extracts as a natural alternative to synthetic and chemical drugs.” He said cannabis medicinal industry would provide employment opportunities to farmers and educated youth while giving a boost to government’s ‘Make in India’ campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-new-cannabis-strain-could-help-treat-depression/articleshow/77439505.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Noida model eases work at city’s Covid command centre||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Gautam Budh Nagar Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) during his visit to Noida on Saturday and took stock of its functioning.The centre at Gautam Budh Nagar has been developed by district administration in association with HCL Tech.“In his 15-minute walk-through, the chief minister tried to understand the working of the centre which has attended to over 2.5 lakh calls since April 3 when it became functional,” a senior government officer, who was present during the visit, said.According to officials, the standard operating procedures (SOP) used to run the Gautam Budh Nagar ICCC is serving as a template for its counterpart in Lucknow – home to maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state.About the association of Lucknow with Noida model, Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said: “After getting a positive feedback about the Noida centre, we invited a team from HCL to help streamline work in Lucknow. We are also using their SOPs and technical guidelines.”The Noida Model is an “all-in-one” 24x7 control room reachable on toll free number. In technical terms, daily dash-boarding, data analysis and reporting are its three main pillars. The methods in which the three tasks are done give an edge to the model.“The work protocols in Noida model have made pinning problem areas easy besides aiding work in containment zones,” said a staff member at Lucknow’s Integrated Control and Command CentreSources said the Noida model was also being studied by several high-burden districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/noida-model-eases-work-at-citys-covid-command-centre/articleshow/77439393.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||As RT-PCR tests dip, Bhopal’s positivity rate does too||BHOPAL : A week after Covid-19 detection by the rapid antigen test (RAT) was introduced in the state capital, the positivity rate in Bhopal has declined by 9.3%. Around 67.6% of all tests conducted in Bhopal since August 2 were through RAT. “This is a disastrous trend. The efficacy of RAT test is very low as compared to RT-PCR testing. Bhopal has sufficient number of laboratories for RT-PCR testing. We are not getting many samples for testing in the last few days. We were conducting close to 500 test per day at one point,” said a leading health expert. Laboratories conducting the gold standard of testing, which is RT-PCR, are operating below capacity in Bhopal. Saturday’s health department report revealed that only 20 tests were conducted at AIIMS Bhopal and six at IISER. Only 13.4% of the 3,043 samples tested were through RT-PCR. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the use of antigen tests, said MP additional chief secretary Mohammed Suleman. “Earlier, we were conducting RT-PCR tests as there was no option of RAT kits. Efficacy of RAT test has been certified by ICMR. However, anyone is free to get himself tested in anyway in any laboratory at his own cost,” he added. A recent study by the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has found that RAT accuracy gave true negative result ranging between 50% and 84%. In effect, the antigen test is likely to miss out half of infected cases. The fact has also been cited by the Indian Medical Association, Bhopal Chapter. Going by ICMR issued guidelines in June, “those with negative results from an antigen test should also get a RT-PCR test if they show symptoms, to rule out a false negative”. However, experts indicate that this would further add to late presentation of cases and medical attention. Late presentation of cases in places like Hamidia hospital has increased mortality to around 20% in Covid-19 cases. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test looks for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in upper and lower respiratory specimens. RAT was introduced in Bhopal on August 2. Since then, 9,626 tests out of a total 13,313 have been conducted through RAT. The positivity rate for Covid-19 infection in the same period has declined from 14.3% to 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-rt-pcr-tests-dip-citys-positivity-rate-does-too/articleshow/77438350.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 9, 2020||Goa||Greens want draft EIA 2020 nixed||Panaji: A few environmental groups and activists in state have demanded scrapping of the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification 2020, while calling for a policy in tune with climate change, social and environmental requirements. The Union environment ministry had recently notified the 80-page notification for public suggestions and Delhi high court had extended the deadline to August 11. The amendment to the EIA process — a very important part of the environmental law — has kicked off a storm, as lakhs of citizens, activists and groups have demanded its withdrawal. Federation of Rainbow Warriors (FRW), a voluntary body, has alleged that the draft violates the principle of non-regression, which envisages that the environmental law should not be modified to the detriment of environmental protection. Referring to the National Green Tribunal’s order which had struck down the ministry’s exemption to construction projects from mandatory environment clearance (EC), FRW stated that the NGT had even stressed on simplifying the environmental law, amid threats to it to favour development at the cost of eco protection. Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) alleged that the EIA 2020 appears to detail out mass exemptions of some damaging constructions and extractive industries from scrutiny under a category called ‘B2’. GBA stated, “It is understood that a large number of projects listed under ‘B2’ have caused problems in Goa already. Mining lease areas with less than five hectares or construction projects with more than 50,000 sqm and less than 1,50,000 sqm of built-up area are just some of the categories to be exempted from scrutiny.” The EIA process is important to enable the Union environment ministry to gauge damaging impacts of new projects. But after 2006, the environment clearance process became a murky game of words and pages, states Goa Foundation (GF). The EIA consultant’s task was to churn out reports, which activists alleged were “cut and paste” jobs for handsome fees. “All EIAs, paid for in cash naturally supported the project, majority claiming the new project would do “marginal” damage to the environment,” GF alleged. Activists in the state have identified more than 25 “dilutions” in the draft — post facto approval to projects, exempting public hearings, EC and other relaxations, being some of them — which, they alleged, would prove disastrous to the economy and environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greens-want-draft-eia-2020-nixed/articleshow/77439238.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 9, 2020||Surat||Woman arrested for abetting husband’s suicide||Surat: After 38-year-old Paras Jain ended life at his grocery shop opposite Navyug College in Rander on August 5 by hanging self to the ceiling using a rope, his wife was arrested on Friday for allegedly driving her husband to take the extreme step.Police arrested Sarita on charges of abetment of suicide under sections of Indian Penal Code. The complaint was lodged by Rajesh Jain, elder brother of the deceased. “The accused has been arrested after detailed investigation. She is named in the suicide note and there are strong evidences against her,” said a police officer in Rander police station.Rajesh told the police that the accused often harassed her husband for money and other petty issues. He also alleged that she kept demanding her husband not to give his parents money and also wanted to stay separately. From their fights over her extravagant ways to resisting visits by relatives to his house, the accused always created trouble, he alleged. Jain had even earlier attempted to take his life by consuming poisonous substance owing to the harassments in December 2019. He survived the bid only due to timely medical help, said the complainant. Jain’s body was found only after some known persons checked inside the shop as the shutters were down and locked from inside. Cops said that even his wife had come to the shop in the afternoon but returned finding the shutter down. Jain left a suicide note behind naming Sarita and her harassment as the reason for his suicide. Jain was married earlier to another woman in 2009 and has a daughter from his previous marriage. They got divorced in 2016 after which he married Sarita, a native of Madhya Pradesh, in May 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-arrested-for-abetting-husbands-suicide/articleshow/77437476.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||‘Goa CM should resign, stir over Mhadei’||PANAJI: The Jal Shakti ministry’s stance that Goa’s consent is not required for Karnataka’s Kalasa Bhandura diversion projects is a clear indication that the Centre supports Karnataka in the Mhadei water dispute, said former water resources minister Vinod Paliencar. He said that the CM Pramod Sawant should resign and protest on the streets till the Centre takes into account Goa’s concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-should-resign-stir-over-mhadei/articleshow/77439943.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Rituals to foolproof security, UP CM Yogi Adityanath micro-managed Ayodhya ceremony||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, also the ‘peethadheeshwar’ of Gorakhnath temple, had finalised the auspicious cardinal and ordinal directions of Vedic rituals performed during the historic ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi on Wednesday. Not just micro-management of the religious ceremony, the chief minister also played a pivotal role in ensuring fool-proof security for the prime minister’s programme by visiting Ayodhya thrice in 10 days in the run-up to ‘bhoomi pujan’ with additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi. It was also the CM’s decision to send the first ‘prasad’ to a Dalit family, a senior IAS officer told TOI. To thwart any possibility of an attack or ambush, the state home department secretly drove a dummy fleet of the prime minister from Ramjanmabhoomi to the helipad at Saket Degree College, just before the fortified cavalcade of the PM zipped through the same route after the programme. “The dummy run was to doubly ensure there was no security challenge,” said a senior home department official, who revealed that Ramjanmabhoomi, where the prime minister was performing the ‘bhoomi pujan’, had turned into one of the “most sensitive spots in the world”. Security was a huge concern for the CM and he held fort till the last minute. He took an aerial view of the site from a chopper and deployed 15 police officers of ADG rank in every district around Ayodhya to monitor suspicious movements and detain suspects. ‘Bhoomi pujan’ trended at top on social mediaA senior bureaucrat close to chief minister told TOI that despite criticism from several quarters about the date and timing of the bhoomi pujan, Yogi exuded confidence about the most auspicious hour. The bhoomi pujan also broke records with 7billion viewership and 200 news channels receiving feed from the national broadcaster Doordarshan. On social media too, it trended at the top. For ACS home, Awanish Awasthi, the August 5 event was another challenge after ensuring peace in the state post-Ayodhya verdict on November 9 last year. Despite, the marriage of his daughter the next day, Awasthi was busy signing orders for police deployment and speaking to district police chiefs for maintaining law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rituals-to-foolproof-security-yogi-micro-managed-ayodhya-ceremony/articleshow/77439477.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||In a first, doctor dies of Covid-19 in Bhopal; cases now at 7,800||BHOPAL: Covid-19 claimed the first medical practitioner in the state capital on Saturday. A retired radiologist, Dr Mahendra Jain, was admitted to AIIMS Bhopal. He operated a private clinic in Bairagarh. Since the pandemic began, the state capital has reported 218 death due to Covid-19. 152 more people were diagnosed with the contagion on Saturday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhopal to above 7,800. Of the new cases of coronavirus, 11 are prisoners in the district jail. Two doctors from Gandhi Medical College tested positive while another doctor in AIIMS was also diagnosed with the infection. Eight members of a family tested positive in Suvidh Vihar near Airport Road. Another case was reported in Radha Homes where five members of the same family tested positive. Bairagarh and Berasia reported three positive cases. Banganga slums is once again reporting new cases of Covid-19. Three more positive cases were reported on Saturday. Vishwakarma Nagar (Habibganj) reported three positives. Ahirpura, Church Road (Jehangirabad) reported two positive cases. A semi government office in MP Nagar reported two positives cases. 1100-Quarters and Janata Quarters reported two positives while Nishantpura and EME centre reported new cases of Covid-19. Idgah Hills reported its 200th infection since the pandemic began. Two members of a family tested positive in the area. Other infected areas includes Malviya Nagar, Abhinav Homes(Ayodhya by-pass), Sriram Colony, Khanuja Enclave, Old Shiv Nagar, RKDF College area, Harshvardhan Nagar, Sabri Nagar, Pushpa Nagar, Panchsheel Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, CI Colony(Jahangirabad), Idgah Hills, Thadharam Apartment (Koh-e-Fiza).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-a-first-doc-dies-of-covid-in-bhopal-cases-now-at-7800/articleshow/77438364.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Two communities at loggerheads overreligious issue, police force deployed||Bareilly: Heavy police force was deployed in Haddaf area of Shahjahanpur city after members of two communities nearly came to blows over a religious issue on Saturday afternoon. Some members of the minority community gathered alleging that the members of the other community were "constructing a new place of worship on a disputed land". The issue was resolved after police spoke with members of both the parties and ensured that no "new tradition is started in the area". The issue though grabbed a lot of attention on social media. Inspector Nareshpal Singh said, "Both the parties have agreed to maintain peace but we have still deployed force in the area. We will monitor the situation for a day or two until the situation is normal."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-communities-at-loggerheads-overreligious-issue-police-force-deployed/articleshow/77436614.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 9, 2020||Goa||Agonda, Palolem witness massive sand erosion||Poinguinim: Mighty waves and rising seawater level since Tuesday have led to massive sand erosion along the coastlines of Agonda and Palolem. Damage has also been caused to the structures dotting the coastline and several coconut trees too got uprooted. “Sand erosion is posing threat to the age-old huts of local fishermen,” said local Divakar Pagi, adding, “More damage is visible on the Val side of the beach.” Pounding of waves and strong winds throughout the week also battered the beaches of Polem, Galgibaga, Talpona, Rajbhag-Tarir and Patnem-Colomb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agonda-palolem-witness-massive-sand-erosion/articleshow/77439244.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 9, 2020||Surat||Reopen the libraries too, citizens urge||Surat: With gyms and yoga classes reopening, the citizens have demanded that the public libraries too be opened, with strict adherence to the social distancing norms. The Surat Citizen Council Trust (SCCT) has urged the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to consider reopening of its public libraries to facilitate the book lovers who are yearning to borrow their favourite books and titles. All the public libraries operated by the SMC including the Narmad Library on Ghod Dod road have been shut since the nationwide lockdown in March. President of SCCT, Sharad Kapadia told TOI, “We have urged the authoritiesto allow public libraries to open. At least, members of these libraries should be allowed to enter for borrowing and submission of books in the first phase.” The SCCT also sent a detailed representation to the authorities with suggestions on safe operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/reopen-the-libraries-too-citizens-urge/articleshow/77437485.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||‘Give govt jobs to families hit’||Panaji: The state government should immediately provide financial compensation and assistance to the kin of the deceased workers of the electricity department who lost their lives in the tragic accident on August 6 near Borim, Congress said on Saturday. The party said that the accident has put the spotlight on the poor condition of vehicles used by the department to transport materials and carry workers, for which power minister Nilesh Cabral should accept moral responsibility and step down. “Congress demands that those injured should also be compensated,” said Congress media cell convenor Trajano D’Mello. The party has also called on the government to recruit a family member of each of the deceased on compassionate grounds. The insensitive, in-compassionate and ruthless attitude of the government can be seen as even after 48 since the accident, the state has not announced any “immediate monetary compensation” said the Congress office bearer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-govt-jobs-to-families-hit/articleshow/77439243.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Congress putting pressure on our MLAs, says Poonia||JAIPUR: The BJP, which criticised the Congress for keeping its MLAs in hotels in Jaipur and Jaisalmer, has treaded the same path by sending its 18-20 MLAs to Gujarat fearing poaching and harassment by the ruling party in Rajasthan. According to party sources, the move was taken after “Congress leaders approached selected lawmakers.” BJP said the threat had been validated by BSP-turned-Congress MLA Rajendra Singh Gudha who on Saturday challenged BJP state president Satish Poonia to produce all its 72 MLAs in the assembly on August 14. “Such statements make it clear that the Congress can even resort to violence to save their government. I am hopeful that authorities will make note of such statements and take proper action. If the authorities fail in their duties, we will use legal options available with us,” said Poonia. Responding to a question on what specific input they received, he said, “The inputs we have been getting from some time is that some senior bureaucrats and police officers in connivance with Congressmen are putting pressure on our lawmakers especially those belonging to ST and SC groups. Some businessmen are also involved in this entire operation. They will be exposed at the right time.” On the number of MLAs shifted to Gujarat, Poonia said kept the figure around 18-20. He distinguished the fortification of its MLAs from the Congress factions- CM Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot. “Our MLAs have been sent to get away from state-sponsored harassment while the ruling party is doing to save its government,” said Poonia. Out of 18 MLAs, 10 are from reserved tribal seats. Sources said the saffron party feared the rising influence of Bharatiya Tribal Party in Dungarpur and Banswara which has extended its support to the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-putting-pressure-on-our-mlas-says-poonia/articleshow/77439246.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab’s death toll just 1% of nation’s’||CHANDIGARH: Positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in Punjab is 3.1, which is less than the country’s rate, state’s health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Saturday. The minister said the number of deaths due to the disease in Punjab is 539, which is only 1% compared to the country’s death toll, and added that most of the casualties were related to co-morbidity. Sidhu claimed that the state government has performed far better in curbing the spread of coronavirus in comparison to other states, which has resulted in relatively less loss of lives here. The health minister further said on the chief minister’s directive, thousands of medical and paramedical personnel are being recruited to expedite the fight to defeat coronavirus in the state. Describing the suggestion of Harpal Singh Cheema, the leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, to adopt the Delhi model as “childish” and “contemptible”, Sidhu said Cheema should keep his advice to himself as Punjab is in a better position than Delhi. He said the leader of opposition should have verified the fact that due to the mismanagement of the Kejriwal government, 10% deaths of the country have been reported from Delhi alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/states-death-toll-just-1-of-nations/articleshow/77439234.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Watchman held for looting Rs 17L from ATM||Jaipur: City police arrested a watchman of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) who looted one of its ATMs located in Jhotwara police station. The bank administration had registered a case at the local police station on August 1 claiming that the accused decamped with Rs 17.22 lakh.The accused, Manish Soni (28), had worked as the watchman for the same ATM he looted around eight months ago and was currently holding the same post at PNB ATM in Kanota police station area.“Based on CCTV camera footage which we found, a sketch was made to zero in on suspects. We started using local human intelligence and went through people who might have worked at the ATM before,” said an official of Jhotwara police station area.After conducting an intensive search, we finally came down to Soni who had worked in the same ATM which was looted and matched the description of the sketch.During questioning, the accused confessed to his crime and the official added, “At the time when Soni was working as the guard at the ATM, he became friendly with the staff who came to fill in cash. At the right opportunity, he copied down the digital password for opening the ATM.”On July 31, the accused walked to the ATM and chose the long weekend as the banks would be closed with no one coming to fill in cash due to the festival holiday, claimed the officials. Cops also managed to recover Rs17.12 lakh from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/watchman-held-for-looting-rs-17l-from-atm/articleshow/77439257.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||IMA urges PM Narendra Modi to intervene to stop doctors’ deaths||NEW DELHI: As many as 196 doctors in the country, majority of them being general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19 so far, Indian Medical Association said on Saturday and requested PM Narendra Modi for his attention on the issue. “As per the data collected by IMA, our nation has lost 196 doctors, of whom 170 were above the age of 50 years, with general practitioners attributing around 40% of them,” IMA said expressing concerns over doctors losing their lives in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis. In Delhi, 12 doctors have died due to Covid-19, the association added. While an increasing number of doctors are getting infected and losing their lives every day, a substantial number of them have been found to be general practitioners. Since a significant proportion of the population consults general practitioners due to fever and its related symptoms, they remain the first point of contact as well as care, the doctors’ body said. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the IMA requested Modi to ensure adequate care for doctors and their families who are a special risk group and to extend the state-sponsored medical and life insurance facilities to doctors in all the sectors. “IMA represents over 3.5 lakh doctors spread across the country providing next-door affordable healthcare, it is pertinent to mention that Covid-19 does not differentiate between government and private sectors and affects all .” “Further disturbing are the reports that state that the doctors and their family members are not getting beds for admission and deficiency of drugs in most of the cases. The IMA thus requests the government of India to provide adequate attention for the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, national president, IMA. Dr RV Asokan, secretary general, IMA, said the mortality rate among doctors due to Covid-19 has reached an “alarming proposition” now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ima-urges-pm-to-intervene-to-stop-doctors-deaths/articleshow/77439264.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 789 fresh cases take Haryana tally to 40,843; death toll rises to 474||CHANDIGARH: With 789 new cases detected on Saturday, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally reached 40,843. Seven persons died of the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 474. Among the 40,843 cases of Covid-19 in the state, 27,117 are men, 13,715 are women and 11 are transgender. On Saturday, Faridabad reported the highest number of 149 cases and Panipat followed with 126 cases. Other districts where novel coronavirus infection count soared included Gurugram (99), Ambala (88), Rewari (69), Panchkula (61), Hisar (36), Palwal (27), Kurukhetra (33), Kaithal (18), Bhiwani (19), Jhajjar (11), Nuh (8), Fatehabad (9) and Jind (4). The state has 6,338 active cases of Covid-19 and 34,031 persons have been discharged. The doubling rate has been recorded at 28 days. Till Saturday, a total of 7,30,036 persons were tested. Around 59,614 persons are presently under surveillance. As many as 103 patients in the state are currently on oxygen support and 22 are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/789-fresh-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-40843-death-toll-rises-to-474/articleshow/77444027.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Social media reports on phone tapping to be investigated||JAIPUR: DGP Bhupendra Yadav has asked Jaipur police commissioner to initiate an inquiry into fake news being circulated on social media claiming that phones of the MLAs staying in Jaisalmer are being tapped. The cybercrime police are trying to find the source of the message, though technical experts claimed that if a WhatsApp user was the source then it would be next to impossible to find it. Yadav said, “After fake news was circulated on social media that phones of MLAs were being tapped, I have asked for an inquiry into the matter to find the source. Cybercrime officials will be working on it.” Rajasthan police on Friday evening had issued a statement saying it was not tapping the phones of parliamentarians or legislators in the state. Police said a social media post which claimed that phones of legislators staying at a private hotel in Jaisalmer were being tapped was baseless, bogus and misleading. The message was circulated with a list of phone numbers claiming that the phones of at least half-a-dozen MLAs in the hotel were being tapped. Meanwhile, experts claimed that it would be difficult to locate the source, especially if it originated from WhatsApp. Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert who is also a consultant for Rajasthan Cyber Cell talking about the challenges said, “Technically, tracing the person in question for any WhatsApp post is a strenous task as even though digital forensics is performed on the data shared over it will not reveal any information of the mobile device used to share the content which went viral. Moreover, this app uses end-to-end encryption for communication which makes it really difficult for WhatsApp to trace the origin of the message even if approached by the law enforcement agencies officially. Having said this, depending on the case situation, detailed investigation gives the possibilities to train persons for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/social-media-reports-on-phone-tapping-to-be-investigated/articleshow/77439266.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
August 9, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 789 fresh cases take Haryana tally to 40,843; death toll rises to 474||CHANDIGARH: With 789 new cases detected on Saturday, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally reached 40,843. Seven persons died of the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 474. Among the 40,843 cases of Covid-19 in the state, 27,117 are men, 13,715 are women and 11 are transgender. On Saturday, Faridabad reported the highest number of 149 cases and Panipat followed with 126 cases. Other districts where novel coronavirus infection count soared included Gurugram (99), Ambala (88), Rewari (69), Panchkula (61), Hisar (36), Palwal (27), Kurukhetra (33), Kaithal (18), Bhiwani (19), Jhajjar (11), Nuh (8), Fatehabad (9) and Jind (4). The state has 6,338 active cases of Covid-19 and 34,031 persons have been discharged. The doubling rate has been recorded at 28 days. Till Saturday, a total of 7,30,036 persons were tested. Around 59,614 persons are presently under surveillance. As many as 103 patients in the state are currently on oxygen support and 22 are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/789-fresh-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-40843-death-toll-rises-to-474/articleshow/77444028.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 789 fresh cases take Haryana tally to 40,843; death toll rises to 474||CHANDIGARH: With 789 new cases detected on Saturday, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally reached 40,843. Seven persons died of the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 474. Among the 40,843 cases of Covid-19 in the state, 27,117 are men, 13,715 are women and 11 are transgender. On Saturday, Faridabad reported the highest number of 149 cases and Panipat followed with 126 cases. Other districts where novel coronavirus infection count soared included Gurugram (99), Ambala (88), Rewari (69), Panchkula (61), Hisar (36), Palwal (27), Kurukhetra (33), Kaithal (18), Bhiwani (19), Jhajjar (11), Nuh (8), Fatehabad (9) and Jind (4). The state has 6,338 active cases of Covid-19 and 34,031 persons have been discharged. The doubling rate has been recorded at 28 days. Till Saturday, a total of 7,30,036 persons were tested. Around 59,614 persons are presently under surveillance. As many as 103 patients in the state are currently on oxygen support and 22 are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/789-fresh-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-40843-death-toll-rises-to-474/articleshow/77439237.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Properties of alleged middleman raided||JAIPUR: ACB teams conducted raids at various properties of Sanjay Jain in Jaipur and Bikaner and seized a cheque of Rs 2.9 lakh and jewellery. Jain, who was arrested for his involvement in the alleged conspiracy to topple the Congress government, will be in ACB’s custody till August 11. “The searches were conducted at his residences in Jaipur’s Bani Park as well at his parental house in Bikaner’s Lunkaransar. We recovered a CPU and will try to get more information stored in it. The cheque also has to be looked to find out who gave it to Jain and the purpose. Few pieces of jewellery were recovered but they were not very high in value,” said an ACB official who is part of the investigation. Jain was arrested after audio clips in which he was heard talking to other politicians about possible toppling of the ruling government went viral. He was initially arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) and later by the ACB on production warrant. Officials claimed they will interrogate him further to get more details into the matter as well as look into his bank accounts. Cops are also likely to search his other properties and his office in Jaipur. In the complaint filed on July 11, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. The three cases registered by SOG were also handed over to the ACB and according to sources, the latter registered an FIR in one of those on Saturday evening naming Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani in the horse-trading case. The duo had been arrested by SOG on July 11 after their conversation had been recorded in which they heard about perceived attempts to topple the Congress government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/properties-of-alleged-middleman-raided/articleshow/77439249.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
August 9, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi beats global slowdown to clock highest-ever ceramic export||Rajkot: In spite of the worldwide recession, ceramic export in Morbi broke all records during July. Though the official figures of export are awaited, the certificate of origin issued by Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) claims that Morbi’s exports figures in July doubled in comparison to the previous year. According to industrial players, higher export is attributed to the current anti-China sentiments world over, as well as the low production in Italy and Spain due to the pandemic lockdown. According to RCCI, 80 certificates of origins were issued this July compared to 41 in July 2019. In June 2020, the industrial body issued 40 certificates of origins to ceramic tiles makers of Morbi. President of Morbi Ceramic Association, Nilesh Jetparia said, “We are neck and neck with China and competitive in prices too. We are benefiting from anti-China sentiments in the US and European countries. The other reason is drastic fall in in Covid-hit Italy and Spain, the major competitors of Indian tiles.” Industrialists get 40 to 45 certificates of origin issued from RCCI every month, which means that the amount of export is nearly Rs 1,000 to 1,200 crore. But in July, they could export goods worth nearly Rs 1,800 to 2,000 crore. Certificate of origin is a document that proves that the product is originally manufactured in the exporting country. This certificate is must in export documents and there are certain trade and industrial bodies which are authorised to issue this certificate. Morbi, worst-hit by migrant labourers’ exodus in May, is working hard to cope up with the market demands. However, because of the industry’s efforts nearly 80 percent of the workforce has returned. VeljiPatel, a ceramic manufacturer said, “Many industrialists also made arrangements including sending buses and paying for train tickets and reimbursing fare of private vehicles, to bring back their labourers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-beats-global-slowdown-to-clock-highest-ever-ceramic-export/articleshow/77437508.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 9, 2020||Goa||Borim tragedy: Power workers’ union demands Rs 50L aid to kin||Margao: The Electricity Employees Union (Goa) has demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the kin of the electricity employees who died in the accident at Borim recently, and Rs 20 lakh for those injured. Three electricity employees died in the accident that occurred on August 6 after the truck carrying electric poles in which they were travelling overturned at the Borim circle. The Union has also demanded immediate employment to the family of the deceased. General secretary of the Union, Raju Mangueshkar said that the electricity employees should ideally have been travelling in a separate vehicle and not in the one meant for transporting electricity poles. “Vehicles used by electricity department are age-old ones, some as old as 25-30 years, which need to be replaced immediately as they aren’t in a road worthy condition,” Mangueshkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/borim-tragedy-power-workers-union-demands-rs-50l-aid-to-kin/articleshow/77439261.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Audio inciting Independence Day protests, secession floods social media||LUCKNOW: Several mediapersons in the state capital received an audio message inciting people of a faith to stage protests on Independence Day to register disapproval of Ram temple construction at Ayodhya and demand a separate nation, on Saturday afternoon. Over 50 newsmen informed senior police officials about the provocative messages after which Lucknow Police registered a case and launched probe. Many senior journalists in Lucknow started receiving the audio message from 12.30 pm onwards and promptly informed the Additional Director General of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar. Police took cognisance of the audio and registered an FIR on the complaint filed by sub-inspector Mahesh Dutt Shukla. Lucknow Police Commissioner, Sujeet Pandey told TOI, “An FIR was registered against unidentified miscreants at Hazratganj police station and the cyber cell has been entrusted the task to trace the senders.” The FIR was registered on charges of sedition, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, ITAct, vilification or attacking religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, speaking words against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings, and whoever, with the deliberate intention of wounding religious feelings. The message was sent from numbers having codes of Malaysia, Canada and the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/audio-inciting-i-day-protests-secession-floods-social-media/articleshow/77439431.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Fix stench in ten days or will shut plant, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tells NDMC||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday directed officials of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to ensure cleanliness and fix the problem of stench emanating from a compost plant in Sector-4 of the Gole Market area. Kejriwal has given a deadline of 10 days to the civic body officials and said the plant would be shut down if the problem of foul smell was not addressed by August 20. During the visit to his New Delhi assembly constituency, which falls under NDMC’s jurisdiction, Kejriwal directed the civic agency’s officials to immediately address the problems of the residents of the area. When he visited the NDMC compost plant set up in Sector-4 of the Gole Market area, the residents complained of foul smell coming from the plant and that they were disturbed by mosquitoes and flies. Kejriwal assured them that the problem would be solved very soon. “Today visited the Gol market area in New Delhi assembly constituency. Ordered officers to take immediate action on the problems of the local residents,” Kejriwal tweeted after his visit. “NDMC officials have sought 10 days (till 20th August). It is okay if the steps taken by the officials solve the issue of the foul smell, otherwise, the plant will be shut down. I am inspecting the area with residents. The local people have pointed out many other problems, including cleanliness. I have ordered the officers of NDMC to resolve the issues,” Kejriwal said. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, the NDMC spokesperson could not be contacted for comments. The compost plant was set up in the area a year ago. “The organic manure-making plant has been set up near the Type-1 houses. It uses wet garbage, which smells a lot. Apart from the stench, we are also badly affected by the mosquito menace,” said Satish Kumar Yadav, secretary, Gole Market Sector-4, Type-2 RWA. Yadav added that the chief minister listened to their problems and directed the officials to immediately remove the officers who were in charge of this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fix-stench-in-10-days-or-will-shut-plant-cm-tells-ndmc/articleshow/77439283.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Less than 100 cases reported 8 days in a row||Gurgaon: The city reported 99 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the eighth day in a row it has recorded less than 100 cases. This is despite the health department ramping up testing in the last five days to 1,000 RT-PCR tests daily, along with antigen tests, confirming that the infection spread has slowed down in the area. Gurgaon’s current tally is 9,634. The city now has 683 active cases. The health department said 114 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of recoveries to 8,826. No one died of the infection in the city on Saturday, officials said. So far, coronavirus has killed 125 residents, 87 of whom had comorbidities. The district has a total of 683 active cases, 530 of whom are recovering at home. In the last 24 hours, two people were admitted to government Covid facilities. Recently, the city has been conducting more RT-PCR tests than antigen tests. Since the last five days, the district has been able to conduct over 1,000 RT-PCR tests daily. The department also confirmed that it is witnessing a downward trend in the rate of infection in Gurgaon. The health authorities were able to collect 2,314 samples in the past 24 hours, 1,091 of which were for RT-PCR tests and the rests for antigen tests. According to the health department, government labs are conducting more tests than the city’s private ones. “The aim is to strengthen the testing and treatment at the public healthcare facilities in the district,” a health department official said. So far, 1,26,328 people are under surveillance in district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/less-than-100-cases-reported-8-days-in-a-row/articleshow/77439281.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Survey of crop loss due to heavy rain under way||Panaji: Most horticulture crops across the state have borne the brunt of nature’s fury as winds and heavy rain that lashed Goa left some agriculture areas damaged. The final assessment report is expected to be submitted by zonal agricultural offices (ZAO) by Monday. Economic losses to field crops is lesser as compared to horticulture crops, deputy director of agriculture, Chintamani Perni said. “In Sattari especially, there is not much damage to paddy plantations, however, kulaghar plantations have faced damaged. The vegetables and horticulture crops are damaged as well due to the weather,” he said. The compensation to farmers will be released after the assessment of crop loss is complete, Perni said, adding, “It may take a few months since the government is yet to sanction the amount.” After a large quantity of vegetable seeds were shared with farmers during the lockdown, the department was expecting a substantial increase in vegetable production in the state. “We have been getting details of increase in production and the area under cultivation from ZAOs. Compared to last year, the production is on a rise. If it rains continuously then there could be chances of humidity build up and vegetables falling off,” Perni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survey-of-crop-loss-due-to-heavy-rain-under-way/articleshow/77439270.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Technical touch-up for old metro trains||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is refurbishing its oldest trains with new upgrades. Nearly two decades old, the first train sets that were built in South Korea will now feature stretched LCD screens with dynamic route maps, sockets and USB ports for laptop and phone charging, state-of-the-art CCTV cameras and fire and smoke detection system monitored from the driver’s cabin through touch screens. They will also get new flooring and fresh interiors. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation plans to completely overhaul the 280 coaches (70 four-coach trains) that were initially built in South Korea and later in India for its Phase I project. The trains are primarily deployed on Red Line (Dilshad Garden-Rithala) and the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida). With a lifespan of around 35 years, the train sets are going through a ‘mid-life crisis’ and the revamp will extend their efficiency for 15 more years. To begin with, 10 train sets with 74 coaches will be overhauled. The work is expected to take up to 18 months, cost on average Rs 6 crore for each train set. The work will be carried out in DMRC’s Shastri Park, Yamuna Bank and Najafgarh depots. The coach flooring will be replaced with non-skid, composite board with noise, vibration and heat insulation. DMRC will also spruce up the interiors by repainting of surfaces that have faded or where paint has peeled-off. The existing printed route maps in the coaches will be replaced with stretched LCD screens displaying dynamic route maps, interfaced with a public announcement system. These screens will display real-time information on train movement, with the position of the train indicated by a progressive bar. Information on door status (open or close), current station, destination station and interchange station will also be displayed. The trains will also be fitted with charging sockets with LED indicators as well as fast-charging USB ports with LED indicators, a feature in trains manufactured for Phase II onwards. The older train sets will each get an adequate number of state-of-the-art CCTV cameras, with a minimum 15-day recording capacity. The CCTV feed from the train will also be available on a touchscreen on the driver’s desk. The driver’s desk will also access live information from the fire and smoke detection systems that will be installed in the trains along with alarm sounders. The cutting-edge detectors will be able to pinpoint the exact location of a fire. The detectors are mounted on special bases allowing a quick installation and a proper and robust cabling. A locking mechanism will prevent tampering with the detector mounting. At present, DMRC has a fleet of 2,206 coaches. These coaches undergo periodical preventive checks for their world-class upkeep, which is carried out at the 12 maintenance depots and workshops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-touch-up-for-old-metro-trains/articleshow/77439274.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||MLAs resent being ‘locked up’||JAISALMER: All may not be well in the Congress camp here. Ministers and MLAs corralled in two hotels have started getting upset over being kept ‘locked’. Amid restrictions on going out, jammers too have been placed making phone calls a big difficulty. The Congress high command has sent AICC general secretary KC Venugopal to Jaisalmer to keep the MLAs united. Cabinet ministers Shanti Dhariwal, Harish Choudhary, Bhanwar Singh Bhati and others too are trying to fulfil the MLAs’ demands. Sources said discussions are going on among the MLAs about the third alternative of Rajasthan chief minister. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s programme to reach Jaisalmer got cancelled for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. Now family members of the MLAs locked in hotels have started coming to Jaisalmer. On Friday, Chetan Dudi’s wife came to Jaisalmer to meet her husband. After inquiry and permission, she was allowed to meet her husband. Similarly, BSP MLA Rajendra Guda’s son and daughter reached Jaisalmer on Friday. His wife came on Saturday. She was allowed to meet her husband after getting permission. Rajendra Guda visited Tanot Mata temple with family and prayed there. Sources said few MLAs have started pressurizing the government to accept their demands. These MLAs, taking advantage of the situation, are compelling the government to get transfer postings of their relatives and close officers. The results are visible as a small transfer list of RAS and RPS is coming regularly. According to sources, in the recent list of Dy SP and additional SP, the names given by few MLAs have been posted as per their wish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-resent-being-locked-up/articleshow/77439276.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 9, 2020||Goa||Colva shore littered, beach agency cites paucity of time||Colva: The Arabian sea spewed out huge quantities of plastic and other material on to the Salcete shoreline giving it an ugly look. The stretch from Cavelossim to Colva is crying for attention even though the beach cleaning agency, Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), claims to be collecting garbage on a regular basis. Pieces of plastic milk packets, carrybags, cement bags used for sand-bagging, plastic bottles, nylon nets and ropes have washed up littering the beach stretch. A KCIC personnel, who did not want to be indentified, said since the high tide is during the morning part of the day, by the time the sea recedes it is around 4.30pm and after that his labourers hardly get an hour to work. “By the next morning additinal waste gets washed on to the shore,” he said. The KCIC personnel said he are hoping the weather improves and tide timings change so that they can clean the beaches properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-shore-littered-beach-agency-cites-paucity-of-time/articleshow/77439284.cms||Nisser Dias
August 9, 2020||Bhopal||Honeytrap SIT’s list to MP HC may include 6 officials & a neta||BHOPAL: Suspense is rippling through Madhya Pradesh political circles and bureaucracy after the SIT probing the honeytrap scandal submitted in high court names of certain officials and politicians taken by the accused during interrogation. On August 6, the list was submitted in a sealed envelope to Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court, which had asked for it while hearing an interlocutory application that claimed that the SIT has adopted a ‘pick-and-choose’ method and not taken into account statements recorded through videography of the accused and witnesses. Officials in the know were tightlipped about the contents of the report but sources said 44 names have been listed, and they may include at least one senior politician and half a dozen senior officials. Their names were allegedly taken by the accused during the course of investigation. The petition, which led to the high court seeking the names, has sought to point out lacunae in the investigation. “There is not a whisper of those statements in the challan filed in the matter,” counsel for the petitioner had said. The petition alleges that SIT has not investigated the contracts awarded to the accused persons as favours or at their behest, and that call details have not been probed. Neither has the CDR been preserved, not the complete material submitted to Regional Laboratory, Hyderabad, it claims. The petitioner, who is not one of the accused and not named in the probe in any way, had also contended that that Indore civic official Harbhajan Singh, whose complaint led to unravelling of the racket, was believed to have submitted a pen drive but it didn’t lead to any action or investigation. The challans have been filed but there is no mention of the pen drive, says the petitioner. After hearing the argument, the court asked SIT to submit a detailed reply. “The SIT will again submit the list of names of all persons involved in the matter and whose names find place in the statements given by the accused persons or in the videographed statements. The SIT chief shall submit a detailed progress report from day one till today in chronological order and other steps taken by him in the matter of investigation,” the court had said. The honeytrap scandal erupted in Madhya Pradesh in September last year when Harbhajan’s complaint that he was being blackmailed by a group of women led to a police investigation and the arrest of three key suspects. During the investigation that followed – punctuated by repeated changes of the lead investigator and then SIT chief -- nearly 4,000 files containing screenshots of sex chats, videos of officers in compromising positions, and audio clips were allegedly extracted from the laptops and mobile phones used by the honeytrap ring. The group had allegedly hooked a large number of movers and shakers in the state, and got not only money but lucrative contracts as part of a quid pro quo sexual relationship||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/honeytrap-sits-list-to-hc-may-include-6-officials-a-neta/articleshow/77438416.cms||P Naveen
August 9, 2020||Kochi||Activist Fathima surrenders before police||KOCHI: Activist Rehana Fathima surrendered before the police here on Saturday, a day after the SC dismissed her anticipatory bail plea in cases against her for circulating a video in which she was seminude, allowing her minor children to paint on her body. Police said she presented herself before the South Police station under Kochi Commissionerate on Saturday. She will be produced before the magistrate court here after completing formalities of her arrest, they said. The allegation against Fathima is that she asked her children, 14-year-oldboy and 8-year-old girl, to paint on her semi-nude body. She shot the video and uploaded it on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/activist-fathima-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/77440141.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Pak intruder shot dead by BSF jawans||Jaisalmer: A Pakistani intruder was shot dead by alert BSF jawans on the international border adjoining Bakhasar in Barmer district late on Friday night.Nothing was found on the body of the intruder, however, at the time of incident there were 8-10 Pakistanis standing on the other side, waiting to cross the border. But on hearing the firing sound, they escaped. A day before this incident, intrusion attempts were made on international border adjoining Gadra area in Barmer, but BSF jawans foiled them.The BSF later held a flag meeting with Pakistani rangers after shooting dead the intruder at Bakhasar area and gave them evidences of intrusion and asked them to take the body. Initially, Pak rangers refused to take the body after which the BSF issued a protest note to Pakistan. However, late in the evening the Pak rangers agreed to take back the body. After post-mortem, the body was handed over to police and will be handed over to Pak rangers on Sunday morning. The intruder was around 23 years old and at present has not been identified.Two days ago police had caught a consignment of fake currency notes brought from across the border in Bakhasar area and possibly ISI again was trying to push counterfeit currency notes or heroin into the Indian border, said a senior official.BSF Gujarat frontier DIG M L Garg said a lot of movement was seen on the Pakistani side from the past few days and BSF jawans were already alert in view of Independence Day.He said around 1am the intruder entered into the Indian border at BKD border outpost on which the BSF jawans warned him, but the intruder kept climbing the fence and despite warning he did not stop. Later jawans fired 7-8 shots and he was killed on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-intruder-shot-dead-by-bsf-jawans/articleshow/77439279.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Sudin supports govt on new Raj Bhavan||Ponda: Madkai MGP MLA and former PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has backed the government decision to construct a new Raj Bhavan. Stating that though the government could hold back the decision for some time, he said the need of the hour was to construct a new one as the existing one is dilapidated. “A portion of the Raj Bhavan faces the Arabian Sea and the foot of the hillock on which it stands could cave in as the construction is very old, keeping in mind strong winds and sea waves,” Dhavalikar said, adding that it was repaired a few times during his tenure as PWD minister. Though it is not viable to construct a new project during the ensuing crisis of pandemic, government could hand over the Raj Bhavan to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and a new Bhavan could be constructed with funding from the ASI, Dhavalikar said. Following an uproar, governor Satya Pal Malik had recently criticised the government for annoucning the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sudin-supports-govt-on-new-raj-bhavan/articleshow/77439291.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyber stalking on rise in Hyderabad; crooks pose as women to trap girls||HYDERABAD: Over 70 cases of cyber-stalking have been reported in the city ever since the lockdown was announced, said police, adding that the detection of such cases has also increased, compared to other incidents of fraud. The city police is concerned rising incidents of offenders trapping girls and women for sexual favours. In many cases, men start conversation with people online while pretending to be women and lure them to share personal information. “As many women are sceptical of accepting a friend or follow request from an unknown man, the offenders often strike a conversation with them using a fake woman’s profile. After talking for days, they extract personal information. They then ask for sexual favours from victims and blackmail them,” said a police officer. “In most cases, the victims are between the age group of 18 and 35. But we have also seen some cases where the victims are minors or above 40-year-old as well,” said KVM Prasad, ACP, cyber crime Hyderabad. In addition to this, there have also been numerous incidents where formers friends or partners have tried to defame the victims using old personal pictures for revenge. “In maximum number of cyber-stalking cases, the accused are known to the victims. Hence, the detection rate is over 70%,” added the ACP. In one such incident, a 26-year-old private employee was recently nabbed by police for stalking women online and blackmailing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-stalking-on-rise-crooks-pose-as-women-to-trap-girls/articleshow/77438424.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||UPSIDA industrial units get six-month grace period||LUCKNOW: In a major relief to industries under UP State Industrial Development Authority, the state government has granted them a grace period of six months to start production and agreed that no penalty would be imposed on them for exceeding the deadline set by them. The government has taken the step to compensate the industries for the unforeseen delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and cessation of all activities during lockdown. Additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar said similar relief had been extended to industries under other industrial development authorities last month, except that in there case, the six months’ relief had been given for acquiring completion certificates for their units. “Almost all industrial activity was disrupted during the Covid-19 lockdown, and the industries had been seeking relief from the provision of penalty being imposed for not meeting the deadlines. Consequently, last month the government allowed them a grace period of six months to get completion certificates for units being set up on land leased from industrial authorities,” he said. In the case of UPSIDA, the industries follow a different system in which they set a deadline for starting production, failing which a penalty is imposed, Kumar added. The government has now issued an order extending relief for industries in the 154 industrial areas under UPSIDA, granting them a similar grace period of six months to start production in their units. The penalty, said an official, is imposed to ensure that no person or organisation takes land but does not use it for the specific purpose or does not use it at all. Both construction activity and production work was hit for several weeks, first due to the lockdown, and then because of the non-availability of workers and break in supply chains, he added. “The grace period will give industries the time to address pending issues and start work without pressure from the government,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsida-industrial-unitsget-6-month-grace-period/articleshow/77439297.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Gurugram: Man held for stalking Telugu actress||NEW DELHI: A 26-year old man, employed in Gurugram, has been arrested for stalking and threatening to kill a Telugu film actress after she ignored his posts on social media. The actress, who was earlier staying with her family in outer Delhi’s Rohini, told police that the man had been constantly sending her messages on Instagram, often creating a fake account to track her when she ignored his entreaties. The accused also sent the actress a picture of a pistol, aimed at frightening her. The cops disclosed that accused Nikhil Gangwar, a Rohini resident, is a research chemist with a firm in Gurugram. He had been following the actress on social media since 2016 and was madly in love with her. The accused had even proposed marriage to her several times. “He created several fake accounts and messaged her using these,” a police officer revealed. “The victim had blocked one of the accounts, and he responded with a picture of a pistol and a message saying, ‘See this pistol. If you don’t respond to me, I will kill you’. The victim sent an e-mail to police on July 14 informing us about the threat messages. She shared a screenshot of the messages.” The cops filed a case against Gangwar for stalking and criminal intimidation while also invoking provisions of the Information Technology Act. Gangwar has a master’s degree in science from a college in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, and is currently employed with a firm in Gurugram. During interrogation, the accused told the cops that he was aware that the actress’s parents resided in Rohini. In fact, he admitted that he had once reached Rohini intending to find out where she resided and successfully identified her house. The police officer said, “Since he had asked people in the locality to confirm if it was the actress’s house, they informed the family about his enquiries. The actress was not at home because she mostly lives outside Delhi. It was only during the lockdown that she was staying with her parents.” Police recognised the risks posed to the woman by the enamoured Gangwar, who had ascertained the house in which she lived. As for the threat that he would shoot her, the cops revealed that a search did not yield any firearm from the possession of Gangwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-stalking-telugu-actress/articleshow/77439295.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||‘Conduct survey to repair damaged roads on priority’||Jaipur: While stressing that repair work and restoration of damaged roads should be done on priority basis, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday expressed concern over the decrease in revenue collection of the state during Covid pandemic. However, he said the state government will not allow a drop in the road development works.He said, "A system should be prepared to conduct a survey every year and a list of roads that need immediate repair should be made. Those works can be taken on priority basis." He instructed the officers and engineers of PWD during a review meeting to pay ‘special attention’ to quality of roads, completion of roads in which works are pending and the quality in the development of rural roads.Gehlot gave directions to use ‘trustworthy test kits’ such as RT-PCR for Covid testing instead of antigen-based rapid test kits. He also directed that plasma therapy should be adopted on a large scale in the treatment of Covid. He said plasma donation awareness campaign should become a movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-survey-to-repair-damaged-roads-on-priority/articleshow/77439290.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa urges SC to club review plea with mining cos’ petition||PANAJI: The state government has filed an application before the Supreme Court asking that its review petition in the mining case be tagged along with the one filed by companies seeking to extend their mining leases till 2037. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that “there are some common points, facts and law in both the cases and that they should be heard together”. The government had filed a review petition last year against the apex court’s February 2018 order that had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases and stopped mining activity in the state. Last month, the SC adjourned the hearing in the Goa mining case to August 18. The case is crucial to the resumption of mining in the state. Mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) after the high court had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were converted into mining leases under the abolition act. The SLP stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead 1961. The state government, before the SC, said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037, but that it would abide by the decision of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-urges-sc-to-club-review-plea-with-mining-cos-petition/articleshow/77439956.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Surat||Small diamond units stay closed despite Surat civic body nod||SURAT: Despite a week after the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) permitted two workers on one emery wheel in diamond units, the small and medium diamond units are yet to start operations. The primary reason cited by the unit owners is that they can’t afford the cost of the rapid antigen test of all workers which has been made mandatory by the civic body and secondly, the diamond workers who have gone to their hometowns in Saurashtra are reluctant to come back due to fear of Covid-19 spread in Surat. Industry sources said that barring the big and medium diamond units, majority of the small diamond units with less than 50 emery wheels are yet to restart operations. Out of the total 5 lakh diamond workforce in the industry, the small diamond units employ over 1.5 lakh workers. Ghanshyam Gabani, a small diamond unit owner in Varachha told TOI, “The guidelines issued for the diamond industry are very strict. Operating a unit with one or two workers on the emery wheel will only increase the cost of production when we know there is weak demand for diamonds in the international market.” According to Gabani, his 80-odd diamond workers had moved to their hometowns in Saurashtra in May and that they are hesitant to return fearing infection. Another diamond unit owner, Chandu Sheta told TOI, “The electricity cost for running emery wheels with two workers will be the same. Earlier, four workers would sit on the emery wheel and we could sustain the unit with the good output. Now, even with two worker rule, it would mean running the unit with huge losses. It is better to keep the unit shut and wait for the normalcy to return.” The civic body has made it mandatory for the industrial units and textile markets to bear the expenses for the rapid antigen test of their workers and staff members. According to the regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya, less than 30% diamond units have restarted operations post-lockdown and that too with less than 50% of workers. “This has resulted in drastic fall in output which in now less than 25%. There is a huge manpower shortage in the industry as well. The diamond workers are yet to return from Saurashtra due to the deteriorating situation in the city.” Babu Kathiriya, president of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) said, “Over 2,000 diamond workers have been infected with Covid-19 in the last two months. This has spread fear among other workers and stopping them from returning from home towns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/small-diamond-units-stay-closed-despite-smc-nod/articleshow/77437537.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Despite award, ex-Naval doc denied of disability benefits||Panaji: Retired Naval officer Dr Anan Jaiswal, who served as a surgeon lieutenant, finds himself denied of disability benefits by the Indian Navy even though an Armed Forces Tribunal ruled in his favour. Aggrieved by the delay, the former officer approached the Prime Minister’s Office for assistance, but has yet to receive his due. Currently working as a pathologist in the state capital, Jaiswal says that the Indian Navy is using delay tactics to block his disability benefits. On December 16, an Armed Forces Tribunal headed by Justice Mohammed Tahir and Vice Admiral P Murugesan ordered the Indian Navy to release the disability pension within four months along with arrears for three years prior to February 2018 onwards. Since then, Jaiswal says that he has yet to see any benefits, which prompted him to file a Right to Information application and approach the PMO. In response to the grievance letter addressed to the PMO, the Navy’s Directorate of Pay and Allowances wrote to Jaiswal on May 21 saying that the Naval Pension Office at Mumbai has been unable to process the claims due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Directorate of Pay and Allowances on June 10 wrote to Jaiswal informing him that the Naval Pension Office has yet to provide all the documents required to process the pension claims. RTI documents obtained by Jaiswal show that a copy of the tribunal’s judgement was received by the naval pension office on January 16 followed by a reminder mail on February 20. “There is no reason for the navy to delay it. They said they did not receive a certified copy of the order so I gave them mine,” said Satendra Kumar, Jaiswal’s advocate. “It is beyond my understanding why PMO and ministry of defence are being misled into believing that Navy has done its part in implementing the judgment whereas the RTI reply proves it’s the IHQ MoD (Navy) or Naval Pension Office, which has failed to act,” said Jaiswal. Jaiswal was serving at INHS Jeevanti, Vasco, when he contracted chicken pox from a patient. After he was posted to Lucknow in 2010 for a course he was subsequently diagnosed with motor neurone disease. “For the first few months, it was extremely difficult to climb stairs or even hold a pen,” said Jaiswal, who joined as a short service commissioned officer. Jaiswal says that regular officers who are retiring are given their dues on time in spite of Covid-19 but the retired disabled officers who have got the orders from the AFT are denied benefits in name of Covid-19. TOI contacted the Indian Navy for a comment but till the time of going to print no reply was received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-award-ex-naval-doc-denied-of-disability-benefits/articleshow/77439299.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sees 120 cases of dog bite daily in three years, but no stray count after 2009||NEW DELHI: Delhi has witnessed on average 120 cases of dog bites every day since 2017, reveal reports from three municipal corporations. Over 1.5 lakh people received treatment in various corporation health facilities and dispensaries in south, east and north Delhi areas between 2017 and June 2020. The actual number of people bitten by canines, however, may be much higher as these reports do not include those treated at private clinics or hospitals. In the past three years, the north corporation-run Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Disease Hospital has seen as many as 38 rabies-related deaths. The response to a standing committee query recently revealed that the north corporation medical facilities alone had seen more than 64,836 dog bite cases between 2017 and 2020, while MVID Hospital had treated 349 rabies cases. “Many cases that we receive are from poor families who come for treatment at a very late stage of infection. If ignored for long, the disease is likely to prove fatal,” a senior doctor remarked. World Health Organization estimates that 36% of the total rabies deaths occurs in India each year, most of whom are children who come into contact with infected dogs. A senior south corporation official said that SDMC health facilities received 14,000 dog bite cases in 2018, 11,760 in 2019 and 4,028 cases so far this year. The east corporation’s polyclinics and Swami Dayanand hospital have altogether witnessed 55,398 dog bite cases in the past three years. A senior corporation official said that because of non-availability of anti-rabies drugs, most people had been advised to get treatment in private clinics last year. “The situation in the north corporation still remains worrisome as the dispensaries do not have anti-rabies injection,” says an official report. Hindu Rao, which is currently running a Covid facility, is the biggest centre for dog bite cases with 35,780 victims treated between 2017 and now. Despite the menace on the rise, the capital is still unaware of the number of stray dogs roaming around on its streets. “The last pan-Delhi survey was conducted by erstwhile united MCD in 2009 in which the number of stray dogs in the capital was found to be over 5.6 lakh. The number must have only increased in all these years,” a north corporation official said. As per a survey conducted by NGO Humane Society International in 2016, South Delhi alone had over 1.9 lakh strays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-sees-120-cases-of-dog-bite-daily-in-3-years-but-no-stray-count-after-2009/articleshow/77439315.cms||Paras Singh
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||BJP MLA Saraf complains to CS about Jaipur Collector||Jaipur: Malviya Nagar’s BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf on Saturday complained to chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup for alleged misbehaviour by Jaipur Collector Antar Singh Nehra. Saraf said, the collector “did not follow the protocol and stand up while receiving a memorandum from him”. “I spoke with the chief secretary today (Saturday) and briefed him about the incident. I told him that the collector is not aware of the protocol and didn’t have the courtesy to stand up while accepting the memorandum. The CS was surprised to hear this and he did acknowledge that it (the collector’s behavior) was wrong. He also assured me that he would talk to the collector and warn him,” Saraf told TOI. The MLA had gone to the collectorate on Friday to submit a memorandum signed by 25,000 people of his constituency, Malviya Nagar, requesting him to give concession in power and water bills and school fees for three months (when the lockdown was in force). He was accompanied by former state women commission chairperson Suman Sharma. Jaipur Collector Nehra said, “It’s not a big issue for me. He asked me to stand up only after handing over the memorandum. I didn’t like the tone of his voice. So, I replied, ‘now that I have accepted it, you please take a seat. After that, we had a good discussion over various issues. When he was leaving, I stood up and gave him a befitting send-off. I hold him (Saraf) in high regard. And, even he knows that I am sensitive towards people’s aspirations and problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-saraf-complains-to-cs-about-jaipur-collector/articleshow/77439306.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Active cases in Madurai city dip below 1,000||Madurai: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Madurai city, which was hovering at more than 1,000 in the past one week, touched the three-digit mark with 885 patients under treatment as on Friday evening. On Monday, there were 1,483 active cases in the corporation limits. Officials said that the number of active cases is on the decline since the number of people getting discharged/after being cured of Covid-19 is higher than the number of new cases reported on day to day basis. In fact, number of active cases in city has come down less than rural area, where 901 active cases were there as on Friday. Zone four continues to have lesser number of cases than the other three zones. There are 109 active cases in zone four, 198 in zone three, 280 in zone two and 298 in zone one. Except for wards such as Keerathurai, St Mary’s, Madura Baskaradoss Nagar, Chokkanathar Kovil, Meenakshi Temple area and Thirupparankundram, all the other 94 wards in the city have at least one active case. “We initially estimated that infection will see its high in August, but various efforts including fever clinics, door-to-door fever screening, free distribution of immunity booster kits and aggressive testing have helped bring down the cases early. New infections have been declining steadily for the past two weeks,” an official said. Another official said that lockdown imposed in the city helped curb the spread and carryout concentrated testing. He said that they cannot afford to lose focus just because infection is declining. Aggressive testing is being carried out in the city in order to avert any cluster. Meanwhile, the corporation has started distributing immunity booster kits to abandoned people on roadsides through a voluntary organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/active-cases-in-madurai-city-dip-below-1000/articleshow/77439338.cms||V Devanathan
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Missing woman found killed in mine||Vadodara: A 72-year-old woman who was missing for more than a week was found murdered in Chhota Udepur district on Friday.The body of deceased Beli Nayka was found wrapped in a piece of cloth in an abandoned stone mine on the outskirts of Mithibor village. Nayka’s son Viniya told police that his mother was not found in the house after the duo woke up from their afternoon siesta on July 30. Viniya assumed that his mother must have gone to visit somebody in the village and so did not go out to check. But when she did not return till late night, he started inquiring in the village but could not find her. He then thought that his mother must have gone over to some relative’s home in another village and so didn’t bother much.Next morning, Viniya checked at his all relatives’ homes but still could not find his mother. He even went to his sister’s house but even there he returned empty handed. Viniya and other villagers then started searching earnestly for the elderly woman in different villages.On Friday morning too Viniya, his brothers and other villagers set off to search for the woman when they stopped on the outskirts of Mithibor. Suddenly one of the search team members spotted the body wrapped in a cloth in an old mine. The body had decomposed but Viniya could identify his mother from the clothes.Police later confirmed that it was Beli’s body and registered a case of murder and causing disappearance of evidence against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/missing-woman-found-killed-in-mine/articleshow/77437559.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal begins talks on Delhi startup policy||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will soon release a draft policy that aims to accelerate the growth of startups in the city. To seek public inputs on such a policy, the government will launch an online forum, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met industry leaders and young entrepreneurs on Saturday to kick-start the consultation process on the new policy. Under the new startup policy, entrepreneurs will be supported with a robust fiscal and policy infrastructure that will create new jobs and bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system. The consultations will be conducted in two stages, the first leg of which was held on Saturday, with Delhi government inviting industry leaders, entrepreneurs and policy experts from different sectors to provide their inputs for the policy. In a statement later, the government said that prominent business leaders and entrepreneurs had expressed interest and desired to join hands with the government’s initiative. Present at Saturday’s meeting were Ajai Chowdhry (co-founder, HCL), Rajan Anandan (MD, Sequoia Capital), Padmaja Ruparel (co-founder, Indian Angel Network) and young business leaders like Sriharsha Majety (co-founder and CEO, Swiggy), Farid Ahsan (co-founder, ShareChat), Suchita Salwan (founder CEO, Little Black Book), Tarun Bhalla (founder, Avishkaar) and Riyaaz Amlani (CEO & MD, Impresario Handmade Restaurants), among others. At the meeting, Kejriwal referred to a September 2019 report by startup support group, TiE, that accredited Delhi with over 7,000 startups, the highest number in India, with a valuation now of around $50 billion. The report forecast that NCR was set to become one of the top five global startup hubs with 12,000 startups, 30 unicorn, and a cumulative valuation of about $150 billion by 2025. At the policy consultation meeting, the CM said, “Right since my IIT days, I have seen some of the most brilliant minds from India go abroad looking for better opportunities. I believe Indians are the smartest entrepreneurs in the world and all they need is the right opportunity and the right conditions to help them thrive. With this startup policy, we aim to make Delhi one of the top five global destinations for startups.” Anandan of Sequoia Capital was optimistic. “We were honoured to be invited by the chief minister to provide suggestions on how to make Delhi one of the world's top five startup destinations,” he said. “The discussion was very good, with many ideas on what would take Delhi's star-up ecosystem to the next level.” For his part, Amlani said that he was glad Kejriwal had convened the panel. “To battle the financial effects of Covid-19, timely measures of Delhi government will mean we can defeat the financial effects of the pandemic and come out even stronger,” he said. Watch Delhi govt soon to release draft policy to accelerate growth of startups, CM Kejriwal begins talks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-begins-talks-on-delhi-startup-policy/articleshow/77439327.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Time curbs end, booze shops in Gurugram can stay open till midnight||GURUGRAM: Tipplers in the city will not have to worry about time limits for purchasing alcohol as liquor vends will remain open till midnight from Sunday. The excise department has removed the time restrictions for liquor shops allowing them to operate from 9am to 12am as approved in the state excise policy. Soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state government had directed liquor shops to temporarily suspend operations from March 26. The shops reopened from May 6 with the announcement of Unlock 1.0, but the operating time was restricted from 7am to 7pm. Officials at the excise department said that all the shops selling liquor in the city have resumed operations except those located in shopping malls. “The liquor industry has suffered a huge loss and it will take at least two to three years to recover from the impact,” said an owner of a liquor shop. He said that sales have picked up to around 60% of the pre-lockdown level. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (East), said, following the MHA guidelines for Unlock 3.0 which ended the night curfew, the department has decided to allow liquor shops to function according to the earlier timings starting Sunday. “Now all such shops will operate according to pre-lockdown timings,” said Singh adding that liquor sales have come down but they hope that the numbers will see uptick gradually. Even though the timings have been changed social distancing norms and other precautions will have to be followed by the shops, she added. Meanwhile, shop owners hailed the latest decision and expect a boost in sales following the move. “The increase in timing is expected to increase sales,” said a shop owner adding that a sizable chunk of the day’s sale happens during the post-evening period. “Till now due to time constraints we were losing customers. Now, the restoration of original timings is expected to translate to increase in sales,” added another owner. The closure of shops and time restrictions had not only impacted liquor sales but had also led to rise in bootlegging. In June, Gurugram police had arrested two people for home delivery of liquor. Notably, home delivery of liquor in the state is prohibited. During the lockdown many were also duped by online fraudsters on the pretext of home delivery of liquor. The accused were operating from Malibu Town in Gurugram and were taking orders for home delivery of liquor through WhatsApp and Instagram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/time-curbs-end-booze-shops-in-city-can-stay-open-till-midnight/articleshow/77439333.cms||Bagish Jha
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fancy registration no. 0009 nets Rs 7.1 lakh||NEW DELHI: Rs 7.1 lakh could well get you a sedan, though not many are willing to shell out much money in these times of economic distress. So, if someone paid that sum simply to own a registration plate reading 0009, then perhaps it is a sign that Delhi is headed to an economic revival. The state government’s transport department mopped up Rs 33.8 lakh through the e-auction of fancy registration numbers for cars and two-wheelers in July. The highest bid was Rs 7.1 lakh for a licence plate that would give the car a distinguished 0009 licence plate. The number appears popular, for high bids of Rs 4.2 lakh and Rs 3.1 lakh for the figure in other series were also accepted last month. Registration numbers that fetched more than Rs 3 lakh include 0005, 0007 and 1111. The highest bid received for a two-wheeler plate was Rs 50,000 for the number 0006. When the e-auction of what are termed “fancy” registration numbers restarted in April, only one number — 9000 — found a bidder, who paid Rs 1.5 lakh. In May, five numbers collected Rs 9.3 lakh for the transport department, with 0022 fetching Rs 2.1 lakh. In June, the takings rose to Rs. 21.7 lakh, with Rs. 3.4 lakh for 0002 the highest bid. In April-July, the transport department earned Rs 66.3 lakh for the fancy numbers. But the Covid-19 effect was evident because in the same period last year, 1,078 numbers had sold for Rs 3.7 crore. However, government officials aren’t too discouraged because there have been far fewer car sales or extravagant spending this year because of the pandemic. In fact, officials said that the very fact such amounts were being spent now on licence plate numbers only indicated that buyer confidence was re-emerging. Till the Covid outbreak, Delhiites weren’t averse to splurging on unique registration plates. In June 2017, a hospitality firm created a record, which remains unbeaten, by paying Rs 16 lakh for the honour of having a 0001 registration number. The earlier record of Rs 12.5 lakh had been established in September 2014, again for 0001. That number is rare because the transport department has run out of alphabets with which it can be combined. Other sought after numbers are 0009 and 0007. The online e-auctioning of much desired registration numbers was started in 2014, and is conducted by the Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited on behalf of the transport department. Watch Delhi: No Covid effect? Fancy numbers find takers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-covid-effect-fancy-numbers-find-takers/articleshow/77439337.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Only 16 to take part in corona vaccine trials at AIIMS-Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 vaccine trial at AIIMS-Delhi will have only 16 volunteers in the first phase. While the initial plan was to recruit 100 volunteers for the trial, sources said, the number was brought down as many locals who had come forward to participate were found to have antibodies against the virus. Also, the target of 375 volunteers required for the trial of Covaxin — India’s indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19 — has been met already. “Apart from AIIMS Delhi, there are 11 other centres where the trials are taking place and they have already recruited enough people to test the vaccine. Therefore, we are keeping our numbers at 16 only,” said a senior doctor involved in the trials at Delhi’s premier hospital. TOI had reported how nearly 3,500 people had registered for the trials when it was announced around July-end. Of them, more than 50% were from other states. “Screening of volunteers from NCR revealed some of them had antibodies against the coronavirus and, therefore, had to be excluded from the trials,” a doctor explained. Vaccines contain the same pathogens that cause the disease, according to the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). For example, measles vaccine contains measles virus. Similarly, the Covid-19 vaccine contains genetically engineered coronavirus that causes the disease. But they have been either killed or weakened to the point that they don’t make you sick, the CDC states. “Some vaccines contain only a part of the disease germ,” it adds. According to the CDC, a vaccine stimulates a person’s immune system to produce antibodies, exactly like it would if he/she were exposed to the disease. “After getting vaccinated, you develop immunity to that disease, without having to get the disease first. This is what makes vaccines such a powerful medicine. Unlike most medicines, which treat or cure diseases, vaccines prevent them,” the US health body adds. But if a person already has antibodies against the virus, experts believe, it would be tough to assess if the vaccine helped trigger an immune reaction or not. Watch Only 16 volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trial at AIIMS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/only-16-to-take-part-in-corona-vaccine-trials-at-aiims-delhi/articleshow/77439341.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hubballi||Rain recedes in NK, but fear of flooding persists||Hubballi: Though the rain receded in many districts of North Karnataka on Saturday, fear of flooding loomed large in villages in the catchment areas of reservoirs and river banks. Rain lashed some districts in the region intermittently, and cloudy weather prevailed in the morning, but the weather cleared up by afternoon. Residents of villages and towns on the Krishna river basin heaved a sigh of relief as the outflow at Lal Bahadur Shastri Dam in Almatti was reduced to 2.2 lakh cusecs while inflow was trimmed to 1.4 lakh cusecs. Following the reduction, the water level was at 490.8m at Narayanpur Dam, which reduced the possibility of flooding. However, incessant rain in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru has increased the inflow of water to over 1 lakh cusecs at the Tungabhadra dam in Hosapete, where the water level has increased by 3.1ft in 24 hours. Sources in the Tungabhadra reservoir said that the dam is receiving an average 2 TMC of water per day from the last 3 days and 8,629 cusec of water is being released into canals. Revenue officials in Huvina Hadagali and Hagari Bommanahalli taluks have sought cooperation from people to shift if needed. Alerts have been issued at the world heritage sites of Hampi, Kampli and Siruguppa. The premises of the Kundagol tahsildar’s office got flooded due to heavy rain that lashed the taluk for four days, in the absence of a proper drainage system. Residents are facing difficulties in entering the office due to waterlogging. The people have urged the district administration to solve the waterlogging issue. In the past, the issue was brought to the notice of higher authorities, but it has not been resolved, said Kundagol residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rain-recedes-in-nk-but-fear-of-flooding-persists/articleshow/77437563.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Alleged alcoholic wife kicks man to death in fit of rage||VADODARA: In a ghastly incident of role reversal, a 35-year-old alleged alcoholic woman beat her 42-year-old husband and tried to cover it up as an accident caused due to his binge drinking in Padra village adjoining the city. Though the incident happened last week, Puni Mali was booked for murder on Friday only after her husband Rajesh’s postmortem revealed that he had not died a natural death. The report revealed that Rajesh’s ribcage was broken and his lung was also damaged. According to police, Rajesh was killed at Puni’s parental home when he had gone there to meet her on August 3. Puni had gone to stay with her parents after a fight with him. Here too, there was a quarrel between the couple and in the heat of things, Puni repeatedly kicked him till in the chest he died. Rajesh’s family came to know about his death when his sister had called up Puni on Rakshabandhan enquiring about her brother. Puni told her that Rajesh fell down in a drunken stupor and sustained injuries, leading to his death. When the body was brought home, Rajesh’s mother Narmada, became suspicious seeing some marks on his body. The other reason was that while Rajesh rarely consumed alcohol, his mother told the police that it was allegedly Puni who is addicted to alcohol. She then requested cops to conduct a postmortem. “The doctors said that the victim had been beaten to death and did not die due to falling,” said inspector SA Karmur of Padra police station. Based on the mother’s suspicion, cops questioned Puni, who broke down and confessed to having killed him after another fight. “Rajesh wanted his wife to sit with him but she refused saying she had household work to do. He then allegedly pulled her by her hair. To free herself from his clutches, Puni punched him several times on his chest. When he fell down, the woman kicked him for several minutes ,” Karmur added. The woman will be arrested after her Covid-19 reports arrive, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-allegedly-addicted-to-liquor-kills-her-husband/articleshow/77437579.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Crowded share autos back, may turn Covid-19 spreaders||Madurai: Autorickshaws can become potential spreaders of Covid-19 infection as drivers continue to squeeze six to eight people instead of two by flouting norms. The violations are mostly noticed in peripheral areas, where police monitoring is lesser. In the absence of public transport service, people are now dependent of autos to commute to various parts of the city and rural areas. Vegetable vendors, particularly women, construction labourers, daily wagers and those employed in shops are mostly dependent on public transportation. Though they understand the risk of travelling in crowded autos, they tend to take the risk due to lack of options. R Selvi from Andarkottaram said, “We do not have any other option but to travel in crowded share autos. I cannot afford to hire autos for just myself as it would cost 10 times more.” V Anbarasan, a resident of Silaiman said that auto drivers often alight passengers forcefully, when they see traffic police personnel while entering the city roads. “People will not use overcrowded autos if bus services resume. Government must start bus services with distancing in place to ensure safe transportation,” he said. A city traffic police officer said that autos are being monitoring closely for overcrowding and erring drivers are taken to task. Checking will be extended to peripheral areas too to prevent such violations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crowded-share-autos-back-may-turn-covid-19-spreaders/articleshow/77439344.cms||V Devanathan
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Burglars attempt to steal cash from ATM||Madurai: Unidentified people broke open an ATM machine and tried to steal cash from it. However, they left the place as they could not succeed in their attempt. The ATM belongs to the Canara Bank and is located in a private commercial complex in Thumbaipatti near Melur. There was no security guard when the incident took place. The unidentified burglars, who came there at around 12.15am on Saturday armed with crowbars, first broke the CCTV cameras installed in the kiosk. They tried their best to break the ATM but could not access the cash box. Based on an alert from customers, bank officials reached the spot. A police team from the Melur station conducted an inquiry. A police officer said that a case was registered based on a complaint from manager of the Thumbaipatti branch, K Kuppusamy. They accessed the CCTV footage, but found that movement of the burglars was not recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/burglars-attempt-to-steal-cash-from-atm/articleshow/77439340.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab starts teaching Japanese to improve employment||Chandigarh: The Punjab government, under the skill development mission, has started the Japanese language training programme with an aim to provide youth job opportunities. Employment generation and industrial training minister Charanjit Singh Channi said for implementing the project, the Punjab skill development mission had completed the first round of initial meetings with the Japanese embassy. The programme would offer Japanese language training to those between the age group 18 to 45 years and having a minimum qualification of Class VIII pass. The duration of the course would be 200 hours. The candidates would be provided training in Japanese language for clearing the basic level (N5) of Japanese language proficiency test (JLPT). In addition to the JLPT certification, the candidates would also receive a PTU (Punjab Technical University) certificate, after completion of the training. Employment generation secretary Rahul Tiwari said the Japanese language proficiency course would be run in two phases. The first phase has been launched in which a pool of master trainers would be created by providing training to the trainers of the Punjab skill development mission, department of higher education, department of school education, technical education and industrial training, and Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University. These master trainers, in turn, would then train others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-starts-teaching-japanese-to-improve-employment/articleshow/77439329.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Three booked for human trafficking in Makarpura||Vadodara: A prostitution racket was busted by the prevention of crime branch (PCB) on Danteshwar Road in Makarpura on Friday night.PCB sleuths said that they had been tipped-off that a woman was running a the racket at a bungalow on Danteshwar Road. On receiving the information, cops raided the house where they found the accused Usha More on the ground floor. On being questioned, she said that she had taken the bungalow on rent just before the lockdown.When cops checked the rooms on the upper floor, they found a man identified as Ilesh Patel and a woman in a compromising position. The woman said that she is from Kolkata and worked as a sex worker. In another room, another accused Asha Vaghela and another prostitute was found. More, Vaghela and Patel were booked at Makarpura police station under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act.Police officials said that Vaghela used to arrange the meeting between the sex workers and customers at More’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-booked-for-human-trafficking-in-makarpura/articleshow/77437592.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rain on coast inundates low-lying areas in Bantwal, Uppinangady||MANGALURU: After two days of reprieve, rain pounded the coastal districts in all its fury from Friday night, leaving many areas on the river banks inundated, with Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK) receiving 123 mm and 101 mm of rain, respectively, in the last 24 hours till 8.30am of Saturday. The rain affected regions at the foothills of the Western Ghats were the worst affected, with Kervashe and Marne, both in Karkala taluk in Udupi, receiving 208 mm rain. In DK, Mardhala in Puttur taluk received 201.5 mm rain. Due to heavy rain in Bantwal and Uppinangady, houses in low-lying areas, especially close to river banks, got inundated, forcing people to flee from their homes. The water level in the Nethravathi River at Bantwal and Kumaradhara River at Uppinangady were nearing danger levels due to heavy rain in the upper reaches of the ghats. AMR dam, Thumbe vented dam, Disha dam at Kadaba and Neerakatte dam got filled to the brim, and their gates were opened to allow excess water to flow out. The Kumaradhara river was in spate, due to which the Kukke Subrahmanya bathing ghat remained submerged even on Saturday. Traffic continued as normal on roads leading to Kukke and other areas, due to the three newly built bridges. The officials on Saturday engaged an excavator to remove the tree branches that were blocking the vents of a dam on the Kapila River at Shishila. This area being at the foothills of the Western Ghats, gets debris in the form of tree trunks or branches when it rains heavily in the ghats, blocking the dam vents, and causing inundation of the area. The Udupi district administration has already sounded an alert to the people living near the Swarna River bank to be ready for evacuation, since the region was seeing heavy rain in the last 24 hours. With the Charmadi Ghat closed, vehicles are being diverted either via Ujire, Dharmasthala, Kokkada, Gundya and Shiradi through NH-75 or via Moodigere Hand Post, Jannapura, Anemahal and Shiradi. The KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 3.5m - 5.6m were forecast till Sunday along the coast from Mangaluru to Karwar. It also stated that gales with speed reaching 50-60 kmph were likely to prevail along and off the Karnataka coast, and advised fishermen not to venture into the sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rain-on-coast-inundates-low-lying-areas-in-bantwal-uppinangady/articleshow/77438143.cms||Stanley Pinto
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Idukki landslide victims were all settlers from Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Most of the people who died or have gone missing in the landslide at Pettimudi near Munnar in Idukki district of Kerala on Thursday night were Tamils who settled there. They hailed from Tuticorin followed by Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Tindivanam and Theni districts. Relatives of the victims recall their parents and grandparents as saying that severe drought and famine in the plains caused the exodus to the tea estates of Munnar. People could not continue their job as farmhands and the estate provided them a steady job with modest income, accommodation and good climate. In all, 83 people who had relocated from Tamil Nadu three to four generations ago have been hit by the landslide. “Houses 20m away from my house are gone,” Jayaraman, a survivor from one of the houses told TOI. His neighbour and a supervisor in the tea estate, Meganathan, said they heard an unusually loud noise from a distance and the landslide swept their area in the dark as there was no power supply. “A family flashed lights from torches but we could rescue them only at 6 the next morning,” he said. Bodies were stuck 15 to 20 feet below boulders and slush that wiped out the houses. Among the missing and presumed dead are a six-month-old baby and her parents. Karupayee, an aged woman, ended up the only survivor as her husband, three daughters and five grandchildren were among those who got buried. Shanmuganathan and his wife survived while their sons aged 22 and 19 years were killed. In another family, Gopika and her sister who were pursuing online course in another district in Kerala survived as they stayed in the hostel while both their parents are no more. Officials from Tamil Nadu consoled the victims and assured support from the government. “Seventeen bodies were retrieved on Friday and seven on Saturday,” says district revenue officer (DRO) for NHAI in Theni district T Thiyagarajan. He is among the four revenue department officials sent by the Tamil Nadu government for monitoring the rescue works. Two teams comprising 50 NDRF personnel along with fire and rescue services department, police and forest department are at work and the search will continue throughout the night, Idukki district collector H Dineshan said. After autopsy the bodies will be laid to rest close by, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/idukki-landslide-victims-were-all-tamil-settlers/articleshow/77439357.cms||M K Ananth
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP MLA says amenities are inadequate in Patiala hospital||Patiala: Leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday visited Government Rajindra Hospital here amid a spike in the Covid-19 cases and spoke to people infected with the novel coronavirus and their families on arrangements made by the government. Speaking to media on Saturday, Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said amenities provided in government hospitals, especially Covid care centres, were inadequate. He said reports emanating from CM Amarinder Singh’s home constituency, especially from Rajindra Hospital, were worrying. Sandhwan claimed that members of patients’ families said arrangements at the hospital were in a shambles and lacked transparency, and conducive atmosphere to fight the virus. He said nodal officer Surbhi Malik and other functionaries of the hospital had assured all possible help to ramp up amenities at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-mla-says-amenities-are-inadequate-in-patiala-hospital/articleshow/77439342.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Covid licence for pvt hospital suspended for fleecing patient||Madurai: Virudhunagar district collector, R Kannan on Saturday suspended the Covid-19 treatment licence given to a private hospital in Aruppukottai in the district, after it was found overcharging the patients for Covid treatment.“Private hospitals have been asked to display their treatment fees prominently for Covid-19. If they are found charging the patients beyond the permitted limit, strict action would be taken against them,” he said.According to a press release, the government gave Covid-19 protocols and licences to private hospitals to treat the disease, so that they could deal with the rising number of cases. Hospitals were classified under two categories as grade A1/A2 and grade A3/A4. The first category could collect a maximum daily fee of Rs 7,500 and the second category up to Rs 5,000 per day from the patients.The hospitals are also monitored by the health and family welfare department. During one such inspection at the City hospital in Aruppukottai, officials found that a Covid-19 patient had been levied Rs 7.40 lakh for his treatment. They had also not given any of the additional special medications recommended by the government. Hence, the licence was suspended by the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-licence-for-pvt-hospital-suspended-for-fleecing-patient/articleshow/77439351.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC vows to build new tennis court in Indira Park||HYDERABAD: Scores of morning walkers, tennis players, children and nature lovers secured a decent victory in their legal battle to protect Indira Park and its tennis court. Thanks to continuous monitoring by the high court, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) finally came forward and promised in writing that it would construct a new tennis court in the park vicinity in five months. Tennis players and nature lovers had questioned the proposed road development in the area as they believed it would destroy the synthetic tennis court and also lead to chopping of hundreds of trees in the park. When their representations went unheard, they approached the high court urging it to restrain the state government and GHMC from going ahead with the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Though the court asked the civic authorities to explain their stand, they dodged the issue for long, said S Raj Kumar, the counsel for the petitioners. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram did not allow the authorities to get away with the delaying tactics and ensured that they reply to each contention raised and apprehensions expressed by the petitioners — AT Raghavender and 100 residents of localities in and around Indira Park. “Demolishing the tennis court will deprive a beautiful facility for children to learn the game and elders to practise,” they said. They formed themselves into a group and started fighting to retain the tennis court. They also raised voice against the proposed felling of trees in the park saying that such an action would deprive lung space for huge number of morning walkers and elderly people who throng the park. Giving in to their spirited fight that lasted for more than 18 months, GHMC came forward to construct a new tennis court and also promised to translocate all the trees it would cut for the purpose of raising roads, skyways, etc, as part of the SRDP. GHMC clarified that it is proposing to construct a bridge in the area. The judge recorded the assurance, directed the municipal corporatio to stick to the time-frame and closed the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-vows-to-build-new-tennis-court-in-indira-park/articleshow/77438512.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||‘At least 25 of my relatives dead or have gone missing’||Tuticorin: Most of the victims of the landslide that wreaked havoc in Idukki hail from the scheduled caste community and have their roots in Bharathi Nagar near Kayathar in Tuticorin district. They migrated to Idukki four generations ago in search of livelihood and settled there.“At least 25 of the dead and missing are related to me through blood,” said C Antonyraj, 52, of Bharathi Nagar. The farm labourer said his maternal grandfather Velukangani was comfortable with his job while his children continued to stay there and work for decades. Some like his father Chinnasamy shifted back to Kayathar after working in the tea estate for three decades. “My elder sister Janaki and V Arumugam who are in their 80s returned from the estate after retirement and are with me, but her children are still there. Among those killed are her son Panneerselvam, his wife Thavasiammal and two daughters Kouwsalya and Kousika,” he said. Kouwsalya was pursuing a nursing degree and her sister had just completed Plus 1. Bodies of all four have been retrieved. Thavasiammal’s sister, her husband and their daughters were also killed in the landslide. While Murugan, his wife Ramalakshmi and a daughter Nishanthini died in the landslide, another daughter survived as she was at Bharathi Nagar with her uncle Sudalaimani and studies here. “Akka last spoke to me on Monday night. As I am unwell she inquired about me. From Tuesday we could not reach her due to the torrential rain. We came to know about the the landslide through TV on Friday afternoon,” he said. On Friday night, Sudalaimani, the girl and relatives of others who died obtained e-passes and started from Kovilpatti on road.The relatives here said the death toll would have been much lesser without the Covid-19 lockdown as the children mostly stay in hostels or with their uncles and aunts in the plains to pursue education due to poor education facilities at the inaccessible estates. But for family functions such as weddings and temple festivals, the workers spend the rest of their lives in the estates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/at-least-25-of-my-relatives-dead-or-have-gone-missing/articleshow/77439364.cms||M K Ananth
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Amul Dairy’s poll countdown begins||Vadodara/ Anand: It’s election season in Gujarat’s dairy sector with the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (KDCMPUL) or popularly known as Amul Dairy now preparing to elect a new board soon after the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) filled its posts of chairman and vice-chairman recently.The polls for Anand-based KDCMPUL’s new board will be held on August 29.A notification issued for the forthcoming polls state that the last day of submitting nominations is August 13. Scrutiny of nominations will be done the following day after which list of candidates will be published.Candidates can withdraw their nominations till August 18. While elections will be held at Amul Dairy premises on August 29, counting will be done on August 31. By Saturday evening, over 30 candidates had filed their candidature for the 14 seats of board of directors representing Anand, Khambhat, Borsad, Petlad, Thasra, Balasinore, Kathlal, Kapadwanj, Mehmedabad, Matar, Nadiad and Virpur blocks among others. Khambhat and Kapadwanj are reserved for female candidates this time.Amul Dairy’s sitting chairman Ramsinh Parmar, who is now with BJP and vice-chairman Rajendrasinh Parmar, who is a Congress MLA, have filed their candidatures.A total of 1,214 representatives of milk societies are eligible to exercise their voting right in the polls.Interestingly, in 2015 it was for the first time in its history that three BJP-backed candidates had got elected to the dairy’s board in which Congress with nine out of 14 members were in majority.During the 2015 polls, the Congress panel led by Ramsinh, who was serving his sixth term as Congress MLA from Thasra, had won a total of 10 seats.The twist in the tale came when Ramsinh, who is serving as dairy’s chairman since 2002, joined the BJP just ahead of the Rajya Sabha election in 2017. After switching sides, Ramsinh even got elected as chairman of GCMMF which he remained till last month.Now, ahead of Amul Dairy’s polls, all eyes are set on the next move of both BJP and Congress camps. Both Ramsinh and Rajendrasinh have so far maintained that party politics will not play any role in the co-operative elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-dairys-poll-countdown-begins/articleshow/77437636.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 9, 2020||Goa||Activist accused in formalin test sting operation acquitted||Margao: The judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) Canacona has discharged social activist Sanjeev Raiturkar charged for obstructing police and Food and Drugs Officials while they were conducting the formalin test on fish at the Pollem border, two years ago. The prosecution alleged that the accused committed an offence under Section 353 of the IPC after he carried out a sting operation on the tests conducted by officials to check for formalin in fish. He used criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, police had said. The tests were being conducted on fish being brought into Goa by vehicles from other states. “The documentary evidence in the form of a CD produced by the prosecution shows the entire incident. I am of the opinion that nowhere during the entire incident has the accused been seen to have used criminal force or tried to assault any of the officials. The accused hasn’t even stopped or restrained any of the officials from performing their duties,” the JMFC Canacona noted in his order. Counsel for the accused, A Prabhudessai argued that Raiturkar only recorded the exercise of testing of fish without interfering with their lawful duties. “The accused has recorded the clip to show that sampling of the fish required to be tested was not properly done by the officials. Out of 300 crates of fish present in the truck, sample of only a prawn from one crate was being taken and the trucks were released without taking any other samples. The accused carried out the sting operation at the site to record their activities as it would have had an impact on the health of the people of the state,” Prabhudessai argued during the proceedings. In his order, JMFC Audi Shanoor alias Jagdish Pandurang agreed with the accused’s contention that for an offence to be made out under Section 353 of the IPC, the prosecution has to prima facie show that the accused used criminal force or assaulted any of the public servants and prevented them from discharging their lawful duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activist-accused-in-formalin-test-sting-operation-acquitted/articleshow/77439978.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Patients allege lack of facilities, mistreatment||BATHINDA: A group of Covid-19 patients put up at the Meritorious school, Bathinda have accused authorities of failing to provide them with requisite amenities, including timely meals. The patients went to the terrace of the school, which is being used as an isolation facility, and raised slogans against the state government. The protest jolted authorities into doing the needful. On May 15, Covid-19 patients at Jalalabad hospital came out in the open raising similar issues. The family of a Rajasthan man who died at Guru Gobind Singh medical college on Friday also accused authorities of not caring for Covid-19 patients. On Friday, some of the patients protesting on top of the school building leaned over the edge, putting their lives at risk. They also accused policemen at the centre of not treating them well. Many of them alleged that they were being made to live in miserable conditions and not fed properly. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema took serious note of the protest and deplored the conditions that forced patients at the isolation centre to climb the roof to be heard. In an official release, AAP legislators said that the unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases has exposed the state government, which claimed that all measures were in place to treat patients and check the spread of the novel coronavirus. Also, the legislators said, such conditions had left Covid-19 patients feeling harassed. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said, “the quantity of food has been increased so that no one faces any problems at the isolation centre.” Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said, “some patients were put up at the centre late in the evening when lunch time was over. They were angry but facilities have been upgraded and food quantity increased. The matter has been settled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/patients-allege-lack-of-facilities-mistreatment/articleshow/77439356.cms||Neel Kamal
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Accused cop’s wife wants to shift him to private hosp||Madurai: The wife of special police sub-inspector Palthurai, arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths case, on Saturday petitioned the Madurai city police commissioner seeking his help to shift her husband to a private hospital for treatment.Palthurai, who along with nine more police personnel and officers were remanded at the Madurai Central Prison, was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19.In her petition, Mangaiyar Thilagam stated that Palthurai is a heart patient and a diabetic. He has tested for Covid-19 and has been treated for it. His health condition has worsened. As there is no development in his health condition, she wanted to shift him to a private hospital for treatment. She stated that they were ready to bear the expenses of the treatment.Police officials said that commissioner has no role to play in the treatment of Palthurai, who is an accused in murder charges. Only judicial and prison officials can do something into the matter, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-cops-wife-wants-to-shift-him-to-private-hosp/articleshow/77439382.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||34 deaths in south Tamil Nadu; Theni, Thanjavur top regions in cases||MADURAI/ TRICHY: Theni district in the southern region reported its highest single-day rise of Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 452 people testing positive; the district also saw five deaths on Saturday. The active cases in the southern region have climbed to 15,111, with the southern districts reporting 1,811 new cases. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 659 cases taking the tally to 17,708 on Saturday. The eight districts in the region also recorded seven deaths in Thanjavur and Trichy taking the toll to 203. Virudhunagar (246), Tuticorin (245) and Tenkasi (203) reported more than 200 cases on Saturday. As many as 3,750 samples were tested on Saturday in Theni. Theni block has 99, positive cases, followed by Andipatti with 78, Periyakulam 66, Bodinaickanur 62, Cumbum 56, Kadamalai Gundu 19 and Uthamapalaym 12. Madurai (91) saw a decline as it reported less than 100 cases after around 50 days taking the number of active cases in the district to 1,627. With four deaths, the total number of deaths in the district has climbed to 282. Kanyakumari reported 196 new cases, Dindigul 138 cases and Tirunelveli 126 cases. Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga had 55 new cases each. The region reported 34 deaths on Saturday, Tirunelveli which saw a dip in new cases with 126, has the highest number of deaths (7) in the region. The other deaths included five each from Sivaganga and Theni, four each from Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Madurai. Tuticorin reported two deaths. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi reported one death each. These deaths took the toll in the region to 952. Though the active cases were decreasing for the past one week, the number was on the rise for the past two days in the region. As of Saturday, 4,915 cases were being treated at various health facilities and home isolation in the region. Thanjavur district was on top of the chart with 227 cases for the second consecutive day. Pudukottai district also maintained a steady flow of fresh cases above 100 for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The health department officials in the district said that the intensified testing had led to the increase in the number of new cases. Trichy recorded 84 cases on Saturday. Collector S Sivarasu said that out of 2,040 samples tested on Friday, 84 people turned positive. The death toll in the district increased to 69. As per today’s bulletin, a 36-year old man from Thanjavur and a 30-year-old man from Thanjavur died of Covid-19 and other complications on August 5 and August 6 respectively. The death of A 36 year old man from Trichy who died at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on August 5 also figured in Saturday’s list. Fresh positive cases were also reported in Ariyalur – 42, Karur- 40, Perambalur – 45, Nagappattinam (77), and Tiruvarur – 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/34-deaths-in-south-tn-theni-thanjavur-top-regions-in-cases/articleshow/77439398.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Body of 30-year-old found at reservoir||HYDERABAD: An unidentified partially decomposed body of a woman was found floating at Himayathsagar reservoir bank, under Rajendranagar limits.  The victim is suspected to be around 30-year-old. The body was found by an employee working in Water Work Board, Himayathsagar on Friday evening. The body was shifted to A hospital for postmortem and a case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/body-of-30-yr-old-found-at-reservoir/articleshow/77438523.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Two infected accused break out of Covid facility in Haryana's Hisar||HISAR: Two young men arrested in two separate cases of theft and drug smuggling escaped on Friday night after breaking the window of Covid-19 centre at Agroha Dham. Both had tested positive on August 5. The police have registered a case and started investigation and have also informed the Sirsa police about the case. Havildar Mehar Chand had registered a complaint against Sandeep Singh alias Babu, a resident of Mallewala village in Sirsa district and Happy, a resident of Kariwala village in Rania in Sirsa district. Mehr Chand said Sandeep was arrested by the Sirsa CIA police team on August 1 with 980 intoxicant capsules (Tramadole) and was booked by the Baragudha police station under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Similarly, Happy was arrested on August 1 by Rania police on the complaint of Bagicha Singh, a resident of Kariwala village in Sirsa, in a case of theft. According to Mehar Chand, both of them were locked in the Covid-19 jail on August 1 and samples were taken for testing. On August 5, both tested positive and both were admitted at the Covid-19 centre at Agroha Dham. On Saturday morning, he came to know that the two broke the plywood window in the room and escaped from. Agroha police station in-charge Gurmeet Singh said a case has been registered under sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) and 188 (threat of injury to induce person to refrain from applying for protection to public servant) of Indian Penal Code and section 51 (obstruction) of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-infected-accused-break-out-of-covid-facility-in-hisar/articleshow/77439375.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Tuition master leads students in planting 100 trees in their village||Madurai: A tuition master in Kullapuram in Theni district has roped in his own students to start an environmental organization that has now successfully planted 100 trees in the village.S Paramasivam, 43, from Kullapuram, said that he started the tuition centre in his village 25 years ago as soon as he finished his BCom. Last year he decided that he could use the help of his students to give back to the society and help the environment by planting trees.“I launched the association called Nammai Adayalapaduthuvor Sangam (the association which would give us an identity) and I selected three of my best former students to be the president, secretary and treasurer while I am just an organizer,” he said.About 50 of my students have now settled in good jobs and this organization is funded with contributions from them and those willing to contribute even just Rs 100 per month. “When the collections touch Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000, they buy a tree guard which costs Rs 5,700 and it is then cut into ten parts and can be used to protect ten saplings,” he said.Villagers said that they are able to see a marked change in their village after these volunteers started planting the trees and now the public has also come forward to support them.A ranger in the forest department had given them the first batch of 100 saplings of rare trees, including Terminalia arjuna, commonly known as arjuna, Indian laurel, mahuwa or illuppai, and few other trees. Suresh Pandian, president of the organization, said that people now are happy with the initiative and come forward to make small donations to ensure that they have a better environment.Paramsivam said that his students take turns to water the plants and remove weeds and now this village has 100 more trees compared to 2018. Now, they have collected the required funds for establishing tree guards but said that it would be good if someone came forward to donate the 100 saplings for this year to them so that they could make their village greener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuition-master-leads-students-in-planting-100-trees-in-their-village/articleshow/77439416.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||6K students attend webinar on skill devpt||Madurai: A three-day online students’ skill development programme (SSDP) focusing on learning English language for better career opportunities was conducted at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU). More than 6,000 students from various colleges and universities in the state participated. The programme was organised by the department of management studies, MKU directorate of distance education (DDE), between July 5 and 7. During the inaugural address, MKU VC Dr M Krishnan said that students should nurture their English language skills for their growth and future career. He also said that such webinar training programmes can help in ensuring continuous learning even when campuses are closed. The online programme was organised by S Ilayaraja, organizing secretary and assistant professor, department of management studies. Hundreds of students registered and participated through Google Meet and YouTube. Resource persons Radha Rani Srinivasamurthy and Shilpa Rathija, both British Council certified language trainers, provided training for students. All participants were also given e-certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6k-students-attend-webinar-on-skill-devpt/articleshow/77439455.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man threatens parents over property row||HYDERABAD: A 70-year-old man and his wife have sought protection from their son who allegedly threatened them for not transferring property on his name. Ambadipudi Ramakotaiah and Pushpavathi came to the Khammam district collectorate office, holding a banner and saying they need protection from a local TRS leader and a police inspector. Ramakotaiah said he had constructed a house on a piece of land measuring about 330 square yards. They registered the house in the name of their married daughter. Their daughter died last year. His son Ambadipudi Prasad and daughter-in-law had been demanding that the house be registered on Prasad’s name. He said on August 2, the son also resorted to violence. “We were scared and called the police but there was no response on dial 100. As we wanted the number of the local police, we asked a friend of my son for help and he got the number. But, my son abused his friend and also the police who came,” Ramakotaiah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-threatensparents-overproperty-row/articleshow/77438524.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Woman found dead, murder for gain suspected||MADURAI: In a case of suspected murder for gain, a 24-year-old woman was found dead in Virudhunagar district on Saturday. The victim was identified as Pragathi Monika, 24, from Periyacolony in Alamarathupatti near Sivakasi. She was found dead in the afternoon with cut injuries on the hands, neck and legs in her house. She spoke to her husband Selvamanikandan at 1.20 pm, but neighbours found her dead at 2 pm. As a gold chain she was wearing found missing, it is suspected that the murder could have been staged for the chain. Police sources said that the couple got married only last month. Based on an alert, a team from Sivakasi East station conducted an inquiry. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar (additional charge Virudhunagar) also visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-found-dead-murder-for-gain-suspected/articleshow/77439438.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid: Kolhapur district registers 1,014 cases, 12 deaths in a day||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported as many as 1,014 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 312 from the city alone, taking the total number of cases to 9,991. Of these, 5,609, are currently active. Saturday marked the highest number of cases to be reported in a single day so far. The district also reported 12 Covid-related deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus casualties to 261. Shendapark laboratory resumes operationsThe Covid-19 testing laboratory at Shendapark, which is operated and managed by Chhatrapati Pramilaraje hospital, has resumed operations after being shut down for three days. The lab was closed for disinfection activity. It carries out 1,100 tests every day. Along with the disinfection activity, the authorities have also installed new equipment at the lab to speed up the number of tests. Around 2,586 swabs were tested by RT-PCR machines and 595 by rapid antigen test kits in the district on Saturday. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that owing to the restarting of Shendapark lab and clearing of pending tests, the number of coronavirus cases have gone up considerably in a single day. Sangli reports 252 cases, 9 deathsSangli district on Saturday registered 252 fresh cases while nine people succumbed to the contagion. So far 4,448 persons have tested positive for Covid-19. The district has reported 136 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-registers-1014-cases-12-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/77438526.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Shimla||Chamba locality sealed||Shimla: After as many as 40 cases of Covid-19 were reported on Saturday from just one locality — Dharog — in Chamba town, the district administration has sealed the area and declared eight municipal wards falling within and around the affected area as containment zones. The wards declared containment zones are Ward No. 2 (Kasakra), Ward No. 3 (Chowgan), Ward No. 4 (Hatnala), Ward No. 5 (Jansali), Ward No. 6 (Chountra), Ward No. 7 (Surara), Ward No. 8 (Sapri) and Ward No. 9 (Dharog) of the Chamba municipal council. Chamba district on Saturday reported 43 cases, of which 40 came from Dharog only, taking the number of positive cases reported so far from this locality to 68. Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said on Friday, only three cases were reported from Dharog and the count went up to 40 on Saturday. tnn In an order issued on Saturday, Chamba SDM Shivam Pratap Singh said a resident of Dharog was tested Corona-positive on August 3 and he was immediately shifted to a Covid care center. After that, some more persons of the locality have been tested positive for Covid-19. In view of the imminent danger of spread of Covid-19 in the adjoining areas, strict measures have been taken, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/chamba-locality-sealed/articleshow/77439411.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||Monitoring students under ‘school at home’ a challenge for govt schools||Madurai: With textbooks being distributed and video lessons for Classes I to XII made available via ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ programmes on TV and online, government school students are slowly beginning to adapt to the new norm of ‘School at home’ or ‘Veettupalli’. However, unlike online classes by aided and private schools, lack of proper routine and monitoring by teachers makes schooling from home a huge challenge for government schools.“Besides ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ TV programmes for Class I to X and video lessons on laptops for Class XI and XII, students should learn and study from their textbooks,” said Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO), R Swaminathan, speaking to TOI. Government school headmasters have created WhatsApp groups for students separately for each class to share information on digital learning and check on students.“The problem is that in my school of 200 students, only 70 have access to WhatsApp. But, we are trying to ensure that at least those students are learning. Even then, we cannot monitor how the students are learning from home and if they are watching the video lessons,” said the headmaster of a government middle school. Government school teachers said that children, especially when their families are also suffering due to pandemic, would not be able to focus on learning in the absence of a routine or monitoring system.“Through WhatsApp and phone calls, we are trying to keep reminding students to focus on studying. We are able to reach around 70% of students. For higher classes, we are giving short assignments which students complete by writing on paper, click photos and send to us. But, again, we are not able involve each and every student,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Meanwhile, the CEO said that further, as an initiative by the district, question papers are also being prepared for higher secondary school students, which will be shared through WhatsApp for students to answer and submit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/monitoring-students-under-school-at-home-a-challenge-for-govt-schools/articleshow/77439466.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||New schedule for online mock test out||Vadodara: M S University has declared a new schedule for conducting online mock test. After its first attempt to conduct online mock test had met with a fiasco, the university has this time decided to organise the examination in a phased manner. On Saturday, the university announced schedule of conducting online mock test for seven faculties and two colleges. Starting from August 13, the online mock test for these nine institutes have been divided in two days and that too in time slots. For instance, students of Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Faculty of Education and Psychology and Faculty of Journalism and Communication Studies on August 13 between 11 to 12 noon followed by students of Faculty of Performing Arts and Faculty of Social Work in the time slot of 2 pm to 3 pm and Polytechnic College between 5 to 6 pm. Students of Faculty of Family and Community Sciences, Faculty of Fine Arts and Faculty of Pharmacy will appear the next day. “Students of only this faculties/ colleges will get sms or email by August 10 regarding their user login credentials that is to be used for online mock test as well as actual examination,” an official note from the university mentioned.Students of other faculties will get their login credentials later. The mock test of remaining students of rest of faculties/ colleges will be notified later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-schedule-for-online-mock-test-out/articleshow/77437662.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops launch ‘last ride service’||HYDERABAD: The Rachakonda police launched a ‘last ride service’ to carry bodies of Covid-19 victims on Saturday. The service is jointly being extended by the cops and ‘Feed the Needy’ team and will be free of charges. “The service will be available from 8 am to 6 pm and we will also take up cremation of the deceased if family members are not available,” Bhagwat said. To avail the service, call 7995404040.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-launch-last-ride-service/articleshow/77438527.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Intrusive’ queries on school admission forms upset parents in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Pregnancy details, weight of your child at birth, the first word he/she spoke… Parents have accused some of the city’s private schools of asking questions that breach their privacy. Apart from the educational qualification of grandparents, some of the questions in the admission forms seek to know from parents their genetic test results or history of any form of disability in the family. For instance, parents seeking admission of their children in Shiv Nadar School said they were being asked to fill in educational and professional details of grandparents. “My father was a farmer. But I excelled in studies and wanted my son to join a school where he can get the exposure that I couldn’t. But this entire process makes me question my lineage,” said a parent who requested not to be identified. Some parents said the categories they were required to fill in the admission forms made them feel they were answering a doctor. Kunskapsskolan school sought written responses to a host of criteria that could be classified under medical and genetic screening tests. The form was, however, taken down on Saturday evening after the reactions. For instance, under the “birth” category, the school sought to know details such as the name of the mother, her length of pregnancy, birth complications, if any, weight of the child at the time of birth, the first word the child spoke, when he/ she began to crawl, sit and walk, among others. The “family history” category delves deeper, with questions on learning difficulties in the family. Both schools insisted that the questions were for “general information”. “In our admission form, we only ask for the professional background of grandparents and not their educational qualification. This information is not an eligibility criterion but a way to develop the learning partnership. For example, a judge or a lawyer can talk to our students about law, while a farmer can help our students learn about agriculture,” a spokesperson for Shiv Nadar School said. Kunskapsskolan school, too, backed its registration process. “Questions on birth history are asked to understand if there is likely need to support developmental requirements. These questions do not form a part of our selection criteria but help us ensure sustained, personalised support for the child. They are not used to ‘eliminate’ applicants in any manner,” an official said. The education department has specified that the government has zero-tolerance for such practices. “This is shocking. Apart from generic details related to the child’s and the parents’ identification, schools are not allowed to ask anything about pregnancy or the qualification of grandparents. No child can be denied admission on these criteria. We’ll look into the matter and take appropriate action against such schools,” said Pradeep Dagar, the director of the elementary education department. Educationists and schools associations, too, have criticised such practices and sought the government’s intervention. “Such details have nothing to do with the performance of the child and taking these details as part of the admission process is certainly disturbing. As such, admissions in leading private schools are difficult. Even in the EWS category, several schools deny admissions. There has to be proper monitoring and inspection by the education department to regulate the general admission process and in the EWS category,” said Shilpa Sonal, a city-based educationist. The president of the Federation of Private Schools Association, Kulbhushan Sharma, said, “This is condemnable. It’s a school’s job to prepare a child. At most, they can ask for financial details to ensure if parents will be able to cope with the school fee structure. Apart from that, even if a parent is illiterate, it should not be the school’s concern in granting admission. It breaches RTE.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/intrusive-queries-on-school-admission-forms-upset-parents/articleshow/77439471.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cansaulim primary health centre’s OPD operating from verandah||VASCO: The Cansaulim primary health centre (PHC) that caters to eight villages is in very bad shape. The centre, which is operating out of make shift premises in Arossim, runs its OPD in the verandah. Right next to the OPD is the Covid swab collection centre, which is partly covered by a tarpaulin. Locals from villages that come under the PHC complained about the dilapidated condition of the centre’s structure. “This PHC caters to the villages of Cansaulim, Arossim, Cuelim, Velsao-Pale, Consua, Utorda, Majorda and Benaulim. The OPD patients are made to stand in outside in the rain,” said Lophino Xavier, an activist. A local and president of the United Workmen Association, Olencio Simoes, said, “The staff told us that they are not even provided with PPE kits or any safety gear. They have purchased these at their own expenses. There is no proper system to dispose garbage either.” The villagers have demanded that the newly built PHC at Cansaulim be inaugurated immediately. When contacted, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “The present PHC at Arossim is being operated from a house of a well wisher who readily agreed to help us. We made space for the OPD and swab centre in the verandah by putting a partition so that villagers are safe and can maintain social distance. The PHC is a temporary make shift one, as the construction for a 42-bedded full-fledged PHC had to start.” The new PHC at Cansaulim is now getting its final touches and will be ready in two months, Saldanha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cansaulim-phcs-opd-operating-from-verandah/articleshow/77439991.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa Dairy mgmt seeks police action against ‘sword brandishing’||Ponda: Irked by birthday celebrations organised by a group of youths in front of its gates late Tuesday evening, the Goa Dairy approached the Ponda police on Saturday seeking swift action against the group, some members of which were found to be brandishing a sword. Officials at the dairy said they sought the police’s intervention soon after they got wind of the incident on social media platforms, where several photos of the birthday party and sword-brandishing went viral. The dairy’s administrative committee chairman, Durgesh Shirodkar, said that while the incident would have been tolerated if was only a birthday celebration, the fact that some youth were wielding a lethal weapon was a matter of concern. “We have people working night shifts at the dairy. What would have happened if there was a scuffle between the workers and the group that was armed with a sword?” Shirodkar said. Goa Dairy’s officiating manager Anil Nagnath Fadte claimed that the incident was an attempt at maligning the dairy’s image, which would consequently hit sales. “The group appears to have intentionally taken a photo with the signboard of Goa Dairy in the background. This is bound to affect the reputation of the establishment as people may assume that such incidents happen frequently here and may hence avoid visiting to purchase dairy products,” Fadte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-dairy-mgmt-seeks-police-action-against-sword-brandishing/articleshow/77439994.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Heera case: ED takes over 81 plots worth over Rs 70 crore||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths have taken possession of 81 plots worth Rs 70 crore in the Heera Gold case. ED sleuths with the assistance of Shaikpet tahsildar and police protection on Saturday conducted an operation in Tolichowki to take physical possession of the properties of Nowhera Shaikh, the key accused in the scam. A Central Crime Station (CCS) investigation had earlier found that Heera had collected deposits worth Rs 5,647 crore in the name of a gold scheme targeting gullible people, mostly Muslims, in several states across the country as well as the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. At least, 22 criminal cases were booked against the accused. The ED has alleged that around 1.72 lakh investors were duped and the accused floated several shell companies. ED had attached the properties of Nowhera Shaikh in 2019 too. Sources said the properties were located at SA Colony on a litigation-ridden land. “SA Builders, owned by Syed Akhtar, made huge profits by selling the disputed land. During the operation, we found that several plots purchased by Nowhera were encroached upon. The encroachments took place after Nowhera went to jail,” an ED official said. The ED had earlier conducted searches on the properties of Akhtar in connection with the Heera Gold case. During the searches then, the officials had found that SA Builders had received money from Heera Gold case prime accused. ED has so far attached properties worth Rs 300 crore of Heera Group after booking a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Income-tax sleuths in October 2017 had also conducted searches on the properties of SA Akhtar and found that the company had tax exposure to transactions worth Rs 56 crore with Heera Gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heera-case-ed-takes-over-81-plots-worth-over-rs-70-cr/articleshow/77438536.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 9, 2020||Shimla||114 test +ve, 127 recover; HP coronavirus count at 3,264||Shimla: In Himachal Pradesh, 114 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported on Saturday, including 43 from Chamba district, 24 from Sirmaur, 17 from Solan, eight each from Hamirpur, Mandi and Kangra, four from Kullu, and one each from Shimla and Una. Among the 127 who were discharged during the day, 83 were from Solan, 21 from Mandi, nine from Shimla, four from Una, and three each from Hamirpur and Sirmaur. The state has recorded 3,264 positive so far, of which 1,143 cases are active, 2,081 have recovered, 12 have died, while 26 have migrated out of state. In Sirmaur, more contacts of state power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary have been tested positive, including his wife and nephew. Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Baldev Tomar, who had come in contact with the minister, also tested positive. Tomar said after Chaudhary was found infected, he had got himself and his family tested. In the state, total 1,63,395 persons had been tested for Covid-19 till Saturday, of which 1,59,325 were negative, while results of 806 samples were awaited. Solan district has maximum 811 positive cases in the state, of which 343 are active, 452 have recovered, while 16 have migrated out of state. Kangra has got the second highest number of 520 cases, of which 105 are active, 410 have recovered, three have died, while two have migrated out of state. Hamirpur has reported 347 positive cases, of which 56 are active, 288 have recovered, while three have died. Sirmaur district has total 403 positive cases, of which 113 are active, 282 have recovered, one has died, while seven have migrated out of state. Una district has total 273 positive cases, of which 91 are active, while 182 have recovered. Bilaspur district has total 138 positive cases, of which 68 are active, while 70 have recovered. Chamba district has total 193 positive cases, of which 106 are active, while 86 have recovered. Kinnaur has total 46 positive cases, of which 10 are active while 36 have recovered. Kullu has total 96 cases, of which 69 are active, 26 have recovered, while one has migrated out. Lahaul-Spiti district has total four positive cases and all have recovered. Mandi district has total 236 positive cases, of which 124 are active, 109 have recovered and three have died. In Shimla, 197 people have tested positive. Of them, 58 patients are still under treatment, 136 have recovered and two died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/114-test-ve-127-recover-hp-coronavirus-count-at-3264/articleshow/77439459.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Despite BCCI guidelines, BCA chief favours hiring Dav Whatmore as coach||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) may engage former Aussie cricketer, Dav Whatmore for the upcoming cricketing season going against the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) guidelines on 60-years age cap. BCA president Pranav Amin has written an email to the apex council members expressing his wish to continue with Whatmore who has been hired as head coach of Baroda Ranji team. He also wrote that the guidelines issued by the BCCI are not mandatory. “Amin is in favour of bringing in Whatmore for the cricketing season. He said that the guidelines are not mandatory and hence the BCA can continue with Whatmore’s services,” said Ajit Lele, BCA secretary. Lele, however, said that they are yet to take any decision.The 60-year cap has put BCA in a quandary as Whatmore is 66-years-old. “The apex council will decide if BCA should continue with Whatmore or look for other options,” Lele told TOI. The BCCI recently issued guidelines for the state cricket associations for tackling Covid-19 during the cricketing season. One of the guidelines under Return to Training section said that individuals who are over the age of 60 years, including the support staff, umpires, ground staff and those with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, lung disease and weakened immunity should be discouraged from participating in the camp activities as they are at higher risk of getting infected with Covid-19.Two of the BCA apex council members, however, have objected to Amin’s suggestion of continuing with Whatmore. “The BCCI must have issued the guidelines after consulting government and non-government agencies and it is to safeguard the interests of the affiliated associations. I have replied to Amin’s email and said that the BCA should consider the BCCI’s guidelines before taking any decision,” said Kalyan Haribhakti, BCA apex council member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/despite-bcci-guidelines-bca-chief-favours-hiring-dav-whatmore-as-coach/articleshow/77437715.cms||Tushar Tere
August 9, 2020||Hubballi||Rescue team recovers body of girl who was washed away||DHARWAD: The National Disaster Response Force team, which had launched a search operation for an eight-year-old girl at Ganjigatti village in Kalghatagi taluk retrieved her body on Saturday. Shridevi Hanumanthappa Ganiger was washed away in the Hirekeri flood while returning with her father from their field on Thursday night. The NDRF team that was camping in Dharwad had rushed to the village in the early hours of Friday and along with the crew of Fire and Emergency Services had launched a search operation. The girl’s body was eventually traced about 1.5km from the spot from which she went missing. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy. Union Parliamentary affairs minister and Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi and deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil visited Shridevi’s parents and consoled them. Patil said steps will be taken immediately to pay compensation to the bereaved family. Patil said one should not try to cross overflowing bridges and go near flooded areas and risk their lives. “They should wait patiently till the water recedes and take the help of local voluntary groups and disaster management personnel,” he said. Two children injured in wall collapse Two children were injured when the wall of their house collapsed while they were sleeping at Boguru village in Dharwad taluk on Friday midnight. Vishwanath Kuri, and his brother Yallappa, 2, have been admitted to the district hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rescue-team-recovers-body-of-girl-who-was-washed-away/articleshow/77437690.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandipet & Manjira levels growing concern||HYDERABAD: Incessant rains in the catchment areas are leading to steady rise in the water levels in projects on Godavari and Krishna, sources which feed the city. On the other hand, inflows into Manjira and Osmansagar (Gandipet) reservoirs are just a trickle, according to Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board officials. Manjira reservoir had dried up three years ago, but water board officials managed to draw water from Osmansagar up to a couple of months ago. Currently, HMWS&SB officials were drawing just 1 million gallons per day (MGD) only. Himayathsagar started getting inflows last month and more are expected this month. The water board would continue supplying potable water to Greater Hyderabad and its suburbs and areas abutting the Outer Ring Road (ORR) without any interruption. Currently, the water board is supplying nearly 480 MGD to meet the demand, he said. This year, the board has increased the quantity of supplies to 190 villages abutting ORR up to 40 MGD, to meet the demand. Last year, only 10 MGD was supplied to them, he replied to a query. Normally, the city’s drinking water sources get replenished in September, but this year we are getting inflows in August itself||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandipet-manjira-levels-growing-concern/articleshow/77438546.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Thakur: Cong politicising pandemic||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday flayed Congress leaders, saying they were politicising the Covid pandemic. Thakur was addressing people at Baijnath in Kangra, where he was to review the progress of development projects and announcements made by him. He said when state borders were sealed, Congress leaders were accusing the government of not being concerned for people stranded in different parts of the country. But now, when the government has brought back over two lakh people stranded in different parts of the country, the same lot is making much hue and cry that the government is bringing coronavirus to the state, he alleged. He said the foundation stone for Rs 44-crore water supply scheme under the Jal Jeevan Mission, which was laid by him at Jaisinghpur, would provide drinking water facility to the people of 12 panchayats of the Baijnath assembly segment. He said strong and able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is bound to make India the super power of the world. He said that articles 370 and 35A have become a history and India now has one Constitution and one symbol, and added that this was possible due to the strong leadership at the Centre in the form of PM Modi. He said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 was a historic step taken by the Union government as this would help in providing citizenship to the minorities coming from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan due to discrimination in these countries. Thakur said the people of Baijnath contributed significantly and generously towards the PM CARES and CM COVID Fund. He said not only this, the BJP Mahila Morcha also prepared masks and distributed them to the people. He said the state government has also ensured that the Corona epidemic remains under control in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thakur-cong-politicising-pandemic/articleshow/77439489.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Vexed over red tape, auto driver sets his vehicle on fire||Chennai: Frustrated over being made to run from pillar to post for renewing documents for his vehicle, an autorickshaw driver allegedly set fire to his vehicle near the Anna Nagar regional transport office (RTO) on Friday.A video of the auto driver wailing after setting the vehicle on fire went viral in social networking sites on Saturday. Police said Thandava Muthu, 43, a resident of Solai Street in Ayanavaram had approached the RTO in Anna Nagar in March to renew the permit for his autorickshaw. “The application for renewal was rejected as there were difference in residential addresses in the supporting documents he submitted,” said a police official.Then, due to the pandemic, he could not approach the RTO due to the lockdown and his livelihood was affected. On Friday, he had approached the RTO office again, but this time he was allegedly told that his insurance papers were not valid for his permit to be renewed. Police sources said Thandava Muthu was dejected because his livelihood was at stake and in desperation he set his vehicle on fire, which was parked on the road, a few metres from the RTO office. He then broke down. on the road. Fire and rescue service personnel from nearby Villivakkam fire station put out the fire. The Anna Nagar police secured the driver and took him to the police station for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vexed-over-red-tape-auto-driver-sets-his-vehicle-on-fire/articleshow/77440201.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||21 leopard attacks in Gujarat's Dahod in a month||VADODARA: The worst nightmares of residents of villages in Dhanpur taluka of Dahod district came true with a leopard killing a seven-year-old girl in the Kantu village of the taluka on Friday night. After a series of leopard attacks in Dhanpur taluka, the string had stopped since about two weeks. But with the big cat still out loose villagers were not able breathe easy. Throughout July, Dahod district had witnessed a series of attacks by leopards, most of them taking place in Dhanpur taluka. Of around 20 leopard attacks that happened in the district last month, 16 were in villages in Dhanpur. Including the incident of Friday night, three children have been killed in these many attacks. Forest department officials as well as residents of the area were on their toes from July 4 till the end of July. The attacks took place in the Amlimenpur, Ulkadar, Paav, Khajuri, Amlimenpur, Kantu and Jhabu villages of Dhanpur taluka. The attacks in the first half of July, in particular, were ferocious. In the same village or nearby villages, the leopard had attacked two or even more persons till July 12. The department breathed a sigh of relief on July 15 when a leopard was rescued in Paav village. The description of the leopard and the fact that it was old made it evident that it was the one attacking villagers. “At an age when leopards find it difficult to hunt, they can attack humans,” said deputy conservator of forests, RM Parmar. But the relief proved short-lived as attacks resumed in the same area from July 15 itself. Leopard attacks were reported from the Amlimenpur, Kantu and Jhabu villages on July 15, 16 and 17. This confirmed that another leopard was lurking in these areas. This was confirmed by the forest officials. Later, an attack took place in the Khajuri village in the same area on July 26 and then in Kantu on Friday night. “The attacks later were not very ferocious. It seems that the leopard was looking too prey on some domesticated animal. Those who were attacked were either sleeping in the same enclosure as the domesticated animals or near them,” said Parmar. Even on Friday night, the girl Dholki Bhuriya died when the leopard attacked her when she came out of her house to wash hands after dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/21-leopard-attacks-in-dahod-in-a-month/articleshow/77437749.cms||Sachin Sharma
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Fraudster arrested for looting businessman in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A man was arrested by cyber crime sleuths on Saturday for cheating a businessman on the pretext of hiring buses on contract basis. The accused was identified as Doolla Nageswara Rao, a resident of Gajularamaram. The complainant, KM Govind Raju of Ashok Bazar, Afzalgunj, received a call from Rao on Thursday stating that their company is looking to hire buses to run at the cargo airport in Shamshabad. The offender, pretending to be a supervisor, gave him a contact number of the managing director of a cargo company, who is in urgent need of some vehicles on lease. According to police, Rao then spoke to the victim as the owner of the company and convinced him to pay Rs 47,000 and Rs 45,000 for agreement and deposit charges. After the victim deposited the money, the fraudster asked him to come to Shamshamad airport for signing the agreement. The victim realised he was cheated only after they stopped responding to his calls. He then approached the cops. Two cases had earlier been registered with the cyber crime police against the accused. Two more cases are pending against him in Rachakonda Commissionerate and three cases are pending in Cyberabad Commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudster-arrested-for-looting-bizman/articleshow/77438573.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Scrap Telangana contractors’agreements, says Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded that TRS government prove its sincerity by blacklisting all contractors who participated in the tender process called by AP government for execution of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP). AICC secretary Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy said agreements with those contractors who participated in RLIP tender process should be scrapped. “KCR is turning a blind eye to AP government setting in motion the process to divert Krishna river water for Rayalaseema through Pothireddypadu via Sangameshwar,” Vamshi alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scrap-telangana-contractorsagreements-says-congress/articleshow/77438552.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Clafasio makes full recovery, discharged||BJP Cuncolim legislator Clafasio Dias was discharged from Goa Medical College (GMC) on Saturday. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar told TOI that Dias was sent home after his recovery was found to be “satisfactory”. “He has tested negative twice and has recovered,” Bandekar said. Two weeks ago, Dias was transferred to GMC from the Covid hospital, Margao, where he remained under treatment for a month. While he was discharged from the Covid hospital only after he had tested negative, in a retest at GMC, he had tested positive. He was brought to GMC as he needed treatment for his pulmonary condition. He had tested positive in the subsequent re-test only because of the remnants of the disease in his system, the medical authorities had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clafasio-makes-full-recovery-discharged/articleshow/77439995.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Waylaying gang on the loose in Kondithope||Chennai: Police launched a hunt for a gang, which was involved in a series of waylaying incidents in Kondithope in the past week. The gang had used a knife and had targeted a flower vendor and a pedestrian and robbed cash and mobile phones from them, police sources said. In one incident on Friday morning, Amudha, 24, a flower vendor and resident of Kannagi Nagar had come early to Parry’s corner area to buy flowers, when a gang waylaid the autorickshaw she had come in. Under knife-point, the bikers robbed Rs 3,000 from Amudha and also the mobile phone from the auto driver. In another incident on Thursday, Narayanan,34, was talking on his mobile phone while walking along Amman Koil Street, when a bike-borne duo snatched his cell phone and sped away. A similar incident was reported on Jambuli Street, where a resident, Srinivasan, 32, was talking on his mobile phone in front of his house, when a biker duo robbed his mobile phone, taking him by surprise.Police suspect the same gang to be involved in all three incidents and have formed teams to trace the suspects. “We are circulating pictures of known offenders and are taking descriptions from the victims. We are also perusing the CCTV camera footage in the neighbourhood,” said a police official. Police are also investigating whether the same gang is involved in mobile phone snatching incidents which were recorded in other areas of the city on Saturday. A 22-year-old conservancy worker at a private hospital in Nungambakkam was robbed off his mobile phone, while he was walk to work. A 50-year-old security guard was robbed on Whites Road off Anna Salai in a similar way. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/waylaying-gang-on-the-loose-in-kondithope/articleshow/77440205.cms||---
August 9, 2020||India||PM pushes for garbage-free India in bid to fight Covid||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a week-long campaign to free India of garbage and filth ahead of the Independence Day and stressed how the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan has proved to be a big support in fight against coronavirus. Inaugurating the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra at Gandhi Smriti at Rajghat on the anniversary of Quit India movement, Modi urged all districts to intensify the “gandgi mukt Bharat” drive for the next one week. He also said there has been a drive to shun “everything that weakens India” in the last six years and there is a need to intensify the drive to get rid of poverty, open defecation, single use plastics, discrimination, corruption, terrorism and violence. Highlighting the impact of the ‘Swachhata’ mission, he said, “Imagine what would have happened had a pandemic like coronavirus broken out before 2014. Could we have imposed a lockdown when over 60% of the population was forced to defecate in the open?” He said the drive to give access to toilets to nearly 60 crore households in 60 months has strengthened and empowered the country in the fight against Covid-19. Addressing a group of 36 students, picked to represent the 36 states and UTs as “Bal Mitras”, the PM said there is a need to follow physical distancing norms and adopt a hygienic way of living amid the coronavirus crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-pushes-for-garbage-free-india-in-bid-to-fight-covid/articleshow/77440155.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Builders lure guest workers with ‘return gifts’ in Chennai||CHENNAI: From offering free air tickets to Covid insurance policies, double wages and weekly medical checkups, several private builders in the city are doing all that they can to lure back guest workers who had left for their homes at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around three lakh guest workers including those at building construction sites left the city fearing spread of coronavirus over the past four months. Now as work slowly resumes several of them are willing to return, but with conditions. “The situation is no longer the same as before and though we all need to earn, we cannot return without getting an assurance that we and our families will be taken care of,” said Tukaram Das, a construction worker from Bihar who is scheduled to fly to the city with six other men and their families by the end of this month. When their agent asked them to return, Tukaram and his coworkers had a list of demands. “We have asked for higher pay, spacious accommodation, unlike the cramped spaces they used to give us before, they should provide adequate water supply and also have regular free medical checkups,” he said. “Though we agreed to their demands and doubled the wages, not all are willing to come,” said Rahul Budi, a private builder. S Ramaprabhu, state treasurer of the Builders Association of India said they have provided air tickets to all their workers, promised that they would all be registered with the labour department, and also get Covid-19 insurance. “We are now facing an acute shortage of labour and are doing everything we can to get them back and provide a better work environment. But getting them back is still a task,” he said. Rahul pointed out that his firm recently sent a bus to bring 50 workers from Bihar and Jharkhand. However, only 15 got on it, he said.  “First they all agreed to come, but now many are doubtful, especially to work in the south. They are worried if the lockdown gets imposed again and if their situation would spiral back to worse,” he said. At present, infrastructure projects worth Rs 15,000 crore in Chennai and its suburbs are on hold. To complete the pending work and start new projects the city’s construction sector requires about three lakh workers. “We aretaking care of their food, sanitation, health, creating living accommodation where the workers can maintain social distancing and have also offered them a 30% hike in wages,” said C Chandran, partner of Elegant Constructions. R Geeta, an adviser to the unorganised workers federation said, one of the main reasons why workers are unwilling to return, apart from the pandemic fear, is that they do not trust the owners anymore. “Many construction workers have been treated badly, cheated, not paid their due wages. And the owners are facing the consequences of these actions today. But if they comply with their promises the workers will return, but it might take a while,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/builders-lure-guest-workers-with-return-gifts/articleshow/77440206.cms||Aditi R
August 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Uptick in homebuying will continue, feel developers||PUNE: Realtors and developers, buoyed by the increase in property registrations across the state, expect the trend to continue — even improve — in the coming days. They, however, said their forecasts were pinned on the assumption that no more lockdowns will be imposed. An executive from a consultancy firm said things were looking sunnier, but another lockdown can come as a bad setback to the struggling sector. “That is what happened in July,” he said, referring to the 10-day total shutdown imposed in Pune Metropolitan Region last month. Realtors said that buyers were returning after an unprecedented slowdown since April, which had forced developers to the go back to the drawing board and limit new launches, reconfigure room sizes and reorient work patterns. They say the enquiries are now more purpose-oriented compared to earlier. “Customers have started returning over the past 4-6 weeks. The silver lining is that these are serious buyers who have clarity on their jobs for the next two years,” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments, said. Gera said buyers had reduced budgets — approximately 15-20% lower than pre-Covid-19 levels. “They want to save for a rainy day, but don’t want to cut corners by reducing the configuration, so smaller-sized 2BHKs and 3BHKs are seeing greater traction,” he said. In Mumbai, however, property registrations have yet to pick up pace — as against a daily average of 189 registrations a day in August 2019, the first eight days of this month so far have seen just 56 per day, or about 30%. The consultancy firm, Anarock, said in a note that site visits and property enquiries in Mumbai and Pune have reached 50% of pre-Covid levels, which was significant because the two regions had seen more stringent lockdowns than other parts of the state. The consultancy firm said Mumbai residents were looking to upgrade from 1BHK to 2BHK, while in Pune, 2BHK remains the top preference. Anarock said in places like Pune, the conversion level (enquiries translating into sales) has also increased to 12%, where it was 9-10% earlier. “After gold, real estate is still considered a safe investment,” a Pune-based property broker said. Credai’s Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant stated the demand was back at 60-70%, with 900-1,000sqft homes recording more demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uptick-in-homebuying-will-continue-feel-developers/articleshow/77438578.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Uptick in homebuying will continue, feel developers||PUNE: Realtors and developers, buoyed by the increase in property registrations across the state, expect the trend to continue — even improve — in the coming days. They, however, said their forecasts were pinned on the assumption that no more lockdowns will be imposed. An executive from a consultancy firm said things were looking sunnier, but another lockdown can come as a bad setback to the struggling sector. “That is what happened in July,” he said, referring to the 10-day total shutdown imposed in Pune Metropolitan Region last month. Realtors said that buyers were returning after an unprecedented slowdown since April, which had forced developers to the go back to the drawing board and limit new launches, reconfigure room sizes and reorient work patterns. They say the enquiries are now more purpose-oriented compared to earlier. “Customers have started returning over the past 4-6 weeks. The silver lining is that these are serious buyers who have clarity on their jobs for the next two years,” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments, said. Gera said buyers had reduced budgets — approximately 15-20% lower than pre-Covid-19 levels. “They want to save for a rainy day, but don’t want to cut corners by reducing the configuration, so smaller-sized 2BHKs and 3BHKs are seeing greater traction,” he said. In Mumbai, however, property registrations have yet to pick up pace — as against a daily average of 189 registrations a day in August 2019, the first eight days of this month so far have seen just 56 per day, or about 30%. The consultancy firm, Anarock, said in a note that site visits and property enquiries in Mumbai and Pune have reached 50% of pre-Covid levels, which was significant because the two regions had seen more stringent lockdowns than other parts of the state. The consultancy firm said Mumbai residents were looking to upgrade from 1BHK to 2BHK, while in Pune, 2BHK remains the top preference. Anarock said in places like Pune, the conversion level (enquiries translating into sales) has also increased to 12%, where it was 9-10% earlier. “After gold, real estate is still considered a safe investment,” a Pune-based property broker said. Credai’s Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant stated the demand was back at 60-70%, with 900-1,000sqft homes recording more demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/uptick-in-homebuying-will-continue-feel-developers/articleshow/77441112.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 9, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Uptick in homebuying will continue, feel developers||PUNE: Realtors and developers, buoyed by the increase in property registrations across the state, expect the trend to continue — even improve — in the coming days. They, however, said their forecasts were pinned on the assumption that no more lockdowns will be imposed. An executive from a consultancy firm said things were looking sunnier, but another lockdown can come as a bad setback to the struggling sector. “That is what happened in July,” he said, referring to the 10-day total shutdown imposed in Pune Metropolitan Region last month. Realtors said that buyers were returning after an unprecedented slowdown since April, which had forced developers to the go back to the drawing board and limit new launches, reconfigure room sizes and reorient work patterns. They say the enquiries are now more purpose-oriented compared to earlier. “Customers have started returning over the past 4-6 weeks. The silver lining is that these are serious buyers who have clarity on their jobs for the next two years,” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments, said. Gera said buyers had reduced budgets — approximately 15-20% lower than pre-Covid-19 levels. “They want to save for a rainy day, but don’t want to cut corners by reducing the configuration, so smaller-sized 2BHKs and 3BHKs are seeing greater traction,” he said. In Mumbai, however, property registrations have yet to pick up pace — as against a daily average of 189 registrations a day in August 2019, the first eight days of this month so far have seen just 56 per day, or about 30%. The consultancy firm, Anarock, said in a note that site visits and property enquiries in Mumbai and Pune have reached 50% of pre-Covid levels, which was significant because the two regions had seen more stringent lockdowns than other parts of the state. The consultancy firm said Mumbai residents were looking to upgrade from 1BHK to 2BHK, while in Pune, 2BHK remains the top preference. Anarock said in places like Pune, the conversion level (enquiries translating into sales) has also increased to 12%, where it was 9-10% earlier. “After gold, real estate is still considered a safe investment,” a Pune-based property broker said. Credai’s Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant stated the demand was back at 60-70%, with 900-1,000sqft homes recording more demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/uptick-in-homebuying-will-continue-feel-developers/articleshow/77441108.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Uptick in homebuying will continue, feel developers||PUNE: Realtors and developers, buoyed by the increase in property registrations across the state, expect the trend to continue — even improve — in the coming days. They, however, said their forecasts were pinned on the assumption that no more lockdowns will be imposed. An executive from a consultancy firm said things were looking sunnier, but another lockdown can come as a bad setback to the struggling sector. “That is what happened in July,” he said, referring to the 10-day total shutdown imposed in Pune Metropolitan Region last month. Realtors said that buyers were returning after an unprecedented slowdown since April, which had forced developers to the go back to the drawing board and limit new launches, reconfigure room sizes and reorient work patterns. They say the enquiries are now more purpose-oriented compared to earlier. “Customers have started returning over the past 4-6 weeks. The silver lining is that these are serious buyers who have clarity on their jobs for the next two years,” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments, said. Gera said buyers had reduced budgets — approximately 15-20% lower than pre-Covid-19 levels. “They want to save for a rainy day, but don’t want to cut corners by reducing the configuration, so smaller-sized 2BHKs and 3BHKs are seeing greater traction,” he said. In Mumbai, however, property registrations have yet to pick up pace — as against a daily average of 189 registrations a day in August 2019, the first eight days of this month so far have seen just 56 per day, or about 30%. The consultancy firm, Anarock, said in a note that site visits and property enquiries in Mumbai and Pune have reached 50% of pre-Covid levels, which was significant because the two regions had seen more stringent lockdowns than other parts of the state. The consultancy firm said Mumbai residents were looking to upgrade from 1BHK to 2BHK, while in Pune, 2BHK remains the top preference. Anarock said in places like Pune, the conversion level (enquiries translating into sales) has also increased to 12%, where it was 9-10% earlier. “After gold, real estate is still considered a safe investment,” a Pune-based property broker said. Credai’s Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant stated the demand was back at 60-70%, with 900-1,000sqft homes recording more demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/uptick-in-homebuying-will-continue-feel-developers/articleshow/77441109.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Uptick in homebuying will continue, feel developers||PUNE: Realtors and developers, buoyed by the increase in property registrations across the state, expect the trend to continue — even improve — in the coming days. They, however, said their forecasts were pinned on the assumption that no more lockdowns will be imposed. An executive from a consultancy firm said things were looking sunnier, but another lockdown can come as a bad setback to the struggling sector. “That is what happened in July,” he said, referring to the 10-day total shutdown imposed in Pune Metropolitan Region last month. Realtors said that buyers were returning after an unprecedented slowdown since April, which had forced developers to the go back to the drawing board and limit new launches, reconfigure room sizes and reorient work patterns. They say the enquiries are now more purpose-oriented compared to earlier. “Customers have started returning over the past 4-6 weeks. The silver lining is that these are serious buyers who have clarity on their jobs for the next two years,” Rohit Gera, managing director of Gera Developments, said. Gera said buyers had reduced budgets — approximately 15-20% lower than pre-Covid-19 levels. “They want to save for a rainy day, but don’t want to cut corners by reducing the configuration, so smaller-sized 2BHKs and 3BHKs are seeing greater traction,” he said. In Mumbai, however, property registrations have yet to pick up pace — as against a daily average of 189 registrations a day in August 2019, the first eight days of this month so far have seen just 56 per day, or about 30%. The consultancy firm, Anarock, said in a note that site visits and property enquiries in Mumbai and Pune have reached 50% of pre-Covid levels, which was significant because the two regions had seen more stringent lockdowns than other parts of the state. The consultancy firm said Mumbai residents were looking to upgrade from 1BHK to 2BHK, while in Pune, 2BHK remains the top preference. Anarock said in places like Pune, the conversion level (enquiries translating into sales) has also increased to 12%, where it was 9-10% earlier. “After gold, real estate is still considered a safe investment,” a Pune-based property broker said. Credai’s Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant stated the demand was back at 60-70%, with 900-1,000sqft homes recording more demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uptick-in-homebuying-will-continue-feel-developers/articleshow/77441111.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Recovered Covid patients can suffer lasting lung ailments||JAIPUR: Like any respiratory diseases, Covid can cause lasting lung ailments even after patients recover, just like swine flu. Doctors are now using the swine flu experience in dealing with these patients. At the Institute of Respiratory Diseases, a wing of Sawai Man Singh Hospital, doctors are regularly receiving patients with lung-related problems. “Around 15 patients who recovered from Covid approached the OPD of our institute with a wide spectrum of respiratory symptoms – from residual cough, shortness of breath, secondary infections to fibrosis (formation of hard fibrous tissues as the lung heals from an injury). This is more prominent among patients who have had severe symptoms of Covid and needed either ventilator support or non-invasive ventilation like Bipap or Cpap or had baseline lung ailment,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor, Institute of Respiratory Diseases, SMS Hospital. Residual lung fibrosis is the most common post-recovery complication in which the lung capacity decreases as it loses its elasticity to some extent hardening the tissues. Residual lung fibrosis is not restricted to Covid and has been seen in other viral infections such as swine flu and influenza. “This is something we have seen in patients resulting in inadequate oxygenation. Usually fibrosis caused by other diseases improves over time, but Covid is a new disease and we require a long-term follow up to reach to some conclusion as far as prognosis is concerned,” said Dr Khippal. However, doctors claimed that Covid patients, who are coming back to hospitals with breathing difficulties, are not many. “Almost 95% of Covid patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Only 5% face severe problems and may require oxygen or non-invasive ventilation or mechanical ventilation. Covid pneumonia takes some time to resolve, in a few cases around a month. Some Covid pneumonia patients may have cough and mild difficulties in breathing,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, associate professor (respiratory diseases), SMS Medical College. Doctors claimed that such patients are responding well to oral medicines. “Usually they respond well to oral steroids. Rarely patients develop extensive fibrosis in which they need empirically anti-fibrotic drugs such as Pirfenidone. However, there are no studies or evidence to advocate the use of these medicines. Even in the swine flu epidemic, there were patients with post swine flu fibrosis after resolution of pneumonia. They also responded well to oral corticosteroids and we had published these findings in Lung India,” said Dr Singh. Some doctors claimed that various drugs were being tried – like a longer course of steroids or anti-fibrosis drugs like Pirfenidone — but results were not satisfactory and they felt the need for pulmonary rehabilitation in such patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recovered-covid-patients-cansuffer-lasting-lung-ailments/articleshow/77439613.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man scoots with Rs 15 lakh, held||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old employee of a private company was arrested on Saturday for escaping with Rs 15 lakh which his boss gave him to send it to the latter’s home. Padala Sai Kiran from Yousufguda had been working with a pipe manufacturing and supplying company in Hyderabad since August last year. The managing director Sujit Agarwal used to give him cash to deposit in banks or send cash to his home, police said. As Sai had handled transactions earlier, Sujit on August 3 asked him to deliver Rs 15,13,760 at his house. He also asked another trusted aide, Dayanand, to accompany Sai. “On the way to his boss’ house, he made Dayanand stay near a supermarket at Jubilee Hills and decamped with the booty,” additional inspector Jubilee Hills A Ramesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-scoots-with-rs-15l-held/articleshow/77438591.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Met dept forecasts light to moderate rain for a week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast an increase in rainfall for the Madhya Maharashtra region — including Pune city — over the next week. “Madhya Maharashtra and its surrounding areas will receive light to moderate rainfall over the next week, accompanied by thunder and lightning activity,” an IMD official said, adding that added that isolated areas in the Western Ghats will also receive heavy rainfall over the same period, at least till August 14. The city and the region received mostly light rainfall on Saturday — till 5.30pm, Shivajinagar received 0.3mm and Lohegaon got 0.2mm. The light showers were accompanied by thunder and gusty winds. During the same window, the hill station, Mahabaleshwar, recorded the highest rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra at 11mm. Mahabaleshwar also recorded the lowest maximum and minimum temperatures in the state, at 19.8°C and 17.9°C respectively. Others parts of Madhya Maharashtra, such as Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts, too received light rainfall ranging from 1 to 2mm. Humidity also remained high on Saturday, with relative humidity being recorded at a maximum of 85%, with the minimum being marginally lesser, at 82%. The rainfall scenario was the same in the Konkan region as well, with the Santacruz station recording 4mm, and Dahanu receiving 9mm — the highest rainfall in the region, Other parts of the state, such as Marathwada and Vidarbha, largely remained dry, with isolated light rain recorded in Buldhana and Nagpur. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that the four dams that supply water to Pune — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet — were filled to just 33% of their capacity and that Pune Municipal Corporation was considering alternate day water supply. This was caused by scanty rainfall last month. July 2020 was the driest for India in the past five years, with the entire country collectively received 257.1mm rainfall as against a normal of 285.1mm for the month, a deficit of 9.8%. In July 2015, India had received 240.8mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/met-dept-forecasts-light-to-moderate-rain-for-a-week/articleshow/77438585.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune: Met dept forecasts light to moderate rain for a week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast an increase in rainfall for the Madhya Maharashtra region — including Pune city — over the next week. “Madhya Maharashtra and its surrounding areas will receive light to moderate rainfall over the next week, accompanied by thunder and lightning activity,” an IMD official said, adding that added that isolated areas in the Western Ghats will also receive heavy rainfall over the same period, at least till August 14. The city and the region received mostly light rainfall on Saturday — till 5.30pm, Shivajinagar received 0.3mm and Lohegaon got 0.2mm. The light showers were accompanied by thunder and gusty winds. During the same window, the hill station, Mahabaleshwar, recorded the highest rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra at 11mm. Mahabaleshwar also recorded the lowest maximum and minimum temperatures in the state, at 19.8°C and 17.9°C respectively. Others parts of Madhya Maharashtra, such as Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts, too received light rainfall ranging from 1 to 2mm. Humidity also remained high on Saturday, with relative humidity being recorded at a maximum of 85%, with the minimum being marginally lesser, at 82%. The rainfall scenario was the same in the Konkan region as well, with the Santacruz station recording 4mm, and Dahanu receiving 9mm — the highest rainfall in the region, Other parts of the state, such as Marathwada and Vidarbha, largely remained dry, with isolated light rain recorded in Buldhana and Nagpur. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that the four dams that supply water to Pune — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet — were filled to just 33% of their capacity and that Pune Municipal Corporation was considering alternate day water supply. This was caused by scanty rainfall last month. July 2020 was the driest for India in the past five years, with the entire country collectively received 257.1mm rainfall as against a normal of 285.1mm for the month, a deficit of 9.8%. In July 2015, India had received 240.8mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/met-dept-forecasts-light-to-moderate-rain-for-a-week/articleshow/77441069.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nashik||Pune: Met dept forecasts light to moderate rain for a week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast an increase in rainfall for the Madhya Maharashtra region — including Pune city — over the next week. “Madhya Maharashtra and its surrounding areas will receive light to moderate rainfall over the next week, accompanied by thunder and lightning activity,” an IMD official said, adding that added that isolated areas in the Western Ghats will also receive heavy rainfall over the same period, at least till August 14. The city and the region received mostly light rainfall on Saturday — till 5.30pm, Shivajinagar received 0.3mm and Lohegaon got 0.2mm. The light showers were accompanied by thunder and gusty winds. During the same window, the hill station, Mahabaleshwar, recorded the highest rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra at 11mm. Mahabaleshwar also recorded the lowest maximum and minimum temperatures in the state, at 19.8°C and 17.9°C respectively. Others parts of Madhya Maharashtra, such as Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts, too received light rainfall ranging from 1 to 2mm. Humidity also remained high on Saturday, with relative humidity being recorded at a maximum of 85%, with the minimum being marginally lesser, at 82%. The rainfall scenario was the same in the Konkan region as well, with the Santacruz station recording 4mm, and Dahanu receiving 9mm — the highest rainfall in the region, Other parts of the state, such as Marathwada and Vidarbha, largely remained dry, with isolated light rain recorded in Buldhana and Nagpur. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that the four dams that supply water to Pune — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet — were filled to just 33% of their capacity and that Pune Municipal Corporation was considering alternate day water supply. This was caused by scanty rainfall last month. July 2020 was the driest for India in the past five years, with the entire country collectively received 257.1mm rainfall as against a normal of 285.1mm for the month, a deficit of 9.8%. In July 2015, India had received 240.8mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/met-dept-forecasts-light-to-moderate-rain-for-a-week/articleshow/77441070.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Pune: Met dept forecasts light to moderate rain for a week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast an increase in rainfall for the Madhya Maharashtra region — including Pune city — over the next week. “Madhya Maharashtra and its surrounding areas will receive light to moderate rainfall over the next week, accompanied by thunder and lightning activity,” an IMD official said, adding that added that isolated areas in the Western Ghats will also receive heavy rainfall over the same period, at least till August 14. The city and the region received mostly light rainfall on Saturday — till 5.30pm, Shivajinagar received 0.3mm and Lohegaon got 0.2mm. The light showers were accompanied by thunder and gusty winds. During the same window, the hill station, Mahabaleshwar, recorded the highest rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra at 11mm. Mahabaleshwar also recorded the lowest maximum and minimum temperatures in the state, at 19.8°C and 17.9°C respectively. Others parts of Madhya Maharashtra, such as Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts, too received light rainfall ranging from 1 to 2mm. Humidity also remained high on Saturday, with relative humidity being recorded at a maximum of 85%, with the minimum being marginally lesser, at 82%. The rainfall scenario was the same in the Konkan region as well, with the Santacruz station recording 4mm, and Dahanu receiving 9mm — the highest rainfall in the region, Other parts of the state, such as Marathwada and Vidarbha, largely remained dry, with isolated light rain recorded in Buldhana and Nagpur. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that the four dams that supply water to Pune — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet — were filled to just 33% of their capacity and that Pune Municipal Corporation was considering alternate day water supply. This was caused by scanty rainfall last month. July 2020 was the driest for India in the past five years, with the entire country collectively received 257.1mm rainfall as against a normal of 285.1mm for the month, a deficit of 9.8%. In July 2015, India had received 240.8mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/met-dept-forecasts-light-to-moderate-rain-for-a-week/articleshow/77441073.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||School is out, it’s now time for business||Sharaan Bhusa’s business plan is clear — with parents busy working from home, they need their kids to be "constructively engaged". So, at the start of the lockdown in March, the 14-year-old from Kalakshetra Matriculation School launched ‘Dum Ta Ka’, where at `199 for five classes, he gives children percussion lessons, with whatever "drum-like" material they have at home."I send them video and audio recordings so that they can practise. I use the djembe, while those without drums use buckets, boxes, tumblers and spoons," says the teen tycoon — well, he has earned `85,000 so far (all of which is going towards acquiring the gaming console of his dreams). The classes are still on, as is his bucket list of goodies.They’re baking cakes, teaching yoga, talking coding — the lockdown and consequent shutting of school campuses seems to have opened the floodgates of entrepreneurship, with children as young as eight looking at ways to follow their passions, and earn a little either for themselves or to give to charity.Since she was five years old, Mahika Madiaraju dreamed of opening her own café. But it was the lockdown that truly set her on the path. "I started taking orders in April, a few days after the lockdown began," says the 10-year-old. From coffee walnut to lemon drizzle cakes, Mahika has taken 30 orders so far. "I’m donating everything to charity," says the KC High student, adding that with school going online, it’s left her with a lot more time to focus on her business."It’s important to start teaching entrepreneurship at a young age," says Namita Thappar of Young Entrepreneurs Academy, which works with children on developing their business ideas. "It equips them with lessons on financial management, and critical thinking and communication."Kids are naturally curious, says psychologist Sangeetha Madhu. "They have a willingness to explore, which is what entrepreneurship is all about. The kinesthetic or hands-on learners, are probably the ones who will follow this line," she says.Psychiatrist Dr Kannan Girish says the lockdown has opened his eyes to just how independent children can be, given the time and space. "The fact that on-campus school has not yet begun has resulted in children having the time to introspect. Most are not as dependent on parents and friends as they used to be and that is setting them on a journey of self-discovery," he says. Dr Kannan found that some students who he counsels had taken on courses they found interesting, while others were building things. "Even my nine-year-old did a coding course during the lockdown, created nine games, and then went on to sign up students," he says.While Dr Kannan’s daughter Evanka shocked him with her coding skills, at another apartment complex in the city, eight-year-old Lasya Meena Money took her mother Mansi by surprise when she started yoga lessons for children in the building. "Through the lockdown, the adults would exercise on the terrace. After a while, I noticed that my daughter too was coming up there, and teaching asanas to the other children in the building. It became a daily class," says Mansi. "Yoga keeps you fit and healthy and is a great start to the day. That’s why I wanted to teach my friends," Lasya.For most children, Mumbai-based kids life coach Jolly Priya says, online school is just a "tick in the box activity". "It is not the ideal ecosystem of learning. But it has left children with time on their hands to really explore what they like doing. Over the last three months, in my sessions, I have come across children who have made masks, mastered culinary skills, and even sold rakhis accepting payment through apps. Kids know what is happening around them — the economic downturn, the job losses, the salary cuts. In the last three months, their sense of entitlement has come down a notch, while their value for money has gone up," says Jolly. "This is the time to focus our energies on children and mentor them, help them follow a passion, and not just get on their case about spending too much time online."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/school-is-out-its-now-time-for-business/articleshow/77440207.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Surat||Pharma factory gutted at Vapi GIDC||Surat: A major fire erupted following a blast at the manufacturing unit of a pharmaceutical company in phase III of Vapi GIDC in Valsad district on Saturday noon. No casualty has been reported.Sources in the Vapi GIDC fire department stated that the blast occurred in the chemical solvent drums kept in the manufacturing unit of Shakti Biosciences Limited in Vapi at about 12 pm. About 12 fire tenders from Vapi notified area, Sarigam industrial area, Valsad Nagarpalika, Umbergaon industrial estate and the union territory of Daman and Dadra Nagar Haveli (DNH) were rushed to control the fire.While the exact reason behind the blast is yet to be ascertained, but there was heavy black smoke coming out from the factory that was visible from a long distance. Other industrial units in the vicinity of the affected factory were asked to shut manufacturing activity and vacate the premises as a precaution. Fire officials stated that the fire was brought under control after nearly two hours long the firefighters. The entire three-storey building of the pharmaceutical company was gutted in the fire. Preliminary investigation by the fire officials suggested that there was a short circuit in the area where the chemical solvent was stored. The staff members in the company immediately rushed out of the manufacturing unit following the short circuit incident. A fire officer of Vapi GIDC said, “The fire occurred due to the blast in the drums containing hazardous chemical solvents used in the manufacturing of API and other intermediates at the pharma company. Luckily, all the staff members had moved out of the unit following the short circuit incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pharma-factory-gutted-at-vapi-gidc/articleshow/77437778.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Trichy||550-bed Covid care centre being readied at engineering college in Trichy||TRICHY: Trichy district administration has kept a Covid Care Centre (CCC) standby at the government engineering college at Sethurapatti in Trichy in view of more Covid-19 patients becoming asymptomatic. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that the district administration has reserved 550 beds at the government engineering college at Sethurapatti. “As a proactive measure, we have kept the building ready. If the number of asymptomatic patients increased, we can keep them at isolation with medical care until they are recovered,” collector Sivarasu told ToI on Saturday. The district administration has also brought an X-ray machine to be kept at the new CCC at Sethurapatti. “Initially, we have planned it for Sethurapatti facility. Now, the cases are decreasing. So, we are planning to shift it to the CCC on the Khajamalai campus,” said the collector. X-ray machines are used to assess the health condition of the patients before deciding on their treatment. Patients without symptoms and below 35 years of age have been referred to home isolation and those with mild symptoms have been kept at the CCC. “We never allow people above the age of 50 years to go for home isolation considering the risk factors. They will be observed at the hospital for 24 hours and sent to CCC if they have no symptoms,” said the collector. The collector also added that 50% of the beds available in the existing Covid Care Centre on the Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University have been vacant. As on Saturday, Trichy has 5,032 positive cases with 84 fresh cases. The district also has 1,303 active cases on Saturday. On Friday, 101 asymptomatic patients were kept at the CCC on the Khajamalai campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/550-bed-covid-care-centre-being-readied-at-engg-college-in-trichy/articleshow/77439628.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ex-cop loses Rs 10,000 to ATM sanitization trick by duo||PUNE: Two men diverted the attention of an 84-year-old retired sub-inspector Krushna Jairam Surve and withdrew Rs 10,000 using his debit card on the pretext of sanitizing an SBI ATM that the latter had visited at Shastrinagar Chowk on July 17 around 12.55pm. “The duo hatched a double-action ploy where one pretended to be a customer and the other, a sanitizing personnel. The former suspect noted the debit card PIN. Suddenly the second suspect started sanitizing the kiosk and asked Surve to step outside for a few minutes,” police said. “Surve halted his transaction and stepped out without his card. The first suspect exited the ATM with the card while the sanitization continued. He went to another Punjab National Bank ATM in the vicinity and withdrew Rs 10,000. He replaced the card in the SBI ATM machine before fleeing with his accomplice,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retd-cop-loses-rs-10k-with-atm-sanitization-hoax/articleshow/77438594.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Malgudi Days museum opens at Arasalu railway station||SHIVAMOGGA: Minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi on Saturday inaugurated two lifts at Shivamogga Railway station along with new passenger amenities at Arasalu station. He also dedicated the much awaited ‘Malgudi Museum’ that has been developed after restoring the old station building at Arasalu. The approach road to the station has also been improved. The old station building at Arasalu had featured extensively in the popular television serial ‘Malgudi Days’. The museum pays tribute to the show and features toy trains, bogies, fountains and collections of photographs taken at the time of shooting and that of writer RK Narayan. Shivamogga MP BY Raghavendra dedicated the museum to the team of Malgudi Days. The building was designed by artist John Devraj, who was part of the TV show. The innovative idea of having a tea shop in a narrow-gauge coach stabled at the station adds a warm charm to the green surroundings, he said. Mysuru Railway DRM Aparna Garg said passenger amenities worth Rs 2.5 crores have been provided in Shivamogga. The two heavy-duty lifts connecting platform 1 with platforms 2, 3 will greatly benefit senior citizens and the specially-abled, she added. She said the work was executed in a short span of time amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/malgudi-days-museum-opens-at-arasalu-rly-station/articleshow/77437771.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||BJP packs off 20 Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat, blames Congress ‘pressure tactics’||JAIPUR: In yet another intriguing twist to the political drama playing out in Rajasthan, BJP has packed off 20 of its 72 MLAs to Gujarat in two batches to stave off an alleged bid by Congress to “pressure” them into backing the Ashok Gehlot government in the event of a trust vote. Fourteen MLAs checked into a resort in Gandhinagar on Friday evening while six others were flown to Porbandar on Saturday afternoon even as conflicting theories of a rift within the party and overtures by Congress added to the whispers. State BJP president Satish Poonia denied that internal party politics had anything to do with the move, but former CM Vasundhara Raje’s meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi fuelled speculation about something brewing within the saffron party. Sources claimed Raje complained to Singh about BJP MLAs being herded into resorts in another state, saying it had been done to malign her image. Three MLAs from Raje's home turf Jhalawar refused to go until they got instructions from the former CM, sources said. State party chief Poonia blamed Congress for the “rumour” that Raje was the reason for 20 MLAs being flown out of Rajasthan since Friday evening. “Raje is a two-time CM and BJP's national general secretary. Our party is united and there is no scope for any differences with her. Congress is taking Raje's name, but will be disappointed because there is nothing in it for them.” Poonia said the decision to move out some legislators was based on information that Congress, which has corralled its own MLAs in a Jaisalmer resort, had been allegedly using the police and other agencies to approach them. “They were under mental trauma due to these attempts. If some of them have gone somewhere, they have not committed a crime.” The MLAs will remain in Gujarat till the eve of the special assembly session from August 14, sources said. Of the 20 MLAs who are now in Gujarat, 10 represent ST seats where the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), a Congress ally, has considerable influence. Between six and eight of these MLAs had been approached by senior Congress functionaries, a source said. TOI had reported earlier this week about the BTP playing its bargaining chips to get some long-pending demands fulfilled, including declaring August 9 as a state holiday to mark World Tribal Day, in return for supporting the Gehlot government in a possible trial of strength. Watch Rajasthan political drama: Now BJP packs off 20 MLAs to Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-shifts-20-mlas-to-gujarat-blames-cong-pressure-tactics/articleshow/77439639.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 9, 2020||Allahabad||Hosp guard who attacked woman fired & arrested||Prayagraj: A private security guard posted at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital of MLN Medical College was arrested on Saturday, a day after a video of him beating up a destitute woman at the medical facility went viral on social media. According to reports, the incident occurred on Thursday night. District magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami took cognizance of the incident and directed Kotwali police to lodge an FIR against the guard. “An FIR was filed against the accused Sanjay Mishra and he has been arrested,” said SSP (Prayagraj) Abhishek Dixit. Meanwhile, MLN Medical College sacked Mishra. MLN Medical College principal SP Singh said, “The private security agency which employed the guard has been issued a notice and has been asked to take action against the accused.” In the viral video, the accused is seen thrashing and kicking the aged woman, who is lying helpless on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hosp-guard-who-attacked-woman-fired-arrested/articleshow/77436835.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Trichy||Parties continue to ignore norm to follow social distancing||Trichy: Political parties seem to be unmindful of the dangers spreading Covid-19 when it comes to any event by their party and leaders. A couple of days after BJP and Hindu outfits violated the lockdown norms by distributing sweets to people in 17 places in Trichy to celebrate the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, DMK threw caution to the wind and observed the second death anniversary of M Karunanidhi in 57 places in the city on Friday. As many as 1,200 functionaries and cadres of DMK were booked by Cantonment, E Pudhur, KK Nagar, Sessions court, Golden Rock, Ariyamangalam, Fort, Gandhi market, Palakkarai, Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar and Government hospital police stations on charges of unlawful assembly, disobeying the government order and acting in a manner to spread the infecting disease to endanger human life. While most of the events were organised by ward secretaries of the party, key functionaries like Thiruverumbur MLA and district secretary (south) Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, district secretary (central) Vairamani and deputy secretary Mu Anbazhagan also convened events. It may be pointed out that Trichy city police had booked 289 cadres and functionaries of BJP, VHP and Hindu Makkal Katchi for their celebrations on August 5. Such acts of political parties have come in for sharp criticism from the public. Social worker P Ayyarappan is of the view that political parties should be an example to the people. “If political parties indulge in such activities detrimental to the interest of the people, it will send a wrong message that everyone can violate any rule,” he said. Social worker Paul Guna Loganath questioned the pressing need to gather in public places without maintaining social distance. “Whether it is a ruling party or the opposition party, they should not set a wrong example among the public. Will they take the responsibility if anyone in the event gets infected? They should realize that they are also accountable for the well-being of the general public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parties-continue-to-ignore-norm-to-follow-social-distancing/articleshow/77439641.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ex-MP Nandi Yellaiah dies of Covid||HYDERABAD: Veteran Congress leader and eight-time MP Nandi Yellaiah died of Covid-19 at a hospital here on Saturday. He was 78. Yellaiah was admitted to the hospital on July 29 due to ill-health. He tested positive for Covid-19 and died while undergoing treatment. Condolences poured in for Yellaiah, a Dalit leader, who rose from the ranks of a party worker to a councillor of Municipal Corporation in Hyderabad to being elected six times to Lok Sabha and twice to Rajya Sabha. He was in the forefront of the first phase of Telangana agitation in 1969 and is popularly known as ‘Dalitha Bandhavudu.’ He won from Siddipet Lok Sabha constituency for five terms and once from Nagarkurnool. AICC interim president Sonia Gandhi, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, AICC general secretary in charge of Telangana RC Khuntia, former ministers Marri Shashidhar Reddy and Mohammed Ali Shabbir, TRS ministers and several others condoled his death. Sonia Gandhi spoke to Nandi Krishna, a family member of Yellaiah. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the death of Nandi Yellaiah has left a void in the Congress party. Yellaiah had also served as a member of the standing committee of defence. He also served as an MLC for some time in undivided Andhra Pradesh and was vice-president of Pradesh Congress Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-mp-nandi-yellaiah-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77438588.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Agra||189 new Covid positive cases reported in Bareilly||BAREILLY/MEERUT/AGRA: In yet another huge jump, at least 189 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Bareilly on Saturday. Of these, seven are railway employees. Furthermore, district surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said a 65-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 level three hospital died on Saturday. The district tally in Bareilly reached 3,503 with 1,732 active cases and 80 deaths. In Meerut district, at least 49 people, including two minors, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total tally to 2,448, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Significantly, after parents, now sister of Agra division commissioner has been tested Covid-19 positive. Parents of the officer were admitted to a private hospital. The sister is in an isolation ward at a private hotel on MG road. The officer along with his wife and children is in quarantine at a hotel. However, they were found Covid-19 negative. Earlier, divisional commissioner's personal driver, telephone operator and two guards were also tested positive. They are all in home isolation. At least 30 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 2,065. These included a female para-medical staff of a state government-run hospital. Following confirmation of the staff being Covid-19 positive, the operations at the hospital remained affected for over three hours. CMO RC Pandey said, “Currently, there are 297 active Covid-19 cases in Agra district. So far, 1,667 people have been cured of the infection and discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/189-new-covid-ve-cases-reported-in-bareilly-49-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77436840.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||189 new Covid positive cases reported in Bareilly||BAREILLY/MEERUT/AGRA: In yet another huge jump, at least 189 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Bareilly on Saturday. Of these, seven are railway employees. Furthermore, district surveillance officer Dr Ashok Kumar said a 65-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 level three hospital died on Saturday. The district tally in Bareilly reached 3,503 with 1,732 active cases and 80 deaths. In Meerut district, at least 49 people, including two minors, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total tally to 2,448, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Significantly, after parents, now sister of Agra division commissioner has been tested Covid-19 positive. Parents of the officer were admitted to a private hospital. The sister is in an isolation ward at a private hotel on MG road. The officer along with his wife and children is in quarantine at a hotel. However, they were found Covid-19 negative. Earlier, divisional commissioner's personal driver, telephone operator and two guards were also tested positive. They are all in home isolation. At least 30 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 2,065. These included a female para-medical staff of a state government-run hospital. Following confirmation of the staff being Covid-19 positive, the operations at the hospital remained affected for over three hours. CMO RC Pandey said, “Currently, there are 297 active Covid-19 cases in Agra district. So far, 1,667 people have been cured of the infection and discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/189-new-covid-ve-cases-reported-in-bareilly-49-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77444506.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Meerut||Ghaziabad suitcase case: 3 of a family who mistakenly identified body of 'missing' woman sent to jail||MEERUT: Mother and two brothers of the woman who was initially identified as the deceased recovered from a suitcase in Ghaziabad last month and later surfaced have now been booked, arrested and sent to jail for "providing incorrect evidence". Warisha, 22, who went missing from her Bulandshahr home on July 22, and pronounced "dead" after her family identified the body of the woman recovered from the suitcase in Ghaziabad as "her", had surfaced earlier this month. Based on the complaint of the cousin of Warisha's husband Aamir, police registered a case under section 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence) of the IPC against the three accused Ismail, Isreal and their mother Bundo. The complaint also alleged that the accused trio had threatened him to "play along" and not raise alarm in the mistaken identification of Warisha as the dead woman or else would frame him in the dowry death case. The latest arrest comes two days days after TOI reported that senior cops in Bulandshahr were planning to book Warisha's family for mistakenly identifying the body in a suitcase recovered in Ghaziabad on July 27. "Once we are done with recording of the statements of the Warisha’s family, a separate FIR will be filed against them for mistakenly identifying the body. We are still in the process of taking legal opinion on the exact charges to be pressed. This is being done to ensure that people don’t take these matters lightly in the future," said Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr’s SSP. Warisha had gone missing on July 22 from her in-laws’ house in Bulandshahr and was living with an acquaintance in Bhangel area in Noida since. On August 4, she reached Aligarh - her native place - and approached a woman constable and told her about the case. The constable alerted her senior following which revelation of her safe recovery was made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gzb-suitcase-case-3-of-a-family-who-mistakenlyidentified-body-of-missing-woman-sent-to-jail/articleshow/77436848.cms||Piyush Rai
August 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two killed, one injured in hit-and-run accident||PUNE: Two persons died and one was injured in a hit-and-run accident, when an unidentified four-wheeler hit a motorcycle on Sus Road on Friday afternoon. An officer from the Hinjewadi police said three persons — Laxman Kadam (34), his wife Arati (26) and Pramila Pal (29) — were riding triple-seat on a motorcycle. Laxman and Pramila succumbed to injuries. None of them were wearing helmets. TimesViewRash driving is continuing amid the pandemic in the city, especially on the outskirts, and lives are being lost in accidents. The focus of police is now undoubtedly on enforcing the “Unlock” norms. Still, the traffic police should apply the road rules and penalise those violating the norms to make the city streets safe for people.Pramila’s husband, Banwali Ramnath Pal (30), of Sus village lodged a complaint with the Hinjewadi police later in the day. Laxman and Banwali were casual workers, the police said. Arati and Pratima decided to go shopping on Sus Road and Laxman took them on his motorcycle. Banwali stayed home. When the trio had reached Tapkir Vasti, an unidentified four-wheeler hit their motorcycle and they fell on the road. Laxman and Pramila suffered deep head injuries, while Arati suffered injuries on her shoulder, legs and head. They were rushed to a nearby private hospital, where Laxman and Pramila were declared dead, the police said. “We are scanning the footage of different CCTV cameras to ascertain the vehicle responsible for the accident,” an officer said. The Hinjewadi police have booked the four-wheeler driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-killed-one-injured-in-hit-and-run-accident/articleshow/77438599.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Police to stand by pensioners and martyrs’ families during pandemic||Moradabad: Inspector general of police (Moradabad range) Ramit Sharma has directed police chiefs of Rampur, Moradabad, Sambhal, Amroha and Bijnor to appoint the additional superintendent of police (ASP) under him as nodal officers of their respective districts.Under their supervision, police will launch a drive to protect police pensioners and family members of cops who have died in the line of duty from Covid-19, in which serving cops will visit the targeted families to enquire about their health, provide them with medical aid and have doctors instructing them on ways to prevent spread of the virus. The IG has also directed SPs and SSPs under him to submit the reports of the drive at his office at the earliest.Speaking with TOI, Sharma said, “It’s the duty of the SPs and all police personnel to pay respect to the families of police pensioners and martyrs of their districts, and stand by them during the pandemic. Police officials have to invite doctors to lecture the families during their campaign.”The IG added, “Police officials have also been directed to promptly respond and take necessary steps to resolve all vexing issues faced by pensioners and police martyrs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-to-stand-by-pensioners-and-martyrs-families-during-pandemic/articleshow/77436118.cms||Nazar Abbas
August 9, 2020||Udaipur||Fourth spell of monsoon rejuvenates Rajasthan dams, some await more rain||JAIPUR: A good rainfall during the ongoing fourth spell of the southwest monsoon has rejuvenated the reservoirs and dams across the state. Some of the dams in the Kota division have touched 97% level of their full capacity although there are few dams which still await a continuous spell of good rainfall. Though the initial three spells of monsoon were not as fruitful to many districts, it has now gained momentum after the ongoing fourth spell that commenced last Sunday. TOI got the figures to know the water level of various dams in the state. In the past couple of days, heavy rainfall was witnessed in the Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur divisions which have actually facilitated the dams in the state to see an elevation in their water level. Water in Kota Barrage has reached 108.800 cusec metre against its full capacity of 112.060 cusec metre, which is 97.09% of the full capacity. Similarly, water in Jawahar Sagar dam in Kota has reached 57.760 cusec metre against its capacity of 67.120 cusec metre, which is 86.05% full. Likewise, Jaisamand lake in Udaipur is now 70.46% filled. “Water level at this dam has reached 292.5 cusec meter against its full capacity of 415.13 cusec meter,” said an officer.Jaipur: However, Bisalpur dam, which caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of people in Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk, badly needs some heavy rainfall in its catchment area. “Last year too, after August 8, the dam’s catchment area saw good amount of rainfall resulting in elevation in its water level. It further forced us to open three of its gates for the release of water,” said an engineer at the dam. Presently the dam is 53% full. “Hopefully good rainfall will bring elevation as last year, till August 5, the dam was only 34% full,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state on Saturday when many places witnessed a rainfall varying from 100mm to 50mm. “The fourth and fifth spell of the monsoon are going to be fruitful. In this month by August 10 there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall in some of the districts across the state,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/4th-spell-of-monsoon-rejuvenatesraj-dams-some-await-more-rain/articleshow/77441056.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 9, 2020||Ajmer||Fourth spell of monsoon rejuvenates Rajasthan dams, some await more rain||JAIPUR: A good rainfall during the ongoing fourth spell of the southwest monsoon has rejuvenated the reservoirs and dams across the state. Some of the dams in the Kota division have touched 97% level of their full capacity although there are few dams which still await a continuous spell of good rainfall. Though the initial three spells of monsoon were not as fruitful to many districts, it has now gained momentum after the ongoing fourth spell that commenced last Sunday. TOI got the figures to know the water level of various dams in the state. In the past couple of days, heavy rainfall was witnessed in the Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur divisions which have actually facilitated the dams in the state to see an elevation in their water level. Water in Kota Barrage has reached 108.800 cusec metre against its full capacity of 112.060 cusec metre, which is 97.09% of the full capacity. Similarly, water in Jawahar Sagar dam in Kota has reached 57.760 cusec metre against its capacity of 67.120 cusec metre, which is 86.05% full. Likewise, Jaisamand lake in Udaipur is now 70.46% filled. “Water level at this dam has reached 292.5 cusec meter against its full capacity of 415.13 cusec meter,” said an officer.Jaipur: However, Bisalpur dam, which caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of people in Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk, badly needs some heavy rainfall in its catchment area. “Last year too, after August 8, the dam’s catchment area saw good amount of rainfall resulting in elevation in its water level. It further forced us to open three of its gates for the release of water,” said an engineer at the dam. Presently the dam is 53% full. “Hopefully good rainfall will bring elevation as last year, till August 5, the dam was only 34% full,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state on Saturday when many places witnessed a rainfall varying from 100mm to 50mm. “The fourth and fifth spell of the monsoon are going to be fruitful. In this month by August 10 there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall in some of the districts across the state,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/4th-spell-of-monsoon-rejuvenatesraj-dams-some-await-more-rain/articleshow/77441058.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Fourth spell of monsoon rejuvenates Rajasthan dams, some await more rain||JAIPUR: A good rainfall during the ongoing fourth spell of the southwest monsoon has rejuvenated the reservoirs and dams across the state. Some of the dams in the Kota division have touched 97% level of their full capacity although there are few dams which still await a continuous spell of good rainfall. Though the initial three spells of monsoon were not as fruitful to many districts, it has now gained momentum after the ongoing fourth spell that commenced last Sunday. TOI got the figures to know the water level of various dams in the state. In the past couple of days, heavy rainfall was witnessed in the Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur divisions which have actually facilitated the dams in the state to see an elevation in their water level. Water in Kota Barrage has reached 108.800 cusec metre against its full capacity of 112.060 cusec metre, which is 97.09% of the full capacity. Similarly, water in Jawahar Sagar dam in Kota has reached 57.760 cusec metre against its capacity of 67.120 cusec metre, which is 86.05% full. Likewise, Jaisamand lake in Udaipur is now 70.46% filled. “Water level at this dam has reached 292.5 cusec meter against its full capacity of 415.13 cusec meter,” said an officer.Jaipur: However, Bisalpur dam, which caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of people in Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk, badly needs some heavy rainfall in its catchment area. “Last year too, after August 8, the dam’s catchment area saw good amount of rainfall resulting in elevation in its water level. It further forced us to open three of its gates for the release of water,” said an engineer at the dam. Presently the dam is 53% full. “Hopefully good rainfall will bring elevation as last year, till August 5, the dam was only 34% full,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state on Saturday when many places witnessed a rainfall varying from 100mm to 50mm. “The fourth and fifth spell of the monsoon are going to be fruitful. In this month by August 10 there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall in some of the districts across the state,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4th-spell-of-monsoon-rejuvenatesraj-dams-some-await-more-rain/articleshow/77439663.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Fourth spell of monsoon rejuvenates Rajasthan dams, some await more rain||JAIPUR: A good rainfall during the ongoing fourth spell of the southwest monsoon has rejuvenated the reservoirs and dams across the state. Some of the dams in the Kota division have touched 97% level of their full capacity although there are few dams which still await a continuous spell of good rainfall. Though the initial three spells of monsoon were not as fruitful to many districts, it has now gained momentum after the ongoing fourth spell that commenced last Sunday. TOI got the figures to know the water level of various dams in the state. In the past couple of days, heavy rainfall was witnessed in the Kota, Udaipur and Jaipur divisions which have actually facilitated the dams in the state to see an elevation in their water level. Water in Kota Barrage has reached 108.800 cusec metre against its full capacity of 112.060 cusec metre, which is 97.09% of the full capacity. Similarly, water in Jawahar Sagar dam in Kota has reached 57.760 cusec metre against its capacity of 67.120 cusec metre, which is 86.05% full. Likewise, Jaisamand lake in Udaipur is now 70.46% filled. “Water level at this dam has reached 292.5 cusec meter against its full capacity of 415.13 cusec meter,” said an officer.Jaipur: However, Bisalpur dam, which caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of people in Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk, badly needs some heavy rainfall in its catchment area. “Last year too, after August 8, the dam’s catchment area saw good amount of rainfall resulting in elevation in its water level. It further forced us to open three of its gates for the release of water,” said an engineer at the dam. Presently the dam is 53% full. “Hopefully good rainfall will bring elevation as last year, till August 5, the dam was only 34% full,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state on Saturday when many places witnessed a rainfall varying from 100mm to 50mm. “The fourth and fifth spell of the monsoon are going to be fruitful. In this month by August 10 there is a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall in some of the districts across the state,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/4th-spell-of-monsoon-rejuvenatesraj-dams-some-await-more-rain/articleshow/77441057.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 9, 2020||Meerut||UP: Dad, brother in jail for 8 months for murder, ‘dead’ woman resurfaces||MEERUT: Just days after a woman — who was declared murdered when a body was discovered in a suitcase in Ghaziabad — was found to be alive, a similar case has caught the police in UP's Amroha district off-guard. A 21-year-old pregnant woman who was assumed to have been killed in an “honour killing” case after she had gone missing in February last year has now resurfaced. After a 10-month investigation, police had booked three people, including her father and brother, and sent them to jail on charges of murder. The three accused have been in jail since December. Murder charges against them will be dropped now, police sources said. Meanwhile, the then station house officer (SHO) of Adampur police station has been suspended and a probe initiated. SP (Amroha) Vipin Tada said the woman was found living in the same village with her partner and child. “She had been in Delhi for sometime. But recently her family found that she had returned to her native village and informed police.” “The woman will be produced in court and her statement recorded. Ashok Sharma, the then SHO, has been suspended for dereliction of duty and a probe under additional SP has been initiated,” he added. In its investigation last year, police had claimed to have recovered a country-made pistol, cartridges and discarded clothes of the girl as evidence that it was a case of “honour killing”. Police had claimed the father of the woman had confessed to killing her daughter after he found out about the "bad company" she was keeping. Rahul Kumar, one of the brothers of the woman, alleged that the confession was forcibly taken after the family was tortured. In a similar case last week, after a body was recovered in a suitcase in Ghaziabad, police had announced that it belonged to Warisha Ali who had been killed for dowry by her husband and her parents-in-law. All the three were booked for murder and put in a jail in Bulandshahr. The woman walked into a police station, six days after she was identified as the victim in the suitcase and “buried” by her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dad-brother-in-jail-for-8-months-for-murder-dead-woman-resurfaces/articleshow/77436842.cms||Piyush Rai
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||High court tells civic body to install user-friendly foot over-bridges in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has asked the civic authorities to set up user-friendly foot over-bridges (FOBs) for the benefit of elderly and young children. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram, who observed several FOBs in the city lying unused, gave this suggestion to GHMC. “Install FOBs so that they will serve the purpose for which they are set up. Most of them have steep steps and even youngsters struggle to use them. Older people and children are not using them at all. This is defeating the very purpose of setting up FOBs in the city,” the judge pointed out. Justice Kodanda Ram said Hyderabad needs more FOBs to ensure safety for pedestrians. “But, they should be raised in such a manner that they have ramps to walk and lifts to use. Only then, FOBs would become popular. Make them people-friendly,” he said. The judge made this suggestion while hearing a petition filed by Ruhaina Apartment owners’ welfare society in Tarnaka. The society was objecting to an FOB in their colony vicinity causing inconvenience to the residents. The judge made it clear that it was the duty of the civic officials to identify the area to construct FOBs. “Courts cannot replace their wisdom in place of field wisdom of officials,” the judge said. He, however, told the authorities FOBs are essential to help people move freely in congested areas. “But, they have to possess key facilities like ramp-like walkways and lifts to enable people,” Justice Kodanda Ram said. The GHMC had proposed to construct seven skywalks and 41 FOBs across the city. It said the FOBs would be equipped with lifts and escalators for the convenience of pedestrians, especially elders and women. A mix of steel and cement, these structures would be designed in different shapes to suit local conditions and provide convenient road-crossing facility, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-tells-civic-body-to-install-user-friendly-foot-over-bridges-in-city/articleshow/77438601.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Mumbai gang conning people with job offers held in Vadodara||VADODARA: The local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police on Saturday busted a Mumbai-based gang that used to cheat people from different states by promising them jobs or membership of sexual services. LCB sleuths cracked down on the gang while probing the complaint of Nagesh Ghughardare, a resident of Bhayli. Ghughardare lost over Rs 1 crore as he got trapped in their offer of a job with a monthly salary of Rs 1.4 lakh. The seven persons who were arrested have been identified as Selva Santosh Natesan, Rakesh Jadhav, Sandeep alias Sandy Sinha, Ramakant alias Babu Vishwakarma, Jameel Khan, his wife Nilofer and father-in-law Sajjad Baig. Three others – Bhushan Kamble, Vaibhav Bhovad and Shriram Gupta – are absconding. Ghughardare had transferred the money in different amounts to accounts of Nilofer, Baig and Kamble in nine banks. While probing the accounts, the transactions that were taking place in them and their owners, police found that Nilofer, Baig and Kamble were just a face to the entire scam and the kingpin were Natesan, Jadhav and Sinha. The trio had taken their bank accounts and mobile numbers on rent and used to pay them Rs 40,000 every month for it. “The money used to be transferred from one account to another and further on, so it took a while to zero down the accused,” said superintendent of police Dr Sudhir Desai. Later based on the mobile phone locations, the accused were brought to Vadodara for questioning during which they admitted to their crime and gave details of their entire racket. Desai added that when the accused were brought for questioning, three of them tested positive for coronavirus and even recovered. Police have found out that a similar criminal case has been registered at Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli as well. The gang had cheated the victim of Rs 17 lakh in that case. The gang has conned people in Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra too. Of the Rs 1 crore lost by Ghughardare, cops have recovered Rs 19 lakh and are searching for three other accused. As many as 18 sim cards, 17 mobile phones, 28 debit-cum-ATM cards, several passbooks and cheque books have been recovered from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mumbai-gang-conning-people-with-job-offers-held/articleshow/77437791.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Take a lap, on land||People, even sportspersons, managed to get creative with their workouts during lockdown. But when Russian Olympian swimmer Yuliya Efimova put out a video of her going for a swim in her kitchen, everyone was dumbstruck. Dryland exercises — that’s what competitive swimmers are resorting to in a desperate attempt to not lose touch with their technique during the pandemic, which has kept them out of the pool. In Phuket, Thailand, India’s Sajan Prakash, who is there on a scholarship from the International Swimming Federation (FINA), has been resorting to some of the same techniques employed by Efimova. While she lay on her stomach on her kitchen countertop, with her upper body suspended off the counter, mimicking swimming strokes, Prakash and his fellow swimmers have been using a railing. "We lie atop it and one person holds on to our ankles while we practise the strokes, whether it is breaststroke or freestyle," says Prakash. "We do it for 40 seconds, take a 20 second break and then repeat eight times." To not lose the touch of being in water, they also use an inflatable pool. "We fill it with water, tie a rope tethered to something at one end, tie the other end around us and then jump in and move our arms so that we keep our shoulders moving and don’t lose the ‘water touch’, which is important," he says, adding that they also do high intensity training, theraband exercises, and run to keep up their cardiovascular fitness. In Chennai, swimming coach Ramesh Jayaraman says he has also been helping swimmers keep fit during the lockdown. "While you cannot exactly replicate what you do in water, you can do some land-based exercises that will help you maintain your fitness levels," he says. "You need to focus on important muscle groups — shoulders, abs and core, and legs — along with general flexibility." His workout routine includes land-based ones without machines, push ups, pulls ups, squats, and resistance band training. "You can follow the same movement you use in water for freestyle with the help of the bands and strengthen your shoulders," he says, adding that basic yoga stretches also improve flexibility. Competitive swimmer Maanya Mukta Manesh, who has been training at Ramachandra Medical Centre in Porur, says that before lockdown she used to practice swimming twice a day. "Now, I do a schedule that is personalised for my body — resistance band workouts for shoulder stability as we do a lot of rotations in swimming, and this prevents injury of the rotator cuff muscles. And also a lot of core workouts — plank, shoulder dab, ball rollout, wood chops — as swimmers use their core a lot to maintain their posture in water," says the 15-year-old. But, of course, nothing can replace the feel of being in the water and, with gyms open, swimmers are keeping their fingers crossed. "It’s been a long time since I have been in the pool. And I can’t wait to train again," says Maanya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/take-a-lap-on-land/articleshow/77440211.cms||Priya Menon
August 9, 2020||Rajkot||‘Massive ghee adulteration can’t be ruled out’||Palanpur: Mehsana’s Dudhsagar Dairy which has remained under controversies has once again landed itself in trouble. On Saturday, Mehsana’s district superintendent of police Parthrajsinh Gohil said that the possibility of massive adulteration in ghee cannot be ruled out. As per directives of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) – the apex body in which Mehsana dairy is a member union, Dudhsagar Dairy did not house the equipment to carry out ghee analysis. “Pure ghee has 28 Reichert-Meissl (RM) value. Even if acetem (a food grade chemical) is mixed, its RM value remains at 28. We will look into all these aspects,” said Gohil. The state registrar of co-operative societies has asked Mehsana police to look into the complaint made by GCMMF. A special investigation team (SIT) headed by deputy superintendent of police Visnagar had already arrested dairy’s former managing director Nishith Baxi, vice-chairman Moghjibhai Chaudhary and two others in connection to the case. After they were produced before the court, they were sent to three days police custody on Friday. It was through a letter written by GCMMF’s managing director R S Sodhi last month that it came to light that the federation had stopped dispatch of 600 metric tonnes of ghee to the tune of Rs 40 crore as of the 172 batches of ghee, 118 batches were found to be unfit. The ghee samples were tested after a sample of ghee dispatched from the Dudu plant in Rajasthan in June was found adulterated as Rajasthan police stopped a tanker that was on its way to Mehsana. The ghee sample that was checked at AmulFed, Gandhinagar contained around 16 % palm oil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/massive-ghee-adulteration-cant-be-ruled-out/articleshow/77437803.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Meerut||Yogi Adityanath in Saharanpur to review Covid 19 situation in west UP||MEERUT: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Saharanpur on Saturday as part of his three-district visit to review the Covid-19 situation in west UP in the backdrop of increasing number of cases in the region. Senior administrative and health officials of all three districts of the Saharanpur division — Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Saharanpur — accompanied the CM. While the meeting was going on, several RLD activists raised slogans protesting against the pending cane dues to farmers. RLD organisational general secretary Raj Kumar Sangwan said, "This government has failed on every front. On one hand, they (BJP) will double the income of farmers and on the other, they are ruining farmers. The power tariff has been increased and sugarcane dues are still pending. There are only lies in their statements." The RLD activists even jostled with police trying to enter the venue of meeting at the Saharanpur Circuit House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/yogi-in-saharanpur-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-west-up/articleshow/77436870.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Merger with Congress: BSP legislators seek transfer of case to SC||JAIPUR: The six legislators, whose merger into Congress from BSP has been challenged before the Rajasthan High Court, have petitioned the Supreme Court to transfer the matter to itself, as it was already hearing appeals against a similar question of law decided by the Punjab High Court in 1997 and the Gauhati High Court in 2014. As per the BSP MLAs, the question of law raised before the Rajasthan, Punjab and Gauhati high courts was: “Whether, for the purposes of para 4 of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, the original political party needs to be merged, apart from the merger of the legislature party?” In Rajasthan, all six BSP MLAs merged into Congress with the approval from the Speaker, but their party and a BJP MLA challenged it saying that the merger at the state level was unconstitutional as the original political party, the BSP led by Mayawati at the national level, has not merged into Congress. In the 2014 case of Nagaland assembly Speaker versus Imtilemba Sangtam, the Gauhati HC ruled that for the merger of a legislature party there was no need for the merger of its political party, the BSP legislators have said in their transfer petition filed before the SC on Saturday. The 2014 judgment was challenged through a special leave petition (SLP) titled Mithou Krose versus Imtilemba Sangtam, which was currently being heard by the apex court.Pleading SC to tag Nagaland and Rajasthan assemblies’ cases together for hearing by a constitutional bench, the six MLAs have sought a stay on the proceedings in the Rajasthan High Court, which is hearing petitions separately moved by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP for their disqualification. A single bench of the high court has asked the MLAs to file their replies on these petitions by August 11. Dilawar and BSP had sought a stay on the BSP-Congress merger until their petitions are finally decided by the high court, but the single bench passed no order on it. Following an appeal by Dilawar and BSP, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty passed an interim order on August 6, saying “we remain confident” that the single bench will “hear and dispose of the stay applications” on August 11. The merger of the six BSP MLAs in September 2019 helped the ruling Congress to maintain majority in the Rajasthan assembly. The high court decision on the merger would have a bearing on the Ashok Gehlot-led state government facing crisis due to revolt by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/merger-with-cong-bsp-legislators-seek-transfer-of-case-to-sc/articleshow/77439667.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Refund excess charges taken from Covid positive patients in 2 days: NMC to private hospital||NAGPUR: In what the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) claims to be first-of-its-kind action in Vidarbha, it has directed Wockhardt dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) to return excess amount charged from 12 Covid-19 positive patients who recovered and got discharge from there. The order issued on Saturday by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe stated that the hospital was supposed to take charges finalized by the state government and NMC. Instead, hospital charged these patients at its own rates, the order said. The hospital was also ordered to return the difference in amount of bill and advance taken from patients. Advance was taken from all patients but the hospital did not return the amount left after deduction of bill to a few patients, the order said. The hospital has been told to submit compliance within two days, meaning it will have to return the amount to all patients within this period. If the hospital fails to comply with the order, it was warned of action under The Epidemic Diseases Act-1897, Disaster Management Act-2005, Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance (Amendment) Act-2011, Mumbai Nursing Home (Amendment) Act-2006, Bombay Nursing Home (Amendment) Act-2006 and Bombay Public Trusts Act-1950. A statement issued by K Sujatha, centre head, Wockhardt Hospital, said that managing a Covid hospital is a complex process. "Wockhardt has tried to provide best clinical team, trained para clinical team, comprehensive care under one roof," the hospital said while assuring cooperation to the civic chief to fight the pandemic. The hospital is city’s first DCH with capacity of 40 beds. The hospital has also been directed to ensure admission of patients first under 80% government quota and only after these beds are occupied, it can admit patients in remaining 20% beds as per its own rates. Citing state government’s order dated May 21, Mundhe had issued circular fixing charges for Covid-19 and non-Covid services. The order had clearly stated that first 80% of total beds should be occupied and patients should be charged as per rates finalized by the government. The hospital can charge as per its rates for remaining 20% beds. The NMC had on July 25 deputed officers to monitor the rates being charged by the health care providers in the city for effective control of the pandemic. The team visited Wockhardt Hospital on July 26. Various types of violations came to fore after inspection and verification of records and information submitted by the hospital. Mundhe issued a show cause notice to the hospital on August 4. In the latest order, Mundhe said the hospital did not given reply to all points raised in the show-cause notice. The hospital has been told to reply to all points after which Mundhe will take final action. Following TOI’s report, the NMC had found similar violations at Seven Star Hospital located at Jagnade square. A similar show cause notice was issued to the hospital. Action is awaited in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/refund-excess-charges-taken-from-ve-patients-in-2-days-nmc-to-pvt-hosp/articleshow/77438633.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Truck drivers in fix as income hits bump||HYDERABAD: Around 5.2 lakh good vehicles, including a fleet of 1.5 lakh trucks, that went off road in March after the nationwide lockdown was announced, have turned into a headache for their drivers and owners in the state, who say that the depleting freight volumes has eroded their incomes completely. Sudarshan Yadav, a truck driver-cum-owner estimates he has only used his two trailer trucks to shift construction equipment for about 10 days in the past four months. “Trucks that used to be busy hauling cargo back and forth to several parts of the country from Telangana are now gathering dust at parking lots and on roadsides. At the state border, trucks that took cargo to Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are returning empty. The crisis of demand has left cash-strapped truck drivers and operators to log hundreds of miles without any profits,” said Yadav. The transport operators say that they have submitted several representations to the authorities requesting the government for an insurance and tax waiver, but to no avail. Manchireddy Rajender Reddy, the working president of Telangana Lorry Owners’ Association, said, “The truck owners have not worked a day for the past four months and yet we are not getting any financial aid or insurance waiver.” “The insurance amount for heavy vehicle ranges from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh. Many are also paying at least Rs 1 lakh as EMI’s for these vehicles. When we haven’t earned anything, how can we pay such huge amounts? We request the government to pay a minimum of Rs 7,500 to the drivers, so we can at least feed our children,” said Reddy. K Papa Rao, the deputy transport commissioner (vigilance, enforcement and IT) said, “They have given a representation which has been forwarded to the government. Any decision in this regard has to be taken by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-drivers-in-fix-as-income-hits-bump/articleshow/77438625.cms||Moulika.KV
August 9, 2020||Allahabad||‘Install Ashok Singhal’s statue, memorial pillars’||Prayagraj: Seers across the country, led by Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), have raised the demand for installing statue of Ram temple movement architect Ashok Singhal and constructing ‘kirti stambhs’ (memorial pillars) at Ayodhya, Prayagraj and all important religious places of Hindus. The names of people, who lost their lives during the Ram temple movement or dedicated their life for it, should be engraved on the pillars, said ABAP office-bearers. The seers plan to get a resolution passed by ABAP, the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognized Hindu monastic orders in the country, in this regard and then send a formal proposal to the Centre. The ABAP meeting would be held around forthcoming Navratri. ABAP general secretary Swami Hari Giri said, “The struggle for Ram temple in Ayodhya continued for decades and many people lost their lives during it. Take the example of former VHP chief Ashok Singhal, who even gave his home to the struggle, or Kothari brothers (Ram Kumar and Sharad Kothari of Kolkata), who died in police firing in Ayodhya on November 2, 1990.” “Now, when the construction of Ram temple is all set to start, we want ‘kirti stambhs’ to be constructed in their honour in Ayodhya and Prayagraj,” he said. Giri said he has prepared a proposal for ‘kirti stambh’ and installation of a statue of Ashok Singhal near Sangam with names of those who played important roles in the struggle engraved on it. “We put up the proposal before Akhara Parishad and get it passed. We will then send it to central government for implementation,” he claimed. He said the seers also want all cases registered against people involved in the struggle to be withdrawn. “Now that the struggle for Ram temple is over, the cases registered against people in connection with it should also be withdrawn. We have already made a formal request in this regard to the state government,” he said. It is akin to the cases against freedom fighters that were withdrawn when India got freedom. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said the seers have also decided to celebrate August 5 — the Ram temple ‘bhumi pujan’ day — like Diwali every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/install-ashok-singhals-statue-memorial-pillars/articleshow/77436855.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Trichy||De-weeding Uyyakondan canal in Trichy gets costlier||Trichy: The de-weeding drive undertaken by the public works department (PWD) recently at the Uyyakondan canal in the city to prevent mosquito menace, has escalated the maintenance cost by 12% than last year, with officials attributing it to the rapid growth of water hyacinth and waste water being let into the canal.A distributory of Cauvery river, the 69km long Uyyakondan canal originates from Pettaivaithalai and ends at Valavanthankottai of which 9km of the canal passes through Trichy. Starting from Raja Colony locality behind the district collectorate, PWD officials said that the quantity of water hyacinth has drastically increased. The intensity of weeds all through Alwarthope, Palakkarai and Kattur apart from delaying the work progress has also pushed the department to spend more on labour. “Every year, the maintenance cost is increasing by 10%-12%. As farmers are dependent on the canal, we had to take up the maintenance irrespective of the cost,” a PWD official said.Sewage and sullage from houses and commercial establishments let into the water body have caused the growth of the weed. The PWD, which spent Rs 8 lakh in 2019 has spent Rs 9 lakh this year. “Authorities should instruct the houses and commercial establishments on Uyyakondan banks to have septic tanks to discharge their wastewater. Poor enforcement is the main reason for the pollution,” Ilayaraja Vignesh, a resident of Woraiyur said. Trichy Corporation, on the other hand, solely relies on expanding the underground drainage project in banks of the Uyyakondan. The civic body is yet to act against the establishments letting out wastewater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/de-weeding-uyyakondan-canal-in-trichy-gets-costlier/articleshow/77439665.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation drops plan for Thillai Nagar mall||Trichy: A year after proposing a mall with movie halls in Thillai Nagar, Trichy Corporation has withdrawn from the move citing poor patronage. The civic body officials said that none of the entrepreneurs had approached them to enquire for commercial space in the project planned in heart of the city. The cancellation of the proposed mall has disappointed residents.In July 2019, Trichy Corporation had disclosed a list of 14 proposals inducted into smart cities mission initiative. The proposals include a two-floor mall with movie halls in Thillai Nagar first cross, swimming pool at Anna Nagar and developing smart road in Konakkarai. The proposal was received well by the locals as Thillai Nagar, despite being a posh locality, lacked movie halls and entertainment outlets. The mall was proposed to be established at the Trichy Corporation employees’ quarters in the Thillai Nagar first cross. The civic body last year had assured to demolish the staff quarters to make way for a mall with multiple shops and movie screens to generate significant revenue.A section of residents have raised doubts over the civic body’s marketing strategy. “Claiming poor patronage in a commercial hub like Thillai Nagar is unbelievable. Perhaps, Trichy Corporation did not market the proposed mall to the target audience including famous multiplexes,” N Manivannan, a resident of Palakkarai added. Officials said that they have unofficially shelved the project only because of poor response. “We have two more commercial complexes coming up in Thillai Nagar seventh cross and in Puthur where the possibility of adding a movie hall will be considered. For now, Thillai Nagar first cross mall is set to be dropped,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-drops-plan-for-thillai-nagar-mall/articleshow/77439666.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 9, 2020||Pune||School teacher uses loudspeakers to broadcast lessons to students||PUNE: Every morning, since the last 10 days, students living near Mahadeo temple in Badole village, located close to Akkalkot, are waking up to the voice of their teachers reciting poems from their textbooks or teaching lessons via the loud speaker at the temple. Teachers of KP Gaikwad High School have converted around 60 lessons into audio files that are broadcast through the loud speakers of three temples in the area between 6am and 8am. Mayur Dantakale, a teacher, said, “The idea is to ensure that children do not lose touch with the learning environment.” A local survey revealed that of 350-odd students from Std V to X studying in the school, only 80% had a smartphones while about 20% had no phones at all. This led Dantakale, a drawing teacher, to think of alternative modes. When he saw the news about a teacher from North India using loudspeakers to teach, he realized that the idea could be replicated at his village. Soon, the entire team got to work. While the teachers understood that the loudspeaker lessons couldn’t replace the actual teaching-learning process, and may not even be successful in helping students understand their lessons, the aim has been to ensure that students have at least some semblance of education in their daily life. “This endeavour requires teamwork. We have five teachers at the school, including headmaster Sunil Gumaste and coordinator Mahadeo Sonkar, and three non-teaching staff. The programme is being run on an experimental basis for Std V to VIII. We have about 60 lessons from languages and theory subjects converted to MP3 files, which are copied to a pen drive and played on the temple loudspeakers. The local mosques have also permitted us to use their loudspeakers,” said Dantakale. He added that about 100 students living around the temples can hear these lessons. “We are not claiming that this initiative will be an amazing success. We just want students to know that schools will reopen soon and they must study. Secondly, many parents have said that they like the experiment. Students wake up early in villages and it is good for them if they hear stories and poems from their textbooks in the morning. Even if 10 students learn something from the initiative, we will consider it a success,” said Dantakale. While online classes have started for Std IX and X, they are thinking of using the same medium for language subjects. “All of us go around the village talking to parents and students and, sometimes, our presence is enough for students to take self-study seriously. Their problems are very basic. They do not have pencils or notebooks and they tell us to get it for them. We do the needful during the next visit. Sometimes, they want to clear a doubt and we help them. Hence, our presence makes the biggest difference to their educational life,” added Dantakale. (with inputs from Suryakant Asabe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-teacher-uses-loudspeakers-to-broadcast-lessons-to-students/articleshow/77438618.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Switch off ACs to counter Covid, say experts||HYDERABAD: It has been nearly two months since Telangana has lifted lockdown restrictions and people have begun going out again, but experts say that many are doing so without considering the ways that can protect them or contain the spread of Covid-19 Medical experts say that switching-off the air conditioning in cars and commercial buildings should become a norm in the fight against Covid-19. Experts also say that the risk of spending a lot of time in a building or a room with the AC switched on is one of the most overlooked factors in the spread of the virus. “Whilst driving, if you are sitting in a car with a driver or a co-passenger, I think it is important to ensure that you have ventilation. It is best not to switch on the air conditioner because you do not know if the co-passenger is an asymptomatic carrier,” said, Dr P Raghu Ram, president, The Association of Surgeons of India. “When the air conditioning is switched on it means that you are breathing a higher percentage of the same air that other people are exhaling. If someone in the building or the room is carrying the virus, it can build up in the recirculated air,” said Dr S A Rafi, consultant pulmonologist, CARE Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-switch-off-acs-to-counter-covid/articleshow/77438593.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Meerut||Private parts mutilated, 6-year-old battles for life after abduction, rape in UP’s Hapur||MEERUT: In a grim reminder of Delhi’s Nirbhaya rape case, a six-year-old girl from Garh in Hapur district was abducted on August 6 and later brutalized by the main suspect who is still at large. She was recovered a day later and immediately referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut due to her critical condition. According to the doctors treating her, she has suffered serious injuries to her private parts following which they had to conduct a surgery to save her life. “Her private parts have been significantly damaged. It can't be immediately treated as the tissues got scattered. A separate tube has been surgically placed to ensure disposal of faecal matter,” a doctor at LLRM told TOI. Besides, there are abrasions all over her body, the doctor said. According to the police, the girl was abducted by a motorcycle-borne assailant while she was playing outside her house in Garh area in Hapur district on Thursday evening. Soon after police were alerted about the incident, several teams, including a dog squad and surveillance, were pressed into action to trace the missing girl. The following morning, the minor girl was recovered abandoned at least 2 km away from the place where she was abducted. According to senior police officials in Hapur, the girl was rushed to the district hospital and later referred to a higher centre in Meerut. Senior police officials claim the suspect could be a person known to the family of the rape survivor. “According to the witnesses, the girl didn't resist when she was lured by the motorist suggesting the person could be known to her or the family. We have also prepared a sketch based on the account of two women who claimed to have seen the abductor,” Hapur additional superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/private-parts-mutilated-6-year-old-battles-for-life-after-abduction-rape-in-ups-hapur/articleshow/77436853.cms||Piyush Rai
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Traders ignore losses, urge cops to shut markets to beat corona in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Representatives of several market committees in central Kolkata have requested police and local councillors to enusre all commercial establishments are shut for seven to 10 days to arrest the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus in some of the busiest, yet most affected, parts of the city. This plea by the business community, despite facing mounting losses due to the pandemic as well as the lockdown, reflects the fear among traders as well as other people even as Covid cases continue to surge central Kolkata areas, such as Burrabazar, Posta, Brabourne Road, Jorasanko and MG Road. Several market associations have gone in for self-imposed lockdown after cases did not ebb, and several shop owners and employees fell ill. Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry, the apex body for textile trade in eastern India, had written to the government last week, requesting a total lockdown at all markets for a few days to halt the spread of the virus. “The situation is alarming, and people are scared. It is true a complete lockdown means financial losses but currently, we have to think of people’s safety. We welcome the state decision of a staggered lockdown,” said Arun Bhuwalka, president of the chamber. Neither the police nor councillors (now, ward coordinators) can issue orders to shut markets. Many were surprised by the business community’s plea because it would mean further financial losses when sales were already down by over 60%. “We have regular meetings with market committees on implementing safety guidelines and conducting business in safe environment,” said Suneeta Jhawar, Ward 42 co-ordinator. In many markets, traders have been following the odd-even rule to reduce crowding at the shops. Market committees are also strictly implementing social distancing norms and ensuring people wear masks. Some markets have even hired bouncers to make sure everyone followed rules. “We are willing to follow whatever the government decides. Currently, the priority is to defeat the virus,” said Chandresh Meghani, president of the Calcutta Electric Dealers’ Association. But at some markets, several traders have refused to follow the odd-even formula, fearing business loss to competitors. Market committees hope the state would issue directives to rein in those traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-ignore-losses-urge-cops-to-shut-markets-to-beat-corona/articleshow/77438623.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 9, 2020||India||Govt plans to protect identity, language, land of J&K people||SRINAGAR: Protection of identity, language and land of people of Jammu and Kashmir is on the cards, on the lines of that enjoyed by indigenous people in many other states. Parliamentary approval will be sought for making the relevant legal changes, said government sources. A domicile policy for Union territory of Ladakh is also on the cards, a senior government functionary told TOI. According to sources, what happened on August 5, 2019 with regard to abrogation of Article 370 in J&K has not been unrolled in full. Like a government functionary explained, if something has been removed (special status for J&K), something else has to come in place in terms of protection of the local population. The official indicated that these protections -- meant to preserve the unique identity, language and land of its people – are in the pipeline. “You don’t need Article 370 and such frameworks to protect your identity etc. You have seen the J&K domicile rules, so jobs are there for the locals. More protections are coming,” said an officer. The proposed legal changes would have happened earlier but for the Covid crisis, as per sources. In terms of language, a key question that may be addressed is whether the official language in UT of J&K shall be Hindi or Urdu, in addition to English. While the J&K Constitution had English and Urdu as official languages, Section 47 of the J&K Reorganisation Act empowers the legislative assembly to adopt any one of more of the languages in use in the UT or Hindi as official language. A likely scenario could be making Hindi the official language, especially as Jammu is a non-Urdu speaking region, while Urdu is preserved as a regional language. Sources said there are protections coming for land too in J&K. “Such protections are highly expected and will reassure the people of J&K that their land will not be taken over by outsiders. This will also set fears of a likely demographic change in Kashmir, to rest,” said a government functionary. Incidentally, even the 6,000 acres of land in J&K identified for industries to set up shop in the UT, is all government land. Around one-and-a-half dozen states have special laws to restrict sale and transfer of land from ‘domicile’ residents to non-locals, or even from tribals to non-tribals. The J&K system could be modelled on that followed in states like Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand, which place curbs on non-locals buying agricultural land or put a ceiling on the land holding that can be owned by an “outsider”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-plans-to-protect-identity-language-land-of-jk-people/articleshow/77440202.cms||Bharti Jain
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Devices to keep Covid-19 away flood markets||CHENNAI: When people were panic buying face masks and digital thermometers at the peak of Covid infection, there were also sellers who cashed in on people’s fear by pushing in an array of mini-gadgets online and in shops. From keychains to open doors to tools that punch elevator buttons and air sterilization cards, these low cost and pocket-sized tools, their makers promise, can protect people from infection by minimising touching surfaces. Most of these gizmos, costing less than `200 each, began flooding the market since May. New versions came in as more sellers jumped in seeing the demand for such products. For instance, there are variations of the keychain that can help people open doors by pulling the handle or punch elevator buttons without touching the surface. Other variants are made with suitable material for additional purposes like flushing toilets and pressing electric switches. There is one that can be filled with a disinfectant and can be rubbed on surfaces with a sponge. Huzefa, who owns Essem Engineering Mart in Parry’s, said the patented contactless door opener tool was one of the fast-moving products at his store and is most sought after by corporates and IT employees who buy them in bulk. "It is a tool which can be used with just one or two fingers. It came into the market after the Covid outbreak. We sell them online and at our store. Companies buy them, so they can clip them onto their employees’ ID cards. The manufacturer in Pune has sold more than 10 lakh pieces," he said. Amal Raj, who has been using the tool, said, "It gives a sense of safety. I am worried about how many may have touched a lift button or a door handle. So I feel safe when I use it." Another tool that is popular online is Virus Shut Out, a product from Japan, that is supposed to keep viruses as far as one metre away from the user. The person needs to wear a dog-tag like rope on the body. One of the distributors in Kolathur said it was initially in demand, but not anymore. In March, the US Environmental Protection Agency said it obstructed entry of the ‘illegal health product’ under federal pesticide laws. The EPA website says it had got Amazon to remove the product as it made misleading claims. But in India, the product continues to be available online. There are also pocked-sized versions of UV sterilizer and contactless digital thermometers online. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said these gadgets can never become an alternative to wearing masks. "From a healthcare perspective the value of these products is dubious," he said. "The only thing is that someone is making good business."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/devices-to-keep-covid-away-flood-markets/articleshow/77440212.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 9, 2020||Agra||UPSRTC suspends premium bus services||Agra: Following operational losses caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has suspended premium bus services including Volvo, Scania, AC Janrath and Shatabdi. Besides, the number of regular buses operating on inter-state routes has also decreased. Four Volvo and four Scania buses used to operate from Agra fort bus stand to major cities of UP including Lucknow, Meerut and Kanpur. Besides, nine Pink buses and 16 AC Janrath buses were also operating on different routes. Operations of all these buses have been suspended for now. According to sources, regular buses are not getting the adequate number of passengers and majority of their scheduled trips are being cancelled on a daily basis. UPSRTC additional regional manager Jaikaran said, “We are not getting enough passengers to continue the operation of the buses profitably due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Operation of premium buses like Volvo, Scania and other AC buses has been temporarily suspended.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upsrtc-suspends-premium-bus-services/articleshow/77436874.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMC, cops ramp up measures in Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi||KOLKATA: The Phoolbagan-Kankurgachi belt, with at least a dozen containment zones, remains the biggest challenge for police and KMC in the east, even as the authorities struggle to arrest the virus spread in Patuli-Baghajatin, which, too, have around 12 Covid pockets. P Block at Phoolbagan that had earlier managed to walk out of the containment list re-entered the category as the list was revised on Friday evening. According to the authorities, three factors had compounded the problem in Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi and those needed micromanagement. One, the virus has spread across all strata, seven of the containment zones being standalone apartments, one a slum, two apartment complexes and two comprising both flats and slums. Secondly, the area witnessed cross-movement with domestic help and utility providers entering flats and complexes, people using multiple auto routes and visiting mini trading and hospital hubs. Thirdly, officials said, most people refused to follow restrictions. But, not all is bad news. “Beliaghata has shed them all containment zones, but one on Barwaritala Road. Maniktala, too, has stabilized. In several areas, the number of cases are declining and in some, no new case is reported” an official said. Police, however, said they were not looking at “one-pill solution” to arrest the rising Covid cases. “Controlling access to big markets helped spread the virus. Now that it has reached apartments, we are shutting down affected areas by rotation,” said a Lalbazar officer. Cops and KMC are likely to carry out antigen tests on most vulnerable sections—those involved in markets, local transporters and domestic help. “A large number of people are in isolation and we are in touch with KMC,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-ramp-up-measures-in-phoolbagan-kankurgachhi/articleshow/77438638.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP: Ensure proper preparations for Muharram||HYDERABAD: The Bhartiya Janata Party Minority Morcha (BJPMM) has urged the state government to ensure that adequate arrangements are made for Muharram, which is likely to commence from August 21. Mir Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson of BJPMM told TOI that the matter was taken up with government and authorities concerned in the Old City. The officials were told about pending Ashoorkhanas works. “Muharram is going to be started from August 21 and Youm-e-Ashura (10th Muharram) is likely to be on August 30. In this regard, we have submitted detailed representations to authorities concerned to ensure necessary preparations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic for the safety of devotees. The government and Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) should issue guidelines to help people,’’ said Firasat Ali Baqri. Touching upon fund utilization process, Firasat Ali Baqri alleged that last year’s sanction had not been used appropriately, due to which certain Ashoorkhanas works were pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-ensure-proper-preps-for-muharram/articleshow/77438640.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Puducherry||Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Tamil Nadu: Health minister||THANJAVUR: The Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in the state and it is high time the general public shook off the stigma of the disease and approached government hospitals if they had symptoms, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has said. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating various facilities at the Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur on Saturday. “Early de-ionization was the strategy that brought down the death rate in Tamil Nadu,” he said. So far, a total of 30.8 lakh people have been tested in the state, the highest in the country. About 70% of patients have so far been discharged after treatment, the minister said. He said that treating infected pregnant women was a challenging task. “Around 3,700 Covid-19 pregnant women have been treated across the state and 184 in Thanjavur district. This was possible because of our committed doctors and dedicated staff nurses who are battling against the virus from the front. A 16-day infant which tested positive was also successfully treated for Covid-19”, the minister stated. He said that about 4,000 beds were available in Thanjavur to handle any situation and this could be increased to 10,000. “Government has provided all the required facilities to treat people if they are infected. But, they should come forward to utilize them avoid self-medication. If they approach government hospitals early, the probability of saving lives will also be high”, the minister further stated. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu, Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam and district collector M Govinda Rao were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/covid-19-curve-has-started-to-flatten-in-tn-health-min/articleshow/77442140.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Tamil Nadu: Health minister||THANJAVUR: The Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in the state and it is high time the general public shook off the stigma of the disease and approached government hospitals if they had symptoms, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has said. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating various facilities at the Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur on Saturday. “Early de-ionization was the strategy that brought down the death rate in Tamil Nadu,” he said. So far, a total of 30.8 lakh people have been tested in the state, the highest in the country. About 70% of patients have so far been discharged after treatment, the minister said. He said that treating infected pregnant women was a challenging task. “Around 3,700 Covid-19 pregnant women have been treated across the state and 184 in Thanjavur district. This was possible because of our committed doctors and dedicated staff nurses who are battling against the virus from the front. A 16-day infant which tested positive was also successfully treated for Covid-19”, the minister stated. He said that about 4,000 beds were available in Thanjavur to handle any situation and this could be increased to 10,000. “Government has provided all the required facilities to treat people if they are infected. But, they should come forward to utilize them avoid self-medication. If they approach government hospitals early, the probability of saving lives will also be high”, the minister further stated. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu, Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam and district collector M Govinda Rao were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-curve-has-started-to-flatten-in-tn-health-min/articleshow/77439671.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Agra||11-year-old brutally thrashed for stealing wheat in Agra village, father arrested||AGRA: On discovering that his 11-year-old son had stolen a small quantity of grain from home to exchange for sweets, a man flew into a rage, stripped the boy, tied him upside down and thrashed him in a Agra village. While none of his neighbours dared to intervene, some captured the brutal beating on camera and uploaded it on social media. Taking cognizance of the viral video, police arrived at the house of Guddu Khan in Mewali village, under Jagner police station, on Saturday morning and arrested him. The incident took place on Friday evening. Neighbours disclosed that the child was tortured for stealing some wheat from home to get sweets in exchange from a nearby shop. They alleged that the man had also thrown hot water on the child. Ravi Kumar, additional superintendent of police (Agra west), said, “Guddu Khan, 45, has been arrested for torturing his son. The child has been sent for medical examination. His statement will be recorded for further action. During interrogation, Khan claimed that he was not under the influence and was just angry at his son over his behaviour. At the time, his wife was away to her sister’s house, where she had gone three days ago, after a fight with him, the ASP said. Kushalpal Singh, station house officer, Jagner, said, “On basis of the viral video, a case has been registered against Guddu Khan for brutally beating his minor son under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, section 15 (punishment for cruelty to child) and IPC section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt)." Watch Shocking! 10-yr-old boy beaten up by father in Agra, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/11-year-old-brutally-thrashed-for-stealing-wheat-in-agra-village-father-arrested/articleshow/77436883.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister Malla Reddy contracts coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Labour and employment minister Ch Malla Reddy has tested positive for Covid-19. He is under home isolation. He is the second minister to have contracted coronavirus in Telangana. A month ago, home minister Mohd Mahmood Ali had tested positive and underwent treatment at a private hospital. He recovered subsequently and has even been attending duties. While confirming that he tested positive for coronavirus, Malla Reddy said he had undergone a test and result came on last Sunday. He said he was under home quarantine for the past few days. “I am asymptomatic and completely healthy. Will soon join duties and public service,” the minister said. Apart from the ministers, several ruling party MLAs, including Alair MLA Gongidi Sunitha, Armoor MLA A Jeevan Reddy, Nizamabad MLA Bajireddy Govardhan Reddy, Jangaon MLA Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy and MLC Kadiyam Srihari, had tested positive for Covid-19 and most of them recovered too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-minister-malla-reddy-contracts-coronavirus/articleshow/77438603.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Meerut||Unique cafe-cum-gym with 'healthy food' for cops on duty in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Healthy organic meals, fresh fruit juices, smoothies, daliya, poha, food cooked in olive oil are all being dished out for the men in uniform in UP's Muzaffarnagar. Dedicating a unique outlet for its cadre, the police department has now opened a state-of-the-art cafe-cum-gym which will not only provide "healthy and nutritious food" but also lend an opportunity to train themselves to remain physically fit for the task. In addition, the cafe will deliver food orders to various city spots. On Friday, the fully air-conditioned cafe for the cops opened its doors with healthy meals at a reasonable price. It will remain open till 9pm. Notably, the police cafe will also serve jaggery added drinks - using sugar in any product here is "banned". And this is all a brainchild of fitness freak Abhishek Yadav. The Muzaffarnagar SSP had recently thrown a push up challenge on social media during the Covid-19 lockdown. He worked on this cafe project for around six months. "Policemen need to follow a highly exhaustive schedule of duty that seldom gives them the opportunity to avail a proper diet. Cases of hypertension, diabetes and stress are common among the UP police force. This facility is aimed at alleviating such health problems. Improper diet and lack of awareness for a healthy lifestyle were also the reasons behind opening such a unique cafe," the SSP told TOI. The police department has hired trained chefs and delivery men who will run the cafe along with police staff. Next to the cafe, a gym with all modern equipment was also "gifted" for the cause. District magistrate Selva Kumari J, former PCS officers and volleyball player Dharm Singh were present at the inauguration. "This unique concept will be upgraded once we start getting more feedback. It may be then introduced to other police stations as well," the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unique-cafe-cum-gym-with-healthy-food-for-cops-on-duty-in-mnagar/articleshow/77436908.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Forest guard killed in accident||MYSURU: In what police personnel suspect to be a hit-and-run case, a forest guard serving at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve was found dead in Periyapatna on Friday night. The victim, Dandaiah, 48, had been travelling from Mathur to Periyapatna on Friday evening, when the accident, police said. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar told TOI that the victim, who had joined the forest department as a watcher and had been promoted to a forest guard. “He had been working in Aiyurbeedu in the Mathur section in the Hunsur wildlife zone,” Kumar said. Dandaiah’s body was found by villagers by the side of the road on Friday night, and the residents immediately informed Periyapatna police, who rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-guard-killed-in-accident/articleshow/77437797.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Erode||Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Tamil Nadu: Health minister||THANJAVUR: The Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in the state and it is high time the general public shook off the stigma of the disease and approached government hospitals if they had symptoms, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has said. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating various facilities at the Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur on Saturday. “Early de-ionization was the strategy that brought down the death rate in Tamil Nadu,” he said. So far, a total of 30.8 lakh people have been tested in the state, the highest in the country. About 70% of patients have so far been discharged after treatment, the minister said. He said that treating infected pregnant women was a challenging task. “Around 3,700 Covid-19 pregnant women have been treated across the state and 184 in Thanjavur district. This was possible because of our committed doctors and dedicated staff nurses who are battling against the virus from the front. A 16-day infant which tested positive was also successfully treated for Covid-19”, the minister stated. He said that about 4,000 beds were available in Thanjavur to handle any situation and this could be increased to 10,000. “Government has provided all the required facilities to treat people if they are infected. But, they should come forward to utilize them avoid self-medication. If they approach government hospitals early, the probability of saving lives will also be high”, the minister further stated. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu, Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam and district collector M Govinda Rao were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/covid-19-curve-has-started-to-flatten-in-tn-health-min/articleshow/77442141.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Tamil Nadu: Health minister||THANJAVUR: The Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in the state and it is high time the general public shook off the stigma of the disease and approached government hospitals if they had symptoms, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has said. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating various facilities at the Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur on Saturday. “Early de-ionization was the strategy that brought down the death rate in Tamil Nadu,” he said. So far, a total of 30.8 lakh people have been tested in the state, the highest in the country. About 70% of patients have so far been discharged after treatment, the minister said. He said that treating infected pregnant women was a challenging task. “Around 3,700 Covid-19 pregnant women have been treated across the state and 184 in Thanjavur district. This was possible because of our committed doctors and dedicated staff nurses who are battling against the virus from the front. A 16-day infant which tested positive was also successfully treated for Covid-19”, the minister stated. He said that about 4,000 beds were available in Thanjavur to handle any situation and this could be increased to 10,000. “Government has provided all the required facilities to treat people if they are infected. But, they should come forward to utilize them avoid self-medication. If they approach government hospitals early, the probability of saving lives will also be high”, the minister further stated. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu, Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam and district collector M Govinda Rao were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-19-curve-has-started-to-flatten-in-tn-health-min/articleshow/77442143.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tribal girl has a mountain to climb, but doesn’t lose hope||HYDERABAD: At 14, Sukhi Priya was determined to become a mountaineer. She even reached the Mount Everest base camp, which is at a height of 17,000 feet. Despite the arduous trek, she made it to the destination. She also has made plans to climb the Everest. Four years later, Priya — in her degree second year — once again came face to face with a difficult situation in her life — how to make ends meet. The tribal girl didn’t lose hope. Wasting no time, 18-year-old Priya along with her mother Ramana and father Rambabu met Bhadradri Kothagudem district collector MV Reddy. “I pleaded with the collector that my father be given some job. I told him how we are going through a tough time in this pandemic,” Priya told STOI. The day (August 7) they met Reddy, their request was granted. Rambabu (41) was given an outsourcing job at the SC hostel in Bhadrachalam. The family’s joy knew no bounds. The poor family, hailing from Pedda Kamalapuram village in Dummugudem mandal, do not own any land. To survive, they took one-and-a-half acres on lease. They cultivate cotton in one acre and paddy in the rest of the land. “I also work in the field and help my family,” Priya says. She studies at Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Society in Palvancha, 53 km away from their village. Priya was first selected at a training camp in Bhuvanagiri. Subsequently, she underwent training at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, Darjeeling. The 32-member group in which she was also a member had reached the Everest base camp in 2016. She says she is chasing another dream. “I want to reach the top of the Everest. We made plans at the end of 2019, but the Covid-19 situation has come in the way of chasing my dream,” she says. But, Priya says she is determined to pursue her dream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-girl-has-a-mountain-toclimb-but-doesnt-lose-hope/articleshow/77438622.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 9, 2020||Trichy||Plane crash at Kozhikode airport revives buzz on Trichy runway expansion||TRICHY: In the wake of the flight crash at Kozhikode airport which claimed many lives, authorities from Trichy international airport are likely to convene the runway safety committee meeting to discuss whether the runway at the airport meets all safety aspects, official sources have said. As per the circular issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), a number of parameters have to be examined as per the pre-monsoon preparation, particularly at the runway at every airport. Airport authorities should monitor the surface condition of the runway and manoeuvring area regularly and any concentration of water should be informed to the pilots. The drainage system at airports should also be checked and maintained. Heads of all the departments including engineering would participate in the meeting to discuss various safety parameters, airport officials said. Meanwhile, activists expressed displeasure as the process of expansion of the runway at Trichy airport has not made any progress for a decade. Air India Express flight had a narrow escape after the Dubai-bound aircraft with 130 passengers hit the compound wall at Trichy airport on October 11, 2018. “While aviation experts aired their view at the time of the accident that happened in Trichy, insufficient runway length was one of the major reasons for the accident. Even after the incident, the plan for runway expansion remains without any progress”, he said. Trichy MP and chairman of airport advisory committee Su Thirunavukkarasar said the accident in Kozhikode was unfortunate and a lesson to the airport authorities. “The runway should be improved as flights are increasing based on the demands of people. At this juncture, the airport should be perfect. As far as Trichy is concerned, we need more areas for the expansion. However, claiming more compensation, landowners are reluctant to forgo their lands. That is the reason for the delay. Both state and central governments should take the issue seriously at least this time,” he told TOI. The director of Trichy international airport was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plane-crash-revives-buzz-on-trichy-runway-expansion/articleshow/77439675.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TSCO donates 1.5 lakh masks to GHMC||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society (TSCO) donated 1.5 lakh face mask worth Rs 20 lakh to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on Saturday. TSCO has been selling Pochampally masks to give the much-needed support to the weavers. They are priced at Rs 20 for a regular double layer mask and Rs 40 for Pochampally Ikkat or Kalamkari fabric masks. “The masks which have been provided free of cost to the civic body, are to be distributed to sanitary and other workers,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. Handlooms and textiles director Shailaja Ramaiyer said that both handloom and powerloom weavers have suffered huge losses during the Covid-19 pandemic as they could not get many orders. To extend assistance, fabric for 1.5 lakh masks was purchased from them. The masks were stitched by different garment units operated by self-help groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsco-donates-1-5l-masks-to-ghmc/articleshow/77438657.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: As pandemic rages, dhirios carry on unabated||MARGAO: Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has forced professional sports to be played in empty stadiums, in Goa, the banned animal sport of ‘dhirio’ carries on unabated. As police look the other way, huge crowds gather in fields across Salcete to watch bulls engage in gory duels. Over the past weekend, sources said that at least seven dhirios were held in various places along the coastal belt — Pedda-Benaulim, Per-Seraulim, Fatrade and neighbouring villages — with hundreds of spectators cheering the raging bulls. Though these duels last for up to two hours, police failed to reach the venue on time, as it usually happens. In fact, at many places, barricades put up by the police for nakabandis were found dismantled by dhirio enthusiasts, as most spectators made it to the venue by bikes and cars. Sources informed TOI that the dhirio organisers minted large sums of money as heavy betting took place, with locals wagering large sums on their favourite bovines. Some attributed the elevated scale of betting to the return of overseas migrants to Goa. What has concerned some is that many who have returned from overseas are in a financial crisis, with some taking loans pledging gold ornaments to bet on dhirios, with hopes of hitting the jackpot. A source said that Rs 16 lakh was waged in one particular dhirio in Per-Seraulim in early June. Even in normal circumstances, emigrant Goans participate in dhirios. “Betting takes place overseas and aboard ships whenever there’s a match in Goa,” a source said. “Goans working on ships and abroad keep abreast of all the bullfights by satellite phones, and bet heavily on these fights. This huge betting money is a major factor that prevents the popularity of dhirio from waning.” “The overt and covert support extended by politicians to dhirio organisers has kept it thriving,” the source said. “Though some politicians from South Goa were known to have possessed fighter bulls in the past, it is learnt that they have now handed them over to their loyalists, to ensure they are not caught on the wrong side of the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-pandemic-rages-dhirios-carry-on-unabated/articleshow/77439674.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Containment zone breather for Salt Lake, New Town||KOLKATA: Salt Lake and New Town walked out free, while new areas in Bangur, Dum Dum, Nagerbazar, Jessore Road and Duttabad entered the containment zone list, which was revised on Friday for areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and South Dum Dum municipality. The two latest containment areas in Salt Lake—FE and IB Blocks—and a neighbourhood in Kestopur’s Samarpally have been removed from the high-risk list as no new Covid case has been reported from there. But a new locality of Duttabad and two lanes at Deshbandhunagar in Kestopur have entered the list, which also included the earlier containment areas of Sukantanagar and Duttabad. Bidhannagar civic authorities pointed out that most new Covid patients were from Baguiati, Kestopur and Duttabad, while only a few scattered cases being reported from in Salt Lake. Going by their estimate, Salt Lake has contributed to about 35% of the 2,500-odd Covid cases reported in the civic area. But Duttabad, situated on E M Bypass on the fringe of Salt Lake, has become a matter of worry as the densely populated, predominantly slum area has become a Covid hot spot, with about 50 people there getting affected. “We are conducting regular sanitization drive and urging people to follow norms,” said Ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta. The Bidhannagar civic authorities said they were no longer meticulous about keeping shops in Salt Lake open only on alternate days as the entire state was undergoing total lockdowns on several days and markets in the township anyway remained shut once a week. But sanitization of markets was on. In South Dum Dum municipality area, several lanes of Block B in Bangur Avenue have entered the revised containment list. Also, a large stretch from Motijheel to Dum Dum Station Bazar on Dum Dum Road and from Nagerbazar to Bhagabati Park Bazar on Jessore Road continued to be under the high-risk category. With a rise in cases, Motilal Bazar, Kumorpara Bazar and Gora Bazar have also been kept under watch. With 800 cases so far and 300 active cases now, the South Dum Dum municipality authorities, which had earlier enforced a partial lockdown in the area, now plans to completely shut down the neighbourhoods twice a week to ensure restricted movements in markets and other busy areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zone-breather-for-salt-lake-new-town/articleshow/77438654.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Two traffic brigade jawan sacked after viral video||SURAT: Services of two traffic brigade jawans were terminated by senior officials of city traffic police on Saturday after a video of them allegedly harassing a motorcycle rider went viral on social media. However, not action has been initiated against the traffic police personnel under whose supervision the jawans were working. Services of Arun Senva and Ajay Shinde were terminated by deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Prashant Sumbe. Earlier, an inquiry was ordered into the viral video and based on which the action was taken. Officials of city traffic police did not share details about the traffic police personnel under whose supervision the two jawans were working. In the viral video, which is believed to be recorded at Sahara Darwaja, one TRB jawan is seen removing the key of a motorcycle while arguing with the rider. Later the jawan pushes the rider off the bike and he himself sits in the rider’s position. In June, a traffic brigade jawan Rakesh Yadav was caught taking bribe of Rs 4,000 from a vegetable vendor in Singanpore area for allowing 40 different vegetable vendors to do business on public road. In January, police booked four TRB jawans including for an alleged attempt to extort Rs 1,500 from a motorcycle rider near Surat railway station. The accused had stopped the victim and claimed that he was driving on the wrong side. They demanded money from him. The accused were pressuring the rider when a police sub-inspector arrived. After initially arguing with the sub-inspector the accused fled from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-traffic-brigade-jawan-sacked-after-viral-video/articleshow/77437819.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Girl’s kin kill lovers, try to cremate both||PATNA/AURANGABAD: In a case of suspected honour killing, an 18-year-old girl and her 19-year-old boyfriend were stabbed to death by the girl’s family and an attempt was made to cremate them on the same funeral pyre at a village in Aurangabad district on Saturday. The police intervened and doused the flames, but by then both bodies were charred beyond recognition. “The bodies were set on fire on the banks of a seasonal river at Kapasia village. Only a minor portion of the girl’s body could be extracted while two-thirds of the man’s body was charred,” said a local police official. Mufassil police station SHO Sujeet Kumar said the couple were identified as Amrita Kumari and Niraj Kumar. “No one was at the cremation spot by the time we reached. Matter is suspected to be of honour killing,” he said, adding, Neeraj used to work in Surat, but had returned after lockdown four months ago, while Amrita studied in Aurangabad town. “They were neighbours and lived barely 300m apart. On Saturday morning, Amrita went to Niraj’s house and refused to go back. Her brother came after her and asked her to go home immediately to which she flatly refused,” the SHO said, adding, it appears that the girl’s family was opposed to her relationship with Niraj. While arguments continued even Niraj’s family members urged her to go back home, but Amrita’a brother suddenly slammed her on the ground and stabbed her multiple times. “She died immediately while her family members did nothing to help,” he said. According to eyewitnesses, seeing Amrita being killed, Niraj out of fear for his own life ran inside and locked himself in a room. “After killing Amrita, her brother and other family members broke open the door of the room in which he had locked himself and stabbed him to death too,” the SHO said. According to the police, the crowd gathered outside Niraj’s house did not inform the police or try to help the couple. “More shockingly, we came to know that even Niraj’s family didn’t attempt to save him,” he said. SHO Kumar said both families later carried the bodies to the riverbank and lit up a single pyre for both bodies. “Niraj’s parents, brother and his uncle have been detained, but everyone from the girl’s family are absconding,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girls-kin-kill-lovers-try-to-cremate-both/articleshow/77438237.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Parsis stay together in a virtual group to stay safe||Kolkata: The Parsi community— 238 of the 400-odd members are well over 60 and 74 of them beyond 80—is doing everything to ensure everyone’s safety as much as possible. As the lockdown started, the entire community was brought together on a virtual group by the 156-year-old trust, Calcutta Zoroastrian Communities Religious and Charitable Fund, and the 112-year-old Calcutta Parsee Club. Messages start pouring in early in the morning and ends with performances at night, keeping everyone busy, involved and happy. The community has lost five of its members in the past few months, but only one of them had Covid. “We have a caregivers’ group, a team of relatively young people, who make sure that household essentials to medicines, seniors and anyone else in need get everything at their doorsteps. Another group is dedicated to cultural performances and events,” said Cyrus Madan, trustee. When Roshni Tankariwala teaches how to pickle prawns on the screen, she forgets she is over 70. She faces her audience like an ace cook, describing the process step by step. Several others, such as Roda Bulsars, have started cooking sessions . The evenings are for plays, music, quiz and debates. Ninety-nine shows behind them, the members are preparing for the 100th show on Sunday, when Parsee Club’s AGM will be held virtually. “There are performances galore. Yezdi Karai, who has played competitive hockey, football, cricket and tennis, is holding a chat show, where he is bringing yesteryear players from the community,” said Prochy Mehta, spokesperson for CPC. Among those in their 80s who have been acting are Dina Ardeshir, Jer Jila, Noshir Tankariwala and Bahadur Postwala. “For Navroz, our dramatics club will stage a play online;” said Behnaz Dugar, entertainment secretary of the club. Fitness is a must and everyone gathers in front of the screen for fitness trainer Davo. Talks by the head priest from Udwada are organised. Last but not the least, are interviews of Gavaskar, Arun Lal, Leander Paes, Bhaichung Bhutia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parsis-stay-together-in-a-virtual-group-to-stay-safe/articleshow/77438662.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Teachers yet to get July salaries despite govt vow||PANAJI: Last month, IAS officer Vandana Rao was replaced by Santosh Amonkar as director of education, soon after a circular Rao had issued created controversy. The contentious circular asked aided school managements to pay July salaries to its teaching and non-teaching staff out of the school funds, as two section at the directorate of education (DoE) had to go into quarantine due to a colleague testing positive. The school managements did not take kindly to these instructions, which were later withdrawn on the chief minister’s orders. When Amonkar took charge following this controversy, he told mediapersons that he would ensure that his staff works overtime to see that salaries are credited to employees of aided schools with a delay of not more than two to three days. But, until August 8, teaching and non-teaching staff of aided schools in the state are yet to get their salaries for the month of July. Over 10,000 employees of grant-in-aid schools are awaiting their payment for last month. They have been left even more anxious for the pay as Goa celebrates one of its biggest Hindu festivals of Ganesh Chaturthi later this month. “We have to prepare for the festival and hopeful the salaries will come well before the festival, so we can begin the preparations,” said a teacher. There are around 800 government aided primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in the state with thousands of staff members. In the circular issued by Rao, she had said, “All the heads of management of aided, primary, secondary and higher secondary schools are hereby enjoined upon to disburse the salary of their respective staff members from their own funds as per rule 62 of Goa, Daman and Diu School Education Act 1964 and Rules 1986”. But this circular had left schools upset with management stating that they do not have the required millions of rupees in their accounts to pay the salary of its staff. They said schools are not allowed to take donations and they charge a meagre fee and therefore such an expectation is irrational. Chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant had later said that Rao had issued the circular without his knowledge. A clarification circular was then issued on July 17, which stated that the salary would be credited by the DoE itself, but there may be a delay in payment as directorate staff from the two grant-in-aid sections have gone into quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-yet-to-get-july-salaries-despite-govt-vow/articleshow/77439678.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Injured zoo caretaker dies, kin demand job for wife||MYSURU: Mysuru zoo authorities on Saturday handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the family members of zoo caretaker S Harish who died after he was attacked by a tusker. However, the family members and relatives protested in front of the zoo entrance demanding a job for Harish’s wife. Harish, 38, was badly injured after he was attacked by 16-year-old zoo elephant Abhimanyu at around 4.40pm on Friday when he was busy arranging fodder inside the elephant enclosure. Harish was rushed to Shanthaveri Gopala Gowda Hospital where he succumbed to injuries around Rs 8.56pm. Harish had got the job under compassionate grounds after his father Siddegowda, who was serving as caretaker, died while in service. Harish joined as caretaker under contract basis in 2002. On Saturday morning, zoo authorities kept Harish’s mortal remains of Harish at the zoo premises for the staff and public to pay their last respects it was taken to the victims’ residence at Lalithadripura for the final rites. The victim’s wife Sangeetha and mother Saraswathamma were present. However, Sathish’s relatives demanded a job for Sangeetha and said they would allow the body to be shifted only after they get a written assurance from the zoo authorities. Zoo officials managed to convince the relatives to shift the body for the last rites. Mysuru zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni told STOI that a cheque of Rs 10 lakh was handed over to the family members. “The entire Mysuru zoo staff is with the family members of Harish. Apart from compensation, the family will also get around Rs 4 lakh gratuity and around Rs 1 lakh insurance. We will ensure all the benefits from the government reaches the family members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/injured-zoo-caretaker-dies-kin-demand-job-for-wife/articleshow/77437832.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Cauvery Calling doing great work, says Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev||MYSURU: Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said that Cauvery Calling has been a successful campaign since its launch. Speaking at a webinar on Saturday, Sadhguru said that with support from the governments of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Cauvery Calling has been successful. "In another eight to 12 years, there will be a positive message to the entire world. Due to the lockdown, volunteers could not reach out to the farmers, but have connected through the internet and explained the importance of trees," he said. Sadguru said that already 50 lakh saplings have been distributed to farmers in Karnataka and 11 lakh saplings in Tamil Nadu. Several religious leaders like Dharmasthala dharmadhikari Veerendra Heggade and Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swamiji and farmers' associations have supported the campaign. By November or December, 1.10 crore saplings will be planted in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cauvery-calling-doing-great-work-says-sadhguru/articleshow/77437807.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar records daily count of 3,992 cases, Covid tally crosses 75k||PATNA: For the second day in a row, the state reported its highest daily Covid-19 caseload on Saturday with 3,992 people testing positive for the virus, which accounts for a little more than 5% of the total registered cases so far. With this the total Covid-19 tally crossed the 75,000 mark at stand at 75,786. Altogether 12 deaths were also reported officially, including five Patna residents, taking the toll to 419. With 48,673 recoveries so far, the number of active cases stand at 26,692 in the state. On Friday, 3,646 Covid cases were registered in the state. The Covid-19 cases recorded in the past eight days of August account for around 33% of the total cases so far. Also, almost 50% of the total cases were registered in the past two weeks. As per data shared by the health department, Bihar registered 36,867 cases till July 26, which was nearly half of the cases logged till Saturday. Also, more than 50% of the cases recorded so far were registered in July alone. Till June 30, there were just 9,744 Covid-19 cases in Bihar, which jumped over five folds to reach 50,987 on July 31. According to the health department, 534 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Patna on Saturday, taking the tally to 12,702. However, with 8,570 recoveries and 77 deaths, active cases stand at 4,055. Other districts, which reported large number of Covid-19 cases, include Begusarai (210), Katihar (193), Vaishali (160), East Champaran (139), Nalanda (120), Rohtas (131), Buxar (131), Bhojpur (119), Muzaffarpur (118), Madhubani (117), Saran (107), West Champaran (102), Purnia (99) and Gaya (95). The health department reported six deaths from Patna, taking the toll in Patna to 77. While two deaths each were reported from Gaya and Vaishali, Araria, Aurangabad, Bhojpur, Kaimur, Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, East Champaran and Supaul reported one death each. The NMCH administration reported two deaths and both deceased were from Patna. Hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal in charge (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said one of the deceased was a 60-year-old man from Ram Krishna Nagar and died of cardiac arrest. Another was an 84-year-old man from Samsara in Bihta with a medical history of asthma, hypertension and diabetes. AIIMS-Patna nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, reported four deaths of which three were from Patna. One was a 45-year-old man from Indrapuri, another was a 51-year-old woman from Gurudwara Line New Colony in Khagaul and the third was a 69-year-old Mahendru resident. The fourth deceased was a 53-year-old man from Raxaul in East Champaran. As per the health department, 2,408 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the recovery rate stood at 64%. In the same time period, 75,426 tests were conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-daily-count-of-3992-cases-covid-tally-crosses-75k/articleshow/77438154.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Advocate questions failure to prevent a crash similar to 2010 Mangaluru tragedy||MANGALURU: Expressing deep regret over the failure of the aviation authorities to learn key lessons from past failures, Yeshwanth Shenoy, a lawyer who keeps a close watch on the developments in the sector, raised pertinent questions on the failure of the officials concerned to prevent the mishap in Kozhikode that was quite similar to the Mangaluru air crash a decade ago. Admitting that accidents could not be prevented altogether, Shenoy told TOI, “The Commission of Inquiry (COI) was constituted in the wake of the Mangaluru air crash to find what had led to that catastrophe. The air crash that occurred in Kozhikode on Friday is disturbingly similar to what transpired in Mangaluru. Why is it that this was not prevented?” Shenoy, along with advocate Nayana Pai and Triveni Kodkany, who lost her husband and mother in the Mangaluru tragedy that claimed the lives of 158 people in all, united to start the ‘812 Foundation’ to raise issues warranting solutions in the Indian aviation system. Shenoy said that he had written to the Director of General Civil Aviation, chairman of the Airports Authority of India and the Union ministry of civil aviation, seeking answers for the ‘system failure’ that had resulted in the Kozhikode tragedy. In his mail, Shenoy has highlighted the similarity of Friday’s crash to the disaster that had occurred in Mangaluru in 2010. “The COI set up to investigate the crash of IX812 flight ought to have come up with measures to prevent a similar incident, but the mishap in Kozhikode proves that such is not the case,” rued Shenoy, calling on Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to constitute another COI, which would afford the advocate an opportunity to place all the evidence he had on record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/advocate-questions-failure-to-prevent-a-crash-similar-to-10-mluru-tragedy/articleshow/77438068.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR union to protest over rail privatisation||HYDERABAD: Fearing that privatisation of railways will have an immense impact on the public as well as employees, the South Central Railway Mazdoor Union (SCRMU) made an announcement that it will hold massive protests in the city on Sunday. On August 9, the ‘Quit India Day’ will be observed as ‘Save India Day’ in all workplaces, industrial centres, district headquarters and rural areas, the unions said. “This move by the union government will have an immense impact on the lives of farmers, daily wagers and other vulnerable sections of the society who have been using railways for their daily commute. Common people will not be able to afford the ticket prices once railways are privatised,” said K Srinivas Reddy, the president of SCRMU. At least 12 trade unions in the country have announced a nationwide protest on August 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-union-to-protest-over-rail-privatisation/articleshow/77438627.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19 snuffs out three more lives in city, toll shoots up to 72||Prayagraj: With three more casualties, Prayagraj district’s novel coronavirus (Covid-19) toll reached 72 on Saturday. The district also recorded 176 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,801. According to officials, 107 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. Till now, 1,768 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the district. “74 patients also completed their home isolation taking the count of Covid-19 positive patients who completed their quarantine period at their residence to 297. Currently, Prayagraj has 1,650 active cases,” said district nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai. The Covid-19 patients who died on Saturday included a 48-year-old man from Sarai Inayat locality who was admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital on August 4. On Friday night, his condition deteriorated and he was put on a ventilator. “He died early Saturday morning,” said SRN Hospital nodal officer (corona ward) Sujit Verma. A 74-year-old man from Baihrana who was admitted to SRN Hospital on August 3 after testing positive for Covid-19 also died on Saturday morning. “The man had hypertension and a kidney complication, and could not be saved,” Verma added. Verma said that the third patient who died at the hospital on Saturday was a 52-year-old man from Naini. The victim was admitted to SRN Hospital recently after testing positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-snuffs-out-three-more-lives-in-city-toll-shoots-up-to-72/articleshow/77436952.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Agra||Worms in food served at Covid-19 isolation centre in Agra, video viral||Agra: Photographs and videos of two Covid-19 positive women showing worms in food purportedly served at L1 isolation facility at a private college in Agra went viral on Saturday. In one of the video clips, the two sisters, residents of block Jaitpur Kala, could be seen complaining of sub-standard food being served to the patients. They also alleged that no timetable for serving the food is being followed. The 18 and and 22-year-old were tested Covid-19 positive on August 5 after death of their father on August 4. Their father had tested positive on August 3 and died at home. Rajveer Singh, uncle of the two women, said, “My elder brother had septic infection in leg. He was also tested Covid-19 positive. He died due to lack of proper treatment. My two nieces were tested positive on Wednesday. They were shifted by the health department at isolation facility on NH-2. They have been complaining about poor quality of food. Patients at the centre are not being provided food on time. There is lack of proper sanitation and hygiene at the centre." District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We have taken cognizance of the matter. The in-charge of the L1 facility has been directed to ensure suitable quality of food is provided. Directions have been issued for random checking of food packets served to the patients on a daily basis. Timing of food served to the patients will be checked too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/worms-in-food-served-at-covid-19-isolation-centre-in-agra-video-viral/articleshow/77436962.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Businessman caught with 300g opium in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A businessman was arrested on Saturday for allegedly being in possession of opium, which he wanted to sell to overcome losses he suffered due to the lockdown, at Bowenpally check post. Police said Hanuman Ram, who was into flooring tiles business, was caught at the Bownepally check post during vehicle checks and they discovered 300 grams of opium, mixed in sugar and worth Rs 1.20 lakh, in his car. He was transporting the contraband to Secunderabad to sell it to prospective customers. Hanuman, who had migrated to Hyderabad 10 years ago from Rajasthan, had set up tiles business at Subash Nagar in Jeedimetla. Due to the lockdown, he had suffered heavy financial losses and was finding it difficult to meet his family needs. Hanuman met his acquaintance Pappuram during his recent visit to Rajasthan, Pappuram advised Hanuman to sell opium to earn easy money and he would help him in providing the banned narcotic.  In the first week of June, Hanuman returned to Hyderabad and brought opium along. Pappuram has been declared absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-caught-with-300g-opium/articleshow/77438652.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||After short break, rain set to resume in Goa||PANAJI: After days of torrential rain coupled with strong winds, the sun shone in the state on Saturday. However, the possibility of a new low-pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal by around August 9 is likely to bring heavy showers to the Goa coast yet again. The India meteorological department (IMD) said that the sustaining high windspeeds at surface level has weakened over Goa. This has brought some amount of calm in the weather on Saturday. However, windspeeds at around 1.5km above mean sea level are still around 25 knots and are likely to continue for another 24 hours. As a result, there is still probability of heavy rains lashing the state and even exceeding the 12 cm mark at one or two places. The state had experienced a few landslides and cave-ins over the past week. The IMD has therefore issued a warning to be alert for potential situations. “Heavy (6-11cm in 24hrs) to very heavy rainfall (equal or greater than 12cm in 24hrs) at one or two locations over north and south Goa districts is expected. Regions such as ghat sections and vulnerable areas may be kept under watch,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. In addition to this, weather systems above the Bay of Bengal may also usher heavy rainfall along the state’s coast from Monday onwards. “There is possibility of a new low-pressure area formation over Bay of Bengal by around August 9. As per present observations, even though its impact over West coast is likely to be lesser than the last one (between August 3 to 6),” he said. Rough to very rough sea conditions are likely to prevail along and off the North Maharashtra coast on August 8 and 9. High waves in the range of 3.5 - 4.6 metres are forecast till 11.30 pm on August 9 along the state coast from Vengurla to Vasco. Surface current speeds may vary between 17 - 36 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-brief-lull-more-showers-expected/articleshow/77439679.cms||Nida Sayed
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad researchers unearth role of proteins in harming kidneys||HYDERABAD: A study conducted by researchers of University of Hyderabad (UoH) and National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) has found advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) impairs renal function. The study was done by Dr. Anil Pasupulati’s group in UoH in collaboration with Dr. Bhanuprakash Reddy at NIN. According to researchers, excess glucose non-enzymatically reacts with proteins and lipids and forms several toxic molecules known as advanced-glycation end-products (AGEs) which can alter the structure and function of biomolecules. “Glycated hemoglobin, commonly referred to as HbA1c, is a good example of AGE. The AGEs are believed to aberrantly activate cellular signal transduction and implicate pathology of diabetic complications including diabetic cataract, retinopathy, and nephropathy,” said Dr Pasupulati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-researchers-unearth-role-of-proteins-in-harming-kidneys/articleshow/77438641.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Delay pushes up Bhadradri plant cost by Rs 1,000 crore||HYDERABAD: The delay in completing the 1,080 MW Bhadradri thermal power plant has resulted in an additional Rs 1,000 crore financial burden to the state government. The project was supposed to be completed in three years at an estimated cost of Rs 7,290 crore. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had laid the foundation stone for the project in March 2015. TSGenco entered into an agreement with Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd (BHEL) for construction of the 270x4 MW thermal power plant. Sources said the project had been marred by delays since its launch as it has taken up sub-critical technology which causes more pollution when compared to super-critical thermal technology which has been approved by the government for taking up power plants. “A series of wrong steps were taken by Genco on the Bhadradri plant. The project cost has jumped from Rs 7,290 crore to Rs 9,000 crore,” said Forum for Good Governance secretary M Padmanabha Reddy. The Forum has submitted a memorandum to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan urging her to use her good offices and ensure that a white paper is published on the thermal power plant. “People of Telangana have a right to know what conspired between Genco and BHEL in going for an outdated technology,” Padmanabha Reddy said. Genco managing director D Prabhakar Rao confirmed to STOI that there has been cost escalation by Rs 1,000 crore. He said an environment-friendly technology is being adopted in construction of the thermal plant. “MoEF has made it mandatory for adoption of latest eco-friendly equipment, including flue gas desulfurisation. For two years, the project was stuck with the National Green Tribunal and got delayed. We have got all the environmental clearances from the NGT and MoEF,” he said. He said the first unit of the plant had already been commissioned and another unit would be commissioned by month-end. “Since workers have gone back to their native states due to coronavirus, we hope to complete the remaining two units by this year-end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delay-pushes-up-bhadradri-plant-cost-by-rs-1000-crore/articleshow/77438660.cms||Roushan Ali
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi private schools send ‘hiked’ bills for fees||NEW DELHI: Parents of private school students were quite surprised to receive demands for charges other than tuition fees because they were under the impression that only tuitions would be billed, as ordered in April for the lockdown period by Delhi government. The order instructed educational institutions not to levy charges such as development or annual fees. In contravention of such orders, Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, sent parents a bill this month that had gone up from Rs 5,990 earlier to Rs 8,330. “There was no notice given to us about an increase,” said a parent of two children. “Even if the school was levying additional charges from August, they should have informed us. Last month, we paid for the worksheet, now this has been sprung on us.” This school hasn’t provided the different heads under which it has charged the increased fee. Principal Bindu Sehgal did not respond to calls and messages regarding the matter. Some institutions fees have increased the bills under the heads of PTA fund, scholarship fund, operational charges, technology fees, development fees and annual charges. Darbari Lal DAV Model School sent a notice to parents on August 6 informing of changes in the structure and process of fee payment. “Apart from tuition fees, we are going to charge annual charges, the total amount being divided on a pro-rata basis over the remaining eight months,” principal Reena Rajpal notified the parents. “For those who paid the full fee amount in April, their annual charges will be nil for August and September. From October, the balance of annual charges will be charged for the remaining six months Development fund will also be received on pro-rata basis.” Rajpal did not respond to calls and messages about the fees. A parent grumbled, “We don’t know how Delhi government’s guideline has now become ineffective. A clarification from the government will be helpful.” Aparajita Gautam of Delhi Parents’ Association said, “Every day we receive complaints from parents because school now say the government circular was only for the lockdown period. In my understanding, the unlocking is still under process.” While education department officials did not respond to TOI’s queries regarding this issue, Action Committee, an umbrella body representing the city’s private schools, insisted the institutions were following the government guidelines. Advocate for Action Committee Kamal Gupta said, “It is a very simple reading of the order that the schools have done. One, no fees other than tuition fees will be charged from parents during the lockdown. Annual and development charges will be charged after the completion of the lockdown. Thirdly, no earmarked levy such as transportation will be charged during the period the school remains closed. The order is worded very clearly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-schools-send-hiked-bills-for-fees/articleshow/77438713.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 9, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Leopard enters house in a bid to escape people, rescued||RAJKOT: Panic struck Kodiya village in Gir Gadhda taluka of Gir Somnath district on Friday night when an adult male leopard in a bid to escape from villagers entered the house of a farmer. It took forest officers over two hours to rescue the 10-year-old leopard that had earlier killed an animal in the village. According to a forest officer, the leopard was spotted by some villagers on the outskirts of the village after it killed an animal and was preying on it. The villagers called others from the village and tried to scare away the leopard out of the village into the forest. But seeing the crowd gather outside the village, the leopard, instead of running towards the forest, went towards the village and entered the house of one Kalu Varsadia. However, it got trapped after Varsadia locked the door from the outside and called the forest officials. A team of the forest officials rushed to the village with a cage and began the operation to capture the wild animal. Assistant conservator of forest Nikunj Parmar said “We used a snare made out of rope to capture the leopard. It took us over an hour to get the leopard into the snare.” He said that once the leopard got caught in the snare, they set up the cage outside the door and pulled it towards the door and then got it inside the cage. The two-hour rescue operation had let to a commotion in the entire village as hundreds surrounded the house of Varsadia to have a glimpse of the leopard being captured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-enters-house-in-a-bid-to-escape-people-rescued/articleshow/77437876.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Bicholim IIM-Bengaluru student, friend create social distancing device||BICHOLIM: A youth from Bicholim is part of a two-member team that has developed sensor devices to help people maintain requisite social distance in public. “We have used off-the-shelf components, like car reverse parking sensors. It indicates the exact distance that should be maintained between two persons,” IIM-Bengaluru student Saish Kapadi, who hails from Bordem, Bicholim, and IIT-Chennai alumnus Venktesh Ashtekar from Pune told TOI. One of the two devices developed by Kapadi and Ashtekar can be used to ensure thst proper distance is maintained between a person approaching a counter and the personnel on the other side. It can be used at retail shops, banks, clinics, medical stores, RTO offices, religious place and post offices among others, they said. “To prevent the spread of Covid, it is important to wear a mask and maintain social distance. However, many people wear masks, but fail to follow social distancing. So this device will be helpful in maintaining social distance,” the duo said. They have also developed a body device for personal safety. It can be worn like a hat or a belt. “This kit, which is fixed with a plastic bar, is helpful to keep a safe distance between two people who are moving in public places,” Kapadi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-iim-b-student-friend-create-social-distancing-device/articleshow/77439686.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Dutt admitted to hospital for breathlessness, tests -ve for Covid||Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt (61) was admitted to Lilavati Hospital, Bandra Reclamation, on Saturday evening after suffering from breathlessness. He tested negative for Covid-19. “As Dutt’s oxygen concentration was between 92 and 94, it prompted us to admit him to the non-Covid ICU for observation and investigations,” said Dr Jalil Parkar. Dutt tweeted, “Just wanted to assure everyone that I’m doing well. I’m currently under medical observation & my COVID-19 report is negative. With the help & care of doctors, nurses & staff at Lilavati hospital, I should be home in a day or two. Thank you for your well wishes & blessings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanjay-dutt-admitted-to-hospital-for-breathlessness-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/77438693.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Two deaths, 159 positive cases in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: There seems to be no respite either from deaths or new positive patients in Yavatmal. Both the figures are rising with each passing day. On Monday, there were two deaths, a 62-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman, both from Pusad. Total deaths in the district so far are 49. There are 159 new positive patients which is the highest since the lockdown. However, 79 patients got discharged. There are 138 persons admitted in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal while 82 swab samples have been sent to the lab for testing. Though the administration has tightened the noose, there is no result in sight in containing the spread of Covid-19 which is spreading rapidly in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-deaths-159-positive-cases-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77468194.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Surat||SVNIT to hold online training program||Surat: Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) will hold an online training program ‘Blended Learning and Flipped Classroom’ to enhance the new aspects of online learning from August 10 to 14. As many as 800 participants have already registered for the event. SVNIT is conducting one of the total eight programs being organised across the country by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy. Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman, AICTE; Rajive Kumar, member secretary, AICTE and Ravindra Soni, Director, ATAL Academy, and S R Gandhi, director, SVNIT will take part in the programme on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/svnit-to-hold-online-training-program/articleshow/77437892.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s projected doubling rate of Covid cases increases to 3 months||MUMBAI: The city’s projected doubling rate of Covid-19 cases increased to three months on Saturday, with average daily growth of the virus last week being 0.78%, which is a sign of improvement of situation. There are only 16,875 active positive cases, BMC said. Officials said cases were under control considering that recently the city celebrated Eid and Raksha Bandhan, when more people were out on the streets. Despite that no drastic change was noticed in cases, which indicated the situation was under control, an official said. Doubling time is calculated on the basis of growth rate of cases averaged over previous seven days. The growth rate indicates average daily increase in cases. Through it, the number of days cases will take to double of the given day at that rate can be calculated. There are three administrative wards among 24 in the city where average growth in last seven days was 1-1.4%, and projected doubling rate in these wards was less than two months. In other wards, the projected doubling rate was more than two months, with average growth in cases in last one week being less than 1%. Officials also said slum pockets were reporting fewer cases. The lowest growth rate reported was in H-East ward (eastern stretch of Bandra-Khar-Santacruz) which have many big slum pockets. In H-East, K-East (Andheri), K-West (Andheri), L (Kurla), S (Bhandup), M-East (Govandi) and P-North (Malad), projected doubling rate was 100-146 days. Officials said in slum pockets fewer cases were being reported probably due to presence of anti-bodies among locals. M-East, L, P-North and H-East have big slum pockets. The highest growth rate reported in the three wards that have lowest project doubling rate are R-Central (Borivli) 51 days, B (Dongri) 52 days and D (Malabar Hill) 59 days. It indicates these wards are reporting more cases compared to others wards in the last one week, although total cases till date is less than others. Fewest total cases were in B-Ward (1,081).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-projected-doubling-rate-of-virus-cases-increases-to-3-months/articleshow/77438674.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 9, 2020||Vijayawada||100 trainee cops test +ve in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI/VIJAYAWADA: Nearly 100 trainee police personnel housed at the police training college near Kalyani dam at Rangampeta village near Tirupati have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources in the police department said about 380 policemen from different parts of the state are undergoing training at the college currently. Police personnel from Viskhapatnam, Kurnool, Anantapur and other parts of the state who were undergoing training here, went on a vacation to their respective hometowns after the lockdown was relaxed. After their return to the training college recently, most of them started displaying Covid-19 symptoms, prompting the training college authorities to conduct a mass Covid-19 screening for all personnel undergoing training. Subsequently, nearly a 100 trainee cops tested positive and were immediately quarantined. Test results of more cops are awaited. Following the report, a special sanitation drive has been taken up by the Rangampet panchayat staff at the college. Officials said there are chances of the college being shut down for a while. Meanwhile, five police personnel attached to the Patamata police station in Vijayawada tested positive on Friday. The personnel include a woman constable and two home guards. Officials said they suspect that personnel contracted the virus from complainants who visited the station. The public has been urged to not approach the police station unless there is a complaint to be filed. Police, however, pointed out that while necessary precautions are taken, complainants continue to visit the station. Social distancing is often difficult to enforce as cops have to take down the complaints and with many elderly colleagues on leave, there is a staff crunch, leaving them with no option but to turn up for duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-hits-police-training-centre-nearly-100-test-ve/articleshow/77437886.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Vada pav shopkeeper dies, 11 others hurt as gas cylinder explodes||Ulhasnagar: A vada pav shopkeeper died and 11 others were injured after a gas cylinder exploded here on Saturday afternoon. Ravindra Gupta alias Pappu (40) died during treatment, while his brother Dinesh is seriously injured and is at Shivneri hospital. Police said others suffered 10-20% injuries and were admitted to Shivneri and Balaji hospitals. Nearby residents said around 1pm, Pappu, Dinesh and their helper, Kashi Gupta, were in the shop. Pappu was frying vadas when a minor fire started. Pappu and the others tried to control it. Manoj Jaiswal, who owns a fruit shop adjoining Pappu’s, and is in hospital, told TOI, “Seeing the fire, we tried to help him, when the cylinder exploded, resulting in all of us getting injured.” Residents alerted the fire brigade. Ulhasnagar municipal corporation PRO Dr Yuvraj Bhadane said, “Our team rushed to the spot and controlled the fire within few minutes before it could spread to other shops.” The fire brigade said Pappu, who suffered serious injuries, was taken to Central hospital, where he died during treatment. Pappu, who has been running the shop for 15 years, is survived by wife, two minor daughters and a son. Kailash Chainani, the local corporator’s son, said, “Most of those injured are shopkeepers who went inside to help control the fire when the cylinder exploded.” Doctors told Vithalwadi police that Dinesh suffered 40% burn injuries, while others suffered 10-20% injuries. Vithalwadi police are registering a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vada-pav-shopkeeper-dies-11-others-hurt-as-gas-cylinder-explodes/articleshow/77438670.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Army officer’s daughter alleges identity theft||MUMBAI: Miss India 2016 finalist Aishwarya Sheoran, who had passed UPSC exams securing 93rd rank, lodged an identity theft complaint with Colaba police, alleging that fake accounts were created in her name on Instagram and her photos were used. The daughter of an army officer made headlines when she passed the exam in her first attempt. Aishwarya had participated in several fashion shows. Police said an FIR was lodged on August 6. “Someone created around half a dozen fake accounts of her on the social media site. They created fake accounts and uploaded her photos. We are probing the case,” said an officer. She learned on August 5 that there were several accounts in her name though she does not have any account. A complaint was lodged under Information Technology Act on August 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/army-officers-daughter-alleges-identity-theft/articleshow/77438663.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Pushed to the edge, Kolkata turns blind eye to people in distress||KOLKATA: Two incidents on lockdown day, one of an MD student being hounded by neighbours after he tested Covid positive and another of an injured teenager whose uncle had to pedal 6km to transport him in a cycle van from one hospital to another for treatment, pointed to how the city on the edge is turning a blind eye to those in distress. The third-year MD at the School of Tropical Medicine, who has been living at his aunt's house in Behala (he hails from Cooch Behar), found the neighbours turning aggressive after he and his aunt tested positive. Problems cropped up after KMC staff came to sanitize the area. “The neighbours questioned why a doctor should be staying in their locality and asked him to shift out. It was then that he contacted his seniors who then got in touch with police,” said an officer from Thakurpukur police station. On being alerted, Thakurpukur police stepped in and told the neighbours that he would go nowhere. “He is a Covid warrior and will stay in home isolation till he is cured. Anyone troubling him or his aunt will be dealt legally,” said DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas. Locals though said the doctor was flouting quarantine norms and stepping out everyday, leading to the protests. In another incident, the uncle of a 14-year-old had to run from one hospital to another for treatment. Kartik Sarkar, who had lost his father when he was a child, was sitting on the pavement in Jorasanko when a bike rammed into him around 9.30pm on Friday, causing multiple fractures. He was rushed to NRS Hospital where he was administered blood and saline. On Saturday morning, his uncle wanted to shift him to RG Kar Hospital. The doctors at NRS said it was a family decision, a claim contested by Kartik’s uncle Mangal Baidya, a van rickshaw puller, who said he was asked by the doctors to do so. “They had not spoken about any ambulance. My neighbours tried arranging one but we could not afford the steep price that was quoted. I decided to transfer him to RG Kar hospital in my van,” said Baidya. He covered the distance of 6 km in less than an hour. “The road was empty and there were cops every 1.5 km. But they did not step in to offer an ambulance,” recounted Baidya. At RG Kar, authorities allegedly refused to admit him without a police undertaking since it was an accident case. The child lay in the van holding a saline bottle as the uncle rushed to Jorasanko police station. Baidya got the necessary clearance and returned to the hospital for admission. Kolkata Police officers said they had asked their men to be humane. “I do not know the case as of now. I will look into the details,” said a joint CP at the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pushed-to-the-edge-city-turns-blind-eye-to-people-in-distress/articleshow/77437920.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Condos join drive to help senior citizens in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A couple of days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked the civic bodies and cops to take care of the needs of elderly people staying at high-rises amid the pandemic, housing societies on Saturday showed their active interest in tying up with ward coordinators, civic officials at the borough level and local cops, seeking help for the senior citizens. Ruchira Residency Apartment Owners’ Association on Saturday contacted local ward coordinator and Garfa police station in the wake of the state government advisory and assured police and the civic authorities that they had the list of elderly citizens staying at the housing complex ready and they would hand it over to them soon. In fact, the association has formed a task force to deal with the pandemic. “We have handled 12 Covid positive patients of our housing complex so far. I am one of them. I stay with my wife son and 93-year-old mother. I know how crucial it is to maintain a list of elderly citizens who may need help any time during this pandemic,” said Pallab Pal, a former central government employee and a member of the association. With the help of Nibir Dasgupta, the association president, the association has formed a panel of doctors who were willing to visit elderly people of the complex during emergencies. Ruchira Residency has over 550 flats. Members of other housing complexes have also vowed to extend help to the civic administration and cops to protect senior citizens amid this pandemic. “We appreciate the government move and will certainly share the details with the local police authorities if they approach us. Over the last few months, the association has taken care of the needs of the elderly residents in the complex but if we receive further support from the administration, it will certainly help,” said Ashok Baid of Silver Spring Housing Complex. Manak Daga, the president of the apartment owners’ association at South City, said they had an internal body — ‘Maitree’ — which looks after the well-being of the residents. However, an active help from the state, civic administration and cops would definitely help its elderly people get rid of many problems, Daga felt. Nilanjan Das, the secretary of the apartment owners’ association at Upohar, said they too have a complete list. “All we need to do is just update the list. Once it is updated, we will get in touch with Panchasayar police station,” said Das. Manab Chakraborty a former state government officer and a resident of Rail Vihar, a large housing complex off EM Bypass, said the housing society will extend all sorts of cooperation to the civic administration and cops for protection of its elderly people. Prodded by police commissioner Anuj Sharma, Kolkata Police has kept its focus on elderly people staying at housing complexes in Covid-sensitive zones. “We have decided to address the issue in two ways. One, ensure that we update our data bank of 16,000 Pronam members. This apart, we will use our contacts in leading housing societies to share data on senior citizens,” said a senior police officer. KMC officials at the borough have already started collecting data on elderly people from high-rises. “We are keeping focus on housing complexes in Covid-sensitive zones. We need to collect data from several complexes off EM Bypass, Kankurgachhi, Alipore, New Alipore, Anwar Shah Road, Ballygunge and Tollygunge,” a KMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/condos-join-drive-to-help-sr-citizens/articleshow/77437951.cms||Saikat Ray
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘49,000 in Gujarat exposed to arsenic hazard’||AHMEDABAD: Close to 49,000 people in Gujarat are exposed to arsenic levels in groundwater that exceed the WHO-mandated limit of 10 microgram per litre (ug/L). The exposure occurs either through consumption of water or while using it for irrigation. The growing reliance on groundwater is fast depleting the natural resource and causing the concentrations of the toxic metal to rise. A latest study on the geospatial distribution of arsenic in groundwater in the state was carried out by experts from University of Manchester and Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology of Switzerland. The study indicates arsenic hazard — concentrations exceeding the 10 ug/L limit — in the northwest, northeast, and southeast parts of Kutch district; and in the northwest and southwest parts of Banaskantha. Other districts such as Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar have arsenic concentrations ranging between 2 ug/L and 3 ug/L. The study was published in the journal Environ Geochem Health in June this year. The study said that long-term consumption of arsenic may greatly increase the risk of skin cancers, bladder cancers, lung cancers, cardiovascular disease, and other detrimental health outcomes. The researchers were Ruohan Wu and David Polya of Williamson Research Centre for Molecular Environmental Science of University of Manchester; and Joel Podgorski and Michael Berg of Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology of Switzerland. The study has taken into account 398 groundwater arsenic concentrations. The study has drawn attention to remedial measures. It has also indicated that the existing situation may have given rise to 700 cases of skin cancer and about 10 cases of premature avoidable mortality per annum from lung, liver, or bladder cancers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/49k-in-state-exposed-to-arsenic-hazard/articleshow/77438709.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur 2,100 high risk cops under special watch||NAGPUR: City police have compiled a list of more than 2,100 personnel putting them under the high risk category based on their co-morbidities and age — those 50 years or above. The high risk ones, along with pregnant personnel, have been either offered leaves or allotted duties keeping their vulnerabilities on mind. Currently, 37 police personnel, including five officers, along with their 19 family members, are active Covid cases in city. Highly placed sources said the state police have shared the list of hospitals with plasma therapy facilities with CPs, SPs and IGs, along with contact numbers of the doctors and experts for consultations. “We have also given a set of guidelines regarding how to deal with the patients. There are separate guidelines for different cases,” said a senior official. “Close monitoring by the supervisors and individual sensitizations are the two mantras of tackling Covid in the force on which the Maharashtra police are working on,” he said. The two recent deaths of their personnel, one aged 50 years and another 54 years old, have left the city cops on their toes. City police chief BK Upadhyay has already made an appeal to his force to report illness at the earliest and also stepped up awareness campaigns at police quarters. So far, 57 city cops and 39 of their family members have been tested positive, while 28 have been discharged. A senior state level officer said the health of critically affected cops across the state is being monitored directly by the addl DG (administration) Krishna Prakash . Unit commanders like CPs, district SPs and range IGs have been asked by the state police top brass to supervise and co-ordinate treatment of critically ill personnel and also keep updating their health status on social media platforms created for exchange of such information. Several social media platforms comprising top cops of cities, suburbs and districts in the state have been prepared to facilitate rendering special assistances to ailing cops, especially the critical ones. Around 114 cops have died due to Covid while 1,896 are active cases currently. So far, around 10,614 have tested positive in Maharashtra police. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer, said data about high risk personnel has been created and their health conditions are being monitored. “We are alerting police station in-charges and senior officers to keep special watch on the health of their personnel and they too also need to report any kind of uneasiness at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-2100-high-risk-cops-under-special-watch/articleshow/77438730.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Andhra Pradesh focusing on lowering mortality’||VISAKHAPATNAM: The mortality rate in Andhra Pradesh is under control, said special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Reddy appealed to the public to self-report instances of persistent fever for three to four days, breathlessness and blood oxygen saturation below 94%. “People can contact 104 helpline or a local ANM or volunteer either to get shifted to a hospital or home isolation for treatment based on the severity of their symptoms,” said Reddy. Reddy added that the government is following a three-pronged approach to tackle mortality rate, including adhering to suggested clinical protocols, making sure of giving a window of at least six days to doctors treating Covid-19 patients and use of a ventilator only as a last attempt, and not oxygen beds. “Our efforts are on decreasing the mortality rate and saving lives. The state is conducting a community-based sero-surveillance in Krishna, East Godavari, Anantapur and Nellore districts to find out the extent of infection among people. As many as 3,750 samples in each district will be collected and tested for the presence of IgG antibodies,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-focusing-on-lowering-mortality/articleshow/77437923.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||University denying entry to campus, claims JNUSU||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) has alleged that the varsity administration is not allowing students to enter the campus. The union has demanded for a protocol so that the students can re-enter the campus. A B.A. second-year student, who is 80 % handicapped, was not allowed inside the campus despite him waiting for eight hours at the gate, claimed the union. “He had been informed that his exams were starting from August 10 in online mode. As he could not access the internet at home and was unable to concentrate on his studies because of pre-existing issues at his residence, he decided to return to his hostel on the JNU premises. He was made to wait outside the university gates for more than 8 hours, from 6 am onwards on August 7. However, he was not allowed inside and forced to go back home,” said a statement issued by JNUSU. “As many students have been similarly stranded, they have sought to return to the JNU campus, where their access to internet, uninterrupted power supply and furthermore security are ensured. However, the JNU administration has arbitrarily denied all students seeking entry. From female students stranded within the Delhi-NCR region with dwindling finances to a foreign student enrolled in the university with no acquaintances in the country, the last few months are replete with such examples of inhumane and insensitive behaviour of the JNU administration,” JNUSU alleged. Recently, two JNU students were granted entry into the campus following a Delhi high court’s order. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar, however, said that the student’s entry is being restricted to check the spread of Covid-19. The university has had at least 40 cases so far and in certain areas, there have also been restrictions in place. “The university has formulated clear guidelines over the entry on campus. We are not being able to allow students to enter the campus to collect their belongings. It holds a two-way threat. Either they can get infected, or infect others,” said Kumar. Students should also not be forced to appear for online exams and an option for extension be given to MPhil and PhD students, the union stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/varsity-denying-entry-to-campus-claims-jnusu/articleshow/77438737.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Inmates earn prisons department Rs 23 crore||PUNE: Small industries that are run by the prisons department and operated by the inmates have raked in Rs 22.9 crore for the 2019-2020 financial year. Work in the industrial sections of the state prisons department also felt the heat of the lockdown in the state. However, there were orders for furniture and other articles from the social welfare department and the cloth section which made over 3.60 lakh masks. There were no big orders from government departments, NGOs and individuals due to the lockdown this year. Last year, the prisons department had generated an income of Rs 23 crore from 13 industries. “There is a dearth of orders from the many institutes, the state government, NGOs, private industries and individuals due to spread of the coronavirus infection. This was expected. It is important to secure the life of the inmates in the current situation,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (Prisons), said, adding, “The prisons’ industries are working with whatever orders that were received.” The department had received an order of furniture and other articles from the state social welfare ministry for its students’ hostels across the state. The order for furniture and other articles is worth over Rs 12 crore. A senior prison officer told TOI that the order was discussed two years ago. “ We took it ahead after the lockdown was announced. It has yielded good results,” he said. Similarly, many government hospitals and NGOs placed orders for the cotton cloth masks with the prison. “We have so far supplied over 3.60 lakh masks to the hospitals and various NGOs which helped earn money. The section also stitched masks for the prison department staffers, officers and the inmates. These masks were distributed free to all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/inmates-earn-prisons-department-rs-23-crore/articleshow/77440895.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nashik||Inmates earn prisons department Rs 23 crore||PUNE: Small industries that are run by the prisons department and operated by the inmates have raked in Rs 22.9 crore for the 2019-2020 financial year. Work in the industrial sections of the state prisons department also felt the heat of the lockdown in the state. However, there were orders for furniture and other articles from the social welfare department and the cloth section which made over 3.60 lakh masks. There were no big orders from government departments, NGOs and individuals due to the lockdown this year. Last year, the prisons department had generated an income of Rs 23 crore from 13 industries. “There is a dearth of orders from the many institutes, the state government, NGOs, private industries and individuals due to spread of the coronavirus infection. This was expected. It is important to secure the life of the inmates in the current situation,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (Prisons), said, adding, “The prisons’ industries are working with whatever orders that were received.” The department had received an order of furniture and other articles from the state social welfare ministry for its students’ hostels across the state. The order for furniture and other articles is worth over Rs 12 crore. A senior prison officer told TOI that the order was discussed two years ago. “ We took it ahead after the lockdown was announced. It has yielded good results,” he said. Similarly, many government hospitals and NGOs placed orders for the cotton cloth masks with the prison. “We have so far supplied over 3.60 lakh masks to the hospitals and various NGOs which helped earn money. The section also stitched masks for the prison department staffers, officers and the inmates. These masks were distributed free to all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/inmates-earn-prisons-department-rs-23-crore/articleshow/77440894.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Inmates earn prisons department Rs 23 crore||PUNE: Small industries that are run by the prisons department and operated by the inmates have raked in Rs 22.9 crore for the 2019-2020 financial year. Work in the industrial sections of the state prisons department also felt the heat of the lockdown in the state. However, there were orders for furniture and other articles from the social welfare department and the cloth section which made over 3.60 lakh masks. There were no big orders from government departments, NGOs and individuals due to the lockdown this year. Last year, the prisons department had generated an income of Rs 23 crore from 13 industries. “There is a dearth of orders from the many institutes, the state government, NGOs, private industries and individuals due to spread of the coronavirus infection. This was expected. It is important to secure the life of the inmates in the current situation,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (Prisons), said, adding, “The prisons’ industries are working with whatever orders that were received.” The department had received an order of furniture and other articles from the state social welfare ministry for its students’ hostels across the state. The order for furniture and other articles is worth over Rs 12 crore. A senior prison officer told TOI that the order was discussed two years ago. “ We took it ahead after the lockdown was announced. It has yielded good results,” he said. Similarly, many government hospitals and NGOs placed orders for the cotton cloth masks with the prison. “We have so far supplied over 3.60 lakh masks to the hospitals and various NGOs which helped earn money. The section also stitched masks for the prison department staffers, officers and the inmates. These masks were distributed free to all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inmates-earn-prisons-department-rs-23-crore/articleshow/77440950.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||Three held in LPG theft racket||Vadodara: Three persons were arrested and while one was on the run for their alleged involvement in a domestic gas theft racket.The special operations group (SOG) of city police raided the house of Jayesh Bharwad on VIP Road on Friday after receiving information that he was siphoning off gas from sealed cylinders at his home.At Bharwad’s house police found Jignesh Mali, a pick-up van driver, working for Happy Home Gas Agency, which is owned by Hiren Sukhadia, son of BJP MLA Jitendra Sukhadia. Mali told police that he brings the van to Bharwad’s home where he and Bharwad’s man Vipul Bharwad remove some gas from sealed cylinders used for domestic and commercial purposes.Mali, his helper Hemant Mali and Vipul were nabbed and Jayesh has been declared as wanted.This is the second such case in connection with the gas agency owned by Hiren. In September last year, Sama police had booked two delivery agents of the agency for stealing LPG from the bottles. The district supply office had caught the tempo driver and helper while stealing the gas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-held-in-lpg-theft-racket/articleshow/77437974.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Inmates earn prisons department Rs 23 crore||PUNE: Small industries that are run by the prisons department and operated by the inmates have raked in Rs 22.9 crore for the 2019-2020 financial year. Work in the industrial sections of the state prisons department also felt the heat of the lockdown in the state. However, there were orders for furniture and other articles from the social welfare department and the cloth section which made over 3.60 lakh masks. There were no big orders from government departments, NGOs and individuals due to the lockdown this year. Last year, the prisons department had generated an income of Rs 23 crore from 13 industries. “There is a dearth of orders from the many institutes, the state government, NGOs, private industries and individuals due to spread of the coronavirus infection. This was expected. It is important to secure the life of the inmates in the current situation,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (Prisons), said, adding, “The prisons’ industries are working with whatever orders that were received.” The department had received an order of furniture and other articles from the state social welfare ministry for its students’ hostels across the state. The order for furniture and other articles is worth over Rs 12 crore. A senior prison officer told TOI that the order was discussed two years ago. “ We took it ahead after the lockdown was announced. It has yielded good results,” he said. Similarly, many government hospitals and NGOs placed orders for the cotton cloth masks with the prison. “We have so far supplied over 3.60 lakh masks to the hospitals and various NGOs which helped earn money. The section also stitched masks for the prison department staffers, officers and the inmates. These masks were distributed free to all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/inmates-earn-prisons-department-rs-23-crore/articleshow/77440896.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Inmates earn prisons department Rs 23 crore||PUNE: Small industries that are run by the prisons department and operated by the inmates have raked in Rs 22.9 crore for the 2019-2020 financial year. Work in the industrial sections of the state prisons department also felt the heat of the lockdown in the state. However, there were orders for furniture and other articles from the social welfare department and the cloth section which made over 3.60 lakh masks. There were no big orders from government departments, NGOs and individuals due to the lockdown this year. Last year, the prisons department had generated an income of Rs 23 crore from 13 industries. “There is a dearth of orders from the many institutes, the state government, NGOs, private industries and individuals due to spread of the coronavirus infection. This was expected. It is important to secure the life of the inmates in the current situation,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (Prisons), said, adding, “The prisons’ industries are working with whatever orders that were received.” The department had received an order of furniture and other articles from the state social welfare ministry for its students’ hostels across the state. The order for furniture and other articles is worth over Rs 12 crore. A senior prison officer told TOI that the order was discussed two years ago. “ We took it ahead after the lockdown was announced. It has yielded good results,” he said. Similarly, many government hospitals and NGOs placed orders for the cotton cloth masks with the prison. “We have so far supplied over 3.60 lakh masks to the hospitals and various NGOs which helped earn money. The section also stitched masks for the prison department staffers, officers and the inmates. These masks were distributed free to all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inmates-earn-prisons-department-rs-23-crore/articleshow/77438736.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||More rain on Sunday in Ahmedabad: IMD||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad city received about 26mm of rainfall late in the evening on Saturday. The spells were heavier in the North West zone. The city has so far received 426mm rainfall this year. The India Meteorological Department has forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers in the city on Sunday, The IMD said the maximum temperature during the day was 33.7C which was two degrees above normal while the minimum temperature was 26.2C which was 1.1 degree above normal. Amc officials said in the evening the rainfall was heavy in Sarkhej which received the maximum rainfall of 29mm. However, the rains were heavy in area of Chakudiya which received the maximum of 43mm of rain. The rains which began at five pm was heavy between 7 and 9pm where the city received an average 16mm of rains. When last reports came in at 9pm there were no complaints of water logging from any part of the city, nor were there reports of any tree uprooting. IMD officials said the state has so far received 434mm of rain so far against the normal rainfall of 421mm till 8am on Saturday. There was an overall 3% surplus in rainfall already in the state. The South, North and Central Gujarat regions received 336mm of rain as on Saturday against the normal of 555mm. South North and Central Gujarat has a rain deficit of 40%, while Saurashtra-Kutch which should have received 311mm of rain had received 520mm which was 67% above normal. According to state revenue department, of the 125 talukas, only two talukas have received less than 125mm of rain, while another 64 talukas have received rainfall between 160-250mm. A total of 114 talukas have received between 251 and 500mm of rain, while 71 talukas have received over 500mm of rain. Of these 71 talukas, there are eight talukas that have received over 1,000mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-rain-on-sunday-imd/articleshow/77438720.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Two drown in irrigation canal||Bareilly: Two cousins, Tejpal Gautam (21) and Indresh Gautam (20), out to graze buffaloes drowned in a rainwater swollen irrigation canal in Isanagar area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Friday evening. A search was launched when they did not return home and their buffaloes were found grazing unattended. Their bodies were fished out on Saturday. Suneel Singh, SHO Isanagar, said, “We have recorded the statement of locals and family members to confirm that it is a case of accidental drowning. The victims were probably crossing the canal or taking a bath when they drowned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-drown-in-irrigation-canal/articleshow/77436276.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Junior doctors allege neglect, threaten stir||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors’ Association (APJUDA) has raised complaints about the poor quality of PPEs and N95 masks they receive while on duty, lack of insurance cover and incentives, non-payment of stipend for the last three months and working with poor manpower support in hospitals. Junior doctors, who have been carrying out black badge protests, said they would hold a candle light protest on Sunday and boycott elective duties and outpatients (OPs) from Monday if their issues are not resolved. Repeated complaints in the past have not yielded results beyond verbal assurances, alleged APJUDA, which has over 8,500 junior doctors (postgraduates and intern house-surgeons) statewide. State president of APJUDA Dr N Deepchand said, “As frontline medical personnel fighting the pandemic, we are extremely disappointed by the neglect shown towards junior doctors. Whenever we have brought our problems before the government, we have been given verbal assurances by health authorities that our issues are being looked into. On Friday our representatives met the director of health education (DME) and we were told that the file is with the health secretary, and stipends and better quality PPEs would be given. We keep getting the same assurances every time we approach the government. From Monday, we will resort to blocking OPs and elective duties in a statewide protest while attending to only emergencies.” Dr Deepchand added, “Of late, we are getting N95 masks without official numbering and PPEs are tearing. This is enhancing the risk of infection to patients, to our colleagues and families. Also, when patient load has increased so much, deficit of doctors and health staff is overburdening us. Our stipend hike has been pending since January and we are not getting our regular stipends for the last three months. Healthcare insurance coverage for state doctors, ex-gratia for deceased doctors should be given, as well as incentives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/junior-doctors-allege-neglect-threaten-stir/articleshow/77438002.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Cops recover assets worth Rs 62L from arrested ex-guard||PUNE: The Deccan Gymkhana police on Saturday claimed to have recovered valuables and documents of properties worth Rs62 lakh from a former watchman of a residential building on Prabhat Road, arrested on July 30 after he assaulted a 70-year-old woman to commit robbery on the same premises. A police team comprising senior inspector Deepak Lagad, inspector Raju Chavan and assistant inspector Savita Bhagwat questioned the arrested former guard, Somnath Bansode (48). During the interrogation, Bansode, a resident of Bhugaon but currently staying at Warje, revealed that he had stolen gold ornaments and cash from the same flat in November 2015. At that time, the injured woman’s husband had lodged a complaint with the police, stating that Rs1 lakh and gold ornaments worth Rs4 lakh were stolen. Police recently revisited the elderly couple’s house to reassess the value of stolen ornaments and cash.  The elderly man told them that if he would have reported the real value of stolen booty in 2015, his wife would have suffered a mental shock, the police said. He informed the police that the “unidentified thief” had then stolen valuables worth around Rs50 lakh. When the police quizzed Bansode again, he said he had sold the ornaments and purchased a plot at Manjari village, a flat in Bhugaon, a car, and a motorcycle. He also informed the police that he had mortgaged the rest of the ornaments to obtain some gold loan. Bansode said he and his accomplice had struck at another flat in Hadapsar and stolen valuables worth Rs12 lakh. Lagad said the police had seized the car, motorcycle, the documents of the properties and other valuables, collectively worth Rs62 lakh, from his possession. “Bansode had purchased these with the stolen valuables and so they would be attached by the police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-assets-worth-rs-62l-from-arrested-ex-guard/articleshow/77438754.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Two held on charge of molestation in Pune||PUNE: The Kondhwa police arrested a youth and his girlfriend on Friday night for allegedly molesting and sexually harassing the latter’s 16-year-old niece in April. The duo were arrested based on a complaint filed by the girl’s mother under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Assistant inspector Swaraj Patil from the Kondhwa police said, “The girl’s mother had entrusted her sister with taking care of her daughter as she herself was unable to because of the financial crisis brought about by the lockdown.” Patil said the FIR was delayed as the girl had stayed silent initially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-on-charge-of-molestation/articleshow/77438758.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man scales cell phone tower to end life, rescued||NAGPUR: A 42-year-old man caused a furore by climbing up a cell phone tower at Akashwani Square on Saturday late evening in a bid to end his life. Fire and police personnel brought him down after nearly a five-hour struggle. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake, and senior police officials including commissioner of police BK Upadhyay had to intervene in the matter. The man has been identified as Manoj. “A resident of Nagpur, he attempted suicide after failing to repay a loan. He was also murmuring about family dispute as one of the reasons,” said a police official. “Though he did not jump, the man slit his wrist to commit suicide,” said the police and Civil Lines fire station officer Tushar Barahate. Around 6.30pm, a passer-by alerted police control room about a man climbing up the cell phone tower. Soon the police and fire and rescue services personnel arrived at the scene with an ambulance and appealed to him to come down. The fire department also deployed a turn table ladder on which three personnel including a cop climbed and started talking him out of the suicide bid. The fire department personnel on ground held a safety net to catch the man if he jumped from the tower. A crowd gathered around the tower while the rescue operation was underway. The commotion affected vehicular traffic for nearly three hours. After joint commissioner of police Nilesh Bharne was informed, police regulated the crowd and cleared the traffic. Senior police officers present at the spot told media that the man climbed down after he was assured that no police action will be taken against him. He also sought police intervention to settle his loan amount. The police later took him to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-scales-cell-phone-tower-to-end-life-rescued/articleshow/77438761.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Warring couples need to bare all for divorce: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Estranged spouses moving court will have to list every single detail of money spent by them and even their social media presence. In a bid to evaluate the true income and gauge lifestyle status of warring couples, the Delhi high court has drawn up a comprehensive affidavit that needs to be filed by husband and wife, before the court takes a call on maintenance, alimony or right to joint properties. From the brand of mobile phone, wrist watch, pen, wages and number of maids/domestic help, expenditure incurred on functions and festivals, to particulars of social media accounts including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc, the new format finalised by HC contains 99 entries to be disclosed in the affidavits to be placed before the courts. Justice J R Midha said that such a detailed affidavit of the assets, income and expenditure of both the spouses is necessary to determine their true income to enable courts to grant proper relief. The court also noted that matrimonial jurisdiction deserves special attention and maintenance applications should be decided swiftly. “It is the duty of the court to ascertain the true income of the parties and then pass the appropriate order relating to maintenance. Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. People would have faith in courts when truth alone triumphs,” the court noted. It added that such mandatory filing of the affidavit in a detailed prescribed form should be incorporated in the statutes, as in the developed countries and asked the Centre to consider the suggestion. According to the latest affidavit, a salaried person has to share particulars of employment including salary, dearness allowance, commissions, bonus, perks, other benefits and income tax. The verdict said that a self-employed person has to disclose the nature of business/ profession, share, net worth, number of employees, annual turnover, gross profit, income tax and regular monthly withdrawal. The parties are also required to disclose income from other sources, like agriculture, rent, interest on bank deposits, investments, profits on sale of assets, particulars of immovable properties, financial assets including bank accounts, DEMAT accounts, safety deposit lockers, loans, insurance policies and foreign investments. In movable assets, they have to disclose motor vehicles, mobiles, computers, laptops, electronic gadgets, gold, silver and diamond jewellery, intangible assets and properties acquired by the family members or inheritance. The affidavit further requires them to disclose their standard of living, credit/debit cards, membership of clubs, social media accounts, domestic helps and their wages, mode of travel in city and outside, category of hotels, hospitals for medical treatment, frequency of foreign travel, brand of mobile, wrist watch, pen, expenditure ordinarily incurred on functions, festivals and marriage of family members. They also have to disclose expenditure on housing, household and medical, maintenance of dependents, transport, entertainment and vacations. “These modified directions/guidelines shall apply to all matrimonial cases including cases under Hindu Marriage Act, Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, Section 125 CrPC, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, Special Marriage Act, Indian Divorce Act, Guardians and Wards Act and Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act,” the high court said. Watch Warring couples need to bare all for divorce: Delhi HC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/warring-couples-need-to-bare-all-for-divorce/articleshow/77438771.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Youth, farmer die after attacks in Kheri||Bareilly: A youth and a farmer died in two separate attacks in Lakhimpur Kheri's Dhaurahra town and Neemgaon area, respectively. Both succumbed to injuries on Friday night. No complaints were lodged in both cases. Dhaurahra-based businessman's son, Manoj Kumar (20), was returning home from work on Friday night when he was attacked by a group of people. He managed to give them a slip and reach a community health centre, where he succumbed to injuries. Manoj was earlier booked for eloping with a local girl, who is missing. Police suspect that the girl's family may have attacked him. Neemgaon farmer, Rakesh Kumar, was allegedly beaten to death in a clash with a neighbour after his buffalo strayed into the latter's field, destroying standing crop on Friday night. His wife and nephew were among the injured. Kumar succumbed to injuries in hospital. SHO, Neemgaon police station, Amar Singh said three people had been detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-farmer-die-after-attacks-in-kheri/articleshow/77436291.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Foresters taking care of ailing elephant||Coimbatore: Forest department personnel are taking care of an ailing elephant at Vellapathy in the Boluvampatti forest range.Guards who were patrolling the Mulkankad forest beat on Saturday had noticed the female elephant, aged between 10 and 12 years. A team of officials led by district forest officer D Venkatesh reached the spot. “The animal is extremely weak and in lateral recumbency. It is in a debilitated and dehydrated condition. Doctors have given 21 bottles of intravenous fluids, antibiotics, vitamins and minerals to the animal,” said the official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foresters-taking-care-of-ailing-elephant/articleshow/77438772.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker tramples guest worker||Coimbatore: A wild elephant trampled a guest worker to death near a brick kiln unit at Periya Thadagam here on Saturday.The victim, N Babhul Hussain, 31, from Assam, was working for Madhu Sree Brick Chamber, located 1.5km away from the Thadagam reserve forest. “He was attending nature’s call around 6.30am, when he noticed the tusker. He alerted other workers of the unit, who informed forest department staff. When the workers tried to scare away the elephant, it charged towards them and attacked Hussain,” a police officer said. The man, who was seriously injured, was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). But doctors could not save him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-tramples-guest-worker/articleshow/77438776.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pak intruder shot dead by BSF; high alert for I-Day||Ahmedabad: A Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF (Border Security Force) near the Gujarat-Rajasthan border, in Barmer, on the intervening night of August 7 and 8. The Barmer Sector falls under the jurisdiction of the BSF, Gujarat Frontier.A senior BSF official said that the Pakistani Rangers have refused to take the body. “We have handed over the body to the local police station,” said a senior BSF official.According to BSF officials, the intruder was trying to jump over the fence on the International Border close to Gujarat.The BSF ordered him to stop but he crossed the fence and ran towards bushes. BSF troops opened fire. Later, the man was found dead on the Indian side of the fence, said a senior BSF official of the Gujarat Frontier.During the encounter, the troops also noticed movements on the Pakistani side of the border. BSF sources said that similar attempts had been made earlier by Pakistan to push infiltrators in during daytime. These attempts had been foiled by the BSF. However, this is the first time that an infiltration attempt has been made at night in this area. “The BSF is on high alert because of the forthcoming Independence Day,” the senior BSF official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pak-intruder-shot-dead-by-bsf-high-alert-for-i-day/articleshow/77438743.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||FTII theatre to be named after writer||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India will rename its main preview theatre after late author and screenwriter Manohar Shyam Joshi in a formal ceremony on Sunday. The ceremony will take place remotely, according to a statement issued by Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). It will be attended by Joshi’s family, including his widow Dr Bhagwati Joshi, and their three sons. Other writers, columnists, critics, and screenwriters, including Mridula Garg, Pushpesh Pant, and Purnendu Shekhar, will also be a part of the dedication ceremony. The preview theatre is the main area on the Law College Road campus where students screen their diploma films. The FTII said they decided to rename the theatre as a tribute to Joshi’s contribution to screenwriting for television. Joshi wrote the scripts for soaps ‘Hum Log’ and ‘Buniyaad’, both of which were telecast on Doordarshan, and still have a cult following. ‘Hum Log’ was incidentally the first Indian TV soap opera. The serial dealt with the everyday struggle of middle-class India. Known for his multiple literary works in Hindi, Joshi also penned a political satire, ‘Kakaji Kahin’, starring Om Puri. He won the Sahitya Akademi prize in 2005 for his novel, ‘Kyaap’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-theatre-to-be-named-after-writer/articleshow/77438780.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: No darshan at Annavaram temple till August 14||ANNAVARAM: The Sri Veera Venkata Satyannarayana Swamy temple at Annavaram Devasthanam in East Godavari district has suspended all categories of darshan for devotees till August 14 after 38 staffers at the temple tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The number of Covid-19 cases at the Annavaram Devasthanam has gone up to 47. Speaking to STOI, executive officer Vendra Thrinadha Rao said 38 out of 300 samples tested returned positive on Saturday. The executive officer stated that the Annavaram Devasthanam has 907 staff, including priests, administrative staff, barbers and outsourced employees, of which tests have been conducted for 650 staff members. Tests for remaining workers will be conducted over the next few days, he said. The decision to suspend darshan for devotees, the executive officer said, has been taken in view of the recent surge in cases. All categories of darshan and pujas except marriage rituals and accommodation, Thrinadha Rao said, had been carried out at the temple since lockdown restrictions were eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-darshan-at-annavaram-temple-till-august-14/articleshow/77438025.cms||Samson Raj
August 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||How to handle Gen Z? Schools give parents a helping hand||Bhubaneswar: If you are a parent and at times feel like tearing your hair, don’t fret. There are many others who feel the same, caught between work from home, household chores as well as looking after children. Handling children is not an easy job. And it is even more difficult if they are kept locked up at home for months on end. No wonder then that parents are feeling despondent these days and are opting for professional help to tide over the crisis. Some private schools in Bhubaneswar have realised the problem facing parents and have provided them with an outlet to unwind themselves. From yoga, to counselling sessions, to baking and cooking tips as well as sessions on financial management and personal health care, schools are hiring professionals to reach out to harried parents. And all these are for free. Many said to have benefited from these sessions which also deals with handling children in this changed scenario. DAV Public School, Pokhariput, recently organised an online counselling session for parents of children studying in classes VI and VII on ways to handle Gen Z. “One of the biggest change in the lifestyle of children is the intrusion of more gadget time. Often, children are seen glued to the web,” said Sujata Sahu, principal. Parents had asked the school for a session as children were becoming aggressive and impulsive and resisted the involvement of parents in their lives. The school arranged for an interaction with counsellor Jasobant Narayan Singhlal, who discussed case studies and provided them tips on handling children. “My child had become addicted to the mobile phone. Following the session, we are applying the techniques cited by the counsellor to wean him away from the mobile phone,” said Mitrabhanu Rout, a banker, who son studies in Class VII. Rout said he adjusted his office timings to attend the session as it was for the betterment of his child. Sai International School organised an event on Raksha Bandhan on a Sunday that brought many families together online. “Since the beginning of lockdown, we have launched an hour-long yoga session for parents which takes place every morning, five days a week,” said Bijay Kumar Sahoo, the school’s founder. Besides, there are sessions on personal finance, physical and mental health, cooking and baking, all conducted by experts. “We send out a wellness rubric for parents to follow every week. It contains a set of activities that they can do at home to de-stress,” Sahoo added. Project consultant Arabinda Das, who attended the yoga and stress management sessions along with his wife feels a lot calmer and self-assured now. “Initially, I was feeling very low. Now I feel this situation too shall pass,” said Das, whose daughter is in Class X. KIIT International School organised storytelling sessions for students from nursery to Class III. “Mothers also participated in it,” said Sanjay Suar, principal. The school organised a webinar for students and parents to interact with scientists in NASA about life in space. “Amid the pandemic, we wanted to showcase future opportunities. Also, it was an interesting and new experience for children and their parents,” he added. Besides, those like BJEM School and Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 4 conduct regular parent-teacher meetings and also carry out individual counselling of children whenever required. “Our school’s counsellor advices parents on ways to handle children who turn aggressive due to home confinement. We also advice parents on their health and well-being,” said Sandhya Jena, principal, BJEM School. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/how-to-handle-gen-z-schools-give-parents-a-helping-hand/articleshow/77438024.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
August 9, 2020||Pune||Lal-Bal-Pal, Tagore and family to decorate coffee table book||PUNE: The cross-cultural organisation Sarhad has received responses from over 20 authors on a coffe table book that they are preparing to celebrate centuries of close ties between the state of Maharashtra and the region of Bengal, with articles in three languages. The connection is vibrant and goes deep into pre-independence history. The warm ties shared by Maharashtra and West Bengal that have receded into memory are being revived through the book by the Pune based NGO to mark the death centenary year of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak (August 1, 1920-August 1, 2021). “The great freedom fighter was among the triumvirate Lal, Bal and Pal (Lala Lajpat Rai, Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal) who represented the bonds between the people of Punjab, Maharashtra and West Bengal. The relations between Maharashtra and Punjab – that started from the days of Sant Namdev, flourished after independence. However, bonds between West Bengal and Maharashtra did not develop further for some reasons”, said Sanjay Nahar, founder of Sarhad. The two-year programme to celebrate the cultural ties between two regions was kicked off last month by veteran politician Sharad Pawar, who praised the “progressive” nature of the people of the two regions, their cultural heritages, and their contribution to the Indian independence movement. The book is the first part of a programme that involves literary exchanges, theatre and film festivals, and mutual cultural tours for better exposure to each others’ language and culture. According to Sarhad, which is coordinating the preparation of the book, they aim to publish the book by the beginning of next year. “We have set a target of four months to complete the book and publish it. The response to the call that we issued for authors has been very good. More than twenty have responded, who will write mostly in English, with sprinkles of Marathi and Bengali articles in between,” said Nahar, adding all proceeds of the sale of the book will be used in further cultural activities of the organisation. The topics the book will cover includes a wide range of subjects, from public administration, politics, to poetry and literature, and cinema and theatre. The famous Tagore family will feature prominently. The Nobel laureate polymath Rabindranath Tagore’s work about Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj will be translated and covered in the book, and his elder brother, civil servant Satyendranath Tagore, will also be a part.  Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had inspired Netaji Shubas Chandra Bose. Rabindranath had a strong influence on writers in Maharashtra. “We are also celebrating the birth centenary of renowned filmmaker Satyajit Ray this year. Next year, we are celebrating 150th birth anniversary of Yogi Aurobindo Ghosh??,” he asked. The renowned multi-faceted humourist Pu La Deshpande, spent months at Shantiniketan learning Bengali language. Speaking about the book, Nahar said, “It will have the famous poem by Rabindranath Tagore ‘Where the Mind Is without Fear’, a Bengali translation of Sant Dnyaneshwar’s ‘Pasaydaan’. The book will include short stories, children’s stories by Tagore and Satyajit Ray. Specialised articles on ‘Rabindra Sangeet’, social reformers, freedom fighters from both states such as Tilak, Bipin Chandra Pal, Yogi Aurobindo, Swami Vivekananda and Satyajit Ray will also be included”. The coffee table book will have write-ups on Bengal’s contribution to Hindi and Marathi film industry; experiences of Bengalis staying in Maharashtra, Maharashtrians staying in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lal-bal-pal-tagore-and-family-to-decorate-coffee-table-book/articleshow/77438770.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Sri Lankan gangster was poisoned, suspect cops||COIMBATORE: Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka, who died of cardiac arrest at a rented house on Cheran Maa Nagar in the city on July 3, could have been poisoned to death, police sources said on Saturday. Postmortem carried out at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on July 5 revealed bluish discoloration of finger and toenails, sources said. No external or internal injuries were found. Meanwhile, the crime branch-CID police are trying to confirm the identity of Lokka through fingerprint comparison. Sources said that Lokka once used a Sri Lankan passport that identified him as Ilawalage Sandun. He escaped to Tamil Nadu on an illegal ferry. When he attempted to return to Sri Lanka using the fake passport, he was arrested by the Chennai city police on June 9, 2017. Police had collected his fingerprints then. “Fingerprint experts visited Lokka’s rented house on Balaji Nagar at Cheran Maa Nagar and lifted more than 10 fingerprints. A team is working-round-the clock to establish his identity. If the prints match, we can confirm the death of Lokka,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, the CB-CID police filed a petition before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court to take Lokka’s associates Amani Dhanji, 27, of Colombo, Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari and her friend Dhayaneswaran under custody for five days. The petition is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dons-death-police-suspect-poisoning/articleshow/77438766.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Cari to study viability of biomass as protein substitute for poultry||Bareilly: The Central Avian Research Institute (Cari) is planning to explore the viability of biomass as an alternative to protein-rich food in poultry farming. Biomass is a collective term for all plant and animal materials used in energy production. Scientists said that biomass is also produced as a byproduct while converting refinery waste gases into ethanol through gas fermentation process and contains 80% proteins. Hence, Cari has recently signed an MoU with the Indian Oil Corporation R&D centre in Faridabad to conduct a research on whether it is safe to replace biomass as a protein source in poultry diet. Cari director Sanjeev Kumar said, “Protein is the costliest constituent of poultry feed. We are planning to study whether the refinery byproduct from IOC can be utilized as a cheaper alternative protein source for poultry birds. The project will be of one-year duration and cost around Rs 10.7 lakh.” Scientists said that they would study the safe inclusion levels, palatability and growth of poultry birds on feeding biomass. Cari principal scientist Sandeep Saran said, “We will extract and process the protein from biomass and study its impact on poultry birds. If we do not find any negative performance, we will recommend it as a protein substitute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cari-to-study-viability-of-biomass-as-protein-substitute-for-poultry/articleshow/77436297.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Lingapuram bridge submerges for 3rd year in row||Coimbatore: Five villages have been cut off from the rest of Mettupalayam taluk after the bridge across the Gandhaiyaaru river at Lingapuram submerged for the third consecutive year on Saturday. More than 300 families are residing in the villages that together house around 450 acres of farmland.The bridge that connects Gandhavayal, Mokkamedu, Alur, Melur and Ulliyur villages to other parts of Mettupalayam taluk was under at least 2.5ft water in the day. The villagers now have no other option, but to use coracle service to cross the river.Inflow to the river has been on the rise over the past couple of days following incessant rainfall in Kothagiri and surrounding areas. Backwater of the Bhavani river was another reason for the Gandhaiyaaru river to swell.L K Thirumugam, a resident of Gandhavayal, said, “Presently, we are using coracle service to cross the 300-metre wide river. If we have to transport our farm produce, we have to take an alternative route and travel an additional 8km through thick forest to reach Lingapuram.”M Ammasaikutti, a farmer from Lingapuram, said after a 12-year gap, the bridge was first submerged in August 2018. “Since then, the situation has been the same during the southwest monsoon every year. The bridge would remain submerged for five to six months, depending upon the intensity of rainfall.”The district administration had constructed the bridge at a height of 30ft in 2004 while downplaying the villagers’ demand to increase the height by another few feet to prevent it from submerging during monsoon season. The villagers had subsequently raised the height of approach roads to the bridge in 2016 by sharing the construction cost among themselves, Ammasaikutti said.Pointing out that officials would visit them every year during monsoon and assure them to increase the height of the bridge, the villagers said nothing has happened on the ground so far.When contacted, P Suresh, revenue divisional officer, north revenue division, said, “We have resumed coracle services. Presently, two coracles are in use and another four are ready for use. If required, we would start the motor boat service.” He said they had submitted a proposal to the state government to increase the height of the bridge. “We are waiting for the reply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lingapuram-bridge-submerges-for-3rd-year-in-row/articleshow/77438789.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab withdraws Pratap Singh Bajwa’s security cover||CHANDIGARH: The Congress government in Punjab has withdrawn the state police security from party’s Rajya Sabha MP Pratap Singh Bajwa, a Z-category protectee, after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and he had central security cover. The state government spokesperson said that the state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant as he had got personal security directly from the Union home minister Amit Shah. "A mixed security component was, in any case, not considered good, particularly when the Rajya Sabha MP had, by opting for central security, showed that he had no faith in the state police," added the spokesperson. Bajwa was given Z Category security cover by the Union home ministry on March 19 and as of date has 25 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides two escort drivers. Till March 23, Bajwa also had 14 Punjab police personnel deployed with him, but a few were withdrawn for Covid-19 duties. He was left with 6 Punjab police personnel and an escort with a driver, which are now being withdrawn, said the spokesperson. After Bajwa and another Congress MP Shamsher Singh Dullo had criticised their own government led-by Capt Amarinder Singh over the hooch tragedy, the Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and other cabinet ministers had demanded immediate expulsion of the duo for ‘anti-party activities." Contrary to the claims made by Bajwa, the central security he had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership, said the spokesperson. The Union home ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing central security to any person, he added. "Bajwa, as Rajya Sabha MP, may have simply approached the party’s leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union home ministry. However, for some reason, the home ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa’s threat perception with the state government, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases," the spokesperson said. Bajwa had actually been getting enhanced security from Punjab police all this time, way beyond what he was entitled to as Rajya Sabha MP, claimed the spokesperson. He reasoned that this was because the state government decided not to withdraw the greater security he had at his disposal as president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-withdraws-bajwas-state-security-cover/articleshow/77439718.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Grocery kits, clothes given to workers||Coimbatore: Hindustan Petroleum on Saturday donated clothes and fresh vegetables to 170 staff including sanitary workers of the ESI Hospital, which is the main Covid-19 treating centre in the region.It was a small gesture to motivate the healthcare staff, HP general manager Damodharan said. “Sanitary workers in Covid-19 wards do a risky job and we wanted to encourage them. We gave the men dhoti, shirt, soaps, towel and vegetables. Women were given saris, blouses and vegetables,” he said. “We don’t want the workers to visit markets where people don’t maintain social distancing.”Each employee received 10kg vegetables from Kotagiri.BP also donated Rs 7 lakh-worth masks and personal protective equipment to doctors and nurses. The ESI Hospital has treated 3,500 patients so far and 350 are currently under treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/grocery-kits-clothes-given-to-workers/articleshow/77438782.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 19 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the count to 948, of which 157 are active cases. At least 15 patients were also discharged in the day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 788. The district has a recovery rate of 83%. Among the positive cases are four cops from Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar, who had come to the Nilgiris on deputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-19-cases/articleshow/77438791.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||No ‘arrestors’ in airport to prevent accidents||Chennai: The Calicut airport, where an Air India Express plane crashed on landing in the rain on Friday, does not have a safety mechanism called arrestors that would slowdown or halt a plane if it overshoots. After the Mangalore crash in May 2010, which killed 159 people, a court of inquiry report said table-top runways should have arrestor platforms at either end of the runway so that planes come to a halt when the wheels sink on it when the plane rolls off the runway. Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had flagged safety concerns over the runway in 2015, but Airports Authority of India (AAI) maintained that arrestors are expensive and would eat into the buffer space at the end of the runway. Two types of runway arrestors are common in airports abroad: Engineered material arrestor made of cement blocks and soft ground arrestor made of foamed concrete. Air safety expert and former member of Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee Captain Mohan Ranganathan said arrestors might have prevented the accident in Calicut. “It is all the more crucial because the runway does not have the adequate runway end safety area (RESA) of 240 metres,” he said. A pilot said such airports in India often have a slightly raised concrete platform at the end of the runway, made of cement and bricks, which can hardly be called a scientifically-designed arrestor. “A well-designed arrestor ensures the plane stops with minimal or no damage,” the pilot said. Runway specifications issued for Calicut airport under aeronautical information publication (AIP) says there is no arrestor. There was an attempt after 2015 to reduce the usable length of the runway to ensure that there will be 240m buffer at the end of the runway. But that did not work out because it would have curtailed the runway length and make the airport unusable for widebody planes like B737, A320 and B747 jumbo. DGCA gave permission for the Calicut airport to operate widebody planes in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-arrestors-in-airport-to-prevent-accidents/articleshow/77439717.cms||V Ayyappan
August 9, 2020||Pune||Army jawan loses Rs 2 lakh to KYC fraud||PUNE: Cyber crooks duped an army jawan from a regiment based in the city to the tune of Rs2 lakh on the pretext of upgrading his KYC details on July 31. The 21-year-old jawan Sona Singh received a telephone call from a crook claiming to be an army official to upgrade the KYC details, states the FIR registered with the Yerawada police station. Singh claims he did not share any details with the crooks but the money was withdrawn from his account. Inspector Ajay Waghmare (crime) from Yerawada police station said, “The jawan came to know that he was duped after he received text messages about the money debited from his bank account. He also visited the bank and found that the money had been transferred from his bank accounts.” The police have registered a complaint under relevant sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-jawan-loses-rs-2-lakh-to-kyc-fraud/articleshow/77438788.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||130 fresh cases, 7 deaths reported in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: The district reported 130 fresh Covid-19 patients and seven deaths due to the infection on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 16,243 and the overall death toll to 526. Of the new patients, 70 are from the city. There are currently 3,757 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 11,960 patients have recovered from the contagion so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/130-fresh-cases-7-deaths-reported-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/77437105.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||NE Delhi riots: Man who was ‘clearly unarmed’ granted bail||NEW DELHI: It is “clearly apparent” that the applicant does not appear to be part of a riotous mob, said a Delhi court while granting bail to a man. The man reportedly got caught in the melee on his way back after offering namaz at a nearby mosque during the violence in northeast Delhi in February. From CCTV footage, the court noted that he was “clearly unarmed” and appeared to be very “cool, calm and composed”. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, therefore, observed, “It is clearly apparent that the applicant does not appear to be part of a riotous mob. As per the arguments advanced at bar by the counsel for the applicant, he was returning from Phool Wali Masjid after offering namaaz.” Mobin Ali, accused in a rioting and attempt to murder case, sought bail stating he was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage that showed him walking towards home. His counsel argued, “He is a heart patient and has a 17-year-old son who’s bedridden owing to a spinal cord injury. His daughter, aged about 21 years, is a chronic patient of tuberculosis and has been undergoing treatment.” The special prosecutor, however, opposed the bail stating Ali had been identified from the footage by a victim. The court played the video and pointed out that two other men could be seen with weapons but not Ali. The bail plea of the two other men had already been rejected by the court. When the court put a query to the special prosecutor that apparently Ali's case didn’t seem to be similar to the case of co-accused persons, he had no answer. After finding Ali’s case to be different, the court granted bail to Ali on a personal bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety in the like amount. “He shall maintain peace and harmony in the locality and that he shall appear before the court on each and every date of hearing to attend the proceedings in accordance with the terms of the bail bond, which would be executed by him,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-man-who-was-clearly-unarmed-granted-bail/articleshow/77438804.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Varanasi||Bhadohi police book Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, family||Varanasi: The four-time muscleman politician from Gyanpur, Bhadohi, Vijay Mishra has been booked by police on a complaint of house grabbing and threatening filed against him by his relative. Police filed an FIR against MLA Vijay Mishra, his wife Ramlali Mishra, who is an MLC, and his son. This is the second case filed against Mishra recently after he was booked under Goonda Act on July 18. SP Bhadohi R B Singh told TOI on Saturday, “A named FIR against Mishra, his wife and son was registered with Gopiganj police under Sections 325, 506, 347, 387 and 449 of IPC on the complaint filed by the MLA’s relative Krishna Mohan Tewari on Friday. Police has started investigation in the case. On demand of the complainant, who cited threat to his life, we have provided a proper police security cover to him.” In his complaint, Krishna Mohan Tewari said he owns a house in Dhanaapur area under Gopiganj police station in Bhadohi district. “MLA Mishra has been living in my house forcibly and is now exerting pressure on me to register the property in his name. When I refused to sign the papers, Mishra, who has also taken over my firm, is threatening me of dire consequences,” said Tewari. This is the second FIR against Mishra in 20 days. Earlier, on July 18, police had booked him under Goonda Act for threatening a man, who got the contract of toll collection at Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai area. SP Bhadohi said the Goonda Act case against Mishra is in the district magistrate court for approving the action initiated by police. As many as 71 criminal cases are lodged against Mishra in different districts of the state and 10 cases are being heard in MP/MLA court, said police officials. MLA Vijay Mishra won from the Gyanpur assembly constituency for three consecutive times but was denied ticket by Samajwadi Party in 2017 assembly polls. Mishra contested on Nishad Party ticket and won the seat again. He had contested 2012 assembly elections from jail, His wife is also an MLC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhadohi-police-book-gyanpur-mla-vijay-mishra-family/articleshow/77438049.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Plane crash: Lucky escape for three Gudalur natives||Udhagamandalam: The ill-fated Boeing 737 that overshot the tabletop runway of the Calicut International Airport in Kerala on Friday had three passengers, including a five-year-old boy, from the Nilgiris. Shahila Shajahan, 21, of Nandhatty, her relative Shanija Faizal Babu, 28, of Ponvayal in Gudalur taluk and her son Mohammed Zidan Faisal Babu, 5, were among the 191 passengers of the Air India Express-operated flight from Dubai. While Shahila is undergoing treatment at the Aster MIMS Hospital in Kozhikode, Shanija and Zidan are admitted to the Calicut Medical College Hospital with bone fracture and internal injuries.Most passengers of the flight, on a Vande Bharat mission, were stranded non-resident Keralites returning from the UAE following the Covid-19 pandemic.Shahila had left for Dubai on a tourist visa to meet her husband Irshad, her father-in-law Ibrahim said. “She was stranded there due to the pandemic. Luckily, she escaped the accident.”Shahila’s mother thanked the God for saving her daughter. “We were shocked when we heard the news and rushed to Kozhikode. My daughter has suffered severe internal injuries but only minor external injuries. She complains of severe body ache. Because of Covid, I am not allowed to meet her. By God’s grace, the little boy sustained only minor injuries,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plane-crash-lucky-escape-for-three-gudalur-natives/articleshow/77438793.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Cheating case registered against former IPS officer||BATHINDA: A case has been registered against retired IPS officer Amrit Brar for cheating in a long-drawn family property dispute at NRI police station in Bathinda. The case was registered on the complaint of retired IAS officer Sukhdeep Kaur Brar, who though resides at Washington DC in USA, is a permanent resident of Abul Khurana village in Muktsar district. Both are related to each other and the case pertains to a dispute of properties at Abul Khurana village in Muktsar and Fazilka. The family have properties at Delhi also and Sukhdeep Brar is fighting legal battle in Delhi high court for share in that property. In her complaint made to additional director general of police (ADGP) NRI Affairs Punjab on February 26, Sukhdeep had claimed that her late father-in-law Gurdarshan Singh Brar, before his death in 2013, had clearly mentioned in his will that if his daughter Amrit gets married she will be owner of only Delhi-based property but Amrit somehow got her registered as partner in properties at Abul Khurana and Fazilka by presenting documents to the revenue department. When a case was filed in Delhi high court for share in Delhi property, it came out that Amrit had no right in properties at Abul Khurana and Fazilka. Bathinda NRI police station house officer, inspector Harjinder Kaur said “The complaint was made by Sukhdeep some time ago and senior officers of the department made thorough investigations into the matter pertaining to property dispute and it is after investigations and taking legal opinion that the case u/s 420 IPC (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) has been registered against retired IPS officer Amrit Brar on late Friday night and further investigations are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cheating-case-registered-against-former-ips-officer/articleshow/77439722.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Fish market project gives way to metro station||VISAKHAPATNAM: A metro railway station is set to come up in place of the proposed Rs 7.3 crore four-storeyed modernised fish market adjacent to the RTC Complex in the central business district. Officials of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) confirmed the development to STOI. The development body was entrusted to complete the project on an area of 900 square yards with support from the state fisheries department. “Visakhapatnam is all set to have a metro railway connection and as per the initial plan, the RTC Complex metro station would come up in the same place where the proposed fish market was scheduled to come up. No alternative plans have been chalked out yet to shift the fish market project,” K Ram Mohan Rao, superintendent engineer of VMRDA told STOI. The G+4 fish market project was mooted in 2017 and it was decided the building would house a fish market with a provision for 40 modern fish stalls, cutting and dressing facilities, storage facility and a proper waste water management system. A vehicle parking space was planned for the ground and first floors. At present, 64 vendors run a fish market from the same place every Sundays and Tuesdays. The market, Sri Polamamba Primary Men and Women Cooperative Marketing Society, was established in 2016. “The modern fish market project was planned sometime in 2016-17 when former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu visited the fish market and instructed officials to construct a modern and hygienic fish market to cater to the needs of Vizagites. Two years later, we are shocked to hear of this development,” Kokkiligedda Venkateshwar Rao, president of the fish market told STOI. VMRDA officials confirmed that at present, there is no plan on whether the market will be shut down or be permanently shifted to a different location once construction work on the metro rail starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fish-market-project-gives-way-to-metro-station/articleshow/77438045.cms||Arpit Basu
August 9, 2020||Bareilly||Man shoots wife dead in Budaun||BAREILLY: A man allegedly shot dead his 40-year-old wife during a quarrel over his drinking at Khanpur Daya village under Dataganj police station, Budaun district. Police said Ram Bhajan returned home drunk on Friday after a three-day drinking binge. His wife, Santosha Devi, quarrelled with him over his liquor addiction. Bhajan reportedly shot her dead for opposing his drinking and fled. Ajit Kumar Singh, SHO, Dataganj, said, “An FIR has been lodged against the accused husband under IPC section 302 (murder)." The couple has six children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shoots-wife-dead-in-budaun/articleshow/77436308.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City has served 10k packets of cooked food to quarantine homes since pandemic began||Bhubaneswar: The city authorities have so far supplied a whopping 10,000-odd packets of cooked food to the inmates of quarantine centres as well as Covid care homes ever since the coronavirus pandemic broke out here. Out of the 10,000-odd food packets, Covid care homes, which have opened recently, have so far received 2,000 packets. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is the nodal agency for Covid management in the city, has engaged four private agencies to supply the centres with cooked food in packed containers four times a day — for breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner. Extreme care is taken to pack the food in a hygienic manner and make it available on time every day. The city currently has two Covid care homes with 55 inmates and two institutional quarantine centres with 118 inmates. The strength of the institutional quarantine centres, also called temporary medical centres (TMC)s, varies every day, as does that of the Covid care homes. An officer in charge of the Covid care homes said food delivery on time was a priority. “Besides timely delivery of food, quality control is also important. We check the quality of the food first and only then approve it for serving to the inmates. On any given day, the agency staff note down the quantity of meals to be served, including the number of vegetarian meals,” he said. The officer added that on some days, eggs are replaced with chicken in the non-vegetarian meals. “Lunch includes healthy items like dal, rice, raita and a curry for vegetarians. For non-vegetarians, we add chicken or egg. We have two or three varieties of breakfast. From upma, ghuguni (chana) to chuda fry (flattened rice) with santula, we serve healthy breakfast. The evening snacks include tea, biscuits or aloo chup,” the officer said, adding, “The agencies provide a daily supply report to us.” With the virus spreading to new localities and slums, where home isolation is not allowed, the number of people in institutional quarantine is expected to increase. The BMC officials said they don’t supply cooked food to people in containment zones and those under home isolation. In containment zones, vendors authorized by the BMC supply vegetables, grocery, egg and milk at market price. People in home isolation eat home-made food. Currently, the city has seven localities, all slums, under containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-has-served-10k-packets-of-cooked-food-to-quarantine-homes-since-pandemic-began/articleshow/77438040.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Salem||CM EPS reviews Covid prevention measures, developmental works in Salem district||SALEM: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who was visiting Salem district, on Saturday chaired a meeting with district administration officials to disscuss developmental works and steps taken to curb the Covid-19 spread in the district. After the meeting, he told reporters that the scheme to divert surplus water from the Mettur dam to 100 lakes in Omalur, Edappadi, Sankari and Mettur assembly segments will be completed in six months. The scheme will improve groundwater level and solve drinking water issues in these areas, he said. Due to continuous water release from the Mettur dam this year, delta farmers have extended paddy cultivation from 3.5 lakh acre to 4 lakh acre, the chief minister said. On national education policy and environment impact assessment drafts, Palaniswami said two committees will study the drafts and further action will be taken based on the reports from the committees. Palaniswami said one more team has been formed to process e-pass applications. “I have advised district collectors to simplify the process of issuing the passes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cm-reviews-covid-prevention-measures-developmental-works-in-salem-district/articleshow/77438797.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Withdrawal of security attempt to browbeat’||CHANDIGARH: Amid the ongoing slugfest between Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and chief minister Amarinder Singh, the former reacted sharply to withdrawal of state security, terming it an attempt to browbeat him. “As regards the issue of threat perception, as per the Punjab government, if my threat perception is zero, is the Punjab government now trying to state that they had given me security so far without any threat perception? My father had been martyred in the fight against terrorism in the state, I had survived a bomb attack in 1990,” he said. “What a mockery of the police department by its own officers! I was not aware that Punjab Police had become so spineless,” the MP said, adding that security was given to a person for protection of his life and should not be a tool to browbeat him into submission. Bajwa said the police department was not expected to act on the whims and fancies of the political boss. “Granting security involves intelligence inputs from ADGP intelligence as well as consent of ADGP security and finally of the DGP. Obviously, all these three officers have intentionally chosen to prepare a fabricated input showing my threat perception as zero. I would like to state that preparing false intelligence input, and subsequently acting upon it, is evidently a violation of service law and also a punishable offence,” he said. Bajwa said he had spoken openly against the failure of the administration in the state and the improper functioning of the CM. “In his usual manner Amarinder had to resort to hitting below the belt by withdrawing my security and exposing my whole family to risk,” he said. “A very strange reference has been made to Z category security granted by the central government to me... it clearly shows the actual threat perception which I have,” he said. Bajwa said his security was withdrawn in July 2019 and restored in March 2020, on the recommendation of Ghulam Nabi Azad. Therefore, the allegation of procuring personal security directly from the Union home minister was contrary to facts and the state government before making any public statement or any such important decision should at least verify the facts. He said even former chief ministers like Parkash Singh Badal had been given NSG security, apart from the state security. “Moreover, the security provided by the central government has been there with me since long. Why the sudden withdrawal? My attempts to expose truth will continue irrespective of these illegal actions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/withdrawal-of-security-attempt-to-browbeat-bajwa/articleshow/77439720.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Subbulakshmi rubs shoulders with Eminem in Tirupur college||Coimbatore: After adorning a wall on the Nift-Tea College of Knitwear Fashion campus in Tirupur with a 504sqft painting last month, students have unleashed their creativity again.R Sanjay Kumar, a I year Costume Design and Fashion student, had finished a mural that paid tributes to international painters, musicians, and fashion designers on July 12. He paired with M Vasanth Kumar, a I year Apparel and Fashion Design student, to paint caricatures of 50 icons in the field of entertainment, performing and creative arts, and sportsmen. Caricatures of M S Subbulakshmi, Marlon Brando, Ilayaraja, Walt Disney, Bob Marley, Sivaji Ganesan, Walt Disney, Eminem, Pele and Charlie Chaplin adorn a 450sqft wall.“These personalities are inspiring as they had ventured into their fields almost empty-handed to become larger-than-life figures,” said Vasanth. “We started painting on July 21 and finished it on Saturday. We painted everyday till 1am. It was a new kind of creative experience.” The students, who hail from Tirupur, picked up painting skills by themselves, looking at art. The work also pays tributes to lesser known people such as Keeleri Kunhikannan, known as the father of Indian circus and American costume designer Edith Head, who won Academy Award for best costume design eight times. Assistant professor Boopathi Vijay who guided the students said they combined techniques such as caricaturing and doodling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subbulakshmi-rubs-shoulders-with-eminem-in-tirupur-college/articleshow/77438809.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nine businessmen cheated of Rs 1.63 crore||PUNE: Two persons, who claimed to be businessmen operating in Africa and residing in the city, were booked on Friday on the charge of cheating nine people of Rs1.63 crore from 2016 by ordering stationery as well as electrical goods and not making payments against them. The incident came to light after a businessman (59) from Model Colony filed a complaint with the Deccan Gymkhana police on Friday. “As per the complainant, a businessman from Kondhwa had met him at a cafeteria in the Deccan area in July 2016. He also introduced the complainant to the other suspect,” senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Deccan Gymkhana police said. The suspect asked the complainant to export those goods to him in Zambia. “The two struck a deal and the complainant, along with other firm owners in Pune and adjoining districts, shipped stationery items to Zambia. The suspects initially made payments and failed to do so after another bulk order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-bizmen-cheated-of-rs-1-63-crore/articleshow/77438803.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD urges Punjab governor to probe liquor mafia||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday held a protest march to the Punjab Raj Bhawan, demanding an independent probe into the allegations that the liquor mafia had paid Rs 2,000 crore to the Congress high command to prevent any inquiry into the illicit liquor trade in the state. The march was led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and included party workers from the Patiala Urban and Anandpur Sahib constituencies, besides hooch victim families. As the protestors were stopped at some distance from the Raj Bhawan, they staged a dharna there before courting arrest. Chandumajra alleged that the liquor mafia had sent Rs 2,000 crore to the Congress high command, and it was because of this that the party’s government in Punjab is refusing to hand over the case file of the Rajpura illegal distillery-cum-bottling plant to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). “The liquor mafia knows that if the case file is handed over to the ED, then the entire money trail from the source to the political beneficiaries will be exposed. That is why, the money was sent to the Congress high command, so that it does not put pressure on the state government to hand over the case files to the ED and allow a free and fair inquiry,” he alleged. Therefore, Chandumajra said, it is incumbent on Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore to order an independent probe into the charges, besides immediate dismissal of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. The SAD leader further said the chief minister is also under cloud because he has presided over Rs 5,600-crore excise loss as in-charge of the excise department and for failing to take steps to avoid the hooch tragedy across three districts, which claimed around 130 lives. “Justice can be done in the case only after the dismissal of the CM, after which a murder charge under Section 302 of IPC should be registered against the guilty MLAs, besides sealing of two distilleries of Congress associates involved in the crime and confiscation of the properties of all the culprits,” said Chandumajra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-urges-punjab-governor-to-probe-liquor-mafia/articleshow/77439723.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 183 new Covid cases, 10 more deaths||Coimbatore: The district reported 183 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll to 6,450, of which 1,643 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, went up to 112 with 10 more deaths.At least 149 patients, who were undergoing treatment in the ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and Covid care centres were discharged in the day. With this, the total number of recovered patients stands at 4,695. A health official said 38 cases were imported ones. According to him, most of the indigenous cases were identified through contact tracing from the already existing Covid-19 hotspots in the district and. The cases were spread across Ramanathapuram, AKS Nagar, Gandhi Managar, Kovilmedu, CMC Colony, Selvapuram, Uppilipalayam and other areas. According to the state bulletin, two deaths each were reported from a private hospital and the ESI Hospital and the remaining from CMCH. Patients who died in CMCH include a 53-year-old woman who died of pneumonia within hours after hospitalization on Thursday; a 64-year-old man who died of acute respiratory failure, systemic hypertension and viral pneumonia a day after admission on Thursday; a 70-year-old man, who due of bilateral bronchopneumonia, systematic hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus a day after admission on Thursday; a 75-year-old man, who died of bilateral bronchopneumonia and renal failure on Friday; and a 44-year-old man, who died of acute pulmonary oedema, uraemic encephalopathy and type 2 diabetes on Friday.In the ESI Hospital, a 89-year-old man, who was admitted on July 29, and a 67-year-old woman, who was hospitalized on July 30, died on Friday.Meanwhile, Tirupur reported 45 new cases on Saturday, taking the count to 1,106, of which 309 are active cases. It also recorded a death, taking the toll to 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-183-new-covid-cases-10-more-deaths/articleshow/77438802.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||City forum slams power billing cycle||Coimbatore: City-based Coimbatore Consumer Cause has opposed the state’s plan to change the electricity billing cycle for domestic consumers from bi-monthly to monthly.Tangedco officials are planning to change the billing cycle after consulting with the chief minister, K Kathirmathiyon of the forum said. “We strongly oppose the suggestion because it would cause inconvenience both to the public and officials. People feel that they can save a huge amount if the electricity bills are paid every month instead of once in two months. But, the bill amount does not change. As per the TNERC’s tariff norms, tariff specified for bi-monthly billing slab rate is just the double of monthly billing slab,” he said in a letter to the CM.He said the monthly billing system would cause inconvenience to the public. They will have to visit Tangedco offices double the time, if they are paying the bill at the office. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-forum-slams-power-billing-cycle/articleshow/77438799.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Covid samples pile up at BHU labs, east UP districts in a limbo||VARANASI: As Covid-19 cases boom, over 7,000 samples only from Varanasi have piled up at the labs of Banaras Hindu University and are yet to be tested. This has forced the authorities to ask the neighbouring east UP districts to send their samples to the labs of other centres till the backlog is cleared. Officials of the district administration and BHU labs are hopeful of clearing the pending tests in the next two-three days. In the morning Covid bulletin, the district administration stated that results of 6,966 samples were awaited. The 873 samples collected for RTPCR test on Friday have not been included in this figure. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma admitted, “The load on BHU labs, which are conducting tests of samples being sent here from over 10 linked districts of east UP region, has increased in the past fortnight. Thus, the backlog of samples started accumulating and the pendency of only Varanasi has gone above 7,000.” The officials discussed the issue with their senior authorities in the state government and also BHU lab authorities. Sharma said, “It has been decided that for the next two-three days samples collected only in Varanasi district will be tested at the two labs of BHU in order to clear the backlog and ensure that no further delay is caused in beginning the treatment to those testing positive.” The BHU authorities said one lab is operating under Prof Gopal Nath and the other under Prog Royana Singh. Nath disclosed, “Each of these two labs of varsity are working with the capacity of testing over 2,000 samples per day. But, in the past few days the percentage of positive cases has gone above 20. As testing of samples is done with a pool test method, the increased number of positive cases are making the process time-taking. On the other hand, the volume of samples arriving at both the labs is above 2,500, creating a huge backlog.” The DM said that once the backlog Varanasi samples are cleared, one of the two labs of BHU will test the samples collected in the district only to avoid problems of delay in declaration of test reports in future. Apart from streamlining the process of lab testing of Covid-19 samples, the officials are also taking action to ensure that the directive of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, issued during his recent visit, to increase the Covid facility of level-3 at BHU is complied. “Additional chief secretary and nodal officer for Varanasi Devesh Chaturvedi has held a meeting with BHU vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar,” said the DM. “During this meeting expanding the L-3 facility by increasing the number of beds up to 300 in Covid ward as per the directive of CM was the main issue discussed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-samples-pile-up-at-bhu-labs-east-up-dists-in-a-limbo/articleshow/77438061.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor: Punjab police nab 100 accused in 146 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police, on Saturday, claimed to have busted another spurious liquor racket with the arrest of two persons at Majitha in Amritsar district. A total of 100 arrests were made on Saturday in 146 cases registered against those involved in the illegal liquor trade. Police said the two accused, Gurwinder Singh and Lovepreet Singh followed the pattern of Pandori Gola village, where a man and his two sons were involved in the supply of illicit liquor in Tarn Taran. This (Tarn Taran) is where maximum deaths were caused by consumption of spurious liquor. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Raju, the man from whom Gurwinder and Lovepreet purchased the spurious liquor, is at large. Raju hails from Sultanwind in Amritsar and his arrest could unravel the chain of business in this case, he added. Police are also on the lookout for one Bikka, who allegedly purchased liquor from the duo. Nine persons identified as their regular buyers are also being tracked. Police seized 160 litres of spurious alcohol in four cans along with two empty drums, two empty cans and seven small pouches from Gurwinder’s house, from where the two accused were apprehended. An FIR has been registered under Section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder) and various sections of the Excise Act against Lovepreet, Gurinder and Raju. The DGP said chemical examination of the seized liquor has revealed that it was completely unfit for human consumption. Its key chemicals were 1-propanal, isobutanol, acetal, ethyl lactate and ethyl hexanoate. The DGP has also directed the district police to collate a database of all individuals (transporters, drivers and workers) working at distilleries in their respective districts to ensure stricter vigilance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-punjab-police-arrests-100-accused-in-146-cases/articleshow/77439733.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||OFB inaugurates three new facilities||Nagpur: Amid unions on a warpath against the government over corporatisation of the ordnance factory board (OFB), new facilities in three different factories were unveiled as a part of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat week. This includes one at the ordnance factory Chandrapur (OFC), in Maharashtra. At Chandrapur, an automated assembly line for the production of Pinaka rockets has been set up. The system has been conceptualized by the factory along with M/s Godrej and Boyce. This will not only enhance the production capacity but also do away with most of the manual operations, said a press release issued by the OFB. Assembly and testing facilities for the 12.7mm stabilized remote control gun (SRCG), a naval weapon, was also unveiled during the function held online. The facility which includes specialized building and equipment will be utilized for assembly and acceptance tests for the gun. At the Opto electronic factory in Dehradun, a facility for production of sighting devices for the T-90 tanks was dedicated to the nation, said the press release. Meanwhile, the All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) has come up with a list of 19 items and has insisted that orders for these should be placed with the ordnance factories under the import embargo policy. A press release by AIDEF said that the factories have the capacities to make the 19 items and the private entities that have no prior experience should not be given work. These include ammunition for armoured and artillery, assault rifles 155x39mm guns, light machine gun, aerial delivery systems, torpedoes and depth chargers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ofb-inaugurates-three-new-facilities/articleshow/77466080.cms||Shishir Arya
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Hindu married woman allegedly abducted and married off to Muslim man in Pak||Amritsar: A Muslim man allegedly abducted a Hindu woman in front of her husband and in-laws and forced her to embrace Islam and marry him in Sindh province of Pakistan. South Korea-based Pakistani right activist Rahat Austin told TOI over the phone from Seoul on Saturday that Mohammad Adil, resident of Rajmari village, near Pangrio town in Badin district of Sindh province of Pakistan, married a Hindu woman Kavita in an Islamic institution. According to Rahat, Adil, son of an influential Muslim leader, went with half a dozen of his armed henchmen to the house of Hemraj Kolhi, husband of Kavita, and allegedly kidnapped her. “When Hemraj, his parents and other family members tried to prevent Adil from taking Kavita, they were all beaten up. Kavita’s mother and two more family members suffered injuries,” he said. On Saturday, Adil had uploaded a video of his marriage with Kavita. A source in Sindh, who didn’t wish to give his name, said family members of Kavita had filed a complaint in Pangrio police station against Adil, but no action has been taken so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hindu-married-woman-allegedly-abducted-and-married-off-to-muslim-man-in-pak/articleshow/77439735.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Trade unions seek financial support for weaker sections||Coimbatore: Representatives of central trade unions on Saturday staged protests across the district seeking monthly financial assistance for the economically weaker sections during the lockdown period.People who don’t pay income tax should be given Rs 7,500 from March to July as their livelihoods have been hit by the lockdown, said district secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) S Krishnamoorthy. “Wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme should be increased to Rs 600 and the scheme should be extended to urban areas also for the benefit of the unorganised workers there. The workers have not received the money for the last four to five months as the Centre has not sanctioned funds for the scheme. If it is extended to urban areas and if the pay is hiked, guest workers who have returned homes will benefit,” he said.“Making use of the lockdown situation, the Centre is bringing in bills such as the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, which will do away with free power for farmers and power looms, and the draft environmental impact assessment (EIA), which will adversely impact the environment. The Centre is trying to privatise mines, space technology, banks and railways. The Centre is also trying to combine 44 labour laws into four codes, which will undermine labour rights,” Krishnamoorthy said.District representatives of eight central trade unions, including CITU, The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), and All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), participated in the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trade-unions-seek-financial-support-for-weaker-sections/articleshow/77438823.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Deepak Sathe a true air warrior, say classmates||PUNE: Classmates and juniors of Deepak Vasant Sathe, the commanding pilot of the Air India Express plane that overshot the runway at Kozhikode and fell in a gorge killing 16 people on Friday, recalled him as a “brave air warrior” and a “humble person”. Sathe, a decorated Indian Air Force fighter pilot and awardee of “Sword of Honour”, had studied in St Vincent’s High School in Pune Camp (1977-78). His classmate, Brigadier Kevin Mendoca (retired), junior to Sathe in the National Defence Academy (NDA), said, “He stood up to the academy’s motto ‘Seva Paramo Dharma’ — service before self — by saving the lives of passengers onboard. He was a true air warrior. He switched off the plane’s engine in time. Otherwise, the plane would have caught fire and it could have been a bigger tragedy.” Recalling his school and academy’s days, Brigadier Mendoca said, “Sathe was a brilliant student and was focused to join the academy. I joined the NDA one year later. He maintained his stellar performance in the academy .” Sathe passed out from the 58th course of the NDA. He was from Juliet Squadron. Mendoca had spoken with Sathe over the phone in February. “He had called me when he learnt about my retirement. He told me he would meet me on his next visit to Pune. But it won’t happen now. We shall miss him,” he added. Sathe’s another classmate, Prafula Talera, described him as a humble and an adorable person. “We spoke a month ago. He shared his experience about his last flight to a gulf country and talked about the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ briefly,” said Talera. Sathe’s cousin, Nilesh, said in a Facebook post he had survived an air crash in the early nineties when he was in the Indian Air Force. “He was out of action for six months due to multiple skull injuries and nobody thought he would fly again. But his strong willpower and love for flying helped him clear the test again. It was a miracle,” said Nilesh. “He was among the brightest IAF pilots. Hence, he was appointed as a test pilot,” said an IAF officer junior to Sathe at the IAF’s test pilot school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deepak-sathe-a-true-air-warrior-say-classmates/articleshow/77438826.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: ‘Underwear gang’ member held, search on for 6 more||COIMBATORE: The city police have nabbed one of the burglars in underwear who had been attempting to break into some houses in the city corporation limits for the past couple of days. After several attempts, the gang had broken into a house and made away with valuables a few days ago. The gang drew attention as its members wore only underwear during break-in attempts. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “We found that the gang members didn’t enter the city by road and they were taking railway track route to execute burglaries. So, we used drones with cameras to keep surveillance in areas located near the railway tracks in Singanallur and Peelamedu police station limits after narrowing down to their possible routes. We detained a gang member in the early hours of Saturday.” The officer said the accused, identified as B Veeramani, 38, of Pandalur in the Nilgiris district, was earlier involved in a few crimes in rural police limits. “Our teams are working to nab the remaining members of the gang.” Veeramani was picked up by the Singanallur police, who were on night patrol. Preliminary investigation revealed that he was facing at least four cases in Pollachi. “His accomplices are also facing various criminal charges. Four police teams are trying to detain six more members of the gang,” said another police officer. On Thursday night, the gang had attempted to break into a newly-constructed house at AG Pudur near Irugur. But their bid foiled after people in nearby houses switched on lights, after hearing sounds. The same night, they had attempted to burgle houses at Kotari Nagar in Singanallur, Kathiravan Garden and in Shruthi Enclave. However, all their efforts went in vain, as residents raised an alarm. On Wednesday night, the gang had attempted to break into a house at Poonga Nagar near Irugur, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/underwear-gang-member-held-search-on-for-6-more/articleshow/77438836.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why delay in filing FIR in Ahmedabad's Shrey hospital fire case?||AHMEDABAD: Eight innocent lives were lost by asphyxiation in the Shrey hospital ICU fire incident, but the Navrangpura police is yet to lodge an FIR. ACP, A division, L B Zala said they are waiting for the forensic report and the electrical department’s opinion. There have been nine major hospital fire incidents in the past seven years and in none of these cases had the police taken so much time to lodge an FIR — irrespective of whether someone had suffered loss or injuries. It is usually during the normal course of investigations that opinions of the civic fire department, FSL and independent explosives experts is sought by the police. In six of the hospital fires TOI reported, the police had filed FIRs within one to two days of the incident, claim civic officials. This was true even in the case of the infamous May 2008 Shardaben Hospital neonatal care unit fire where a newborn was charred in an incubator due to an electrical short circuit! Civic officials admit that a majority of the 867 small hospitals — which have less than 20 beds — have violations under the National Building Code (NBC) when it comes to fire safety and space for rescue operations. Most do not even meet basic construction specifications under the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) including criterion for electric power loads. “But we can’t pin these hospitals because the state government has regularized these buildings under Gujarat Regularization of Unauthorized Development Act, 2011 after charging a small fee. The Act did not have any criteria for sensitive buildings like hospitals. They were all passed off under broad categories of commercial, residential or on basis of parking availability,” admits a senior AMC official. The result of such violations is that hospitals do not have space for rescue operations or smoke to escape. This was clearly visible in two incidents of fire at SAL Hospital where patients were trapped on top floors of the hospital. SAL has seen five fire instances in a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-delay-in-filing-fir-in-shrey-fire-case/articleshow/77439743.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Almost half the yoga centres in Rishikesh, regarded as the yoga capital of the country, forced to shut as many can’t afford rent||Haridwar: Most of the yoga centres at Rishikesh haven’t been able to recover from the losses incurred during the pandemic-induced lockdown. Even as the government allowed gyms and yoga centres to reopen on Wednesday after a gap of four months, most of the centres at the yoga capital of the country remained shut. Owners said they could no longer afford to pay rent and with the footfall of foreigners having nearly disappeared, a large part of the business had vanished. Kamal Singh, president of Yoga Centres’ Association of Rishikesh, told TOI, “Nearly half of the yoga centres cannot afford to pay rent of the premises. Many have been unable to pay their workers amid the pandemic. Majority of our clients come from foreign countries. Due to the Covid-19 situation, no foreigner is likely to come till at least the end of this year. So most centres will not be able to operate for a long time now.” According to an estimate of Rishikesh Yoga Centres’ Association, there are around 300 yoga centres operating from Rishikesh, Muni-ki-Reti and Lakshman Jhula region and most of them use rented spaces. Acharya Vinay, a yoga expert who recently shut down his centre in Tapovan area, said, “After I could no longer afford rent, I requested my landlord to let me stay rent-free for some time, till business picked up. However, he seized my furniture and I had no option but to close the centre.” Surinder Singh, another yoga teacher from Rishikesh, said, “I have been doing online yoga sessions, but that hasn’t yielded any profits yet. However, I hope it engages enthusiasts and they return to Rishikesh once the situation changes for the better.” The yoga centres also employ many local residents who have now been left jobless. “Thousands of local residents are directly associated with the yoga industry. Now, with most centres closed, they are out of work. The centres that are still open are facing crippling financial hardships. All yoga experts and teachers worked hard to make Rishikeh the yoga capital of the country but the pandemic brought everything to a halt,” Singh said. “The government should come forward and help us, before we lose everything,” Acharya Vinay added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almost-half-the-yoga-centres-in-rishikesh-regarded-as-the-yoga-capital-of-the-country-forced-to-shut-as-many-cant-afford-rent/articleshow/77437141.cms||MS Nawaz
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Shift families from disaster prone areas by force if needed, says Ashoka||MANGALURU: Revenue minister R Ashoka on Saturday directed deputy commissioners across the state to shift people residing in areas prone or vulnerable to natural disasters including flooding. “If people ignore official requests and warnings to do so, then they must be evicted from their respective places even by using force, if required. Officials must not hide behind excuses that people did not heed to their directive after disaster strikes,” he said. Referring to the aftermath of the family of chief priest of Talacauvery, who refused to shift despite being asked to do so, and are now feared buried due to a massive landslip, Ashoka who reviewed preparedness of the Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration to handle natural disasters, said such incidents bring a bad name to the government. “You have provisions of the law to get people residing in vulnerable areas to shift. Use them if people do not heed,” he said. “If people do not agree to move, take the help of the police to shift them and book cases against those endangering their lives,” Ashoka said, adding, “We are the government. Invoke relevant sections of the law to get people to comply and shift them to relief shelters that the administration has set up.” He also cited examples of youths endangering their lives by trying to cross swollen rivers or taking selfies in disaster prone areas, forcing authorities to expend manpower for their rescue. State’s disaster mgmt plan set for GP level launch Revenue department, in a pilot project which has enthused the Union government, will set up gram panchayat (GP) level disaster management committees (DMC). Each committee will have 10 members – present or former GP members or locals— and officials active in respective villages that the respective deputy commissioners will certify, will be trained in disaster management activities, and called on to aid the district administrations in times of need. Revenue minister R Ashoka said that this intiative will be rolled out in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Noting that the two coastal districts with their high literacy rates and history of proactiveness in public governance issues are ideal for this pilot project, Ashoka said presence of such committees will help respective district administrations in averting human tragedy of the kind that unfolded at Talacauvery due to reluctance of family of the chief priest to shift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shift-families-from-disaster-prone-areas-by-force-if-needed-says-ashoka/articleshow/77438172.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hubballi||Make DPR to widen NH 4 Bypass, Joshi tells officials||DHARWAD: The Pune-Bengaluru National Highway-4 bypass from Narendra Cross to Gabbur Cross has become a death trap with fatal accidents being reported on the road at frequent intervals. The two-lane road constructed in 2000 has failed to serve the purpose. With increasing traffic, the road has proved to be very narrow. The bypass is constructed and managed on Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis by Nandi Highway Developers and legal hurdles are said to have blocked the road widening work. Union minister and Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi said the legal hurdles are being resolved and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials have been asked to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for widening the road into six lanes. Joshi held a video conference with the officials concerned on Wednesday and was told that the DPR is in the final stage. Later speaking to TOI, Joshi said he asked officials to include a service road on either side of the track in the DPR and send it to the Union Ministry of Surface Transport and National Highways before August 15. Joshi told officials to ensure all works pertaining to highways and other roads funded by the Central government are completed within a time frame and the funds should not be allowed to lapse. If there is delay, the officer concerned will be held responsible, he warned. Joshi also directed officials to prepare a DPR for the construction of a bypass near Navalgund town. State large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who also participated in the video conference, said the highway near Navalgund is full of potholes and asked officials to complete the work at the earliest. Deputy chief minister Govind Karjol who holds the PWD portfolio said he directed officials to complete all the works at the earliest at the meeting held at Bengaluru. Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, additional chief secretary (PWD) Rajanish Goel, NHAI officer Vijaykumar, Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil and others were present during the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/make-dpr-to-widen-nh-4-bypass-joshi-tells-officials/articleshow/77438035.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||67 new positive cases in Amravati district||Amravati: The district reported 67 new cases on Monday that took its covid count to 3135. With 41 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1985. With 89 deaths so far, the district has 1061 active cases, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt reported a dozen cases that took its count to 761. Chandur Bazar accounted for five of these which took its count to 35. Walgaon gave two to take its count to 19. Paratwada, Chandur Railway, Ner Pinglai, Bhatkuli and Changapur reported a case each. In the city, Vilasnagar reported five cases to take its count to 30 while Badnera and Ambapeth reported four each to take their count to 236 and 14 respectively. With three cases, Krushnanagar took its count to 26 while Vijay Colony and Priyanka Colony, too, reported three cases each to take the count to five and three respectively. Vivekanand colony, Asiad Colony and Namuna reported two cases each to take their count to four, four and 16 respectively. New Ganesh Colony, Uttamnagar and Purushottamnagar opened their account with two cases each. Twenty-one other areas reported a case each. The youngest of the day’s cases came from Changapur where a four-month-old boy tested positive. The day’s oldest case was a 73-year-old man from New Ganesh Colony. Male kids aged one and three came from Ambapeth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/67-new-positive-cases-in-amravati-district/articleshow/77468407.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hubballi||Probe into Irfan shooting picks up pace||HUBBALLI: Investigation into Fruit Irfan murder case has picked up pace with different teams having been formed to nab the shooters. Irfan, a rowdy-sheeter from Dharwad, was shot dead by unidentified shooters outside a hotel here on Thursday evening. DCP (crime) R B Basargi said investigation into the case has been intensified. “Various teams have been given different tasks, and we are gathering details. Police are pursuing leads, and revealing them at this stage may hamper investigation,” he said. The DCP did not reveal whether the weapon used in killing the rowdy was sophisticated or developed locally. An officer, who is involved in the investigation, said that they have gathered CCTV footages not only from the crime spot, but also from adjacent roads. “Pictures show the shooters in black attire. We are scanning the footages to get definitive clues with which we can crack the case,” he said, adding: “Many details are sensitive enough to alert the accused. It is a matter of time that we piece together the clues and zero in on the culprits.” Irfan suffered injuries in the head and on the thigh after being shot two rounds in close range. The incident happened soon after he stepped out of a party hall of a hotel on Vishal Nagar Road here, where he had come for his son’s wedding. He succumbed to injuries at a private hospital around 12.30am on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/probe-into-irfan-shooting-picks-up-pace/articleshow/77438269.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Parties stop ration distribution drives after politicos test positive||VIJAYAWADA: The outbreak has not spared political parties and their workers after a number of politicians who continued to campaign for their candidates for the local body elections and distributed essential commodities tested positive for Covid-19. When Covid-19 cases started to rise in the second from the second week of March, most political parties were preparing their action plans for the local body polls. The State Eelection Commission (SEC) later deferred elections and campaigning stopped. In the early weeks of the lockdown, functionaries of YSR Congress, TDP, Jana Sena, CPI(M) and CPI distributed essential items to the poor and destitute across wards in the city. Special kits containing fruits, vegetables, milk and other groceries were handed out free of cost by candidates who were contesting local body elections. Distribution of the kits stopped after two YSRC corporator candidates contracted and succumbed to the virus. Altogether, 19 politicians from three parties have so far been infected with Covid-19. “We have distributed essential commodities to around 20,000 families in Vijayawada west, twice during the lockdown. We have run campaigns motivating the public to remove stigma attached to Covid-19-affected families. But we have stopped campaigns as cases are increasing,” said Pothina Mahesh, Jana Sena spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parties-stop-ration-distribution-drives-after-politicos-test-positive/articleshow/77438070.cms||Venu Lanka
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Body of one missing resident recovered in Kodagu||MADIKERI: Rain continued its onslaught in the hilly Kodagu district on Saturday, and the residents continued to suffer as landslides were reported in various taluks. Meanwhile, three days after five residents in Talacauvery, of whom three were members of the family of a priest Narayanachar, the body of the priest’s brother, Ananda Thirtha Swami, was found on Saturday. Members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), along with counterparts from the Karnataka team, found Anada Thirtha’s body at a depth of 20ft at the site where the landslide occurred on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 70-year-old Narayanachar, his wife Shantha and two of his assistants Srinivas, 30, and Ravi Kiran, 26, are still missing. NRDF personnel managed to recover Ananda Thirtha’s body on Saturday evening, but inclement weather forced them to suspend the search thereafter. The heavy showers lashing the district notwithstanding, the rescue operation continued following pressure from Virajpet MLA KG Bopaiah. A senior functionary of a Sangh parivar outfit Su Ramanna requested Bopaiah to ensure that the search for Narayanachar, a Sangh parivar activist himself, continued. Narayanachar’s sister Susheelamma Kedilaya has lodged a complaint at the Bhagamandala police station, seeking action on her missing family members. Meanwhile, another earth-moving machine has been pressed into service to clear the Bhagamandala-Talacauvery Road, which was badly affected following a landslide. Legislators blame forest dept for landslides in Kodagu Virajpet MLA KG Bopaiah and MLC Veena Achaiah placed the blame on the landslides in Kodagu district on the shoulders of forest department officials. The legislators said that the trenches that had been dug in the Brahmagiri and Gajagiri hills four years ago for harvesting of rainwater, undertaken as part of the afforestation initiative, had led to the landslides. They said that the ground had been excavated using earth-moving machines and since it had not been covered, the district was facing landslides during the monsoon. 52 spots in district affected Local authorities in Kodagu have estimated that as many as 52 places across the district have suffered because of landslides. They suspect that the district has recorded as many as 14 landslides thus far, owing to which eight roads have been closed to traffic, while a whopping 1,800 electricity poles have been damaged. The Kodagu-Hassan Road has been closed at Kanive following a flood. Vhetri, Monnageri, Jodupala, Hoddur-Kottamudi, Murnad and Kushalnagar are among the places where residents have reported loss of property. Along with Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, district in-charge minister V Somanna on Saturday visited Virajpet to take stock of the situation. Meanwhile, those affected by the flood across the district are reluctant to shift to rehabilitation centres owing to the threat of the transmission of the novel coronavirus. However, Somanna directed authorities to subject people at these centres to a rapid antigen test to allay the fears among the people. Residents of Nellihudikeri Kumbaragundi village in Kodagu were rescued byNDRF personnel with the use of boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/body-of-one-missing-resident-recovered-in-kodagu/articleshow/77438249.cms||G RAJENDRA
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar district secretary visits flood-hit areas||CHAMARAJANAGAR: Following the release of water from Kabini and KRS dams to the downstream river, district secretary B B Cauvery has inspected various flood-hit areas and villages along the Cauvery river basin. The official visited villages like Dasanapura, Hale Anagalli, Harale, Halehampapura, Mullur and Yedakuriya Island in Kollegal taluk. At Dasanapura, she told reporters that the district administration has taken measures to shift the affected people to safer places and to relief centres set up at the taluk headquarters. “Instructions have been given to officials from the departments of horticulture, agriculture and revenue to jointly assess the loss of crops, property and livestock because of floods. Special plan has been made to rescue livestock,” she added. Assistant commissioner Nikitha M Chinnaswamy, district urban planning cell programme director K Suresh, tahsildar K Kunal, CNNL executive engineer Raghu, CMC commissioner Nagashetty, Cesc AEE Ningaraj and others were present during the visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-dist-secretary-visits-flood-hit-areas/articleshow/77438200.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC chief holds protest over missing ‘saroop’||Patiala: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Saturday held a protest in front of the office of Patiala SSP and accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur of remaining mute spectators and even refusing to comfort the Sikh Sangat, which is in turmoil after a ‘saroop’ of Sri Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from Ardaspura Sahib Gurdwara near CM’s Moti Mohal residence in Patiala. The SGPC president said 17 days have passed since the historic ‘saroop’ was stolen from the gurdwara, but shockingly the CM and his wife Preneet Kaur have not spoken a single word to condemn this dastardly act. He warned the district police to recover the ‘saroop’ immediately and arrest those responsible for this heinous crime, failing which the SGPC would be forced to agitate more forcefully to ensure justice in the case. Longowal said the theft of the ‘saroop’ is another effort in the long line of steps being taken by anti-Sikh forces to weaken the Sikh panth as well as its representative bodies, including the SGPC and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). He said some ‘jathebandis’ are also playing into the hands of the Congress party. He said the same organisations were used by the Congress to divide the Sikh community following sacrilege cases and that they are again playing into the hands of the Congress by remaining silent about the theft of the ‘saroop’ from Kalyan village. He also led a delegation, comprising senior SGPC members Rajinder Singh Mehta, Gurbaksh Singh Khalsa, Harinder Singh Dhami and Kuldeep Kaur Tohra, to the SSP office and submitted a memorandum demanding recovery of the ‘saroop’ and arrest of the culprits. In a brief media interaction, Bhai Longowal said the SGPC has been forced to protest because the district police has taken the heinous crime casually and not made the required efforts to nab the perpetrators. Earlier, at the dharna site, the sangat recited ‘Satnam waheguru’ and expressed its angst against the district police and administration as well as Congress ministers and legislators of the area for neither condemning the incident nor visiting Ardaspura Sahib Gurdwara to express solidarity with the sangat. Senior leader Gurcharan Singh Grewal announced that in case the administration does not deliver results, the SGPC would announce its next line of action on August 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-chief-holds-protest-over-missing-saroop/articleshow/77439769.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cannot say when the FIR will be registered, state police||Ahmedabad: While FIRs are quickly registered in most fire incidents, no FIR has yet been registered in the Shrey Hospital tragedy of Thursday, in which eight Covid-19 patients died from asphyxiation. ACP, A division, L B Zala said they are waiting for the forensic report and the electrical department’s opinion. “We need to know the exact cause of fire. We need to ascertain whether it was accidental or due to any lapse on part of the hospital. If any negligence is found in those reports, an FIR will be registered, but we can’t say when. We need evidence to register an FIR so that a case can stand in the court of law,” he added. Navrangpura police station sources said that apart from recording the statement of Bharat Mahant, a main administrator of the hospital, they have recorded statements of eight others including two doctors. Mahant has refuted allegations of negligence on part of the hospital. “Two administrators are ill and we have not recorded their statements yet,” said a senior police official. DCP zone-1, Ravindra Patel, said that on Friday night, the fire department submitted their report but police have raised further queries about possible negligence on part of the hospital. “We suspect a spark triggered the fire. We have also asked the fire department to give us a detailed report as to how the fire spread so rapidly,” Patel said. Yet to check hospital documents “We have to check the documents of the hospital. The hospital was run by Bharat Mahant and two others who are currently ill. One is suffering from Covid-19 and the other is battling cancer. We need to know what share each had in the hospital in both finance and administration,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cannot-say-when-the-fir-will-be-registered-state-police/articleshow/77439772.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||2 prominent British Sikhs in Twitter spat over Khalistan movement||London: A Twitter spat has broken out between Britain’s first female Sikh MP Preet Gill and chairman of the British Sikh Association Rami Ranger over the Khalistan movement. Ranger tweeted that UK PM Boris Johnson had assured him that the UK does not support the movement, to which Gill replied the PM is not above the law and Ranger does “not understand human rights or the principles of the UN declaration”. Ranger, a Conservative life peer in the House of Lords, had earlier tweeted: “PM Boris Johnson has categorically assured me that British Government does not support Khalistan movement. Thank you PM.” Gill, a Labour MP, responded: “The principle of self-determination is prominently embodied in Article 1 of the UN Charter. It is positioned as the first right in the twin Human Rights Covenants (the ICCPR and the ICESCR). Most concerning!” She added: “The PM is an elected representative who is accountable to the British people!” Ranger replied: “Logic tells us to use the ballot box in Punjab and fight election on a separatist agenda to test public opinion like the SNP (Scottish National Party) did. Talking rubbish against India to get asylum in the UK or money from India’s enemies is not the right way. It is against UN Character to incite sedition.” Gill told TOI that Ranger’s tweet was “insensitive”. “How can Boris Johnson make a statement about human rights violations when there are international laws and treaties in place?” she said. “Does it mean genocide of Sikhs is justified? When we think of Khalistan, we think of human rights violations and the genocide of Sikhs by Congress,” she added. “Khalistan means you want an independent country,” Ranger said. “It does not mean you are championing human rights. You can talk about human rights in Punjab or Sikh human rights, but Khalistan is a secessionist movement.” He said his original tweet was in response to reports about the Punjab Referendum 2020 that banned US-headquartered outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) has announced for November. “Rather than sitting in the UK on British passports, anyone interested in Khalistan should go to Punjab and set up a political party on that ticket like the SNP has done,” Ranger told TOI. “What they are instead doing is a lot of damage to Sikhs in India. Punjab is not a separate country to India, so it does not have the right of self-determination. Punjab was never an independent state but a province of British India, so the UN Charter is not applicable,” Ranger added. Meanwhile, former envoy to the UK Ruchi Ghanashyam tweeted that Johnson’s assurance is “welcome” and only some misguided people abroad are behind the propaganda for Khalistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-prominent-british-sikhs-in-twitter-spat-over-khalistan-movement/articleshow/77439768.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 9, 2020||Kanpur||Take urgent steps to curb Covid spread: Nodal officer||Kanpur: UPSIDA managing director Mayur Maheshwari, nodal officer of Kanpur, expressed grave concern over the spread of coronavirus and emphasized on testing, tracing and treatment of the infected persons. In a review meeting on Saturday evening, Maheshwari directed the officers to follow test, trace and treatment strategy. As soon as anyone is found positive, he must be informed and told what precautions need to be taken. This message must be passed through the control room. The operators in control room must ensure they communicate precautions for prevention to at least 1,000 persons per day. A separate team should be deployed by the control room to contact pensioners daily. The team should contact 400 persons per day, the nodal officer said. The team members should ask pensioners if they have any physical problems and prepare a list to monitor them. A separate list should also be prepared of blood pressure, sugar and other serious patients. Maheshwari also ordered daily monitoring of patients in home isolation and inform the control room on 18001805159 immediately if they feel any problem. He asked the doctors to ensure every patient gets treatment. They should be advised through telemedicine. The nodal officer asked the RRT team, which is contacting patients in home isolation, to visit their homes and record their condition by using pulse oximeter and thermal scanning. Maheshwari also inspected the control room later. District magistrate Dr Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari made a call to a patient from the control room and asked if he was facing any physical problem? The corona patient said he was fit and there was no problem. Maheshwari then inspected the civil lines containment zone. He directed the municipal commissioner to ensure proper sanitization of all containment zones. District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, ADM civil supply Basant Lal Agarwal, ADM land acquisition Pramod Kumar, city magistrate Himanshu Gupta, and chief medical officer Anil Mishra were also present during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/take-urgent-steps-to-curb-covid-spread-nodal-officer/articleshow/77438089.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 9, 2020||India||The descent into tragedy at Calicut||MUMBAI: For the Air India Express flight that crashed in Calicut on Friday, the problems appear to have begun during descent in heavy rains, with difficulty in spotting the runway from the cockpit. What followed was a host of factors that had the pilots opt to land instead in unfavourable tailwinds, touching down on a wet runway, probably face problems with braking action of aircraft all of which had the Boeing 737 aircraft overshoot the tabletop runway to speed into a gorge, crash and kill 18 people. It began well with the AIX pilots overflying the runway to line up for an approach to land on runway 28, according to data from flightradar24, a live flight tracking app. The norm is to land an aircraft into the wind and runway 28 had headwinds, favourable for safe landing. But during the descent the pilots appear to have encountered their first problem with weather. Aviation weather report (called METAR, issued every 30 minutes) for that time showed few light clouds at 300 feet. “The pilots probably couldn’t spot runway 28 from their cockpit by the time the aircraft descended to 265 feet above ground level. For Calicut airport, this is the height at which pilots have to discontinue the descend to land and carry out a go-around if the runway isn’t in sight,’’ said a senior commander, requesting anonymity. The pilots then decided to try an approach and land from the opposite end, that is on runway 10. They have to seek permission from the air traffic controller, who in turn, consults METAR for wind speed and direction on the runway the pilots have sought permission to land on. “If the runway has tailwinds of 15 kt or higher, it isn’t considered safe for landing,’’ said a senior commander. Other pilots said that a tailwind of more than 10 kt for a table-top runway like Calicut should be considered unsafe for landing. The METAR report for the time of accident showed a windspeed of 12 kt, from “direction 260”. It essentially translates to a tailwind of 11 kt for runway 10. But pilots spoke about possible inaccuracies in the METAR report. For instance: in August 2017, a SpiceJet aircraft went off the runway during landing in Calicut airport. The investigation report noted that METAR showed zero winds at the time of incident, but the flight crew experienced winds over 12-15 kt. “From the position of the wreckage it does look like the aircraft landed in tailwinds that were stronger than what METAR reported,’’ said an examiner on B737 aircraft. There are other crucial questions. The photographs of the wreckage shows the aircraft wings with speed brakes not deployed. Said the senior commander: “We don’t know what happened after touchdown. But the AIX commander appears to have switched off the engines. After all, he was an IAF pilot, he would have had the presence of mind to switch off the engine and prevent a possible fire following the impact.’’ Another factor that a number of pilots spoke about was “aquaplaning’’, which refers to a condition wherein a layer of water builds between aircraft wheel and runway surface leading to loss of braking action. “Apart from aquaplaning, if there are significant rubber deposits from previous touchdowns as well, then the braking action would be really poor,” said the examiner. The Calicut airport runway also wears a bit of bulge towards its mid portion. “So a landing aircraft gains momentum after crossing the mid section of the runway,’’he added. Pilot fatigue is another crucial aspect that needs to be looked into, said AIX pilots. Despite all these factors, what could have still saved the day is EMAS or Engineering Material Arresting System. It’s a bed of engineered materials built at the end of a runway which arrests an overshooting aircraft as the wheels plough into its yielding surface. It was one of the recommendations made for tabletop runways, post the 2010 Mangalore air crash which killed 158 people. “But the Airports Authority of India seems to have seen it as an unnecessary expenditure,’’ the examiner added. What could have still saved the day is EMAS or Engineering Material Arresting System — a bed of engineered material at the end of a runway to arrest an overshooting aircraft. It was one of the recommendations made for tabletop runways post the 2010 Mangalore crash. ‘But AAI seems to have seen it as an unnecessary expenditure,’ an examiner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-descent-into-tragedy-at-calicut/articleshow/77440225.cms||Manju V
August 9, 2020||Amritsar||SAD Taksali to meet Amit Shah over SGPC polls||AMRITSAR: Taking advantage of the recent misunderstanding between Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Badal and its alliance partner Bharatiya Janata Dal (BJP) over former’s cold shouldering of bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram mandir at Aydohya, the breakaway faction SAD (Taksali) has decided to meet BJP’s top leadership in a bid to offer next best alternatives to party in Punjab. While talking to TOI on Saturday, SAD (T) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said a party delegation would soon meet senior BJP leader and home minister Amit Shah. He said they would meet Shah to impress upon Center to hold Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections so as to ‘liberate’ it from the clutches of Badals. None of the senior SAD (B) leaders congratulated bhoomi pujan and the construction of Ram mandir. “Hindus have also been voting for Akalis in large numbers, but after the party chose to ignore bhoomi pujan ceremony, there is a likelihood, they (Akalis) may lose a good chunk of Hindu vote bank,” said sources in SAD (T) adding that BJP’s senior leadership in Punjab and Delhi was disappointed with their alliance partner’ s ‘attitude’ given the fact that prime minister Narendra Modi had himself inaugurated the Kartapur corridor, which SAD (B) had been demanding for long. While alleging that Badals had been using SGPC as their office, former Lok Sabha member parliament Brahampura said even SGPC president and jathedar of takhts, prominently among them Akal Takht, were appointed by Badals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sad-t-to-meet-amit-shah-to-seek-sgpc-elections/articleshow/77439771.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Scientific interest sprouts in herbs||Ahmedabad: The use of Harde, Neem, Galo or Kariyatu for various ailments might well be known to grandmothers, but now the Indian herbs have caught the attention of the scientific community. Several ongoing projects intend to assess the impact of India’s medicinal herbs in Covid-19 cases – both for prophylactic (preventive) or curative (treatment) use. Recently, state-funded Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) completed the docking of scores of various key components of ayurvedic concoctions against known Covid-19 proteins and found that Yashtimadhu (jethimadh in Gujarati, mulethi in Hindi) can bind with the proteins and prevent Covid-19 interaction with the body cells. GBRC officials said that the computer simulations showed effectiveness of several of the components in arresting Covid-19 replication, attachment and entry, virus transcription and infection. Validation of the theory however is pending, and the data is shared with ayurveda practitioners. “The process is primarily to reduce the number of potential candidates. We know the lock (virus) and we have a huge bunch of keys (formulations). Thus, it’s like identifying possible keys that can be applied to the lock based on its size and groove,” said an official. Gujarat State Biotechnology Mission (GSBTM) had recently organized a webinar on the theme of alternative medicines and biotechnology. The participants included scientists from Gujarat University, MS University of Baroda, Akhandananda Ayurvedic College, South Gujarat University, and Gujarat Ayurved University. Prof Rakesh Rawal from department of lifesciences, Gujarat University, said that there is renewed interest in the traditional medicines and its properties along with allopathic line of treatment. “Systems like ayurveda look at the body holistically and stress on well-being. We are studying the impact of a formulation in maintaining white blood cell (WBC) count among Covid-19 patients. We will also be looking at bio-indicators such as CRP count to understand the patient’s recovery,” he said. Dr P S Nagar from department of Botany, MS University of Baroda, said during the webinar that their preliminary work shows effectiveness of liquorice. “Potassium loss is seen among patients which leads to hypokalemia, degrading ACE2. Liquorice can help in that,” he said. “Another important property of liquorice is production of interferon that can combat infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scientific-interest-sprouts-in-herbs/articleshow/77438885.cms||Parth Shastri
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 cops in Shrey rescue in home quarantine||Ahmedabad: Even as no FIR has been registered in the tragic fire incident on Thursday at Shrey Hospital, Navrangpura, eight police personnel engaged in the rescue have been home-quarantined after two of them began coughing and had fever. Eight Covid- 19 patients died from asphyxiation in the incident. Inspector of Navrangpura police station, P B Desai, said the policemen will be sent for Covid-19 test. Desai added that a team of Navrangpura police had rushed to the hospital after receiving message of the fire at about 3.12am on Thursday. “The police team, knowing fully well there are Covid-19 patients in the ICU ward, helped in evacuation of 41 patients who are now admitted at Sardar Vallabhbhai Hospital,” he added. Desai said two members of the rescue team showed symptoms like coughing and fever, and they along with six others of the team have been home-quarantined. A woman police officer had tried to enter the ICU using her mobile phone torch but there was so much smoke inside that nothing was visible, said a police official. Firemen in rescue operation test negative The 33 officers and personnel of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) who were part of the firefighting and rescue at Shrey Hospital on August 6, underwent Covid-19 testing on Saturday. Senior officials said that all have tested negative, giving a sense of relief to the force that had gone to the Covid-19 ward without any protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-cops-in-shrey-rescue-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77439773.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Multi-purpose buildings must be focus of fire safety’||AHMEDABAD: The blaze at Shrey Hospital triggered a debate not only on the fire safety aspects for hospitals but also for all buildings in the city and the state. Experts lamented the fact that after every major fire incident, the specific category of buildings comes under sharp focus, but fire safety as a whole is still a distant dream. City-based experts said that the focus area now should be multipurpose buildings. An increasing number of commercial complexes have coaching classes, restaurants, and hospitals, posing a major fire risk. Himanshu Patel, a city-based fire safety expert, said that rules have been laid for different categories of buildings based on the fire risk. “But when there is no such clear demarcation, how should the risk be assessed?” he said. “Hospitals should have at least two entry-exit points, which are not available in several commercial buildings.” He added that multipurpose buildings must be the focus for the next few years. “The electrical load is a major issue. At the time of granting of NOCs, there could be a limited number of users or equipment,” he said. “But some years down the line, air-conditioners, medical equipment, etc. are added without a corresponding increase in electrical capacity, which leads to short-circuit.” Raj Shukla, a fire protection engineer from the city, said that if an ICU is located on the top floor, what are the chances of the most vulnerable patients getting down safely in an emergency? “The design of the building is crucial,” he said. “We recently went to a hospital where the passage was so narrow that a patient cannot be brought down on a stretcher.” He said the need of the hour is to regularize and standardize fire safety equipment and volunteers who can do fire safety audit. “After the Takshashila fire incident in Surat, there was a knee-jerk reaction across the state on tuition classes,” said a former fire brigade official on the condition of anonymity. “Earlier, when a couple of major fire incidents have occurred in commercial buildings, the inspection and sealing started for commercial buildings. The fire lesson from Shrey Hospital should not be limited to hospitals only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/multi-purpose-buildings-must-be-focus-of-fire-safety/articleshow/77439785.cms||Parth Shastri
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||200 trains may run between Mumbai, Konkan for Ganesh devotees||Mumbai: Around 200 trains are likely to run between Mumbai and Konkan from next week as state government granted permission for people to travel for Ganesh festival, which begins on August 22. Even though services are running from Mumbai to various parts of the country, tickets for destinations within the state are not being sold. An exception has been made for trains to Konkna due to the festival. The state government had on August 7 requested railways to operate trains for Konkan. Konkan Railway and Central Railway (CR) have drawn up plans for services but a decision on how many will operate will depend on railway board and home ministry. Western Railway, which does not run trains to Konkan, will ply few to cater to demand but it is yet to prepare a proposal. Trains to Konkan are likely to run between August 11 and September 6 and stoppages are likely at Thane, Panvel, Chiplun, Ratnagiri and Sawantwadi. A senior railway official said, “We will run 100 up and down services each. There will be around four trains per day from Mumbai. A similar number was operated last year too, including regular services, even though we expect demand to be extremely low. But this time, only those with confirmed tickets can travel.” Passengers will have to follow norms to ensure coronavirus does not spread. All passengers will have to wear masks at the station’s entry and during travel. They will have to reach the station 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening. Only passengers who are asymptomatic can travel and strict social distancing will have to be followed at the station and in the train. An official said, “We have begun preparations to set up the path, form crew link and other measures to ensure smooth running of trains once approval comes from railway board.” CR chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “We received a state government communication on Friday evening. We will consult the board before coming up with a time-table.” Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses have begun plying. Devotees can travel by private cars or buses with e-pass that can be generated at covid19.mhpolice.in Private buses have been operating at 50% capacity. Harsh Kotak of Mumbai Bus Malak Sangathna said, “Demand is very low. Only 10% people are travelling compared to last year. We are not running AC buses as there is no demand.” Buses are being sanitised and passengers are being screened for fever and oxygen levels before boarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/200-trains-may-run-between-mumbai-konkan-for-ganesh-devotees/articleshow/77438677.cms||Manthan K Mehta
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||IFS officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi accuses Centre of blocking deputation at Lokpal||Dehradun: The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has sought a reply from both the Centre and state on a plea filed by Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi, which alleged that there has been a delay in his appointment at the Lokpal despite fulfilling all requirements and even obtaining an NOC from the state government. Chaturvedi claimed that the Centre is trying to block his appointment. In its orders issued on August 4, the CAT asked the Centre and the state to submit counter affidavits in six weeks’ time. In his plea, Chaturvedi has alleged that “the Centre is forcing the state to withdraw its NOC so that the case is finished at state level and no blame is ascribed to the Centre.” According to his plea, Chaturvedi was given an NOC from the state government on December 23, 2019, and all the related documents were cleared. On February 5, the central government asked the state to produce the notification of the post (at Lokpal) for which Chaturvedi had applied. In his affidavit, Chaturvedi cited several appointments already made at Lokpal without the notification of a vacancy, including that of BK Agarwal, who was appointed as secretary to Lokpal in 2019. A central committee, which is headed by the Prime Minister and is authorised to appoint or reject anyone for a position at the Lokpal, has asked the state to review the bureaucrat’s plea. The affidavits from Chaturvedi’s side mention that he has faced similar treatment twice before in his career for approaching the tribunal. The IFS officer has garnered the reputation of a whistle-blower for exposing corruption and scams involving several state governments as well as the central government. “There may be attempts on part of respondent no-1 (central government), to get the said NOC withdrawn so as to pre-empt the case of applicant, in an unfair manner, and which if allowed, would result in an irreparable loss to the applicant. Under Rule 6 of IFS cadre rules, there is no provision for a second round of consultation or concurrence with the state government,” Chaturvedi’s statement to the court read. When contacted, Chaturvedi refused to comment on the matter, saying it is sub-judice. Secretary (home) Nitesh Jha also refused to comment, saying the matter pertains to the personnel and forest departments. Radha Raturi, secretary (personnel), could not be contacted despite several attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ifs-officer-sanjiv-chaturvedi-accuses-centre-of-blocking-deputation-at-lokpal/articleshow/77437202.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 9, 2020||Kanpur||Umakant surrenders, names Vikas, others as perpetrators||Kanpur: More than a month after spraying bullets on the raiding police team along with gangster Vikas Dubey and others in Bikru village, the gangster’s absconding aide Umakant Shukla dramatically surrendered at Chaubeypur police station with a ‘remorseful confession’ written on a cardboard hung around his neck on Saturday. Accompanied by his family members, including his wife and daughter, he begged policemen on duty for mercy. As per the message written on the cardboard and which he had hung around his neck, Umakant stated that he along with Dubey and his other aides had opened indiscriminate firing on the raiding team after being instructed by Dubey on July 2 & 3 night. “But the commission of the crime has left me crestfallen. I am feeling guilty and slipped into depression,” he said before the police and media persons. Before surrendering, he also asked his wife and daughter to beg mercy for him from policemen, said a police official. Confessing to the crime, he cried inconsolably, leaving the cops shocked, said police. Umakant alias Guddan alias Bauwan, one among the 21 aides of the slain gangster, who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, was absconding since the Bikru ambush. According to police, the accused, who had confessed to his crime, has given names of his other co-accused including, Vikas Dubey, holding them responsible for the Bikru ambush that claimed the lives of eight policemen. According to SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava, the accused has named his co-accused as Vikas Dubey, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpayi, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar. “They were involved in trapping and killing eight policemen including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra besides looting firearms from policemen during a police raid at the house of Vikas on July 2 & 3 night,” he confessed before the police. Umakant also stated that Vikas was devil and used to harass, torture and even kill innocent persons. “Such was his (Vikas Dubey) cruelty that once he asked his aide to urinate on the face of one Munna Saxena, who had tried to raise voice against him,” added Umakant further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/umakant-surrenders-names-vikas-others-as-perpetrators/articleshow/77438116.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Blaze again at Nandan Denim, AFES takes 3 hours to douse||Ahmedabad: A major fire was reported at a production unit in the premises of Nandan Denim Ltd in Narol early on Saturday morning. A total of 75 firefighters and 15 vehicles of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) were pressed into action. It took more than three hours to douse the flames. None at the unit were reported injured, but a fireman sustained injuries and was taken to LG Hospital for treatment, said AFES officials, adding that he had suffered a cut from a cement tile while entering the unit. In February this year, seven persons had lost their lives in a raging fire that had broken out at Nandan Denim. That time it had taken 15 hours to bring the fire under control. Mithun Mistry, divisional fire officer, said that they could enter the building only after breaking a few roof tiles and creating a hole. “Before our vehicles reached the premises, the company’s internal firefighting team had started dousing the flames. When the fire began spreading rapidly they called in AFES,” he said. AFES officials said two persons had been inside the unit when the fire started. But they were able to exit in time and no company worker was injured. The unit where the fire was reported manufactures yarn and had a stock of raw materials and finished goods. Officials said that a large stock got gutted in the incident. A vehicle was stationed at the unit even after the operation to ensure cooling off of the premises so that the fire doesn’t resume. M L Patel, ACP K division, told TOI that the Narol police have taken an application of complaint in the incident and no FIR had been filed as of Saturday morning. “No person is reported injured or dead as of now. Several areas inside the unit were inaccessible due to fire. We will again carry out a search after the fire brigade’s operation is over,” he said. Chiripal Group has purchased two full-fledged fire vehicles Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) officials said that Chiripal Group, which owns a number of companies in and around Ahmedabad, has purchased two full-fledged fire vehicles that can carry out minor firefighting and have also trained personnel to address initial period of the fire before AFES arrives. “The decision was taken perhaps in light of the high number of fires reported in their unit in past few years,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blaze-again-at-nandan-denim-afes-takes-3-hours-to-douse/articleshow/77439801.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||More than 20k diploma seats vacant||Ahmedabad: The online registration for admission to diploma engineering courses in the state saw 35,200 candidates getting themselves registered against a total of 55,950 seats that are up for grabs. This could leave at least 20,750 seats vacant in the state even if all the students who have registered, were to be admitted in the diploma colleges, said sources in the Admission Committee for Professional Diploma Courses (ACPDC). The 55,950 seats are spread across 31 government colleges, 106 self-financed and five grant-in aid colleges and the online registration which started from July 13 ended on Saturday. The provisional merit list will be declared on August 14 and the mock admission round will be held from August 14 to August 18, sources added. The final merit list will be declared on August 21. Last year, the admission process was conducted for 66,000 seats. The number of seats have reduced to about 55,950 this year, of which about 39,000 are in self-financed colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-than-20k-diploma-seats-vacant/articleshow/77439791.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Crimes against SC/STs have gone up during lockdown: PIL||Chennai: Claiming that atrocities against members of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes have increased during lockdown, a Coimbatore-based advocate has moved the Madras high court to direct the state to ensure regular meeting of the state-level vigilance and monitoring committee constituted under the SC/ST Act and curb such atrocities. Advocate N Pannerselvam claimed that more than 50 cases, including murder, caste killings, caste-based humiliation and police torture had been registered in Tamil Nadu during the lockdown. “Untouchability Eradication Front, a movement against caste-based atrocities comprising various political parties and social organisations, has reported that 81 cases of violence against dalits had been reported during lockdown. The organisation has also made representation to the state to convene a meeting of the state-level vigilance and monitoring committee to take action against such atrocities,” the petitioner said. “Since the government failed to make arrangements to convene the committee, on June 23, I personally made a representation to the government requesting the committee be to convened,” the petitioner said. The representation was addressed to the chief secretary, home secretary, finance secretary, secretary of Adi Dravidar and Tribal welfare department and the director general of police but none of the officers bothered to respond or take action, he added. He wanted the court to direct the state to take steps to convene the committee and initiate action on the perpetrators. The plea, filed as a PIL, is likely to be taken up for hearing in the third week of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crimes-against-sc/sts-have-gone-up-during-lockdown-pil/articleshow/77438145.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kanpur||Covid: 284 new cases, five deaths reported||Kanpur: For the second time in last eight days, new Corona cases fell below 300 mark. And on Saturday, 284 new Covid-19 cases were recorded by the health department. With this the total tally reached 8,095. While five more Covid-19 positive people succumbed, 90 positive patients who recovered from this disease were discharged from hospital. A total of 2,540 persons have been discharged from hospital. So far 261 people have died due to Covid-19. Now there are a total of 4,562 active cases and all of them are being treated. The youngest covid patient who died on Saturday was a 35-year-old woman who was a resident of Colonelganj. She was also suffering from pneumonia. The other deceased were a 53-year-old man who was a resident of Chaubeypur, 66-year old man who was a resident of Cantt, 69-year-old man who was a resident of Avas Vikas, 48-year-old man who was a resident of Shyam Nagar. Health department stated that 763 teams visited 51,870 homes and conducted survey and 241 persons were identified who had symptoms for coronavirus. Health department also collected 2,600 samples for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-284-new-cases-five-deaths-reported/articleshow/77438139.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad civic body to refer symptomatic but negative cases for chest scan||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to refer patients who show cough, fever or any other symptoms of Covid, but test negative in antigen tests, for chest CT scan. AMC officials said the decision has been taken to ensure no positive case remains undetected. The AMC has also fixed five radiology laboratories where the CT scans will be performed. A senior officer at the AMC said that the move came after reports of a small percentage of Covid patients testing negative for antigens, but they had the disease and ended up infecting others. In some cases, such patients landed in ICUs due to delay in detection. AMC officials said that 10% of the antigen tests may give erroneous results, and the new decision has been taken to close the gap in margin of errors. A city-based radiologist said the accuracy of CT scans is higher than RT-PCR tests in detecting presence and severity of Covid infection. Moreover, RT-PCR is a yes or no kind of test, whereas CT scans give the exact picture of severity. The chances of a false result in a CT scan are almost nil, he said. AMC officials said that CT scans, besides being more accurate, were cheaper for the AMC. The civic body pays Rs 1,400 for a CT scan, whereas a RT-PCR tes costs nearly Rs 2,500. However, CT scan had a role to play only in symptomatic patients, AMC officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-refer-symptomatic-but-ve-cases-for-chest-scan/articleshow/77438967.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Ayurvedic potion showed results that encourage’||AHMEDABAD: A team of experts led by Dr Bhavdeep Ganatra, a city-based ayurveda practitioner, carried out medical research at SVP Hospital on a group of 60 patients. In the research that lasted for 30 days in May and June, an ayurvedic concoction – primarily consisting of essential oils – was given to 30 patients whereas another 30 were given placebo. “The final result showed that all 30 who were getting the concoction got discharged in less than 14 days whereas in the control group (other patients), four were to be discharged at the end of the research,” said Dr Ganatra. “The results showed that the patients who were also given the ayurvedic concoction along with other medicines had average three times less recovery time (time from admission to discharge).” The researchers said that their experience showed that Covid-19 gets conducive environment in acidic nature of the body and when the body’s nature tilts towards alkaline, it poses difficulty for the virus to proliferate. “The concoction we prepared had essential oils including oregano, clove, lemongrass, neem, spearmint, eucalyptus, coriander and rosemary among others in different proportions. The medical study was registered with Clinical Trials Registry (CTR) and it was supervised by the experts at SVP Hospital,” said Dr Ganatra, adding that the primary challenge for them was to ensure that the concoction doesn’t adversely affect the ongoing allopathic treatment. He said that the success has motivated them to take up a larger study at another city-based hospital where they will be carrying out research on a group of 200 Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ayurvedic-potion-showed-results-that-encourage/articleshow/77438950.cms||Parth Shastri
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Shocked to learn of e-pass corruption: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Coming down heavily on corruption in issuing e-passes to travel during lockdown, the Madras high court has said ‘cut-throat’ officials who behave like ‘blood-thirsty wolves’ should be dealt with an iron hand. “For the past few months, people are unable to do their work or travel from one place to another for various purposes and they are put to untold misery. Though the government is not responsible for the present situation, some of the corrupt officials involved in issuing e-passes are bent upon making booty even in this worst scenario,” said a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani. The bench was making the observations while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Tamil Desiya Makkal Katchi to trace and rescue several hundred children taken from Tiruvannamalai to be engaged as child workers in private textile mills in Tirupur. “This is a classic case that could demonstrate how corrupt government servants utilise any situation to make illegal gain,” the judges said. When the petition filed by C M Sivababu, who heads the petitioner-forum, came up for hearing, the state Child Welfare Committee, which had raided one such mill and rescued children, informed the court that the girls had been transported from Tiruvannamalai across various districts to Tirupur without an e-pass. This apart, the children were not subjected to Covid-19 test, CWC officials told the bench. Taking a serious view of the same, the court said, “It is not known as to how without proper e-passes, it has been possible to bring the children from one district to another. It only implies that if money is paid, the authorities would bend and flout rules, and without e-passes, people are travelling by bribing the authorities.” The current case is only the tip of an iceberg. There are allegations that there are brokers available to get e-passes by bribing authorities while people who apply through due process are unable to get them. The bribe ranges from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 according to media reports, the bench added. Noting that the issue has been widely reported in the media, the judges said, “This aspect has to be looked into seriously by the government. It is very shocking to know about such incidents and also about cut-throat corrupt officials in the system.” The bench then directed Chenniyappa Yarn Spinners Private Limited, which transported the children, to file an affidavit explaining as to how they were able to bring children to work without e-passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shocked-to-learn-of-e-pass-corruption-hc/articleshow/77438156.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for duping people on pretext of providing jobs in state assembly||DEHRADUN: A 33-year-old man, identified as Mansaram Uniyal, was arrested by the Nehru Colony police of Dehradun for duping people on the pretext of providing them jobs in the state assembly. He took an amount in the range of Rs 8-to-Rs 10 lakh from his clients. The issue came to the fore when a Chamoli resident approached Nehru Colony police in December 2019. After working on the case for over seven months, the police team was successful in arresting the accused. Nehru Colony police maintained that Vinod Kumar Daundiyal approached the police station with his complaint on December 2, 2019. His complaint alleged that Uniyal took Rs 1.5 lakh from him but the accused didn't deliver on his promise of a job in the state assembly. A complaint under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. During the probe, it was found that he had duped many more people in a similar manner and usually took an amount in the range of Rs 8-to-Rs 10 lakh from each person. Several raids were conducted at his Maldevta residence but Uniyal could not be caught. Following specific inputs, the police team arrested Uniyal from the Basant Vihar area and he would be soon produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-providing-jobs-in-state-assembly/articleshow/77437237.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||24 hours: 1,101 coronavirus cases, 23 deaths in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday recorded 1,101 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 69,986. The state touched the 1,100-plus daily cases level again after five days. The cases included 226 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Vadodara, and 93 from Rajkot. The state also recorded 23 deaths, taking the toll to 2,629. The deaths include 10 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Junagadh, Kutch and Vadodara, and one each from Amreli and Gandhinagar. With the update on Saturday, Surat district crossed 15,000 cumulative Covid cases, at 15,003. The district had added 226 cases in 24 hours — including 182 from the city and 44 from the rest of the district. An analysis of the cases reveals that the district took 18 days to reach from 10,000 to 15,000 cases. Incidentally, Ahmedabad had also taken the same number of days in May and June to add 5,000 positive cases at the average of 278 daily cases. A total of 1,135 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 52,827. The discharges include 549 from Surat, 121 from Ahmedabad, 67 from Vadodara, and 61 from Porbandar. It was one of the few days for Gujarat in which the number of discharged patients was higher than the number of new cases. Now Gujatat’s number of active patients has dipped to 14,530, which consists of 20.8% of the total cases. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 75.5% and 3.7% respectively. Gujarat carried out 26,272 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 9.56 lakh. The state health department said that the per day per million testing has reached 404. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 4.8 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24-hours-1101-cases-23-deaths-in-guj/articleshow/77438973.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||21 women felicitated with Tilu Rauteli award||DEHRADUN: The annual Tilu Rauteli awards were conferred to 21 women for their exemplary performances in their field of work in Uttarakhand on Saturday. The awards were conferred by the women and child development department (WCDD) of the state government and the event was presided over by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. State minister for WCCD Rekha Arya and other senior officers of the department also attended the event. Tilu Rauteli was one of the youngest warriors who fought seven wars between the age of 15 and 21 years in the 17th century. She was born in Pauri Garhwal. This year, three women each from Dehradun and Udham Singh Nagar districts bagged the award. The other 15 winners of the award belonged to the remaining 11 districts. The chief minister announced that the prize money for the award has been increased from this year onward from Rs 21,000 to Rs 31,000. In yet another announcement, he said, “A 5% reservation will be provided to the youths from orphanage.” On the day, 21 anganwadi workers were also felicitated for their unprecedented works during these pandemic times and their award prize was also been increased from Rs 11,000 to Rs 21,000.Meanwhile, Rekha Arya said that she is hopeful that next year, many more women will be found deserving for this award. The awards were given in almost all the categories ranging from social welfare works, sports, health, and farming, among others. Last year, 16 women were given the Tilu Rauteli awards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/21-women-felicitated-with-tilu-rauteli-award/articleshow/77437253.cms||Shivani Azad
August 9, 2020||Rajkot||24 hours: 1,101 coronavirus cases, 23 deaths in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday recorded 1,101 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 69,986. The state touched the 1,100-plus daily cases level again after five days. The cases included 226 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Vadodara, and 93 from Rajkot. The state also recorded 23 deaths, taking the toll to 2,629. The deaths include 10 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Junagadh, Kutch and Vadodara, and one each from Amreli and Gandhinagar. With the update on Saturday, Surat district crossed 15,000 cumulative Covid cases, at 15,003. The district had added 226 cases in 24 hours — including 182 from the city and 44 from the rest of the district. An analysis of the cases reveals that the district took 18 days to reach from 10,000 to 15,000 cases. Incidentally, Ahmedabad had also taken the same number of days in May and June to add 5,000 positive cases at the average of 278 daily cases. A total of 1,135 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 52,827. The discharges include 549 from Surat, 121 from Ahmedabad, 67 from Vadodara, and 61 from Porbandar. It was one of the few days for Gujarat in which the number of discharged patients was higher than the number of new cases. Now Gujatat’s number of active patients has dipped to 14,530, which consists of 20.8% of the total cases. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 75.5% and 3.7% respectively. Gujarat carried out 26,272 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 9.56 lakh. The state health department said that the per day per million testing has reached 404. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 4.8 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/24-hours-1101-cases-23-deaths-in-guj/articleshow/77440435.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Surat||24 hours: 1,101 coronavirus cases, 23 deaths in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday recorded 1,101 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 69,986. The state touched the 1,100-plus daily cases level again after five days. The cases included 226 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Vadodara, and 93 from Rajkot. The state also recorded 23 deaths, taking the toll to 2,629. The deaths include 10 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Junagadh, Kutch and Vadodara, and one each from Amreli and Gandhinagar. With the update on Saturday, Surat district crossed 15,000 cumulative Covid cases, at 15,003. The district had added 226 cases in 24 hours — including 182 from the city and 44 from the rest of the district. An analysis of the cases reveals that the district took 18 days to reach from 10,000 to 15,000 cases. Incidentally, Ahmedabad had also taken the same number of days in May and June to add 5,000 positive cases at the average of 278 daily cases. A total of 1,135 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 52,827. The discharges include 549 from Surat, 121 from Ahmedabad, 67 from Vadodara, and 61 from Porbandar. It was one of the few days for Gujarat in which the number of discharged patients was higher than the number of new cases. Now Gujatat’s number of active patients has dipped to 14,530, which consists of 20.8% of the total cases. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 75.5% and 3.7% respectively. Gujarat carried out 26,272 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 9.56 lakh. The state health department said that the per day per million testing has reached 404. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 4.8 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/24-hours-1101-cases-23-deaths-in-guj/articleshow/77440436.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vadodara||24 hours: 1,101 coronavirus cases, 23 deaths in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday recorded 1,101 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 69,986. The state touched the 1,100-plus daily cases level again after five days. The cases included 226 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Vadodara, and 93 from Rajkot. The state also recorded 23 deaths, taking the toll to 2,629. The deaths include 10 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Junagadh, Kutch and Vadodara, and one each from Amreli and Gandhinagar. With the update on Saturday, Surat district crossed 15,000 cumulative Covid cases, at 15,003. The district had added 226 cases in 24 hours — including 182 from the city and 44 from the rest of the district. An analysis of the cases reveals that the district took 18 days to reach from 10,000 to 15,000 cases. Incidentally, Ahmedabad had also taken the same number of days in May and June to add 5,000 positive cases at the average of 278 daily cases. A total of 1,135 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 52,827. The discharges include 549 from Surat, 121 from Ahmedabad, 67 from Vadodara, and 61 from Porbandar. It was one of the few days for Gujarat in which the number of discharged patients was higher than the number of new cases. Now Gujatat’s number of active patients has dipped to 14,530, which consists of 20.8% of the total cases. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 75.5% and 3.7% respectively. Gujarat carried out 26,272 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 9.56 lakh. The state health department said that the per day per million testing has reached 404. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 4.8 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/24-hours-1101-cases-23-deaths-in-guj/articleshow/77440434.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU plans offline exams despite shutdown||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has allowed students to opt for the offline (pen and paper) mode for the annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. The exams are to be held from August 21 to August 31. The announcement comes a day after the state government issued guidelines for Unlock-3. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions are to remain closed till August 31. Teachers and other staff members are to continue working from home till August-end. “It is surprising that Gujarat University has decided to hold classroom examinations at a time when colleges are not allowed to reopen due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a GU source. “Other varsities like Gujarat Technological University have deferred the offline exams to September and will conduct the second round of online exams in August.” The exams will be in the MCQ format and will be held for the sixth semester undergraduate candidates and fourth semester postgraduate students for all GU-affiliated colleges. According to the University Grants Commission’s guidelines, terminal semester and final-year exams are to be conducted by universities and institutions by the end of September in the pen and paper, online or blended (online + pen and paper) modes. In the first week of July, the Gujarat government had issued a notification under which varsities had to conduct online exams by July 30 for students who wished to go abroad for further studies. This option was available for other candidates also, including those who wanted to pursue higher studies in other states. Students who did not want take online exams can avail of the option of taking the exams in the pen and paper mode to be held by the universities till September 31. In wake of the latest Unlock-3 guidelines, GTU deferred the offline exams that were to begin from August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-plans-offline-exams-despite-shutdown/articleshow/77438988.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||11 north Tamil Nadu districts log half the fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths||CHENNAI: For the sixth day, the state recorded a three-digit death toll of 118 deaths and added 5,883 fresh cases of Covid-19, which pushed the case tally to 2,90,907. The cumulative death toll touched 4,808. The number of active cases rose to 53,481 from 52,759 on Friday. The case fatality rate – total deaths over total positive cases — was at least 2% in Chennai, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Dindugal and Salem compared to the state average of 1.6%. The director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the state has one of the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates in the country. “We cannot compare the decreasing number of fresh cases to that of daily deaths. Most deaths reported now are of people who were infected nearly a fortnight ago,” he said. On an average, symptoms for the viral infection show up on the fifth to seventh day of exposure and treatment begins after that. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said among the elderly and people with uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, the risk increases several fold. “They report very sick to hospitals and many of them do not respond well even to aggressive therapy,” he said. Despite seeing a steady drop, Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district reported 986 cases and 20 deaths compared to 984 cases and 24 deaths on Friday. The recovery rate was the highest at 87%, with 11,734 people still under treatment. Chengalpet (425), Kancheepuram (284) and Tiruvallur (391) together recorded 1,100 cases and 18 deaths. Other northern districts together logged 847 cases and 19 deaths. The 11 northern, including Chennai, recorded 48% of the deaths and 50% of cases reported on Saturday. The southern districts reported 1,811 cases and 34 deaths compared to 1,501 cases and 29 deaths the previous day. Theni recorded the most cases, 452. Madurai had 92 cases. Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Sivaganga and Theni five each, and Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Madurai four each. There are 15,111 active cases in the 10 districts. Both central and western districts saw a dip in fresh cases. The central districts together recorded 659 cases on Saturday, compared to 763 on Friday. The west logged 474 cases compared to 603. However, the eight western districts together reported 20 deaths – including 10 Coimbatore — compared to seven in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 65,872 people were tested for the viral infection. On Saturday, 5,043 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,32,618.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/11-north-tn-dists-log-half-the-fresh-cases-deaths/articleshow/77438166.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Salem||11 north Tamil Nadu districts log half the fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths||CHENNAI: For the sixth day, the state recorded a three-digit death toll of 118 deaths and added 5,883 fresh cases of Covid-19, which pushed the case tally to 2,90,907. The cumulative death toll touched 4,808. The number of active cases rose to 53,481 from 52,759 on Friday. The case fatality rate – total deaths over total positive cases — was at least 2% in Chennai, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Dindugal and Salem compared to the state average of 1.6%. The director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the state has one of the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates in the country. “We cannot compare the decreasing number of fresh cases to that of daily deaths. Most deaths reported now are of people who were infected nearly a fortnight ago,” he said. On an average, symptoms for the viral infection show up on the fifth to seventh day of exposure and treatment begins after that. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said among the elderly and people with uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, the risk increases several fold. “They report very sick to hospitals and many of them do not respond well even to aggressive therapy,” he said. Despite seeing a steady drop, Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district reported 986 cases and 20 deaths compared to 984 cases and 24 deaths on Friday. The recovery rate was the highest at 87%, with 11,734 people still under treatment. Chengalpet (425), Kancheepuram (284) and Tiruvallur (391) together recorded 1,100 cases and 18 deaths. Other northern districts together logged 847 cases and 19 deaths. The 11 northern, including Chennai, recorded 48% of the deaths and 50% of cases reported on Saturday. The southern districts reported 1,811 cases and 34 deaths compared to 1,501 cases and 29 deaths the previous day. Theni recorded the most cases, 452. Madurai had 92 cases. Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Sivaganga and Theni five each, and Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Madurai four each. There are 15,111 active cases in the 10 districts. Both central and western districts saw a dip in fresh cases. The central districts together recorded 659 cases on Saturday, compared to 763 on Friday. The west logged 474 cases compared to 603. However, the eight western districts together reported 20 deaths – including 10 Coimbatore — compared to seven in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 65,872 people were tested for the viral infection. On Saturday, 5,043 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,32,618.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/11-north-tn-dists-log-half-the-fresh-cases-deaths/articleshow/77440358.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Travel agency drops woman, little daughter on highway at 4am||AHMEDABAD: A private travel agency has been ordered to pay a compensation of Rs 30,000 to a woman in Nadiad for dropping her and her little daughter at an unknown place on the Express Highway. From there, they had to walk 8km to reach home. The case involved Jashodaben Dhangar, who had booked tickets for herself and her daughter Ritika with Shrinath Travels Agency by paying Rs 800. They were traveling from Kankroli in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan on the night of May 13, 2019, to Nadiad. Dhangar’s complaint was that she and her daughter were forced to get down at 4am at an unknown place on the Express Highway. As they were forced to get down, she said she lost her money as well as certain valuables. She issued a legal notice to the travel company. She later filed a complaint with the Kheda District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, which issued a notice to the travel company. The travel company did not respond to the allegations levelled by the consumer; the forum recorded this in its order. When the travel company did not reply to the notice, the consumer forum decided to hear and adjudged the complaint ex-parte. To the complainant’s demand of Rs 1.30 lakh for the loss of valuables and the harassment caused, the forum said that though the travel company has not refuted her claims, she has not supplied any proof of the loss of valuables. However, the forum accepted the claim that it was sheer negligence on part of the travel agency that the passengers were not dropped at a proper place and asked it to pay Rs 30,000 to the woman. It also ordered the payment of Rs 1,000 towards legal expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-travel-agency-drops-woman-little-daughter-on-highway-at-4am/articleshow/77439809.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Madurai||11 north Tamil Nadu districts log half the fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths||CHENNAI: For the sixth day, the state recorded a three-digit death toll of 118 deaths and added 5,883 fresh cases of Covid-19, which pushed the case tally to 2,90,907. The cumulative death toll touched 4,808. The number of active cases rose to 53,481 from 52,759 on Friday. The case fatality rate – total deaths over total positive cases — was at least 2% in Chennai, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Dindugal and Salem compared to the state average of 1.6%. The director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the state has one of the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates in the country. “We cannot compare the decreasing number of fresh cases to that of daily deaths. Most deaths reported now are of people who were infected nearly a fortnight ago,” he said. On an average, symptoms for the viral infection show up on the fifth to seventh day of exposure and treatment begins after that. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said among the elderly and people with uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, the risk increases several fold. “They report very sick to hospitals and many of them do not respond well even to aggressive therapy,” he said. Despite seeing a steady drop, Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases and deaths. On Saturday, the district reported 986 cases and 20 deaths compared to 984 cases and 24 deaths on Friday. The recovery rate was the highest at 87%, with 11,734 people still under treatment. Chengalpet (425), Kancheepuram (284) and Tiruvallur (391) together recorded 1,100 cases and 18 deaths. Other northern districts together logged 847 cases and 19 deaths. The 11 northern, including Chennai, recorded 48% of the deaths and 50% of cases reported on Saturday. The southern districts reported 1,811 cases and 34 deaths compared to 1,501 cases and 29 deaths the previous day. Theni recorded the most cases, 452. Madurai had 92 cases. Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Sivaganga and Theni five each, and Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Madurai four each. There are 15,111 active cases in the 10 districts. Both central and western districts saw a dip in fresh cases. The central districts together recorded 659 cases on Saturday, compared to 763 on Friday. The west logged 474 cases compared to 603. However, the eight western districts together reported 20 deaths – including 10 Coimbatore — compared to seven in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 65,872 people were tested for the viral infection. On Saturday, 5,043 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,32,618.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/11-north-tn-dists-log-half-the-fresh-cases-deaths/articleshow/77440357.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Citizens can access Covid test reports on mobile app||AURANGABAD: Citizens undergoing Covid-19 testing can access their reports on Mazi Health Mazya Hati ( MHMH), an official mobile application dedicated to handle the current Covid situation in Aurangabad. The new facility, which is made available as a part of an update of the app, will save time and efforts required for accessing the reports. While the reports of rapid antigen test (RAT) are available almost instantly, the outcome of RT-PCR testing is shared with people on the next day. Aurangabad is witnessing multi-pronged approach for testing with RAT and RT-PCR being carried out at entry points and target areas with static and movable facilities. The MHMH app, which was the first-of-its-kind initiative in the state introduced by Aurangabad Municipal Corporation on May 22, also facilitates self-test for Covid 19. Authorities have appealed to citizens to download the app and carry out self-test on a regular basis. “The self-testing involves self-assessment by individual of possible Covid symptoms. It helps in tracing people vulnerable to the contagion,” said authorities attached with Covid control room. Apart from this, the app provides information on bed availability for Covid-19 patients in state-run health facilities and designated private hospitals. As the MHMH showed over 10,000 downloads by Saturday, authorities have appealed to citizens to take benefit of the mobile tool enriched with new features.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-can-access-covid-test-reports-on-mobile-app/articleshow/77439808.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teenager cheated of his phone||Ahmedabad: Bhavesh Patel, 19, of Moti Hamam Pole at Gheekanta has lodged a complaint at Gaekwad Haveli police station on Friday alleging that two persons, who claimed to be brothers, had cheated him of his mobile phone. Cops have registered a complaint of cheating and and are searching for the yet unidentified duo. According to the FIR, after Patel had put his phone on sale on the online buying and selling portal, on Friday he got a call from a person who showed interest in buying the cellphone. The deal was fixed at Rs 16,400 “He called Patel near Jamalpur and from there he took him to Jamalpur Pagathiya saying that he wants to show the phone to his younger brother. The brothers took the phone, told Patel to wait as they were going to bring the money and never returned,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teenager-cheated-of-his-phone/articleshow/77438976.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai’s doubling period got 3 times longer in past 1 month||CHENNAI: The doubling time for the Covid-19 infection has nearly tripled in the city in the past one month from 25 days to 70, according to data released by the civic body on Saturday. The Greater Chennai Corporation says the test positivity rate (TPR) too has dropped from 12% on July 7 to 8% on August 7. It has also increased daily tests per million population to 1,525 from 1,267 a month ago, while the WHO has prescribed 140 tests per million. Virologist T Jacob John said these number definitely point to the pandemic slowing, but the cases have not stopped. “If the city has been testing adequate people constantly over the past month and the tests per million is higher than what the WHO has prescribed, we are on the right track. In Mumbai, sero survey data showed that the places that had high number of cases and high incidence of disease have slowly shown lower numbers. If Chennai also has reached a point where a specific population has already been exposed to the virus, it would mean the transmission is slowing,” he said. In Tondiarpet, Teynampet, Royapuram and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar that have dense population and also high incidence of cases, the doubling time is between 90-150 days, which is a good trend. The test positivity rate is also below 10%. Joint commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy said” Sustained surveillance across the city at the household level and through fever clinics gave us these results. Effective quarantine management, extensive contact tracing and early testing and tracing have helped us reduce TPR and increase doubling time. People have also cooperated by wearing masks.”  P. Ganeshkumar, scientist at the ICMR National Institute of Epidemiology, said to say that the transmission has reduced the proportion of cases rising out of contacts should be more than 50%. “If that is achieved then, we can say that slowing down of transmission is happening. However, with the current reduction of TPR below 10% and constant number of tests every day, the reduced occurrence of cases probably denotes prevention of major spread. In fact, WHO prescribes 5% TPR and we are hopeful of achieving it soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/citys-doubling-period-got-3-times-longer-in-past-1-month/articleshow/77438199.cms||Komal Gautham
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||‘Rs 25 lakh hospital fee’? Rajesh Tope seeks action reports on high bills||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that collectors and commissioners from every district had been asked to submit weekly reports on action taken by flying squads and auditors against inflated Covid-19 treatment bills. Tope also asked officials to set up helplines to receive complaints against high treatment bills from patients. The minister said despite orders, many regions still do not have flying squads or auditors to verify hospital bills. “The government had issued directions to appoint district-level auditors and flying squads to verify bills. But during review meetings, it has come to our notice that many of them have not been appointed yet,” he said. He added that information on government plans and rates were still not being displayed at hospitals. Citing an example, Tope said, “We have complaints from patients who were charged nearly Rs 25 lakh for treatment. We also know that hospitals that were supposed to provide free care under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Abhiyan charged people.” The minister said collectors and commissioners should in a week visit at least five hospitals in their jurisdiction to check if ICU beds were being correctly allocated. A state government order had asked hospitals to clear out all asymptomatic and mildly ill patients to make space for the seriously ill. “Pune is a medical hub. So it is surprising that despite the presence of large hospitals, there is a shortage of hospital beds,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-25l-hosp-fee-tope-seeks-action-reports-on-high-bills/articleshow/77440964.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man dies during gambling raid||Ahmedabad: A 45-year-old from Godhavi, Mangalsinh Vaghela, died during an anti-gambling raid by Bopal police on Saturday evening. This led to a commotion as local residents gathered at Bopal police station with the dead body. Senior police officials rushed to Bopal police station and are trying to calm down the crowd. According to police sources, based on a tip-off, Bopal police raided a place in Godhavi. “However, seeing the police the people gambling ran towards the fields. Vaghela, who was not gambling but was coming home from his field, saw this and also started running with the others. He got pushed in the bustle and fell down. He started bleeding from the nose and was taken to a private hospital where he was declared dead,” said a local source. Meanwhile, as the news about Vaghela’s death spread, people gathered and took his body to Bopal police station. According to police sources, they want an offence to be registered against the cops who conducted the raid. “No FIR has been registered yet,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-dies-during-gambling-raid/articleshow/77438994.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||‘Rs 25 lakh hospital fee’? Rajesh Tope seeks action reports on high bills||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that collectors and commissioners from every district had been asked to submit weekly reports on action taken by flying squads and auditors against inflated Covid-19 treatment bills. Tope also asked officials to set up helplines to receive complaints against high treatment bills from patients. The minister said despite orders, many regions still do not have flying squads or auditors to verify hospital bills. “The government had issued directions to appoint district-level auditors and flying squads to verify bills. But during review meetings, it has come to our notice that many of them have not been appointed yet,” he said. He added that information on government plans and rates were still not being displayed at hospitals. Citing an example, Tope said, “We have complaints from patients who were charged nearly Rs 25 lakh for treatment. We also know that hospitals that were supposed to provide free care under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Abhiyan charged people.” The minister said collectors and commissioners should in a week visit at least five hospitals in their jurisdiction to check if ICU beds were being correctly allocated. A state government order had asked hospitals to clear out all asymptomatic and mildly ill patients to make space for the seriously ill. “Pune is a medical hub. So it is surprising that despite the presence of large hospitals, there is a shortage of hospital beds,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-25l-hosp-fee-tope-seeks-action-reports-on-high-bills/articleshow/77438997.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Rs 25 lakh hospital fee’? Rajesh Tope seeks action reports on high bills||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that collectors and commissioners from every district had been asked to submit weekly reports on action taken by flying squads and auditors against inflated Covid-19 treatment bills. Tope also asked officials to set up helplines to receive complaints against high treatment bills from patients. The minister said despite orders, many regions still do not have flying squads or auditors to verify hospital bills. “The government had issued directions to appoint district-level auditors and flying squads to verify bills. But during review meetings, it has come to our notice that many of them have not been appointed yet,” he said. He added that information on government plans and rates were still not being displayed at hospitals. Citing an example, Tope said, “We have complaints from patients who were charged nearly Rs 25 lakh for treatment. We also know that hospitals that were supposed to provide free care under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Abhiyan charged people.” The minister said collectors and commissioners should in a week visit at least five hospitals in their jurisdiction to check if ICU beds were being correctly allocated. A state government order had asked hospitals to clear out all asymptomatic and mildly ill patients to make space for the seriously ill. “Pune is a medical hub. So it is surprising that despite the presence of large hospitals, there is a shortage of hospital beds,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rs-25l-hosp-fee-tope-seeks-action-reports-on-high-bills/articleshow/77440936.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Rs 25 lakh hospital fee’? Rajesh Tope seeks action reports on high bills||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that collectors and commissioners from every district had been asked to submit weekly reports on action taken by flying squads and auditors against inflated Covid-19 treatment bills. Tope also asked officials to set up helplines to receive complaints against high treatment bills from patients. The minister said despite orders, many regions still do not have flying squads or auditors to verify hospital bills. “The government had issued directions to appoint district-level auditors and flying squads to verify bills. But during review meetings, it has come to our notice that many of them have not been appointed yet,” he said. He added that information on government plans and rates were still not being displayed at hospitals. Citing an example, Tope said, “We have complaints from patients who were charged nearly Rs 25 lakh for treatment. We also know that hospitals that were supposed to provide free care under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Abhiyan charged people.” The minister said collectors and commissioners should in a week visit at least five hospitals in their jurisdiction to check if ICU beds were being correctly allocated. A state government order had asked hospitals to clear out all asymptomatic and mildly ill patients to make space for the seriously ill. “Pune is a medical hub. So it is surprising that despite the presence of large hospitals, there is a shortage of hospital beds,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rs-25l-hosp-fee-tope-seeks-action-reports-on-high-bills/articleshow/77440935.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 9, 2020||Nashik||‘Rs 25 lakh hospital fee’? Rajesh Tope seeks action reports on high bills||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that collectors and commissioners from every district had been asked to submit weekly reports on action taken by flying squads and auditors against inflated Covid-19 treatment bills. Tope also asked officials to set up helplines to receive complaints against high treatment bills from patients. The minister said despite orders, many regions still do not have flying squads or auditors to verify hospital bills. “The government had issued directions to appoint district-level auditors and flying squads to verify bills. But during review meetings, it has come to our notice that many of them have not been appointed yet,” he said. He added that information on government plans and rates were still not being displayed at hospitals. Citing an example, Tope said, “We have complaints from patients who were charged nearly Rs 25 lakh for treatment. We also know that hospitals that were supposed to provide free care under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Abhiyan charged people.” The minister said collectors and commissioners should in a week visit at least five hospitals in their jurisdiction to check if ICU beds were being correctly allocated. A state government order had asked hospitals to clear out all asymptomatic and mildly ill patients to make space for the seriously ill. “Pune is a medical hub. So it is surprising that despite the presence of large hospitals, there is a shortage of hospital beds,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-25l-hosp-fee-tope-seeks-action-reports-on-high-bills/articleshow/77440934.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district still at the top in death rate||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district, which is 12th in positive cases in the state is still number one when it comes to death rate. It has registered 208 deaths till date. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz conducted a high- level meeting with managements of private and corporate hospitals dealing Covid-19 cases along with government hospital representatives on Saturday and discussed measures to bring down the death rate. A majority of health care professionals said patients with Covid-19 symptoms are ignoring their health initially and seeking admission only after symptoms worsen. Responding to complaints of a poor availability of beds at private hospitals, Imtiaz asked health wing authorities to maintain display boards showing bed strength and allocations of the day. “No hospital can deny bed to a patient with severe symptoms. A Covid-19 patient should get a bed within three hours,” Imtiaz said. Meanwhile, the district registered 391 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 9,853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-dist-still-at-the-top-in-death-rate/articleshow/77438176.cms||Venu Lanka
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thieves steal bike from police station||Ahmedabad: A constable of the Ellisbridge police station, Manharkumar Parmar, 36, has filed a complaint stating that his bike has been stolen from right in front of the police station. He filed the complaint with his police station on Friday. He said he had parked his bike under the bridge in front of the police station. He said the theft occurred between July 28 and 29. Curiously, it has taken 10 days for Parmar’s colleagues to file the complaint. On Friday, a woman constable’s gold chain had been snatched in Rakhial while she was going to the Gomtipur police station to report for duty. Later, both the chain-snatchers were caught. As for Parmar’s case, an Ellisbridge police official said that Parmar initially thought he would be able to find the bike on his own. “That is why the complaint was delayed,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thieves-steal-bike-from-police-station/articleshow/77439002.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||23-year-old responds to call of duty to fight stigma during pandemic outbreak||PUNE: As an ambulance driver, Eknath Kasthe (23) is used to responding to emergency calls, but the last four months have been the most challenging for him. He has ferried around 450 to 500 patients (both Covid and non-Covid) during this period, more than he normally does. But what he found most tiring was the whole process of slipping into a personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and sanitising his vehicle after dropping every patient at the hospital. “Apart from ensuring safety of patients, we have to take utmost care of ourselves too,” said Kasthe who drives an ambulance owned by Shree Gajanan Maharaj Ambulance Service in Kothrud. He and two other drivers work in shifts ferrying people to and from hospitals. Kasthe came to Pune from his village in Parbhani district about four years ago and has been an ambulance driver since. Fear of contracting the virus keeps him on his toes, but he does not let it get the better of him. “If everyone is scared and refuses to work, who will take care of patients? I often wonder what will happen if I or my family members fall sick and no one comes to our rescue,” he said. Thoughts about his family back home in his village keep him occupied. He has not visited them since the Covid-19 pandemic struck in March. “I do not want to risk their lives by visiting them. Moreover, I will have to remain in isolation for several days if visit my village. So, I have decided to continue working and help those in need,” said Kasthe. He has been taking all precautions to ensure that he does not get infected by the virus. “I make sure that I am wearing the PPE kit correctly when I am ferrying patients. Once I remove the kit, I sanitise myself thoroughly. After reaching my residence, I bathe in hot water,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/23-year-old-responds-to-call-of-duty-to-fight-stigma-during-pandemic-outbreak/articleshow/77439004.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Woman mauled to death by leopard in Narendra Nagar||DEHRADUN: A 35-year-old woman was mauled to death in Maletha area of Narendra Nagar forest division of Tehri district, making it the second human-leopard conflict death in a week in the district. Earlier on August 3, an 8-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Pratapnagar block. The woman was sitting in her courtyard when at around 10 pm on Friday, the leopard waiting for a prey, attacked her and killed her brutally. The staff, based on the spot report, has requested the chief wildlife warden for permission to either terminate or trap the leopard with the help of a shooter. “The attack was not accidental and the leopard has turned into a maneater. It kept an eye on its prey, attacked it, killed it, and then ate it. Her stomach is torn apart and her intestine is oozing out. In cases of accidental interaction with leopards, the killing is of a different nature not of this kind,” said DP Balooni, SDO, Narendra Nagar Forest Division. Her body was taken to Srinagar Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Subsequently, an initial ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh was given to the family, according to Balooni. Following the death, the chief wildlife warden JS Suhag gave permission to trap the leopard but not to kill it. This is the second leopard death this year in Narendra Nagar forest division. Earlier on January 9, a woman was mauled to death in Dhari village, about 25 kilometres from Maletha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-narendra-nagar/articleshow/77437275.cms||Shivani Azad
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Rajiv Gandhi Colony residents face potable water shortage||Ludhiana: Residents of Rajiv Gandhi Colony in ward number 23 are facing acute shortage of water supply for the past over one month as the tubewell in the locality is not functional. The civic body officials seems to care little about the condition of residents of this area in the absence of water supply. Irked over the attitude of the authorities the residents staged a protest on Saturday and also showed resentment against the area councillor. They claimed that the tubewell from where they get water supply has not been functional for the past one and a half months as it has developed some technical snag. Thousands of people living in the colony are suffering in the absence of proper water supply. They rued that they have brought this matter to the knowledge of those concerned, but officials are not concerned about their woes. One of the area residents Rajesh Kumar said area councillor Sandeep Kumari Bhatti has failed in solving this issue and if they raise this matter with her husband Gaurav Bhatti, he sends a water tanker, but that is not sufficient for the residents. He said the women folk was finding it hard to fill the buckets and take those buckets to their houses. He said this problem should be resolved soon because without water supply it is getting difficult to survive, especially in these days when the weather has turned humid and hot. Meanwhile, the Congress leader and councillor’s husband Gaurav Bhatti said, “I have already requested the civic body officials for getting a new tubewell installed in the area and if by Monday I did not get any satisfactory reply from the officials I will take the area residents along and meet mayor Balkar Sandhu for solving the problem.” However, the superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell, Rajinder Singh, said the matter of the non-functional tubewell in Rajiv Gandhi Colony was in his knowledge and it will be replaced on priority. He said the tender for installing a new tubewell would be floated shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rajiv-gandhi-colony-residents-face-potable-water-shortage/articleshow/77438201.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Construction worker kills mason over unpaid daily wages||CHENNAI: A construction worker murdered his employer, a mason, for not paying salary due to him near Thalambur in the city outskirts on Friday night. Police said 31-year-old Ragothaman, a native of Konalavadi village near Thirukovilur in Kallakurichi district, has been working as a mason at a construction site for the past six months. On Friday night, Ragothaman was drinking with one of his workers, 39-year-old Ramesh of Ponmar, when the incident happened. During the drinking session, Ramesh had asked Ragothaman to pay up the salary dues of the past three days. Ragothaman had brushed aside the issue and told Ramesh that he will be paid later, said police. Enraged over this, Ramesh picked up an argument and attacked Ragothaman with a knife, leaving the latter with several cut injuries. Ramesh then walked down the Navalur-Thalambur road with the weapon in hand. Alarmed by this, people alerted police, who secured Ramesh. Police sources said he confessed to the crime after which Ragothaman was moved to a hospital nearby, where he was declared brought dead. Police said Ragothaman has a murder case pending back in Ulundhurpet police limits, where he was booked for the murder of his first wife. The Thalambur police have registered a case of murder and arrested Ramesh. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/constuction-worker-kills-mason-over-unpaid-daily-wages/articleshow/77438202.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Teacher uploads marksheet of student, who flunked Class XII, on WhatsApp||DEHRADUN: A government school teacher in Dehradun has come under fire for uploading the marksheet of a Class XII student, who flunked board exams, on WhatsApp. The move was allegedly made by the accused to harass the Class XII student of Government Inter College, Gajiyawala, where he is posted as a teacher. The incident came to light after parents of the student complained to the education department. The accused who teaches social science subject to students of up to Class X has already given an explanation letter to the department which has been found unsatisfactory as it states that he uploaded the student’s mark-sheet by mistake. “We are conducting a probe and the true picture will be out in the coming days. The boy’s parents told us that he is extremely upset because of the act. To ensure that the boy does not take any wrong step, I personally had a chat with him to console him. The teacher has told us that he had uploaded the boy’s marksheet by mistake but we have asked him to submit a response again. The investigation is still going on and currently, I can’t tell why the teacher committed this atrocious act,” said Pankaj Sharma, block education officer of Sahaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teacher-uploads-marksheet-of-student-who-flunked-class-xii-on-whatsapp/articleshow/77437283.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Elderly man ends life after recovering from Covid||PUNE: A 60-year-old man, who had recently recovered from Covid-19 infection, was found dead at his Rajgurunagar residence on Saturday morning. The Khed police said the man ended his life by slitting his wrist with a sharp knife. “The man and his wife (54) were admitted in a hospital for 15 days after they tested positive for Covid-19. Four days ago, the man and his wife were discharged from the hospital after successful recovery,” an officer from the Khed police said. He said after their return home, the couple were following all the medical advises and their swabs were again collected on Friday for further analysis. “Their test reports were expected on Saturday,” the officer said. Late on Friday night, the man went to his room and locked it from inside. His family members became suspicious when he did not open the door despite repeated knocking on it, the police said. The family members then broke open the door and found him in an unconscious state with his wrist slit. They called up the police before rushing him to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors, the police said, adding that further investigation was on. The police did not find any suicide note on him or in the room. “He was disturbed ever since he returned from the hospital,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-ends-life-after-recovering-from-ncov/articleshow/77439006.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB direction to further delay slaughter house opening||Ludhiana: Even as the slaughter house on Hambran road after its upgrading is still waiting to start functioning, the new directions issued by the Punjab Pollution Control Board have created a new roadblock in its opening for now. The PPCB officials have asked the civic body to first arrange for the animal waste that will be produced after slaughtering, as it should not go into the sewerage. However, the civic body officials have demanded some more time to install a rendering plant and showed ignorance about any such plant while saying that PPCB officials did not mention about it earlier. The slaughter house is ready for operations since January, but earlier due to lockdown and then coronavirus cases did not let the plant become functional. The contractor, who has been appointed to handle the operation and maintenance of the plant, is also seeking some time before signing an agreement with the municipal corporation. The officials claimed that they had been waiting for the file of this case, which was with mayor Balkar Sandhu, and now this new issue had come to the fore. On August 11, chairman of PPCB, will give hearing to this issue. The civic body officials claimed that since 2015 they had been applying for consent to operate the plant to the PPCB and they had given them go ahead with a temporary NOC. Recently, they got the final NOC, where they had mentioned that the plant should be installed in three months while referring to some law of 2016. The civic body officials have now demanded six months at least for the installation of the rendering plant. Senior veterinary officer of the MC Dr YP Singh said, “On August 11, we will put up our case in front of the chairman and will seek time for installation of the rendering plant. We will also request the chairman to allow us to start this slaughter house by the time the plant gets installed.” However, on the other hand one of the PPCB officials requesting anonymity claimed that they had brought everything to the knowledge of the board earlier as they were given conditional consent and now officials were only making excuses just to save their skin, but in the hearing everything would become clear. The slaughter house project was aimed to bring slaughtering at one place and curb illegal slaughtering and then the same at meat shops. But now when there is a delay in making it operational the illegal slaughtering is flourishing like anything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-direction-to-further-delay-slaughter-house-opening/articleshow/77438210.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake tocilizumab: Accused gets bail||Ahmedabad: A local court granted bail to Nilesh Laliwala, accused in the fake tocilizumab injection racket, saying keeping him in jail would amount to pre-trial detention. On August 5, a sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus granted conditional bail to Laliwala on him furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000. The court accepted the arguments of his advocate that the police investigation revealed that the real culprit in the racket is Harsh Thakore. Laliwala claimed he was dealing in steroid injections and that he was innocent and had no idea that the injections were being sold as a remedy for Covid-19. He promised the court to abide with all conditions imposed if granted bail. The state government opposed the bail plea and insisted that Laliwala was dealing in fake steroid injections. The injections were sold as a treatment for Covid-19. The racket was busted last month, after the accused persons sold three packs of the drug to the daughter of a Covid patient admitted in a private hospital in Ahmedabad for Rs 1.35 lakh. When the drug did not have any effect, the treating doctor suspected it efficacy and the investigation was launched in this case. The accused have been booked for attempted culpable homicide as well as charges under the Drugs & Cosmetics Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-tocilizumab-accused-gets-bail/articleshow/77439007.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||Vital patient data network yet to be deployed in Pune: Experts||PUNE: For weeks now, authorities in Pune have been struggling to boost Covid-19 management, which includes tracking of patient data and resources such as ICU beds and ventilators. Experts in health informatics now say the authorities may have overlooked an important medical management tool called HL7, or Health Level 7. It’s essentially a set of standards for transfer of clinical and administrative data between software applications being used by healthcare providers. In this framework, Hospital A will be able to seamlessly share patient information with Hospital B, irrespective of the type of software they use. During Covid-19, a patient being transferred from one hospital to another can expect the receiving hub to have her or his data ready — the treatment response will be faster, experts said. Incidentally, the National Digital Health Blueprint of India, released in November 2019, had recommended HL7 as the de facto standard for healthcare interoperability (exchange of information) in India. “Hospitals only need to integrate this framework with in-house software,” health informatics expert Rajeev Joshi told TOI. “They don’t need to change their software. They just need to add this feature (HL7), which is already available in the public domain for free.” Hospital staff in the region have been protesting the burden of data entry for days now. Doctors said it's unfair — unethical, even — to expect nurses to keep uploading case data into their own Electronic Medical Records (EMR) and then on to a patient-tracking app developed by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Instead, a hospital EMR can just ‘talk’ to the PMC app through HL7. “It is understandable that PMC needs data of each patient. But we need to acknowledge problems being faced by overworked doctors and nurses as well,” Joshi said. He said live updates on ICU availability — which has been lagging in Pune — can also be achieved via the HL7 framework. “This data keeps changing according to admissions and discharges. Manual updates can be tedious. But HL7 implementation can ensure real-time updates without human intervention,” Joshi said. He added, “In the US, the mobile phone of an ambulance doctor communicates with hospitals’ software to find the patient a Covid bed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vital-patient-data-network-yet-to-be-deployed-experts/articleshow/77439026.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 7 police teams formed to crack murder case||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police have formed seven teams to solve the brutal murder of four members of a family, including two young children, in Wakhari village of Nandgaon taluka, 125 km from here, between Thursday night and Friday morning. The teams formed by the Malegoan taluka police station and the local crime branch of Nashik rural police and other police stations are investigating every angle, including robbery. Inspector Narendra Bhadane of the Malegaon taluka police station said that all the teams are working simultaneously to crack the case and zero in on the culprits. Samadhan Chavan (35), a small -time goods transporter, his wife Bharatibai (26), son Ganesh (6) and daughter Arohi (4) were hacked to death when they were asleep in the verandah of their house along the Jeur road in Wakhari village in Nandgaon taluka. Police also deployed sniffer dogs to get the trail of the criminal involved in the murder, but could not make a breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-police-teams-formed-to-crack-murder-case/articleshow/77439824.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite opening after four months, gyms get poor response in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Even after being allowed to open, local gym owners have failed to get appropriate response from local sports enthusiasts, who are keeping themselves away from rejoining the gyms even after four months as a sense of fear is still there after the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks across the district. The state government had given permission to local gym owners to reopen their gyms in the district after following the best safety standard protocols to sustain their livelihood but it has failed to provide relief to them as they are still struggling to attract an adequate number of sports enthusiasts for joining the gyms after a long time. One of major reason for the downfall in the numbers is the poor financial conditions of youngsters who have lost their jobs after several industries closed down owing to the outbreak of Covid-19. One of the local gym owners, Amarjot Singh said, “There are several major reasons which are being held responsible by local gym owners for the downfall of the gym industry. And the major one is increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, which has become a major cause of concern for people. We are getting daily figures of 200-300 Covid-19 cases in the city, which is not a good sign.” “Despite every gym owner having made all necessary arrangements in their gyms to ensure the safety of trainers and residents, still we are not getting adequate response from youngsters who are already struggling with their poor financial conditions having lost their jobs in several private companies in just a few months,” he added. Rajwinder Singh, another gym owner, said, “After witnessing low response from youngsters, we have announced certain discount offers in long-term memberships to promote our business, but still youngsters are not turning up in adequate number in the past few days. This despite the fact that some gym owners had received a large number of customer calls inquiring about the reopening of gyms. We have also seen that people have cut back on expenses and saving money due to the present scenario in the wake of Covid-19 situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-opening-after-four-months-gyms-get-poor-response/articleshow/77438212.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Solar cameras to track snow leopards near Army & ITBP camps in upper reaches of Himalayas||DEHRADUN: The forest department of Uttarakhand has decided to install solar-powered camera traps in the upper reaches of Himalayas to monitor snow leopards, which are listed as “vulnerable” in the IUCN’s Red List. The installation will be done in and around the Army and ITBP camps and in the first stage, nearly 40 cameras are to be installed, officials told TOI. The camera images would be used for population census of snow leopards which is all set to commence from this winter in Uttarakhand. “The installation of solar-powered cameras would take place in Niti and Mana Valley, Malari, Munsyari, Ghansali, and in Badrinath temple zone, as in 2006-07, snow leopard pugmarks were spotted there as well. The entire landscape where snow leopards are expected to be present will be monitored through these cameras. It will help us in vigilance of these areas which are otherwise very tough to inspect frequently,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand. According to sources, there are very high chances that the cameras set up near Army and ITBP areas would capture movement of snow leopards. “According to our records, a snow leopard’s images were captured near these camps last year and it was mainly because of the presence of easy food for them there,” said a senior forest officer. According to the internal estimation of Wildlife Institute of India (WII), there are around 80-90 snow leopards in the Uttarakhand landscape. The census of the snow leopards will be started this year across the Himalayan belt. For this purpose, the DFOs of Uttarakhand have already been given basic training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/solar-cameras-to-track-snow-leopards-near-army-itbp-camps-in-upper-reaches-of-himalayas/articleshow/77437291.cms||Shivani Azad
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Economic recovery underway as tax mop-up picks up||JAIPUR: Tax collections in June and July have bounced back, indicating that recovery of economic activities and demand are accelerating after the steep fall due to lockdown in March, April and May. Stamp duty collections rose to Rs 460 crore and Rs 474.70 crore in June and July, respectively, compared to Rs 366.30 crore and Rs 413.70 in June and July last year. Similarly, revenue from excise also increased to Rs 741 crore and Rs 827.60 crore in June and July, compared to Rs 648 crore and Rs 779.50 crore in the same two months last year. Secretary finance (Revenue) Prithvi said revival is a good sign that things are coming back to normal. “While some part of the collections could be attributed to the pent up demand as transactions could not take place during April and May due to lockdown, there no doubt a recovery is already underway. We expect the mop-up in August hitting closer to the trend line growth,” said Prithvi. In July, Rajasthan along with Madhya Pradesh and Nagaland reported higher GST collections compared to last year. In June and July, the state’s GST collections stood at Rs 1016.30 crore and 1032.80 crore, respectively, against Rs 930 crore and Rs 948 crore in June and July last year. Prithvi said while the current trend show that the economy is now stabilizing, the revenue losses in April and May will be there and weigh on the overall collections in the current year. TOI had earlier reported that the state government is estimated to have lost around Rs 8,000 crore tax revenues during the March to June period even as revival has started from June. In fact, after the reopening from last week of May, industry in the state has increased capacity utilization to 70-80%, reflecting demand generation in the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/economic-recovery-underway-as-tax-mop-up-picks-up/articleshow/77439030.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||2-day lockdown in Jhunjhunu’s Chirawa||Jaipur: With more and more super spreaders are being found infected with Covid, the district collector of Jhunjhunu has imposed total lockdown in Chirawa till midnight of August 10. Jhunjhunu collector UD Khan issued the direction while mentioning that super spreaders such as vegetable vendors, barbers, housemaids and washer man have tested positive. Aiming to prevent spread of the virus, the district administration imposed the lockdown for two days, he added. According to the order, people will not be allowed to move out of their houses on lockdown days. All shops and markets will remain closed. Even marriages, rallies and social gatherings will not be allowed. All sorts of transport including public and private will remain prohibited. Vegetable and grocery shops will also be closed. For transportation of patients and for cremation of bodies, subdivisional magistrates have been authorized to give permission. The order will not be applicable on health workers, sanitation workers and those evolved in maintaining law and order and food supplies. At entry points of Chirawa, police will be deployed along with a team of doctor to ensure that no person enters without screening and it will be applicable for those going out of Chirawa. After being authorized by government to impose lockdown, districts such as Nagaur, Bhilwara, Kota, Chittorgarh, Alwar and Jodhpur have already taken the decision of imposing lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-day-lockdown-in-jhunjhunus-chirawa/articleshow/77439044.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Pune||At 70, Pune records most casualties in 24 hours||PUNE: Seventy more patients succumbed to Covid-related complications in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, making it the highest single-day toll for the region so far. With this, the number of coronavirus casualties have increased to 2,414 in the area so far. As for cases, the PMR added 2,639 patients on Saturday, taking its tally to 1,05,523 so far. Of them, as many as 76,426 people have been discharged so far. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 1,290 cases, while the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 987. The rural parts added 220 cases, while Cantonments recorded 82 and other areas added 60 cases in the last 24 hours, stated the press release issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. When it comes to the casualties in the last 24 hours, the PMC areas recorded a maximum of 37 deaths, followed by PCMC limits’ 19. The rural parts recorded 10 deaths and Cantonments and others reported four, the statement added. The active patients in the PMR, included 14,992 in hospitals isolation and 11,663 in home quarantine, taking the total to 26,655 on Saturday as against 27,406 on Friday. The daily report of the PMC stated that the critical patients admitted in hospitals across its limit were 717, of whom 443 were on ventilator support. “Till date, the PMC has recorded 1,516 deaths, while 46,735 patients have been discharged after successful recovery since the outbreak of the pandemic in the district,”a health official said. The maximum number of patients who had succumbed to the virus had health issues like high blood pressure and diabetes, among others, said a senior official of the PMC. The official said as far as 4,79,938 had been conducted in the PMR so far, of which a maximum of 3,08,529 were conducted in the PMC limits alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-70-city-records-most-casualties-in-24-hours/articleshow/77439048.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Five more positive in Wardha||Wardha: Five more persons tested positive for coronavirus and one was discharged from hospital after recovering on Monday. Four patients are from Arvi and one from Ashti. They are a 66-year-old man from Dahegaon (Mustafa) of Arvi Tahsil, a 33-year-old man, a 30-year-old woman from Sainagar, Arvi and a 63-year-old man of Pandurang ward of Arvi. A 75-year-old man from Belora village of Ashti Tahsil is also among the positive. Total 77 reports were received on Monday and 5 of them were positive while 111 swab samples were sent for testing. In all, 285 reports are awaited. After the five positive and a discharge, the total active positive in the district reached 45.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-more-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77467512.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways undertake plantation drive to give green look to vertical garden||Ludhiana: Taking a step in the direction of rejuvenating the fresh look of the vertical garden set up on different walls of platform number 1 at the city railway station, the authorities concerned have started a plantation drive under which railway officials are removing the dead plants from the waste plastic bottles and planting new varieties in them. Due to irregular maintenance work of the vertical garden in the past four months after the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, the vertical garden had started losing its freshness because several different varieties planted in the plastic waste bottles had shrivelled up and foul smell had started emanating from these, which made the railway officials get these removed and plant new ones. They have brought hundreds of new varieties of plants and started the process of planting these in the waste plastic bottles to give a better look and upgrade the basic cleanliness standard of the city railway station. The development project of installing the vertical garden on station walls had got a lot of appreciation from different section of society as several government departments had given support to the railways in the green initiative. Giving information on this, Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said, “Following the poor upkeep of the vertical garden, the railways have started the crucial plantation drive to given it a better look and rejuvenate it. Under this development project, there is a plan to plant more than 100 plants of different varieties and to keep a check on plastic waste. The railways begun this drive from August 3 and it will go on till August 15” He further said that, “This time the railway authorities are committed to maintaining the freshness of the vertical garden and take every possible step to avoid any further damage to the plants, which have played an important role in the beautification of the city railway station.” “It has appointed a team of cleanliness department which will take care of the plantation drive and further upkeep of the green walls at the railway station,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-undertake-plantation-drive-to-give-green-look-to-vertical-garden/articleshow/77438218.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 9, 2020||India||‘The aircraft just leapt off the slope’||NEW DELHI: “Abhi ud jayega (It will fly soon)…” ASI Ajit Singh had this fleeting thought as he spotted an Air India Express aircraft on Calicut Airport runway on Friday evening above him from the base of the gorge where he was patrolling. Moments later, he saw the aircraft “leap” from the end of the 35-feet-high hilltop and crashing into the gorge. “The aircraft did not slide down the slope. Uchhal ke aaya (it leapt) from the end of the runway due to its speed. On impact, the front portion split and the cockpit rammed the boundary wall. The rear portion remained where it fell. The tail split too,” said Singh, a ASI (executive) with CISF. The aircraft had landed at 7.41pm and met this fate seconds later. Singh was speaking to another ASI Mangal Singh at the perimeter wall point — E8 — when this horror unfolded in front of his eyes. While Ajit ran to the aircraft — which luckily did not catch fire — Mangal ran to open a nearby emergency gate to get more help. “Some people had been ejected from the aircraft and I dragged them to safety,” said Ajit. MA Ganapathy, CISF special director-general and head of the airport sector, said: “On getting Singh’s message, a quick reaction team and over 40 CISF personnel reached the spot within minutes and began evacuating passengers along with Airports Authority of India’s fire team. These first responders evacuated 99% of passengers from the flight and helped shift the injured to nearest hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-aircraft-just-leapt-off-the-slope/articleshow/77440229.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid scare: Visiting homes of relatives, friends trend catching up||Ludhiana: In an unusual trend being seen in the city, despite huge spike in Covid cases, a large number of residents have started frequenting homes of their relatives and friends. Interestingly a lot of residents who till now were being cautious to not to allow visitors to their homes are also in a soup as they are complaining of their friends and relatives visiting them uninvited and unannounced. Such trend can also increase the risk of spreading of Covid-19 further as no social distancing and safety measures are being taken by residents during such get-togethers. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity a resident of BRS Nagar said, “For the past three months we have avoided visiting any of our relatives due to Covid-19 and none of them too came to our home. But ever since start of this month at least two of my father’s brothers with their families have visited us just for the reason that it has been a long time since we all met. Despite our repeated requests to them and drawing their attention to rise in cases of Covid, they did not agree and came over. This is totally irresponsible behaviour.” According to a businessman who is resident of Civil Lines, “The situation was all right till total lockdown was in place as now friends and relatives have started paying visits uninvited. On the day of Rakhi I was shocked after a cousin and his family visited me just on the pretext that they had come for shopping at nearby mall and decided to come and say hello.” According to another city resident , “We are taking every possible precaution to keep ourselves safe and secure and therefore apart from going to my workplace or for buying essentials, neither me nor any of my family member go anywhere else ever since the pandemic started. But it seems that people in our city give a damn to coronavirus as people have started socialising and partying at home again.” Meanwhile, Dr John Abraham, assistant professor, department of medicine, CMCH, said, “Our understanding of COVID has improved drastically. yet we are immensely handicapped in terms of predicting who will have a bad disease and who will have a mild one . So it's in this background that age old adage ' Prevention is better than cure ' comes into fore . Our already fragile healthcare system is under heavy strain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-scare-visiting-homes-of-relatives-friends-trend-catching-up/articleshow/77438221.cms||Mohit Behl
August 9, 2020||Goa||Sanjay School gets nod for BEd (Special Education)||Panaji: The Dnyanvardhini Divyang Training College, under the management of Sanjay Centre for Special Education, has received approval by the Rehabilitation Council of India for BEd (special education), the two-year degree course, affiliated to Goa University. The training college has invited applications for BEd (special education) and DEd (special education) with specialisation in intellectual disability (ID) or mental retardation (MR) for the academic year 2020-21 by August 14.  The BEd (ID/MR) course will help develop a task force of the special teachers and educators who can effectively deliver in all settings inclusive, special, open or home-based and in all roles such as classroom teacher, resource teacher, itinerant teacher or cross disability teacher, to bring in overall development in children with special needs in regular schools, special schools, inclusive schools, clinical or homebound set up till higher secondary level. The DEd (ID/MR) course will develop educators to teach Divyangjan in regular schools, special schools, inclusive schools, clinical or homebound set up till primary level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanjay-school-gets-nod-for-bed-special-education/articleshow/77439910.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten over honking dispute||Ahmedabad: A 52-year-old man from Lad Society, Vishal Shah, lodged a complaint at Vastrapur police station on Friday, stating that he was assaulted by three persons over a dispute concerning repeated honking. The accused Slok Shah, Devarsh Bildiya and Jaymin Raval from Ambawadi have been detained by Vastrapur police. Shah stated that on Friday evening when he was going from Mansi Circle towards Sandesh Press Road, a car driver behind him was blowing his horn continuously and then rammed his car into Shah’s car. According to the FIR, three persons got out of the car and started abusing him. “According to the FIR, one of them pulled out a hard plastic pipe from the car and broke the rear windscreen of Shah’s car and hit him on the head. They also tore his shirt. Shah was rescued by people who gathered on the road. He then called the police control room,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-over-honking-dispute/articleshow/77439086.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Record 1,171 fresh infections, active cases touch 13,387||Jaipur: State reported the biggest single-day jump of 1,171 new Covid infections shattering the six-day-old record of 1,167 as active cases touched a new high of 13,387.Grappling with the situation, several collectors have imposed lockdowns on weekends and have also set time limit allowing movement in selected areas on weekdays. It is for the eighth time the state has set new record of biggest single-day spike in 15 days. After three days of recoveries breaching 1,000 mark, the state reported 968 recoveries on Saturday.The tally of cases has rose to 51,328 while the death toll increased to 778. During the lst 24 hours, the state reported 11 deaths from Kota (3), Pratapgarh (1), Udaipur (1), Jaipur (2), Baran (3) and Bikaner (1). The state government said it had intensified the battle against Covid by increasing the number of daily tests. It also claimed that the spike in cases was the result of increase in the number of tests being carried out. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “Testing is being done in the state at an extensive level due to which there is an increase in positive cases. The sooner we identify the positive cases, the sooner we can control the spread.” He said the department had developed the capacity to conduct more than 45,000 tests daily. The state government has launched an awareness campaign throughout the state, which has made people aware on the importance of using masks and discouraged people from going to crowded places and encouraging frequent hand washing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-1171-fresh-infections-active-cases-touch-13387/articleshow/77439069.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Rs 2,000 encouragement allowance for ASHA facilitators, cash fine for those not wearing masks: CM||DEHRADUN: In the weekly review meeting with the district magistrates to discuss Covid-19 situation, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced Rs 2,000 encouragement allowance for ASHA facilitators. An ASHA facilitator is expected to be a mentor, guide and counselor to the ASHA workers and also monitor their progress, the CM said. Earlier, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, the CM had announced Rs 1,000 for ASHA and anganwadi workers in the state. The CM said that there should be strict compliance of wearing masks and on being caught for the first time, a person should be charged a penalty of Rs 200 and Rs 500 on the second occasion. After taking the penalty, each offender should be given four washable masks, he added. CM Rawat directed the district magistrates to act strictly against people who try to hide their travel history. He asserted that all details of people coming from high Covid-19 risk zones should be recorded and they need to be placed under institutional quarantine. The CM told the authorities to ensure that no one entered the state on either fake documents or by showing a wrong travel history. Health secretary Amit Negi said that sample collection would be increased in the districts which have a positivity rate (on the number of samples taken) of over 5%. He asserted that the sample of all people coming from high risk areas would be collected and added that authorities need to ensure that regular inspection of Covid Care Centre is done. Negi maintained that there is no shortage of beds or medical equipment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-2000-encouragement-allowance-for-asha-facilitators-cash-fine-for-those-not-wearing-masks-cm/articleshow/77437323.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: More trains, flights & buses from next week as demand increases||JAIPUR: Good news for air, train and bus travellers. Jaipur airport is likely to add flights to Chennai, Mumbai and Amritsar while the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) will start services to 18 new routes across the state. The Indian Railways is planning to add 50 more special trains from next week, some of which are expected to be run by North Western Railway (NWR). There has been a gradual increase in passenger load on various routes for outbound flights prompting operators to increase frequency of flights in some of the routes while adding new flights on some routes. “There is a possibility of flights from Jaipur to Chennai, Jaipur to Amritsar and even one more for Jaipur to Mumbai. Earlier we were operating 14 out of the 21 scheduled flights. In the last one week, have stated operating 17 to 18 flights per day,” said a senior officer at the air traffic control at Jaipur airport. Similarly, RSRTC, which has been seeing a significant rise in its passenger load — between 60 per cent and 70 per cent, is planning to start new services on 18 different routes from Monday. “These will include inter-state buses and some for neighbouring state Haryana,” said Sudhir Bhati, manager (public relations), RSRTC. Likewise, trains to cities such as Allahabad and Lucknow are likely to be added from Jaipur from next week. “Until we get a nod from the railway board on the operations, we can’t say much,” said a senior officer of traffic section of NWR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-trains-flights-buses-from-next-week-as-demand-increases/articleshow/77439097.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Locked down, driven over edge||Ahmedabad: Gyanprakash Solanki, 40, a resident of Sector 5 in Gandhinagar, hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house on Saturday. Sector 7 police registered a case of accidental death and have sent the body to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital for a postmortem. Police officials said Solanki used to work for at a private job and since the lockdown stayed in the house for long periods. Police sources said that he may have committed suicide due to a financial crisis. “He leaves behind his parents, a wife and a 15-year-old daughter and an 8-year-old son,” said a police official. Police sources said Solanki went to the first floor of the house in the afternoon. “He did not come down in the evening to have tea which was his usual routine. His father went on the first floor to call him but the door was locked from inside. Suspecting something was wrong, his father called a neighbour who entered the room through the gallery and saw Solanki hanging from the ceiling fan,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/locked-down-driven-over-edge/articleshow/77439118.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records biggest single-day spike of 501 Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||DEHRADUN: In its highest single day spike so far, Uttarakhand reported 501 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Also, with five more deaths of Covid-19 patients in the state, the toll of the virus reached 117 in the state. Two deaths (already reported by TOI) were reported from AIIMS Rishikesh on Friday and three other deaths were reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) on Saturday. “A 50-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died at GDMCH. She was referred from Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital. She died of hepatic encephalopathy and shock. The other death recorded at GDMCH was of a 37-year-old man, who died of Covid-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, type I respiratory failure, and metabolic acidosis. The third death reported at Doon Hospital on the day was of a 40-year-old Covid-19 positive man who died of acute coronary syndrome leading to cardiopulmonary arrest,” informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the 501 fresh cases, the maximum of 172 were reported from Haridwar, followed by 171 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 38 cases each from Nainital and Dehradun districts. In Bageshwar, 10 Army personnel were infected with coronavirus on Saturday. Pauri also reported nine new infections, followed by five in Uttarkashi, four in Pauri, three in Pithoragarh, two in Rudraprayag, and one case each from Chamoli and Champwat. With rising cases, over 50 containment zones were increased in the state on Saturday. Among these, 22 such zones were in Haridwar and 17 in Udham Singh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-501-covid-19-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/77437334.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||Raids conducted to identify unregistered pathologies||HARIDWAR/ROORKEE: Two private pathology labs, running without registration in Uttarakhand, were identified by the Bhagwanpur administration in Haridwar during its surprise inspection. The inspections were a part of the district administration's drive to check the standards being followed by private pathology labs in the wake of Covid-19. This comes after the complaint of people that allege lackadaisical attitude of the district health department in monitoring the functioning of such pathology centres. According to reports, a team led by Bhagwanpur SDM Santosh Kumar Pandey conducted raids on private pathology centres of Bhagwanpur town on Friday to check the standards being followed by these shops in delivering their services to the users. “People had complained to the district magistrate (DM) regarding some pathology centres. Taking cognisance, the DM directed us to take action on such pathology labs. Our drive will continue to ensure genuine and quality examination of pathology tests,” said SDM Pandey. Meanwhile, SHO Jwalapur police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI that another lab doing Covid-19 test without permission was raided on the day. “A case has been registered against Ravi Diagnostic lab located at Ranipur More area on behalf of the complaint of health department under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/raids-conducted-to-identify-unregistered-pathologies/articleshow/77437339.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 9, 2020||Jaipur||JDA plans to garner Rs 450cr by developing 1,800 plots||Jaipur: Cash-strapped Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is planning to mop-up Rs 450 crore by developing around 1,800 plots in new housing schemes. These schemes will be launched on August 15. Allotment of plots will be done through lottery and auction. On Saturday, Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal inspected the sites of these housing schemes. An official said, “A comprehensive plan will be drawn to develop infrastructure in the area. This would attract more application from the buyers,” he said.The civic body will develop colony named Hiralal Shastri Nagar in zone-14, Gokul Nagar in Prithviraj Nagar Scheme (North zone), APJ Abdul Kalam Nagar in zone 11. Around 200 plots of Nilay Kunj Scheme which were developed earlier in zone-9 will be allotted after re-planning.Sources said, the reserve price of the housing schemes will be fixed between Rs 6,000 and Rs 8,000.To sell the plots in its developed schemes, the JDA recently had reduced the reserve price of uninhabited land in its region by 10% to 37%. The JDA is confident of selling the plots in these schemes, looking at the previous response.As these schemes will not be developed in far-flung areas, many buyers are expected to show interest to buy plots at these locations.A senior official said, “The move is expected to boost revenue that will be utilised to develop infrastructure. As the market condition has improved, the JDA will also fill its coffers after auctioning plots in its old scheme,” he said. As the JDA has many schemes in far-flung areas, not many residents have applied to buy those in the past as the authorities failed to provide even basic facilities. Due to lack of power and water, the sites of these colonies continue to wear a deserted look. An official source said, since 2005, the civic body has launched 38 housing schemes, but most of those are still unoccupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-plans-to-garner-rs-450cr-by-developing-1800-plots/articleshow/77439138.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Wall dangerously butts on to Poonamallee High Road||CHENNAI: An incomplete wall built for the stalled Chennai Port-Maduravoyal elevated corridor project is hindering traffic flow and making driving between CMBT and Maduravoyal on Poonamallee High Road risky. The 500-foot- long wall, built a few years ago before the elevated corridor project got into a legal tangle and was stalled, butts on to the ill-lit stretch. Motorists, a few of who had near-fatal experiences due to the wall, say the wall appears out of nowhere. “There is no light around the wall, for some 50 meters around it. Because of this, we tend to miss spotting it and accidents happen,” said T S Kesavan, a resident of Mogappair (east). Despite frequenting the stretch to go to his workplace, Kesavan recalled that he rammed his two-wheeler into the wall one night as he missed spotting it. “I was thrown off the bike and badly injured my neck, right arm, and suffered a ligament sprain in my ankle. Luckily, I was wearing a helmet so I didn’t suffer head injuries,” he said. Kesavan isn’t alone. P Sukeerthy, a college student and resident of Anna Nagar, had a similar incident when her car rammed into the wall. “I was driving on the stretch for the first time and there were no lights or signboards cautioning about the wall. My face hit the car window in the impact and I suffered a deviated septum. Since then, I completely avoid taking this road.” Traffic policemen manning the stretch too said there have been repeated accidents due to the wall. “We tried barricading the wall, but motorists trying to make U-turns keep moving them away,” said a traffic police officer. Motorists said they had taken the issue to the notice of local authorities of Anna Nagar zone (zone 8), and though they were promised a fix, nothing has progressed so far. When asked about the issue and complaints, an official from the zone told TOI that the problem will be fixed soon. “We have taken note of the complaints and will soon resolve the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wall-dangerously-butts-on-to-poonamallee-high-road/articleshow/77438261.cms||Aditi R
August 9, 2020||Dehradun||One lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a month in Uttarakhand, 2 lakh so far||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand crossed 2 lakh Covid-19 tests/sampling on Saturday after 4,743 new samples were collected on the day. According to official data, the state conducted one lakh tests in the last month. The remaining one lakh tests were conducted in the previous four months of the pandemic. Not just testing but the recoveries are also picking pace in Uttarakhand as the state's recovery rate has reached 63.4%, which is just 4.6% lesser than the national average — 68%. Anoop Nautiyal, member of social organisation Social Development for Communities Foundation which is closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said that hills have shown faster and more recoveries than plain districts. “But the cases in plains are also very high in comparison to the hills,” he added. Stating district-specific figures, Nautiyal maintained that Tehri Garhwal tops the state in regards to recoveries with 89% recovery rate followed by 88% in Almora, and 84% in Rudraprayag. “Chamoli has reported a total of 111 cases of the deadly virus and 79% among them have already recovered. Similarly, Dehradun has reported 77% recoveries. Pauri Garhwal is at the sixt spot in recoveries with 74% people recovering from the infection,” added Nautiyal. The districts which have a lower recovery rate than the national average are Bageshwar (63%), Haridwar (59%), Uttarkashi (58%), Nainital (57%), Champawat (57%), Udham Singh Nagar (48%), and Pithoragarh (47%). Also, as many as 1,633 people have recovered in Uttarakhand between August 1 and August 8. However, 1,955 fresh cases were reported in the state in the last eight days. Meanwhile, Udham Singh Nagar’s Khatima, with maximum active Covid-19 cases, remains the only town to witness weekend lockdown in Uttarakhand. Among the 3,283 active cases in the state, 915 alone are in Udham SIngh Nagar, followed by 825 in Haridwar, and 611 in Nainital. Due to rise in sampling, the pendency of tests also increased on Saturday with 9,275 samples remaining pending for test. The pendency has remained above 8000 in the last eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1l-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-a-month-in-ukhand-2l-so-far/articleshow/77437358.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Duo awarded 12 years’ RI for raping, selling minor||HAZARIBAG: A Pocso court here on Saturday awarded 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment to two persons for abducting, raping and selling a 15-year-old girl in 2018. The duo, Paras Ram (30) and Arvind alias Jokha (34), were also fined Rs 20,000 each under sections of the IPC. They will have to undergo one more prison term in case of failure to pay the fines. A jail term of five years (concurrent) was also slapped on the duo under Section 14 of the Pocso Act for video-recording their act. An additional fine of Rs 10,000 each was also levied under the same section, failing to pay which would extend their jail terms by six months. Under Section 363 of the Pocso Act, the duo was fined Rs 10,000 each and jailed for seven years (concurrent). Failing to pay the fine will increase the jail term by a year. The case was filed at Chouparan police station in 2018. Public prosecutor Ajay Kumar Mandal said, “The girl was first kidnapped by the duo and then taken to Bihar where they raped and later sold her. Police had arrested the two on the basis of the girl’s statement before lodging a case and submitting a chargesheet in the court. About a dozen witnesses were produced in the court based on which the verdict was pronounced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/duo-awarded-12-years-ri-for-raping-selling-minor/articleshow/77442332.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: 2 ‘murdered’ in separate incidents in Namkum, 1 held||RANCHI: A rickshaw puller and a youth were found dead in different places under Namkum police station area of Ranchi district on Saturday morning. Police found the body of a rickshaw puller identified as Jageshwar Sahu, with injury marks from a sharp weapon, near the railway crossing in Namkum. An accused, Deepak Barla, suspected to have murdered Sahu, has been arrested. Police said Barla had admitted to the crime and told them that he was drunk when he killed Sahu. Another person, Chamru Munda (27), a resident of Singer Sarai, was also found dead near the Bedadih river in Namkum. His bike was also found at the site. Munda’s relatives suspected that he was murdered. According to them, Munda had gone to meet his girlfriend on Friday night. Police said no injury marks were found on the body and his purse and mobile phone were retrieved from his pockets. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “Prima facie both persons are suspected to be murdered. The bodies have been sent for autopsy, which would be conducted after Covid tests.” According to the police, the state has witnessed a sharp increase in murder cases since the unlock phase began in June. As many as 142 people were killed in different parts of the state in Many while the figure rose to 186 in June. The June figures meant over six people were murdered every day during the month. Of them, 34 deaths were related to dowry. Earlier in April, 120 cases of murder were registered across different police stations. Apart from murder, other crimes like rape and kidnapping have also increased sharply in the state after the relaxations in lockdown, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-murdered-in-separate-incidents-in-namkum-1-held/articleshow/77438971.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||World Indigenous People’s Day: Jharkhand CM declares public holiday, Congress plans grand celebrations||RANCHI: The International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples celebrated on August 9 every year worldwide will now be a state holiday in Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Saturday. Soren said, “The day holds significance for the tribal population in Jharkhand and I feel it should be a public holiday (state holiday). Since it is on Sunday this time, there will be no notification for the holiday but will do so from next year onwards.” On the day, Jharkhand will honour tribal freedom fighters and others who contributed for the state and the nation, he added. Though the state government has not yet officially announced detailed programmes for the day, it is expected to be a low-key celebration this time in the wake of the global pandemic. Congress, a part of the ruling coalition in the Hemant Soren government, has charted out elaborate plans for the day as an attempt to cement its place in the tribal heartlands. On the eve of the tribal day, the state party unit has put up banners and posters across Ranchi and other districts. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said their celebrations will be themed on remembering all those who contributed immensely to the Quit India Movement led by Mahatma Gandhi led for India’s Independence and dwell on the current status of tribals by holding seminars with select audiences at the party office. He said, “Both in Ranchi and all districts, the party will be celebrating the day for advisasis.” Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said at 11am, veteran leaders will hold a small prayer and ‘shradhanjali’ before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Morhabadi ground after which small talk sessions will begin. “A few tribal experts will deliver the talks at the party office. We will follow all safety protocols for Covid-19,” Dubey said, highlighting that the party will also felicitate a few tribal achievers who cleared prestigious the UPSC exams. He added, “We have put up over 100 posters across Ranchi alone to wish everyone for the day.” BJP, too, will hold programmes, said party officials but detailed activities were still to be formalised. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said the saffron party is always committed to the welfare of the tribals and cited the formation of a separate Jharkhand state during former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s tenure. “The party has always worked for tribals and their uplift and formation of a separate Jharkhand state was one of the testimonies to BJP’s commitment to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/world-indigenous-peoples-day-cm-declares-public-holiday-cong-plans-grand-celebrations/articleshow/77438738.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: 2 ‘murdered’ in separate incidents in Namkum, 1 held||RANCHI: A rickshaw puller and a youth were found dead in different places under Namkum police station area of Ranchi district on Saturday morning. Police found the body of a rickshaw puller identified as Jageshwar Sahu, with injury marks from a sharp weapon, near the railway crossing in Namkum. An accused, Deepak Barla, suspected to have murdered Sahu, has been arrested. Police said Barla had admitted to the crime and told them that he was drunk when he killed Sahu. Another person, Chamru Munda (27), a resident of Singer Sarai, was also found dead near the Bedadih river in Namkum. His bike was also found at the site. Munda’s relatives suspected that he was murdered. According to them, Munda had gone to meet his girlfriend on Friday night. Police said no injury marks were found on the body and his purse and mobile phone were retrieved from his pockets. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “Prima facie both persons are suspected to be murdered. The bodies have been sent for autopsy, which would be conducted after Covid tests.” According to the police, the state has witnessed a sharp increase in murder cases since the unlock phase began in June. As many as 142 people were killed in different parts of the state in Many while the figure rose to 186 in June. The June figures meant over six people were murdered every day during the month. Of them, 34 deaths were related to dowry. Earlier in April, 120 cases of murder were registered across different police stations. Apart from murder, other crimes like rape and kidnapping have also increased sharply in the state after the relaxations in lockdown, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/2-murdered-in-separate-incidents-in-namkum-1-held/articleshow/77442544.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||AirAsia flight grounded after suffering bird hit at Ranchi airport||RANCHI: Within 24 hours of the plane crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode airport, which claimed lives of two pilots and 16 others, a Mumbai-bound AirAsia flight was grounded after it suffered a bird hit at the Birsa Munda International Airport here. According to airport officials, AirAsia flight I5-632 was scheduled to take off at 11.40am with 176 passengers on board. Soon after the aircraft got the go ahead signal from the Air Traffic Control and it was rolling on the runway for take-off, the aircraft suffered a bird hit. The alert pilots immediately decided to abort the take-off. A team of engineers rushed to the aircraft and inspected it for more than two hours. The aircraft couldn’t succeed in the second take-off effort as the pilot detected sparks from the engine while testing the throttle minutes before the take-off. After witnessing a spark from engine during the second take-off, the airport authorities and airline officials decided to ground the aircraft. Talking to TOI, Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “The aircraft has been grounded after it suffered a bird hit and developed a technical snag in its second take-off attempt. It suffered a bird hit during its scheduled take-off and the after a detailed technical evaluation, it was allowed to take-off around 4:30pm when a minor spark was detected from the engine. All passengers were deboarded.” On being asked about alternative arrangements for the passengers, Sharma said the airline is arranging an aircraft from Kolkata to ferry them to Mumbai. Sharma added that none of the passengers on board suffered any kind of injury. An AirAsia release said, “AirAsia India prioritises the safety of our guests and crew and regrets the inconvenience caused on account of this delay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/airasia-flight-grounded-after-suffering-bird-hit/articleshow/77442289.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Covid scare: 3 SBI branches sealed, 72 micro-containment zones set up in Bokaro||BOKARO: The district administration on Saturday sealed three branches of the State Bank of India for the next 72 hours after eight employees tested positive for Covid-19. The administration has also set up a total of 72 micro-containment zones in recent weeks, mostly in the urban pockets, following the steady rise in Covid cases. This week alone, Bokaro witnessed its highest single-day spike with 71 cases on Wednesday. As of Saturday morning, the district has a total caseload of 408 infections, of which 239 are active and 167 have recovered while two have died. Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh directed officials to conduct proper contact-tracing of the employees affected SBI branches located at the City Centre, Chas and Chas court area. Earlier, Bank of India and HDFC branches in City Centre area were also sealed. The district disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar, told TOI said that the status of micro containment zones now stands at 72. "Of the total 131 containment zones, 72 are in all eight blocks of the district while 59 were de-notified recently." DC Rajesh Singh has imposed complete lockdowns within the containment zones under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Singh, however, said the situation is under control. "All that we expect from the public is the compliance of the safety norms to fight the pandemic," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-sbi-branches-sealed-72-micro-containment-zones-set-up-in-bokaro/articleshow/77438998.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid scare: 3 SBI branches sealed, 72 micro-containment zones set up in Bokaro||BOKARO: The district administration on Saturday sealed three branches of the State Bank of India for the next 72 hours after eight employees tested positive for Covid-19. The administration has also set up a total of 72 micro-containment zones in recent weeks, mostly in the urban pockets, following the steady rise in Covid cases. This week alone, Bokaro witnessed its highest single-day spike with 71 cases on Wednesday. As of Saturday morning, the district has a total caseload of 408 infections, of which 239 are active and 167 have recovered while two have died. Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh directed officials to conduct proper contact-tracing of the employees affected SBI branches located at the City Centre, Chas and Chas court area. Earlier, Bank of India and HDFC branches in City Centre area were also sealed. The district disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar, told TOI said that the status of micro containment zones now stands at 72. "Of the total 131 containment zones, 72 are in all eight blocks of the district while 59 were de-notified recently." DC Rajesh Singh has imposed complete lockdowns within the containment zones under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Singh, however, said the situation is under control. "All that we expect from the public is the compliance of the safety norms to fight the pandemic," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/3-sbi-branches-sealed-72-micro-containment-zones-set-up-in-bokaro/articleshow/77442457.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||World Indigenous People’s Day: Jharkhand CM declares public holiday, Congress plans grand celebrations||RANCHI: The International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples celebrated on August 9 every year worldwide will now be a state holiday in Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Saturday. Soren said, “The day holds significance for the tribal population in Jharkhand and I feel it should be a public holiday (state holiday). Since it is on Sunday this time, there will be no notification for the holiday but will do so from next year onwards.” On the day, Jharkhand will honour tribal freedom fighters and others who contributed for the state and the nation, he added. Though the state government has not yet officially announced detailed programmes for the day, it is expected to be a low-key celebration this time in the wake of the global pandemic. Congress, a part of the ruling coalition in the Hemant Soren government, has charted out elaborate plans for the day as an attempt to cement its place in the tribal heartlands. On the eve of the tribal day, the state party unit has put up banners and posters across Ranchi and other districts. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said their celebrations will be themed on remembering all those who contributed immensely to the Quit India Movement led by Mahatma Gandhi led for India’s Independence and dwell on the current status of tribals by holding seminars with select audiences at the party office. He said, “Both in Ranchi and all districts, the party will be celebrating the day for advisasis.” Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said at 11am, veteran leaders will hold a small prayer and ‘shradhanjali’ before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Morhabadi ground after which small talk sessions will begin. “A few tribal experts will deliver the talks at the party office. We will follow all safety protocols for Covid-19,” Dubey said, highlighting that the party will also felicitate a few tribal achievers who cleared prestigious the UPSC exams. He added, “We have put up over 100 posters across Ranchi alone to wish everyone for the day.” BJP, too, will hold programmes, said party officials but detailed activities were still to be formalised. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said the saffron party is always committed to the welfare of the tribals and cited the formation of a separate Jharkhand state during former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s tenure. “The party has always worked for tribals and their uplift and formation of a separate Jharkhand state was one of the testimonies to BJP’s commitment to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/world-indigenous-peoples-day-cm-declares-public-holiday-cong-plans-grand-celebrations/articleshow/77442710.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||AirAsia flight grounded after suffering bird hit at Ranchi airport||RANCHI: Within 24 hours of the plane crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode airport, which claimed lives of two pilots and 16 others, a Mumbai-bound AirAsia flight was grounded after it suffered a bird hit at the Birsa Munda International Airport here. According to airport officials, AirAsia flight I5-632 was scheduled to take off at 11.40am with 176 passengers on board. Soon after the aircraft got the go ahead signal from the Air Traffic Control and it was rolling on the runway for take-off, the aircraft suffered a bird hit. The alert pilots immediately decided to abort the take-off. A team of engineers rushed to the aircraft and inspected it for more than two hours. The aircraft couldn’t succeed in the second take-off effort as the pilot detected sparks from the engine while testing the throttle minutes before the take-off. After witnessing a spark from engine during the second take-off, the airport authorities and airline officials decided to ground the aircraft. Talking to TOI, Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “The aircraft has been grounded after it suffered a bird hit and developed a technical snag in its second take-off attempt. It suffered a bird hit during its scheduled take-off and the after a detailed technical evaluation, it was allowed to take-off around 4:30pm when a minor spark was detected from the engine. All passengers were deboarded.” On being asked about alternative arrangements for the passengers, Sharma said the airline is arranging an aircraft from Kolkata to ferry them to Mumbai. Sharma added that none of the passengers on board suffered any kind of injury. An AirAsia release said, “AirAsia India prioritises the safety of our guests and crew and regrets the inconvenience caused on account of this delay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/airasia-flight-grounded-after-suffering-bird-hit/articleshow/77438714.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Duo awarded 12 years’ RI for raping, selling minor||HAZARIBAG: A Pocso court here on Saturday awarded 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment to two persons for abducting, raping and selling a 15-year-old girl in 2018. The duo, Paras Ram (30) and Arvind alias Jokha (34), were also fined Rs 20,000 each under sections of the IPC. They will have to undergo one more prison term in case of failure to pay the fines. A jail term of five years (concurrent) was also slapped on the duo under Section 14 of the Pocso Act for video-recording their act. An additional fine of Rs 10,000 each was also levied under the same section, failing to pay which would extend their jail terms by six months. Under Section 363 of the Pocso Act, the duo was fined Rs 10,000 each and jailed for seven years (concurrent). Failing to pay the fine will increase the jail term by a year. The case was filed at Chouparan police station in 2018. Public prosecutor Ajay Kumar Mandal said, “The girl was first kidnapped by the duo and then taken to Bihar where they raped and later sold her. Police had arrested the two on the basis of the girl’s statement before lodging a case and submitting a chargesheet in the court. About a dozen witnesses were produced in the court based on which the verdict was pronounced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/duo-awarded-12-years-ri-for-raping-selling-minor/articleshow/77439059.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Harassment complaint against Vijayawada GGH chief||VIJAYAWADA: An outsourced employee has lodged a sexual harassment complaint against Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) superintendent on Friday night at a Disha police station. In her complaint, she has claimed that superintendent P Nancharaiah had made sexual advances and when she refused, he had allegedly used his influence and sacked her a month ago. Cops admitted that they have received the complaint and stated that they are verifying the claims and evidence submitted by her. The woman has submitted call recordings and photographs to them. Based on the prima facie evidence, cops have registered a case under section 354A of IPC and 67A of the IT Act. The woman also alleged that Nancharaiah used to harass her by making video calls and sending irrelevant videos. “He (Nancharaiah) promised to get my job back if I accept his advances. As I was unable to bear the harassment, I approached Disha police hoping he would be punished,” the woman wrote in her complaint. “The woman joined as a data operator with Vijayawada GGH in April this year and had duties in the Covid-19 ward. We have received a complaint and are investigating the case,” VV Naidu, assistant commissioner of Disha police station said. When TOI tried to contact P Nancharaiah, he was unavailable for a comment.  (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/harassment-complaint-against-vij-ggh-chief/articleshow/77437454.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panaji, Margao see spike in Covid-19 cases||PANAJI: With two Covid deaths reported on Saturday, Goa’s fatality count rose to 72. The state’s tally of active cases shot up to 2,332 with 259 new cases detected, while recoveries stood at 207. A 74-year-old woman from Khorlim, Mapusa, who was admitted at the Goa Medical College (GMC), died before she could be shifted to the Covid hospital in Margao. She had comorbid conditions. The second death, reported from the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa, saw a 40-year-old man from Karaswada, Mapusa, who was brought dead, tested positive post mortem. Since mid-July, at least four such cases have been reported from the North Goa district wherein patients brought dead to the hospital have tested positive. On Friday, a 30-year-old man from Bicholim, who was declared brought dead to the district hospital, had similarly tested positive. On Saturday, health centres at Panaji, Margao, Loutolim and Sakhali witnessed a spike. Panaji urban health centre reported 13 new cases with the majority detected from Altinho. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that about 18 cases so far have been found at Altinho, including six detected on Saturday. The six persons who tested positive live in the polytechnic quarters, he said. He said, most of those who have been found to be positive work as house helps in the area. “We pray that the virus has not spread,” he said. Other cases in the city were detected from residential complexes at Mala, Caranzalem, and two in Ribandar. “Swab testing of the remaining 148 persons from Altinho was completed today. We will get the results in a day or two,” he said. The cases in Margao also rose sharply on Saturday pushing the town’s count of active cases to 180. According to a health officer, cases have been detected from all parts of the commercial town. Another official said that the death of two unknown persons presumed to be beggars indicated that the infection was not restricted to a particular area of Margao though slums and densely populated pockets are more vulnerable. The two had died last month. Mapusa urban health centre had seven new cases in Cunchelim, Ansa bhat and Karaswada. Other health centres that reported a rapid rise in cases were the primary health centre, Loutolim, and community health centre, Sakhali. Health officer of the Loutolim primary health center, Dr Vinesh Gaonkar said that the new cases in Raia, Loutolim and Nuvem are mostly contacts of those who tested positive this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-margao-see-spike-in-cases/articleshow/77439232.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Freedom from Covid-19 to be theme of Independence Day celebrations||VISAKHAPATNAM: Independence Day celebrations will be on a different note this year. With ‘Freedom from Covid-19’ as the theme, the administration has decided to invite people who have recovered from Covid-19 to applaud their fight against the disease. Speaking to TOI, fisheries minister Seediri Appala Raju said, “We will give a big applause to ‘Covid warriors’. We are planning to celebrate Independence Day to mark the struggle to achieve freedom from Covid-19. We will come up with a detailed action plan within a few days. I also plan to suggest this to the state government.” Deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das said, “We will discuss this with chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to cover this theme in the entire state. As the minister in-charge of East Godavari, I will direct the district collector to work along these lines. We have to gain freedom from Covid-19 now. We must also appreciate medical workers who have worked tirelessly.” Krishna Das further said that people over the age of 100 have also recovered from Covid-19 and their journey is inspirational. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao is also considering celebrations along the theme in Visakhapatnam. Meanwhile, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that the administration is planning to identify the elderly and pregnant patients who have survived Covid-19 and invite them to Independence Day celebrations. Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal is reported to have directed officials to plan Independence Day celebrations along the theme of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/freedom-from-covid-19-to-be-theme-of-independence-day-celebrations/articleshow/77437468.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 9, 2020||Goa||Directorate of higher edu seeks inputs on NEP 2020||Panaji: The directorate of higher education (DHE) has invited all stakeholders from the field of education as well as the public to give their suggestions on implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 in Goa. DHE has said that the inputs collected from different stakeholders will be utilised in preparing a road map for the state. The inputs have been called from teachers, students, professionals as well as other citizens. Some states like Karnataka and West Bengal have already formed a committee of experts to study the NEP and to give recommendations to the state government on its implementation. Educationists in Goa had suggested that the state should similarly form a task force to discuss implications and implementation of the policy in Goa. It is after more than three decades that India has adopted a new national education policy that includes major changes set to transform the education sector right from the pre-primary to the higher education level. NEP 2020 will bring about structural changes at the school level, with pre-primary education now considered a part of the formal education system. At the higher education level, a more interdisciplinary approach to academics will be allowed by diluting the present compartmentalisation into rigid streams like arts, commerce, science. For degree programmes, colleges will offer exit points at various stages through the now four-year programmes. The central government has already expressed its interest in beginning with implementation of the NEP 2020 as early as 2021. In the meantime, on August 7 at 8pm, the DHE released the first merit list online for admissions to first year general stream degree programmes. Students began confirming their seats on Saturday by paying a nominal Rs 855 fee. For the first time, DHE had introduced a centralised online application procedure for all general stream colleges. Taking the process online was necessitated by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/directorate-of-higher-edu-seeks-inputs-on-nep-2020/articleshow/77439252.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh minister warns of action if patients don’t get beds||VISAKHAPATNAM: State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao expressed his dissatisfaction at the actions of authorities of Visakha Institute Medical Sciences VIMS on Saturday during a review meeting. He said that VIMS authorities were not acting properly and were not implementing many of the suggestions made by people’s representatives. A review meeting of Visakhapatnam district’s Covid-19 task force was held on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, the tourism minister said that action will be taken if patients are not admitted to government hospitals. “The chief minister has clearly instructed that Covid-19 patients should get admission in hospitals. We will take action against anyone who says that beds are not available or gives any other excuse,” the minister said. MLAs Dharmasri, Adeep Raj and T Nagireddy complained that people are having a tough time dealing with medical staff. They said that they have been receiving complaints from the public every day. Minister M Srinivasa Rao asked the district administration to focus on monitoring VIMS. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said that the district administration has appointed 403 Indian Medical Association (IMA) doctors but they are yet to join duties. The district administration is in the midst of completing special recruitments for Covid-19-related duties, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/minister-warns-of-action-if-patients-dont-get-beds/articleshow/77437483.cms||Siva G
August 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Pedestrians at risk as pavements along NH-16 break down||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pavements on the side of NH-16, from Kommadi Junction to Car Shed Crossing, are in bad shape. Accidents have become regular in the area and walking on the pavements is fraught with risk. Fortunately, pedestrians who were in such accidents so far have escaped with minor injuries. The concrete slabs that make the pavements over drainage canals have either broken down or gone missing. Locals say that pedestrians can easily fall into the canal if they are unmindful. “To add to the woes, there has been a sudden influx of hawkers after the lockdown, who have occupied the slabs which are in good shape,” said B Nagaraju a resident of Madhurawada. Officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) said that while the plan to restore the pavements has been sanctioned funds have been delayed due to the lockdown. “We have just started the restoration process. It will take a month or month-and-a-half to complete the project,” said P Sivaprasad Raju, superintending engineer of GVMC. When TOI visited the area, the pavements were filled with hawkers, most of them vegetable and fish vendors. There were others selling fast food and some selling masks. P Vanalakshmi, who was selling vegetables, said, “My husband is a construction worker and I used to work as a domestic help. But since the lockdown, a few complexes are not allowing outsiders to enter compounds. So I have started selling vegetables .” Bulusi Sudhir Kumar, a local shopkeeper said, “There are two wine shops in the area where many people buy liquor and have it on the pavement. Many of them have lost control and fell down. A major accident is only a matter of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pedestrians-at-risk-as-pavements-along-nh-16-break-down/articleshow/77437491.cms||Arpit Basu
August 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Shortage of workers puts the brakes on road works in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Even though the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has seen a decline in number of complaints with regard to potholes over the last few months, the situation of Vijayawada’s roads remains dismal in many areas, particularly on the outskirts. Rides to Poranki, Nidamanuru, Kanuru and Patamata have turned bumpy after potholes emerged on the roads due to rains. The Jakkampudi-Velagaleru road is laden with potholes despite residents lodging several complaints over the last two years. Residents say that roads in several areas of the city including Brahmin Street in Mallikarjunapet, arterial roads in Poranki, service road beside Benz Circle Flyover and Visakhandhra Road are in bad shape as they have been laid only partially or were being prepared to be re-laid before the lockdown. VMC sources say that there is a shortage of manpower in the city to lay new roads or finish the unfinished ones. A major reason for the dearth of manpower is the reverse migration that took place during the lockdown. A senior VMC official said: “Many contractors and workers are reluctant to start work for fear of the virus.” Officials further said that they usually take up road works after the monsoon as work gets affected when there is a downpour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shortage-of-workers-puts-the-brakes-on-road-works/articleshow/77437511.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 9, 2020||Goa||GFP demands Covid hospital for North Goa||PANAJI: GFP on Saturday urged the state government to set up a dedicated Covid hospital for North Goa. Party MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar suggested that some of the vacant wards at Goa Medical College could be utilised as an interim measure to treat Covid patients who have co-morbidities. The Saligao MLA said that with the ESI-Covid hospital in South Goa at its capacity and due to the lack of specialised equipment to treat patients with underlying conditions, patients are not getting the required medical care. “No CT scan and other equipment for people with co-morbidities is available at the hospital,” he said.  Salgaonkar reminded health minister Vishwajit Rane that he had promised in the state legislative assembly to set up up two dedicated Covid hospitals in the state. “Now the health minister is on record that while they have recruited manpower, the machinery for testing is awaited. He had also given assurances about a 1,000-bed hospital, but till now the government has not kept its word,” he said. Salgaonkar said that many individuals who have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state hesitate or panic when they are told they will be admitted at the ESI Hospital in Margao. Patients with comorbidities feel that they will not get the required medical care, said the GFP MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-demands-covid-hospital-for-north-goa/articleshow/77439277.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Goa||OPD, swab collection Arossim PHC done in verandah||Vasco: Locals from villages serviced by the primary health centre (PHC) at Arossim are complaining of the dilapidated condition of the PHC. The OPD here is being run in the PHC’s verandah and next to it is Covid swab collection centre, which is partly covered by a tarpaulin. The OPD here is being run in the PHC’s verandah and next to it is Covid swab collection centre, which is partly covered by a tarpaulin. “This PHC caters to the villages of Cansaulim, Arossim, Cuelim, Velsao-Pale, Consua, Utorda, Majorda and Benaulim. The OPD patients are made to stand outside in the rain,” said Lophino Xavier, an activist. A local and president of the United Workmen Association, Olencio Simoes, said, “The staff told us that they are not even provided with PPE kits or any safety gear. They have purchased these at their own expenses. There is no proper system to dispose garbage.” The villagers have demanded that the newly built PHC at Cansaulim be inaugurated immediately and the repair of the one at Arossim be taken up. When contacted, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “The present PHC at Arossim is being operated from a house of a wellwisher who readily agreed to help us. We made space for the OPD and swab centre in the verandah by putting a partition so that villagers are safe and can maintain social distance. The PHC is a temporary make-shift one, as the construction for a 42 bedded fullfledged PHC had to start.” The new PHC at Cansaulim is getting its final touches and will be ready in two months, Saldanha said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opd-swab-collection-arossim-phc-done-in-verandah/articleshow/77439285.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||INBEF calls for early wage settlement, leader flays current terms||Nagpur: The Indian National Bank Employees’ Federation (INBEF) had held a working committee meeting through virtual mode. Sanjeeva Reddy, the INBEF’s working president, said that he had requested the union finance minister to speed up the bank employees’ wage settlement. He said the government is responsible for delaying the latest wage pact. Terming the policy of the central government as anti-labour, he said the government is not ready to discuss any of the issues with the unions, including the BJP affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). Quoting Reddy, the INBEF press release said, “Even BMS is of the opinion that the present government is anti-labour and anti-union and we will have to join hands for the collective fight. The government is hell bent on disinvestment in core sectors like coal, defence, railways and the central coordination committee has decided to fight against all anti-labour decisions.” INBEF general secretary Subhash Sawant said employees are unhappy with the current formula of wage hike. These include points like loading of only 2.% on basic pay, non-merger of special allowance, denying upgradation of pension and revision of family pension. Sawant termed this as discrimination against bank employees during tough times like Covid-19 pandemic, the press release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inbef-calls-for-early-wage-settlement-leader-flays-current-terms/articleshow/77466588.cms||Shishir Arya
August 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ravi Naik has tricked BJP by letting his sons join the party, says Kiran Kandolkar||SALIGAO: Former chief minister and Ponda Congress MLA Ravi Naik has already defeated the BJP with his tricks by allowing his two sons to join the BJP, said former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar. “The BJP had earlier levelled a number of allegations against Ravi Naik’s son Roy regarding his involvement with the drug mafia, without any evidence. However, it is a great tragedy and shame that some BJP leaders are claiming that the Roy who was being accused a few years ago is not the same Roy who joined the BJP,” the former Tivim MLA said. Speaking at a press conference, the former Tivim MLA announced that he will resign from the BJP only when he forms a new party, after the zilla panchayat and municipal elections are held. Referring to Roy, Kandolkar said that when the BJP was in the opposition “there were many agitations on this issue”. “Fourteen BJP MLAs at that time had run created a ruckus in the assembly and the assembly sessions had to be adjourned for three consecutive days,” he said. “I was an MLA from 2012 to 2017, I had first had experience how Mickky Pacheco and Sudin Dhavalikar had argued on this issue in the assembly,” Kandolkar said. He said that a House Committee comprising MLAs Pacheco, Michael Lobo and Vishnu Wagh was selected to probe the BJP’s allegation. “However, the report submitted by that committee is still pending. Since Vishnu Wagh is no more, the other members of the committee should clarify who Roy is,” Kandolkar said. Accusing BJP’s state president Sadanand Tanawade of lying, he said he should clarify that this is not the same Roy who was accused of the drug nexus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ravi-naik-has-tricked-bjp-by-letting-his-sons-join-the-party-kandolkar/articleshow/77439318.cms||---
August 9, 2020||World||Trump signs orders extending economic relief for Americans||BEDMINSTER: President Donald Trump on Saturday signed executive actions extending financial relief to Americans hit by the coronavirus pandemic as polls showed a large majority of voters unhappy with his handling of the crisis. The four measures marked a presidential show of strength after Trump's Republican party and White House team failed to agree with opposition Democrats in Congress on a new stimulus package aimed at stopping vulnerable Americans from falling through the cracks. "We've had it and we're going to save American jobs and provide relief to the American workers," Trump said at a press conference in his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, where he was spending the weekend. With double digit unemployment, disruption to businesses from social distancing rules, and persistent coronavirus spread, many Americans had been relying on relief measures approved earlier by Congress, but which mostly expired in July. Trump said his decision to circumvent Congress with executive actions would mean relief money getting "rapidly distributed." In reality, his measures are likely to face court challenges because Congress controls federal spending, and in any case they may add up to less money than initially appears. For Trump, lagging badly in the polls against his Democratic rival Joe Biden ahead of the November 3 presidential election, the orders were partly about showing he is in charge. He turned the signing ceremony in the ballroom of the golf club into an assault on his opponents and threw in several false claims about his accomplishments in office. To cheers from club members invited to watch the event, Trump crudely insulted the Democratic "crazy" leader of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, denounced Biden as "far left," and claimed that Democrats want to "steal the election." One key Trump order promises to get $400 a week added to Americans' unemployment benefits, while two others offer some protection from evictions and relief for student loans. The $400 assistance is below the $600 offered in the expired stimulus package. It may also end up amounting only to $300 extra a week, because Trump said $100 would be provided from state, not federal, budgets - and only if states were willing or able to do so. A fourth measure - opposed by many Republicans as well as Democrats - ordered a freeze in payroll taxes. This makes a big headline for Trump but is only a deferral, rather than a cut in the tax. Democrats, Republicans and White House negotiators had worked all last week without coming close to a deal on an overall congressional relief bill for those struggling to make ends meet in the world's richest economy. Democrats pushed for a massive new $3 trillion stimulus package aimed at propping up the economy, repairing the tattered postal system in time for the presidential election, and giving the unemployed an extra $600 a week. Democrats later announced they could drop the price tag but refused the Republicans' offer of a $1 trillion package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-signs-orders-extending-economic-relief-for-americans/articleshow/77440252.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Critical Covid-19 cases rise, many on ventilator in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Doctors in Telangana are having to deal with an increasing number of Covid-19 patients who are landing up in hospital in a serious condition. Official data shows that 72% Covid-19 patients in government and 62% in private hospitals are either on ventilators or on oxygen support currently. Authorities say that with more patients turning up from the interior districts in later stages of the virus infection, they are expecting a substantial increase in their numbers in coming days and may lead to fewer hospital beds being vacant. At present, Telangana has 22,568 active cases compared to the roughly 13,000 about 15 days ago. In fact, the number of active cases jumped by 10,000 in the last fortnight, going from 12,955 to 22,000 between July 26 and August 8. The fact that the spread of the virus is extensive in rural areas only makes matters worse. "Currently there are over 2,000 clusters of Covid-19 in rural areas and these are expected to jump to around 5,000 within two to three weeks. We are looking at much larger numbers from the districts in the coming days," said an official of the state health department. Dists formed post-2014 lack manpower’Not all districts have medical colleges with good infrastructure,” an official said. “In fact, some districts which were formed after the division of AP and Telangana, still do not have adequate manpower in hospitals which were upgraded from area hospitals to districts hospitals. While on one hand the corresponding number of posts were not increased, on the other posts are lying vacant in many district hospitals.” There are not more than 30-35 doctors in the district hospitals across departments and with many vacancies, the existing staff too tries to escape work and take frequent leaves, making matter worse. "While the government is the largest provider of health services in rural areas, only 12% doctors in the state work in government hospitals while the remaining 88% work in private and corporate hospitals in Hyderabad and other towns. In the rural areas, the present Covid-19 load is a huge burden on the system,” said Dr Kiran Madala, incharge head of department of critical care at Nizamabad Government College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/critical-covid-19-cases-rise-many-on-ventilator-in-telangana/articleshow/77440270.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ghatkopar is new Covid hotspot with most fatalities (575)||MUMBAI: The eastern suburb of Ghatkopar, or the BMC’s N ward, seems to be the new Covid hotspot, having recorded the highest number of deaths at 575 in any ward. According to an analysis shared internally among BMC bigwigs, of the 6,645 deaths reported in the city till Saturday, N ward was at the top, followed by K East (the eastern stretch of Vile Parle-Andheri-Jogeshwari) with 460 deaths. The G North ward (Dharavi-Dadar-Mahim) – once the worst in the city – is now at the third place with 426 deaths. The figures showed that Ghatkopar has a high mortality rate at 9% —almost double of the overall city’s rate. Even in terms of the number of Covid cases , Ghatkopar is in the sixth position with 6,263 cases since March. After BMC’s dashboard figures indicated the cases and deaths in N ward may have gone up recently, local BMC officials said the Epidemic Cell had miscalculated the number and added cases from other wards to Ghatkopar’s tally, which actually could be around 412. However, a senior BMC official said, “The number of deaths in Ghatkopar is high, but some of the earlier deaths have also been added to the August figure during a reconciliation exercise.” It is learnt that the local ward has raised a query in this regard with the BMC headquarters. “Cases from other wards that include parts of Ghatkopar too have been added to N ward,” said a senior official. A similar row had arisen earlier when the BMC added 862 deaths in a day in June, with officials stating that the deaths had taken place earlier but the hospitals concerned had reported them to the Epidemic Cell, where all hospitals have to report fatalities, late. After this row, the BMC had asked all hospitals to submit details of deaths to the cell within 24 hours. Ghatkopar MLA Parag Shah said, “Many cases are coming from buildings, but BMC is avoiding testing more people out of fear numbers may go up.” A BMC official stated, “Local political representatives requested us to get building residents tested but we are yet to decide In the past, many people were found positive in such buildings and had comorbidities which added to their problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ghatkopar-is-new-covid-hotspot-with-most-fatalities-575/articleshow/77440280.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Concerns over Mumbai’s 5.5% death rate raised at meeting of BMC bigwigs||MUMBAI: While Mumbai’s Covid graph has remained steady for two months, with the daily tally not crossing 1,700 cases, its death rate of 5.5% --second only to Ahmedabad (5.9%) in the country – has emerged as a spot of worry and embarrassment for the BMC. At a high-powered meeting late on Friday, where BMC chief I S Chahal had called all his ward officers along with medical experts, it was highlighted that Mumbai’s death rate was pulling down Maharashtra’s statistics as well. The case fatality rate for the state is 3.45% -- much higher than the national average of 2.04%. Reasons from improper use of powerful medications and failure of medical staff to carry out regular rounds to the city’s ‘poor health’ (it has a high percentage of patients with hypertension and diabetes) were offered by the officers as the cause for the high death rate. An assistant municipal commissioner (ward officer), who attended the meeting, said, “We came across many instances of relatives arranging anti-viral drugs remdesivir and anti-arthritis drug tocilizumab after several struggles for their patients.” Another official said that doctors in some BMC hospitals don’t take regular checks, resulting in higher death rates as compared to private or state governmentrun hospitals. But endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that the concern is that “deaths are happening despite the availability of medicines.” While the BMC came in for a lot of praise for its efforts to control Covid’s spread in Dharavi, one of the densest slum pockets in the world, as well as for the plateauing of cases across the city, the number of deaths have not dipped appreciably. The BMC even carries out door-to-door survey for senior citizens using pulse oximeters to measure their oxygen saturation, but the death rate among the 60-plus agegroup remains high. “We cannot forget that the incidence of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and hypertension is high among Mumbai’s population,” said Dr Joshi. It is estimated that almost 25% of the adult population in the city has the twin problems of diabetes and hypertension. A senior BMC official said a report on the likely causes and a plan will be submitted to the BMC chief before Tuesday. A ward official said, “We are surprised as now there is no problem to get ambulances, hospital admissions or ICU beds, but deaths aren’t reducing.” He said hospital deaths are not the only concern. “We have cases of patients succumbing to heart attack or pulmonary embolism within a few days of discharge,” he added. MLA Parag Shah from the N ward which has the highest mortality, said, “Those who are recovered, specially senior citizens, also need to be taken care of for three months as we don’t know what impact the provided treatment may have cause on internal organs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/concerns-over-mumbais-5-5-death-rate-raised-at-meeting-of-bmc-bigwigs/articleshow/77440291.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 9, 2020||India||Now, India must start owning innovations, says Javadekar||BENGALURU: Union minister for environment, forests and climate change Prakash Javadekar on Saturday said that the biggest challenge for India is to start owning innovations rather than being just contributors. At the three-day Engenius Conclave organised by Unacademy webinar, in association with The Times of India, Javadekar said every major tech company always had Indian brains at its disposal and held a major market share in India or elsewhere. “When we look at big names such as Google, Facebook or Microsoft, they all have Indian brains behind them. We are major contributors to any innovation in technology,” he said. In a pep talk to students preparing to crack GATE and Engineering Services Examination (ESE), Javadekar said students need to look to wealth creation by realising their potential by taking bold steps to invest in technology. Responding to a question whether the Centre is making progress in providing employment to engineers graduating in large numbers, he said one avenue is providing opportunity to bring indegenious technology to the forefront in the nation’s policies. “When we launched hackathons, our intention was to build the capacity of our students to innovate and brainstorm to develop technology for solutions that don’t exist in our country. Divided into teams of six and asked to work together for three months, students have been ideating for solutions. This will sharpen their minds and make them think big. Instead of seeking jobs, they can become job creators,” he said. Javadekar said 5 lakh engineering students have participated in hackathons organised by the central government. Admitting that a lot of work needs to be done in changing mindsets, Javadekar cited a Bengaluru-based student who had innovated 5-D printing technology. “Along with the presentation, this boy gave me a brochure of 63 rejections from Indian industries and universities. Today, the same boy collaborates with 15 foreign-based companies and 16 universities abroad. We need to identify these hidden gems,” he said. About the new National Education Policy, Javadekar said the Centre had held a long-term exercise in formulating the policy with noted scientist K Kasturirangan and Princeton-based mathematician Manjul Bharghav being the brains behind it. “The policy is already being implemented across the country and based on the efficiency of state governments, the NEP will be completely implemented in the next two years,” the minister said. Carbon emissionDespite allegations against India from the international community of being a major contributor to rapid climate change, Javadekar said we are well within the parameters of ensuring less than 2 degree change in temperatures as per the Paris Accord. He said the government is currently at 7% carbon emission contribution in the world, with 25% of land mass and 4% of rain water. “All this with the task of feeding 16% of the world’s population,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-india-must-start-owning-innovations-says-javadekar/articleshow/77440269.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Containment zones down by over 50% in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The improving recovery rate in the tech capital over the past one week has had a ripple effect on Covid-19 containment zones. The number of such zones, or virus hotspots, has reduced by half. According to the BBMP Covid-19 War Room, there were 26,998 containment zones in Bengaluru earlier. Over 13,610 have been denotified, meaning normalcy can return to these areas. Currently, there are 13,386 active containment zones in the city. Bommanahalli division had the highest number of containment zones —7,496. The figure has fallen to 2,944. “This has made a big difference,” said a senior BBMP official. “Hongasandra was the one of the first few infection clusters in the city and we managed it really well. We applied the same strategy in the rest of Bommanahalli civic zone to slow the spread of coronavirus.” In Hongasandra, prompt sealing helped prevent more cases. “When over 10 people tested positive, we immediately sealed off the entire affected stretch, made it a cluster and deployed extra resources. The viral spread was contained this way. The same method was used in other places and there are now fewer containment zones than before,” the official added. One trend observed in Bengaluru is that several people from the same family are catching the infection. Such cases are higher than individual infections in certain areas. “Based on this trend, we are sealing down homes, and not the entire locality or street,” said a senior BBMP official, who oversees the response in containment zones. S Nagaraju, joint commissioner, Rajarajeshwari Nagar civic zone, said the number of hotspots in the area had come down from 2,862 to 1,992, but health teams cannot afford to drop the guard. “This does not mean there is no spread of the virus. It’s just that the mode of containment has changed. Cases are increasing daily. There are 150-250 cases in Rajarajeshwari Nagar every day, and we are forming clusters to handle this,” he told STOI. Kengeri, Hemmigepura, Ullal, Peenya and Laggere are the main wards of Rajarajeshwari Nagar with a high number of coronavirus infections. Over 20 clusters have been formed here alone. “We are providing food kits to residents and monitoring each cluster to ensure that no one steps out and the spread is controlled. Dr Vishal R, the zonal health officer, has been closely monitoring every Covid-19 patient,” Nagaraju said. BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said despite challenges, the situation should be dealt with a human touch. “The stigma associated with Covid-19 can be removed by reducing containment zones. This is our priority,” he said.“When a person tests positive, we will ask neighbours not to act in a manner that can cause embarrassment or humiliation to the patient’s family.” Some BBMP officials conceded that it would be impossible to strictly monitor every containment zone in the city, and virus hotspots should be declared only if there’s a sizeable cluster and risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/containment-zones-down-by-50-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77440249.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rapid antigen tests detect 4,750 cases in 10 days||BENGALURU: The state government has scaled up Covid-19 detection in Bengaluru, which has the highest number of cases in Karnataka, with the help of rapid antigen testing kits. In the past 10 days, 47,600 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the city. Of these, 4,750 were positive. This type of test produces results in about 30 minutes. Faster detection helps health teams promptly isolate patients at their residence, a Covid care centre or a hospital, depending on the severity of the infection. “The RT-PCR process takes several hours to give results. In that time, the patient might move around, spreading the virus. Imagine the situation if 4,000 patients went about their normal life while waiting for the results of their RT-PCR test. Rapid antigen tests are helping us isolate people quickly and prevent the spread of the virus,” said a senior official in the health department. BBMP chief N Manjunath Prasad also said that antigen tests were proving to be very useful in the fight against coronavirus. “The primary advantage is that everybody in the city can be tested,” he said. About 400-500 positive cases are being detected in the city through rapid antigen tests daily. BBMP urges people with symptoms to undergo the test free of cost at a government facility or pay Rs 700 at private hospitals. A senior BBMP official said the changing weather, interstate movement and positive contacts of Covid-19 patients were among the factors behind the recent spike in infections. “People with comorbidity account for 30 per cent of the cases. About 20 per cent have influenza and 20 per cent of the cases are interstate travellers and 30 per cent are primary and secondary contacts,” said the official, who oversees Covid-19 surveillance. One welcome development is that people now understand the importance of testing and are coming forward. Bengaluru had received 63,753 rapid antigen testing kits, and of these, 52,898 have been used. “People prefer this test to the RT-PCR one because results arrive sooner,” said a medical officer at a Covid-19 hospital. According to the data accessed by STOI, residents of Mahadevapura are most active in getting tested compared to people living in other city zones. “The Mahadevapura zone is a mix of tech crowd and slum population. On average, nearly 500 antigen tests are carried out daily at the government hospital in KR Puram,” said a senior official. Bommanhalli, Bengaluru East and Bengaluru South have received the highest number of kits. “Over the past few weeks, we have seen an increasing number of coronavirus cases in these zones. That’s why kit procurement is higher here,” Prasad said. BBMP’s main focus is ending the outbreak in hotspots, a strategy it hopes will help bring down overall numbers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-rapid-antigen-tests-detect-4750-cases-in-10-days/articleshow/77440260.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Off-label plasma use in Nagpur soon to curb Covid-19 deaths||NAGPUR: Maharashtra’s Project Platina is the world’s biggest clinical trial of plasma therapy, but more importantly it aims at saving lives of serious and critical Covid-19 patients through off-label use of collected plasma. After sudden spike in deaths of Covid-19 patients in Nagpur district, the Project Platina is coming up with an option of off-label use of plasma for critical and serious patients. The off-label plasma use will be introduced not only in government but also private hospitals where patients are willing to go for it. “Off-label use of plasma has got emergency authorization from the government. We have used it on 63 patients in Kolhapur and five in Pune. The results were promising. No death was reported in Kolhapur while two patients having severe comorbidities died in Pune. In Nagpur, we will start it in a day or two,” said Dr Mohammad Faisal, state coordinator of Project Platina. More than 480 bags of plasma have already been collected as part of Project Platina. This plasma will be used off-label now. A separate set of rules on its use will be released for private hospitals in Nagpur. Principal investigator of the project, Dr Sushant Meshram, said that confidentiality will be maintained and prior consent of patients will be taken. “Off-label use is an important component of the project and we will start it in Nagpur now. Looking at the initial results, we are hopeful of good outcome in Nagpur too,” he said. It depends on a patient whether to go for plasma therapy or not. Doctors suspect many patients may not go for it, especially after negative results from trials held in AIIMS, New Delhi. “The trial results clearly show that this is one of the many experimental medications in use and it has equal chances of success and failure. Our Project Platina trials will take time to give results, but we hope we are doing better,” said Dr Meshram. According to Dr Faisal, Maharashtra’s project is more scientific, being done on a large sample size and will bring more scientific results. “At AIIMS, Delhi where results were not that good, it was a smaller trial and not as scientific as Project Platina. Their sample size was 30, while we are doing controlled clinical trials on 472 patients. We are collecting plasma of those patients who had at least some symptoms for some days. So, our plasma is more effective. We are more optimistic,” he said. For critically-ill patients - Plasma collected for Project Platina will be used on critically-ill patients - This use will not be a part of the Project Platina scientific trials - Encouraging results from plasma used in Kolhapur, Pune - Will be used in govt hospitals as well as pvt hospitals of Nagpur - With critical patients from across Vidarbha coming to Nagpur, it will help bring down fatalities in region||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/off-label-plasma-use-in-nagpur-soon-to-curb-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/77438673.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Fee protests spread to other pvt schools||NAGPUR: The ongoing tussle between private school managements and parents over the alleged charging of fees for no activities during Covid-19 pandemic has spread to other schools. On Saturday, several aggrieved parents protested at Hingna’s St Xavier’s school, accusing the management of “looting” them in such a crisis. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Hemant Gadkari earlier led a delegation of parents to meet the principal of a Butibori international school on the same issue. They also requested the management not to charge their wards for library, laboratory, computers and other activities fees, as school is closed due to pandemic. On Friday, aggrieved parents from Narayana Vidyalayam had staged protests in front of deputy director of education Anil Pardhi’s office on same issues requesting him to take action against the school management, after it discontinued online classes links of their wards for failure to pay fees. This was reported by TOI on Saturday. In the last couple of months, parents from schools like Bhavan’s and Centre Point have also staged protests for same reasons with the help of an NGO. “I’ve been approached by parents from various schools over the fees issue. They’re really in dire straits after facing job loss or salary deduction due to the ongoing crisis. The schools' management should at least think on humanitarian grounds to grant them some concessions. The parents told me that even the education department officials aren’t entertaining them,” Gadkari told TOI, while warning that MNS would join the parents in their protests if the government failed to act. The parents protesting at St Xavier’s school said they gathered on the premises after management disconnected online classes link of their children for defaulting on fees. “The school is demanding charges under various heads like building and sports, apart from library and laboratory. We wanted to request them to grant some concessions in view of pandemic times. Those having business hadn’t earned anything since the last four months. All of us are suffering one or other way,” they said. According to them, no one from the administration was ready to talk and, therefore, they protested. “The school management is very insensitive to our genuine demands. For all these years, we never opposed, even as they hiked the fees,” they told TOI. Dy dir asks schools to abide by fees regulation ActReplying to parents allegations, deputy director of education Anil Pardhi called on the schools to abide by ‘Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011’ which had prescribed a process to charge fees. “The parents have lodged complaints of schools disconnecting online classes link and we will inquire into it. Regarding fees reduction, they should also refer to the Act, which was amended in 2018, where 25% of parents' total strength has to come together and table a proposal before the school management in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fee-protests-spread-to-other-pvt-schools/articleshow/77438706.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana's recovery rate improves, mortality rate comes down||HYDERABAD: Though the government has been making claims about increased testing and improved recovery rate, Telangana continues to be in the bottom half among the states that have conducted less Covid-19 tests and have low recovery rates in the country. What is heartening is that the state has managed to reduce the positivity and mortality rates in the last one month. According to the data (as on August 7) available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare department, Telangana's recovery rate is at 71%. Six states - Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Haryana - have a higher recovery rate. Telangana has conducted over 5.50 lakh tests so far and has 73,000 confirmed cases. Delhi, which is one of the worst-affected with coronavirus cases, has the highest recovery rate at 89.82%. TN that had reported over 2.89 lakh confirmed cases has 79.20% recovery. Smaller states like Haryana have managed to improve recovery rate at 83%. Neighbouring AP has a recovery rate of 58%. "Telangana had a recovery rate of 46% to 50% a month ago, while mortality rate was around 3%. While the recovery rate has improved, mortality rate has come down to less than 1%," a senior health official said. The government ramped up testing after the high court pulled up the health department for low testing. However, Telangana still lags behind other states in tests per million population. "Per million tests in Telangana is 13,829, while AP's testing per million population is 44,237. Delhi tops the list with 57,000 tests per million population," the data indicates. Till last month, Telangana trailed Bihar in the lowest testing charts. Telangana's mortality rate has come down to 0.82%. In Delhi, it is 2.82%, while Gujarat has 3.80% mortality. Health minister Eatala Rajender earlier claimed the mortality rate could have been lower had private hospitals stopped sending critical patients to government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telanganas-recovery-rate-improves-mortality-rate-comes-down/articleshow/77440309.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Committee to study high mortality rate at ESI Hospital||Bengaluru: The state government has ordered a committee to identify and study the factors behind high mortality among Covid-19 patients treated at ESI Hospital in Rajajinagar. Fifty-four out of 421 Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital have passed away. Medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday that a death audit would be conducted in these cases. “The mortality rate is as high as 12.8 per cent and there is a need to understand the reasons,” he said. Sudhakar made a surprise visit to the hospital on Saturday to review the situation and interacted with some Covid-19 patients through videoconferencing. The medical officer at the hospital told the minister that it had received several cancer cases with Covid-19 and patients who were brought at advanced stage of the coronavirus infection, and this had contributed to the high mortality rate. On the bright side, 42 positive pregnant women treated by the hospital had recovered and a new RT-PCR laboratory set up on the premises would begin operations from next week. Later, Sudhakar told the media that the hospital had a total of 494 beds and 150 had been reserved for coronavirus cases. “Two patients are in a serious condition and 10 are in the intensive care unit. They are recovering. Patients have expressed satisfaction about the treatment and other facilities here. Doctors and PG students are working hard to control the pandemic,” he said. Sudhakar plans to inspect the arrangements and progress at more hospitals to understand the ground situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-committee-to-study-high-mortality-rate-at-esi-hospital/articleshow/77440266.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Second runway at Chennai airport risky||CHENNAI: There are lessons for Chennai airport from the accident at Calicut airport. The way the Air India Express plane overshot the runway and crashed down the slope in Calicut in rain shows the second runway in Chennai, used at least twice a week when the main runway is taken up for maintenance, could be as risky. On the second runway, GST Road end has a buffer zone but there is no arrester which can slow down a plane that overshoots the runway while landing. The other end has neither a buffer zone for safety nor an arrestor. There is no adequate runway-end safety area (RESA) and obstacles in the approach path make it a risk for flights coming in to land. There is not much buffer space on either end and presence of a metro rail line with an overhead power cable at the GST Road-end makes it dangerous for planes overshooting the runway. With a usable length of 2,890 metres, it is fit for A320s or B737s. Air Safety expert and former member of civil aviation safety advisory committee Captain Mohan Ranganathan said the second runway is dangerous. “There are obstacles and the runway end does not have a safety zone.” And pilots have also faced difficulties landing. “I once had to do a go-around because obstacles prevented me from getting a good sight of the runway,” said a pilot. There have been a few go-around instances on the runway. The Airports Authority of India (AAI), which has listed water tanks atop buildings, trees, towers and other things as obstacles or reference for pilots, has been increasingly using the runway for landing ATR and narrow-body planes. An official said absence of land and constructions around an airport make it difficult to comply with all safety precautions. Minor deviations are allowed and warnings are issued to pilots to be prepared while landing, he added. The state government had been asked to give 100 acres in different parcels for safety equipment for runways. Around 15.83acres was sought from the state on the Manapakkam side of the runway to install approach lights. However, acquisition is slow because the government is hesitant to spend money. So there is danger if the pilot is not able to lift off in time as a plane can scrape the compound wall like it happened in Trichy a few months ago or overshoot the runway like it happened at Calicut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/second-runway-at-chennai-airport-risky/articleshow/77440311.cms||V Ayyappan
August 9, 2020||Mysuru||Commission seeks safety gear for labourers involved in last rites||MYSURU: The State Safai Karmachari Commission has requested the government to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to all labourers working at cemeteries and crematoriums and organise periodic Covid-19 tests for their safety. H Nataraju, secretary of the commission, said generations of labourers’ families had worked at the same place with few benefits. “They live in the vicinity, so there is a possibility that they might contract the infection,” he said. The commission has described the workers as corona warriors who perform the last rites of Covid-19 victims, and demanded an incentive of Rs 10,000 each. In a recent letter, it has sought reports from all district administrations on the condition of the workers under every gram panchayat and urban civic body and on the facilities provided to them. District administrations have also been urged to share details such as a list of cemeteries and crematoriums, level of wages and insurance cover. “We want to ensure that labourers get adequate facilities and local administrations don’t leave them out of their schemes,” said Nataraju. “Generations of the same families have continued this profession. We want the coming generation to gradually move to other jobs or become self-employed. We are working towards this, and our plans include education for children in good schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/commission-seeks-safety-gear-for-labourers-involved-in-last-rites/articleshow/77440275.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 12,800 cases, its highest 1-day tally, to touch 5 lakh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reached the overall tally of 5 lakh Covid cases on Saturday by registering its highest single-day count of 12,822 cases. With 5,03,084 cases, it now accounts for a quarter of the country’s Covid-19 caseload of 21.5 lakh. Mumbai, too, registered an increase in cases and deaths in comparison to the previous days, with 1,304 patients turning positive and 57 deaths. The only bright spot for Maharashtra was the lower-thanusual 275 deaths as against the 300-plus deaths for each of the past three days. The state toll now stands at 17,367 deaths. Maharashtra has 1,47,048 active cases at present, while Mumbai has 19,914 active cases. State recovery rate of 67.2% comes close to nat’l averageWhile the state’s caseload crossed 5 lakh on Saturday, Maharashtra now has 1,47,048 active cases and Mumbai 19,914. The BMC daily update said that of the 57 victims in the city on Saturday, 41 had comorbidities. Only two of the dead were under 40 years of age, while 13 were between 40 and 60 years of age and 43 were over 60 years old. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai between August 1 and 7 stood at 0.78%, while the doubling rate improved to 89 days. Of the total 275 deaths across the state, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added 137 and Pune division 75, while the rest of Maharashtra reported 63 deaths. In the last 24 hours, 11,081 persons were discharged, taking the total of discharges to 3,38,262 with the state recovery rate at 67.26%, just 1% lower than the national recovery rate of 68.3% on Saturday. The state fatality rate, at 3.45%, is higher than the national rate at 2.04% but is second to Gujarat (3.79%). Kalyan-Dombivli reported 309 new patients, taking the total number of patients there to 22,155. The twin city on Saturday also reported 10 deaths, taking its toll to 431. Thane recorded 288 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. Since the outbreak began, Thane city has reported 20,970 patients and the death toll there is 673. Also, around 85% of patients (17,829) have been discharged. There were 455 cases from within NMMC areas on Saturday, which makes it the highest single-day Covid statistic for the satellite city so far. This takes the total positive count there to 18,149. NMMC officials said seven deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 461. The PCMC reported 156 positives and five deaths. The total tally there is now 7,873, and deaths rose to 182. Panvel rural added 52 positives but no death was reported. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said though the state has slashed the cap for testing rate and treatment charges, the state health department receives complaints every day. He said collectors, municipal commissioners or division commissioners should conduct surprise visits to at least five hospitals in their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-records-12800-cases-its-highest-1-day-tally-to-touch-5-lakh/articleshow/77440308.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai to get more rain in 48 hours, forecasts IMD||CHENNAI: After the weekend started with light showers on the outskirts of the city, expect more such spells for the next two days as IMD has forecast light rain over some areas in the next 48 hours. The agency also forecast heavy to very heavy monsoon rainfall in west Tamil Nadu districts. The regional meteorological centre (RMC), Chennai has forecast, “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperature will be around 35 and 28°C,” for the next 48 hours in the city. Since June 1, the city has recorded an excess of 4% rainfall while state has an excess of 49% with monsoon winds bringing spells across interior parts of Tamil Nadu. On Saturday evening, several southern localities in the city including Meenambakkam, Velachery and Thiruvanmiyur received light rain while thunder rumbled followed by short sharp spells in localities on the west like Aminjikarai and Anna Nagar and showers followed breeze in core localities like Royapetrah. This, experts said, was due to a cyclonic circulation at an altitude of 7km over TN coast and favourable wind convergence expected prior to the formation of a system. IMD’s regional weather inference said a low-pressure area is likely to form over north and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal by August 9 under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. Southwest monsoon will continue to bring a downpour on the west coast and west TN districts for the next 24 hours. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, RMC Chennai said the strong southwest winds are likely to bring heavy to very heavy rains over Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Theni districts in the next 24 hours. Skymet Weather, in a post, said heavy to very heavy rains will continue over Kerala and light to moderate rain with one or two heavy spells expected over coastal Karnataka, South Konkan and Goa and states like Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya and West Bengal on the east.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-to-get-more-rain-in-48-hours-forecasts-imd/articleshow/77440328.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||1,404 fresh cases in Delhi, only 16 deaths||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,404 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.44 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 4,098. The number of daily cases of the novel coronavirus, after dipping to three-figure count last Sunday, has again shown a rise in the last few days, recording in excess of 1,000. The number of tests conducted has also risen in the last few days, with the Saturday figure being 24,592. Sixteen fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, officials said. On Friday, the daily cases count was 1,192 and 23 deaths were reported. The daily cases count on August 1 was 1,118. From August 2-4, cases had gradually dipped: August 2 (961), August 3 (805) and August 4 (674). But, from August 5 onwards, Covid-19 cases have again shown a four-figure trend: August 5 (1,076), August 6 (1,299) and August 7 (1,192). The active Covid cases tally on Saturday rose to 10,667, from 10,409 the previous day. The positivity rate, meanwhile, stood at 5.7% while the recovery rate was over 89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1404-fresh-cases-in-delhi-only-16-deaths/articleshow/77440330.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Teachers use places of worship to make sure kids keep learning||MANGALURU: Temples, churches, mosques, bhajan centres and community halls are new centres of education with at least 34 teachers mentoring over 600 students from 10 schools in the Noojibalthila cluster of Kadaba in Dakshina Kannada district. Each teacher has adopted 20 students area-wise and they’ve been reaching out to them at least thrice a week since July last week. Govinda Naik B, Cluster Resource Person, told STOI, “The objective is to ensure children are not deprived of education. The region’s terrain blocks access to mobile networks at many places and during a brainstorming session, we decided to reach out to students. We met parents who were cooperative and extended support.” Naik said, “We listed addresses of all students and divided them into groups of 20, each based on the area they live. It had nothing to do with the class they were studying in. Then, one teacher was asked to adopt 20 students. We then looked for places where students could sit and study. We decided to use the premises of temples, churches, mosques, bhajan centres and community halls for students to spend at least two hours every day. Philanthropists donated sanitisers, soaps, and towels and provided hot drinking water. Students have to compulsorily wear masks and maintain social distancing norms,” he said. Of 10 schools which are part of this project, five are lower primary government schools, three higher primary government schools, one government high school, and one unaided private high school. The 20 students are sub-divided into three groups of students in classes 1-5, 6-8, and 9-10. This reduces the learning burden when students get back to school, he added. Puttur Block Education Officer Lokesh C said the team has focused on new admissions. “Mobile network is a major issue in the area. Most teachers have completed bridge courses, conducted pretests, while a few are in the remedial teaching phase. Study materials have been developed by the teachers and handed over to students. They also ensure that homework, notes, assignments are corrected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-teachers-use-places-of-worship-to-make-sure-kids-keep-learning/articleshow/77440282.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 9, 2020||Guwahati||Rhino shot dead, horn chopped off in Kaziranga; poacher held||JOHRAT: An adult female rhino was shot dead by poachers in Kaziranga National Park (KNP) on Saturday. The killers chopped off its horn before forest staff reached the spot where six empty cartridges of .303 rifle were found. A poacher — involved in several rhino poaching cases — was arrested from Biswanath area in the connection. This is the second rhino killed by poachers in KNP this year so far. Earlier, an adult male rhino was shot dead in the park’s Agoratoli forest range on May 9 and its horn was also found missing. KNP had lost three rhinos to poachers in 2019. Divisional forest officer (Kaziranga) Ramesh Gogoi told TOI, “We have entrusted a senior forester to conduct an investigation into the incident. A group of forest staff have been engaged to assist the investigating officer. Top forest officials of the park are monitoring the entire investigation to nab the culprits.” Gogoi added, “The arrested person is an infamous poacher and was involved in several rhino poaching incidents in Kaziranga. Preliminary investigations suggest six persons, including the arrested one, were involved in the killing of the rhino.” Kaziranga lost 18 rhinos during this flood season and two calves are under treatment at Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation after they were rescued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/rhino-shot-dead-horn-chopped-off-in-kaziranga-poacher-held/articleshow/77440332.cms||Anup Dutta
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||No project without nod: Centre to Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: In a setback to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the Centre has asked both the Telugu states not to proceed with irrigation projects that were not cleared by the Apex Council. The Union jal shakti ministry instructed the states not to take up any project as detailed project reports (DPRs) have not been submitted to the Centre. In what could be seen as a direct fallout of both states ignoring the Apex Council meeting on August 5 called by jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to resolve contentious issues between the two states, the Centre asked AP to stop Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) works, including calling and awarding of tenders. The Union minister said Telangana should not proceed with projects on Godavari basin without submitting the DPRs to the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) and seeking the Apex Council permission. No Apex Council meet since 2016: MinisterThe Centre has asked both the Telugu states not to proceed with irrigation projects that were not cleared by the Apex Council. Jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat instructed the states not to take up any project as detailed project reports (DPRs) have not been submitted to the Centre. Similarly, he also asked AP not to take up any project without submitting the DPRs to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) for appraisal and also without obtaining sanction of the Apex Council. “DPR of Kaleshwaram project was accepted by the advisory committee of the ministry in June 2018. But, Telangana changed the scope and enhancement of lifting of water from 2 tmcft to 3 tmcft a day without seeking the approval of GRMB and Central Water Commission (CWC),” the minister pointed out. In separate letters to both CMs , the minister said the last Apex Council meeting was held in September 2016 and since then, no meeting was held. The Council is headed by the Union water resources minister and CMs of Telangana and AP are its members. Shekhawat said his ministry in September 2019 asked states to send agenda items for the council meeting. “Since there was no reply, we told them to submit agenda items in January and May this year. We went ahead by proposing four agenda items for the August 5 meeting,” Shekhawat said. When contacted, Telangana principal secretary (irrigation) Rajat Kumar said he heard about the letter addressed to KCR by the Union minister. “But, we have not received any letter till Saturday,” he said. The controversy over the new projects began in May when Telangana objected to RLIP utilising 6-8 tmcft from Srisailam reservoir in violation of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-project-without-nod-centre-to-telangana-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/77440292.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to start AI-based voice tests within a week to detect Covid-19||MUMBAI: The BMC will next week onwards start using a voice sampling method to diagnose Covid-19 at one of its jumbo facilities. “We will use an AI-based voice sampling application in a pilot project covering 1,000 patients, both suspected and confirmed, at our Nesco facility in Goregaon,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Saturday. Voice analysis was used in some European nations, including France and Italy, to detect Covid-19. In fact, a group of students from a Navi Mumbai engineering college recently ‘retuned’ their 2008 voice analytical program to detect Covid-19 among suspected patients. “We will compare the voice analysis findings with RT-PCR results,” said Kakani. If the pilot shows promise, the BMC plans to use the program in its other hospitals as well. “It is non-invasive and can deliver results quickly,” he added. RT-PCR stands for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. While RT-PCR results take an average of 24 hours (from collection of samples to results), BMC’s new tests such as the antigen test gives results within 30 minutes. The rapid antibody blood tests available in the private sector too quickly reveals if the patient has been exposed to the novel coronavirus. However, there has been a lot of debate over the efficiency of these tests. A doctor, who is associated with the BMC, said that the voice analysis method isn’t very sensitive. “It could lead to a lot of positives,” he said. While BMC officials said the whole voice analysis project was its own initiative, it is learnt that an IIT team is helping out. The test involves a person speaking into a smart phone or computer with the app. The app, which has been finetuned with voice data of thousands of patients with Covid-19 or other respiratory ailments, will run the patient’s voice reading against its database and detect the condition. From placing disinfection panels at its offices to using kiosks that allow contactless testing of patients, the BMC has been proactively using innovations in its battle against the novel coronavirus infection. “But rules are stringently followed. Even the voice analysis project is awaiting an ethics committee approval that should come within a couple of days,” said a senior official. Watch Mumbai: BMC to start AI-based voice tests within a week to detect Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-start-ai-based-voice-tests-within-a-week-to-detect-covid-19/articleshow/77440336.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops concede mistake, clear scribe held for Bandra chaos||MUMBAI: The Bandra police recently submitted a closure report before the magistrate court, giving a clean chit to TV journalist Rahul Kulkarni, accused of airing false news about the movement of long-distance trains that triggered chaos at Bandra station as migrants gathered in large numbers on the afternoon of April 14. Kulkarni (43) had been arrested from his residence in Osmanabad on April 15 and granted bail a day later. Conceding that the case was filed due to “mistake of fact”, cops submitted the ‘C Summary’ report and requested the Bandra magistrate court to accept it. TimesViewThe police had clearly shown undue haste in booking a journalist for the crowd that had gathered at Bandra station on April 14. The facts mentioned in the police’s closure report make it clear that the cops did not have strong grounds for filing a case against the TV news correspondent but still went ahead. The case should serve as an example to the police of how they should do due diligence before booking people for crime.No intent, and journalist did not mention Bandra in report: CopsThe report said violating lockdown norms, on April 14, 1,000-1,200 migrant workers from Bandra slums such as Shastrinagar, Qureshinagar, Maharashtra Nagar and Nargis Dutt Nagar gathered at the spot between 3.44pm and 5.15pm. At the time of arrest, police alleged Kulkarni’s channel aired the report that railways had decided to run special trains for stranded workers to return home. He was booked under sections of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. But the police report concluded Kulkarni’s report on the Marathi news channel did not give definitive information about when and where the railway services would start. The reports were aired between 9am and 11.23am, and Kulkarni told cops the information was gathered from railway officials. “He has stated in every news item that only proposals are under consideration of the government and he had no intention of spreading rumours through this news,” the report said. It stated that witnesses whose statements were recorded had not seen Kulkarni’s news report. A witness, police said, heard a stranger say, “Let’s go to Bandra railway station, hurry up, there is information that even the news channels were saying the government is running trains for the villages”. However, during investigation, it was found that the witnesses had not actually heard or seen Kulkarni’s news reports. Cops recorded statements of 11witnesses. The 83-page report also pointed out that while Bandra railway terminus at Bandra (E) was meant for long-distance trains, only local suburban trains ran from the railway station at Bandra (W) and the crowd had gathered at Bandra (W). Cops said Kulkarni had neither mentioned Bandra railway station nor any other railway station in his reports. “There is no reason to believe that Kulkarni has deliberately misinformed or influenced the migrant workers,” the report said. The report also mentioned an FIR registered against Navi Mumbai resident Vinay Dubey, arrested for spreading rumours and instigating migrants through social media. Police pointed at his involvement and said witnesses had seen his post. Dubey is out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-concede-mistake-clear-scribe-held-for-bandra-chaos/articleshow/77440345.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 9, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440909.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440354.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440910.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440952.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440911.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: After Covid and cyclone, it’s visarjan before Ganpati for Pen idolmakers||MUMBAI: Sunil Sawale, 59, counts his gains and losses as his eyes scan idols of the elephant-headed, mouse-chauffeured god—in various stages of completion—from a corner of his workshop at the Nandimal Naka of Pen in Raigad. By July, they’re usually ready to file out, but this time, they remain half-done, in-waiting or simply rejected in the backdrop of the Covid -19 outbreak that forced his buyers from nearby towns, states and countries such as the UK, the US and Mauritius to drop their orders. Even as rain pelts outside, tackling the current cloudburst pales in comparison to two months ago, when Sawale was staring at the remains of his idols when the furious Nisarga blew the roof off his threestoried studio and wreaked havoc on the 8,000 ready figurines he was hoping to sell. Pen, a small town 80 km from Mumbai and steeped in a 130-year-old history in idolmaking since Bal Gangadhar Tilak brought Ganesh Chaturthi into the streets in the 1890s—supplies the state and beyond with six lakh handcrafted Ganpati idols every year by its 2,000 workshops and 40,000 crafstmen. 40% drop in domestic, 60% dip in export orders for Pen’s idolsThe artisans say they have witnessed visarjan even before the arrival of the festival this time—their business taking a hit with a 40% drop in domestic orders and 60% of their exports hamstrung by the lockdown. Although a salvage effort was mounted in the subsequent days of the lockdown and cyclone, “About 50% of my orders from major markets like Mumbai, Pune, Jalgoan, Nagpur, Nashik, Kalyan were called off because retailers didn’t want to risk coming to Pen or setting up stalls,” rues Sawale. With a mere two weeks to go, not just Sawale, but several hundred sought-after artisans, including third-generation idol maker Deepak Samel, have been hard at recovering from the setback while waiting to hear from their regular patrons. Idol-making is a capital-intensive business and taking loans from banks — a year ahead to procure raw material and pay craftsmen who work year-round—remains common practice. Sawale, who makes 12,000 idols annually, requires a working capital of Rs 5 lakh while large manufacturers like Samel borrow up to Rs 50 lakh to meet requirements. “Following a 10-day break after the immersions, idolmakers start work on their next cycle. The shaadu maati (clay) is bought from Gujarat’s Bhavnagar and PoP comes from Baner in Rajasthan. Murtikars have to start investing from October. People pledge their gold and land for this loan,” explains Shrikant Deodhar, president of the Shri Ganesh Murtikar Ani Vyavsayik Kalyankari Mandal, an association of idol-makers in Pen. Usually nonchalant about paying off the loans through their profitable business, artisans are now wary. “By January, we were ready with our kachcha murtis,” says Samel, whose phone — usually buzzing with orders and requests for pictures of idols — has been ringing since April with cancellation calls. As many as 30,000 idols leave the Pen studios for the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, New Zealand every year. “My export orders came down from 5,000 to 1,200 this year,” he says. Samel subsists on this sale through the year. “I’ve been paying a premium for the past 20 years, and have never defaulted on my bank loans, yet the insurance firm is refusing to cover our loss while the government hasn’t come forward with any compensation. Money starts coming in only weeks before the festival,” he frets. “Fortunately, there’s been a demand for mini two-feet idols since end-July, but I don’t know if I’ll be able to sell enough and repay my loan.” After the government capped the height of Ganesh idols at 4ft to keep celebrations lowkey, Samel has 300 six-feet-tall Ganpatis—a popular size among buyers—sitting idle in his factory, while the pollution control board’s sudden ban on plaster of paris (PoP) idols at a time when workshops had already made idols for this year, has done little to lessen their woes. “Although the embargo was deferred by a year, people have grown conscious and want clay or eco-friendly idols while 90% of the taluka are producers of PoP idols. We need at least three years to clear existing stock and train karigars in the skill and time-intensive process of clay modeling,” says Deodhar. In their defence, Deodhar says PoP idols do not pollute water bodies. “It’s the oil paint and glitter that does… The government needs to involve us artisans, consult scientists, set up temporary tanks and use the right chemicals to immerse idols,” insists Deodhar, but admits that plaster was never their choice historically until the advent of this quick-setting gypsum. Less delicate, quicker to dry, lighter to transport and easier to generate large quantities of as opposed to their clay counterparts, PoP became the preferred choice for sculptors leading to a boom in Pen’s idol trade since the ‘80s. The community in trying to heal from its bruises is wasting no time in adapting to the new and challenging realities. “I’ve recently employed a few new craftsmen because out of my staff of 50, only six know clay modelling,” he says, adding that the Pen Murtikar Sanghatana will begin training in clay work after Diwali. “Yeh saal thoda bhaari hai par Ganeshji pe sab chhod diya,” says Sawale, his hopes still pinned on Ganpati, the obstacle remover, he believes will free them of their misery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maharashtra-after-covid-and-cyclone-its-visarjan-before-ganpati-for-pen-idolmakers/articleshow/77440913.cms||Mohua Das
August 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Call centre dupes 30,000 Americans in three weeks||GURUGRAM: A call centre that had in just three weeks of existence allegedly cheated more than 30,000 Americans by posting malware links on their PCs and then offering technical support to fix it was found operating from an upscale business centre on Sohna Road on Saturday by the CID’s chief minister’s flying squad. Ironically, the two who ran the criminal operation are familiar faces for the law. They had been arrested last year running a similar bogus call centre from Udyog Vihar but were out on bail and had got right back to the swindling business. Vikram Verma, a resident of Delhi, and his partner Rishab, a resident of Gurgaon, have been charged under section 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and sections of the of IT Act in the FIR filed at Sadar police station. The Sohna Road call centre underscores the law and order challenge cyber police still face in the national capital region, which has been on the radar of international law enforcement agencies, including America’s FBI, since a large number of crook calls were traced to cities around Delhi, particularly Gurgaon and Noida. Over the past couple of years, several large call centres, primarily targeting American citizens, have been busted. Sixteen such call centres have been found to operating just in the last 36 months. This January, a call centre operating from Udyog Vihar was busted and around 30 people were detained. It had collected millions by cheating residents of the US and Mexico by pretending to be customer associates of Amazon. In November 2018, youths sitting in Gurgaon conned hundreds of people by sending pop-ups to people in the US, UK, Canada, Australia to make it appear that their computers were attacked by virus. They then posed as Microsoft representatives and offered technical support in exchange of payments. The menace had become so huge that Microsoft had asked FBI to help in the investigation. In May this year, around seven people were arrested from Noida for cheating US residents using the same modus operandi. The 38-seater call centre, which was operating without a licence since July 13 from JMD Megapolis on Sohna Road, used to send pop-ups warning of a system lockdown and asking users to call on certain toll-free numbers to get their computers protected against a one-time payment. The fraudsters also convinced many users to buy anti-virus of reputable companies and charged them via iTunes cards as well as gift cards. They would charge $250 or more from each user. The gift cards were routed to bank accounts in India via Europe and China. DSP (CID) Inderjeet Yadav said, “A raid was conducted on Saturday and around 26 youths, including seven women, were found working at the call centre named Green Rock Enterprise and owned by Verma,” he said, adding that around 25 employees were also working from home. Yadav said that the accused had a partner in the US who used to provide them with citizens’ data. All the employees working at the call centre were paid between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 per month. They have not been arrested yet but are being questioned. Watch Fake call centre in Gurugram dupes 30,000 Americans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugram-call-centre-dupes-30000-americans-in-three-weeks/articleshow/77440356.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Delhi||Gurugram: Call centre dupes 30,000 Americans in three weeks||GURUGRAM: A call centre that had in just three weeks of existence allegedly cheated more than 30,000 Americans by posting malware links on their PCs and then offering technical support to fix it was found operating from an upscale business centre on Sohna Road on Saturday by the CID’s chief minister’s flying squad. Ironically, the two who ran the criminal operation are familiar faces for the law. They had been arrested last year running a similar bogus call centre from Udyog Vihar but were out on bail and had got right back to the swindling business. Vikram Verma, a resident of Delhi, and his partner Rishab, a resident of Gurgaon, have been charged under section 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and sections of the of IT Act in the FIR filed at Sadar police station. The Sohna Road call centre underscores the law and order challenge cyber police still face in the national capital region, which has been on the radar of international law enforcement agencies, including America’s FBI, since a large number of crook calls were traced to cities around Delhi, particularly Gurgaon and Noida. Over the past couple of years, several large call centres, primarily targeting American citizens, have been busted. Sixteen such call centres have been found to operating just in the last 36 months. This January, a call centre operating from Udyog Vihar was busted and around 30 people were detained. It had collected millions by cheating residents of the US and Mexico by pretending to be customer associates of Amazon. In November 2018, youths sitting in Gurgaon conned hundreds of people by sending pop-ups to people in the US, UK, Canada, Australia to make it appear that their computers were attacked by virus. They then posed as Microsoft representatives and offered technical support in exchange of payments. The menace had become so huge that Microsoft had asked FBI to help in the investigation. In May this year, around seven people were arrested from Noida for cheating US residents using the same modus operandi. The 38-seater call centre, which was operating without a licence since July 13 from JMD Megapolis on Sohna Road, used to send pop-ups warning of a system lockdown and asking users to call on certain toll-free numbers to get their computers protected against a one-time payment. The fraudsters also convinced many users to buy anti-virus of reputable companies and charged them via iTunes cards as well as gift cards. They would charge $250 or more from each user. The gift cards were routed to bank accounts in India via Europe and China. DSP (CID) Inderjeet Yadav said, “A raid was conducted on Saturday and around 26 youths, including seven women, were found working at the call centre named Green Rock Enterprise and owned by Verma,” he said, adding that around 25 employees were also working from home. Yadav said that the accused had a partner in the US who used to provide them with citizens’ data. All the employees working at the call centre were paid between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 per month. They have not been arrested yet but are being questioned. Watch Fake call centre in Gurugram dupes 30,000 Americans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gurugram-call-centre-dupes-30000-americans-in-three-weeks/articleshow/77440362.cms||---
August 9, 2020||India||Landslips, floods took 900+ lives in 16 states this season||NEW DELHI: Floods and landslides have caused widespread devastation across the country with more than 900 deaths reported so far by 16 states this monsoon season. On Friday, Kerala added over 23 to its tally of 33 lives lost reported till August 6. West Bengal, Assam, Gujarat, Karnataka, MP and Maharashtra are the worst affected states. About 69 lakh people in Bihar and 57 lakh in Assam have been affected by floods, displaced or marooned. Millions across India have lost their habitat, livestock and livelihood, taking shelter in thousands of relief camps run by state authorities. The Centre has deployed 141 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for rescue operations, besides the state disaster response forces (SDRF). In the last 10 days state governments have reported more than 200 deaths due to floods and landslides, taking the overall tally close to 900. West Bengal has the highest deaths at 239, followed by 136 in Assam, 87 in Gujarat and 74 each in Karnataka and MP. The total flood-related casualties is likely to go up as many states are not filing their ‘situation reports’ regularly with the Centre and rivers are flowing above the danger level in almost all states. In Assam, out of 136 flood-related deaths reported by the state government, at least 26 have been caused by landslides. Kerala’s Idukki, in a single day on Friday, saw over 23 perish and scores missing in landslides caused by floods. The deluge has made it difficult for states to maintain social distancing and follow other guidelines, as prescribed by the Centre in view of the outbreak of coronavirus, at relief camps or during its evacuation operations. Disasters related to climate change such as floods have become a recurring phenomenon in India with over a thousand deaths reported every year and millions of people pushed into poverty due to loss of habitat and livelihood. Of all the disasters recorded globally between 1998-2017, floods accounted for 44%. Climate change is causing more havoc than earthquakes and tsunamis. That makes India’s development highly risky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/landslips-floods-took-900-lives-in-16-states-this-season/articleshow/77440341.cms||Pradeep Thakur
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||‘Runway repair advice never took off’||Kolkata: Recommendations on crucial changes to the Kozhikode airport runway by an audit committee set up to investigate the Mangalore airport crash a decade ago were brushed under the carpet, aviation industry veterans said on Saturday. While human error may have led to the Friday night's accident in which the plane overshot the runway after the pilot touched down at 3,000ft, they believe that had the recommendations been followed, the accident could perhaps have been averted. “The report submitted in 2011 after the committee reviewed other table top runways, including Lengpui in Aizwal and Kozhikode in Kerala, suggested measures that needed to be urgently taken. For Kozhikode, it suggested four major measures involving correction of the runway: ensure there is no standing water on the runway, repair of cracks that had developed due to subsidence, removal of rubber deposits at the touchdown point and rectification of the runway slope that was beyond the maximum permissible limit. Till then, the committee suggested operations be discontinued at the airport. But this never happened,” an Air India pilot said. According to him, water accumulation on the runway caused hydroplaning. This increased the risk of runway overshoot during landing. Also, presence of rubber deposits on the runway reduces friction, making braking less effective. Runway slope only compounds the problem. A senior captain of a private airline also pointed out that an accident usually happens due to a combination of factors. “There are four reasons why a plane can over-run a landing strip: wet runway, high tailwind, high approach speed and not landing within the touchdown zone. The first two are known. It is being reported that the plane landed at 3,000ft instead of 500-1,500ft. But this, along with approach speed, can be determined only after analysing the flight data recorder,” he reasoned. While the conditions at Kozhikode were treacherous on Friday, pilots say the situation appears to have been compounded by the captain's decision to try a second landing after a go-around, possibly due to poor visibility. “The rule book clearly states that unless one is very sure the condition has improved to enable the plane to land, it should divert to another airport. The captain still chose to attempt a second time. He may have been unsighted by a sudden wall of heavy rain and landed at 3,000ft instead of 1,000ft. That means, he had about 6,000 ft of runway left. Normally. a Boeing B737 aircraft requires 4,500ft to stop after touchdown. But in rain, 65% additional distance is required or 7,400 ft, considerably more than the runway length that he had to stop,” the pilot said. Why the master green Air Force veteran acted the way he did is a matter of speculation. But Capt Dipak Vasant Sathe did something extraordinary in the final moments to prevent a greater tragedy. He switched off the engine before the plane dived into the gorge, thereby preventing the aircraft from busting into flames. That saved many lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/runway-repair-advice-never-took-off/articleshow/77439804.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||As music dies, Kolkata’s singing bars cook to survive the Covid storm||KOLKATA: The famous (or infamous) singing bars of central Kolkata have done the pandemic pivot — some in unexpected ways — to stay afloat after the music fell silent in March, when total lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. With no clear indication from the government as to when the psychedelic lights will start throbbing again and the flurry of guests return, the owners have tweaked their business models to survive during the pandemic, albeit with limited success. One of the most-sought-after outlets on Waterloo Street is now selling Rajasthani thalis, while another one on CR Avenue, whose sides like mourola machh bhaja and mutton liver were an instant hit with drinks, is rustling up quick bites like dosa and rolls. Sanjib Mondal, the manager of Rock’s on Waterloo Street — a very popular singing bar — said the decision to pivot within the existing business was taken soon after Unlock 1 in June. “There was no clear indication from the government to reopen the bars, so we decided to sell thalis for the office-going crowd. Our vegetarian fare is already famous with our guests, so we decided to shift to selling Rajasthani and Indian thalis. Most of our guests now are office-goers in the vicinity,” said Mondal. Several businesses have either shut down or registered a dip in revenue in the wake of the pandemic, which has shrunk demand and leisure spend. The hospitality industry has been one of the hardest hit by lockdown measures, as people are staying away from restaurants, cafes and food courts. The government has not allowed the reopening of bars and pubs yet. But there are some who have been quick to adapt and change their business strategy to stay afloat. The bar at Broadway on Ganesh Chandra Avenue has never been shut for so long since the hotel opened in 1937. “Almost 80% of the business is gone as the bar is our mainstay. But we need to pay the staff and spend on maintenance, for which we started selling Indian and Chinese combos for Rs 99 each,” said Vivian Saldanha, bar manager. The food business at most of these eateries picked up in June, when offices started reopening and people ventured out of their homes after almost a 10-week lockdown. But as cases spiked, by the first week of July, the orders started drying up. The way these traditional central Kolkata watering holes, many of which metamorphosed to singing bars two decades ago, are dealing with the crisis is the story of staying nimble for short-term survival. “We either had to adapt or shut down and wait for the government’s orders to reopen. Currently it is not about making money but to make ends meet and stay in business,” said the manager of Duke Bar and Restaurant on CR Avenue, diagonally opposite E-Mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-music-dies-citys-singing-bars-cook-to-survive-the-covid-storm/articleshow/77439977.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt caps private hospital advance deposit at Rs 50,000||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has barred private hospitals from charging more than 20% of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum of Rs 50,000, whichever is less, as advance deposit from patients at the time of admission. While maintaining that patients can’t be refused admission without the payment or denied treatment, the WBCERC advisory issued on Friday says that the advance deposit must be made within 12 hours, failing which the hospitals can cancel the admission. While the advisory pertains to all cases of hospitalisation, TOI had reported last week that families of several Covid patients in the city have alleged being charged advance deposits going up to several lakhs by private hospitals. The chairman of WBCERC, Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, said the decision to cap the advance deposits charged by private hospitals was taken “after due deliberation and careful consideration”. The advisory says that in case the patient’s family is unable to pay the advance amount immediately, the hospital would grant a “provisional” admission. “In case the amount cannot be paid during the stipulated 12 hours, the hospital is at liberty to cancel the patient’s admission and ask the family to take the patient back within an hour thereafter,” it says. Stating that it has come across complaints of unnecessary investigations and repeat of costly investigations resulting in inflated bills, the commission has asked hospitals to intimate patient parties on billing on a daily basis via text messages, WhatsApp or email and inform them in advance of any substantial increase in the estimated cost, citing reasons. Payments should be made as far as possible through bank transactions and proper receipts given in return, it has said. “Henceforth, all investigations amounting to more than Rs 2,000 should be done after a prior documented intimation to the patient party. In case any investigation is repeated on a regular basis, this should be informed citing the reasons and documented,” states a second advisory from the WBCERC. This advisory will, however, not be applicable in emergency cases, when the decision of the treating doctor will be final and binding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-caps-private-hospital-advance-deposit-at-rs-50k/articleshow/77439975.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand govt yet to pay private hosps for chipping in as Covid centres||RANCHI: Jharkhand government had proactively acquired 12 private hospitals in April, under the guidelines of the Centre, and designated them as Covid centres to fight the pandemic in the state. Four months down the line when the state’s cumulative caseload has crossed the 16,000-mark and the death toll is over 150, the government has not released a single paisa to the hospitals so far. The government said the process for payment is on but there is a lack of clarity on which department — the disaster management or the health — will clear the bills. These healthcare centres said they are not in a position to support the operational costs anymore, but they are reluctant to make their financial crunch public. On average, a private hospital has pending bills of around Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh per month. Meanwhile, overburdened by the bills, the government seemed to have quietly pulled out some of these centres from the fight against the pandemic which may not augur well in the face of rising number of cases. Currently, East Singhbhum has the highest number of active cases at 1,851 on Saturday morning followed by Ranchi at 1,767. Principal secretary health Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the private hospitals were acquired under the Disaster Management Act and hence their claims for payment have to be handled by the disaster management department. "They are reviewing the matter to release payment," he said. Though the disaster management department is apparently looking into the matter, there is no clarity yet. During the acquisition of the private hospitals, different district administrations adopted different methods and in most cases, there was no written agreement about the payment structure. In April, when the pandemic reached the state (the first case was detected in the state on March 31), the health department issued an order to create exclusive hospitals for infected patients and set up two dedicated hospitals at the state level and 14 such hospitals in the districts. Apart from government and private hospitals, those acquired included the ones owned by PSUs. A subsequent notification on April 23 said there were 19 hospitals, including 12 privately owned with 1,521 non-ICU beds, 363 ICU beds and 189 ventilators to cater to the needs of the patients across all 24 districts. In the same notification, patients from Ranchi, Latehar, Gumla and Lohardaga are assigned to one hospital — Paras HEC Hospital, Ranchi — which has only 10 non-ICU and 12 ICU beds. While the private hospitals abstained from making their financial crisis public because of the Disaster Management Act, the Jharkhand chapter of the Association of Health Care Providers (India) said most of these hospitals are struggling for survival. Jogesh Gambhir, president of the association’s state unit, said, "We have written letters to the state health minister twice on behalf of these private health care providers so that their outstanding bills are cleared but to no avail." He said, "Paras HEC Hospital had 50 nurses but due to the financial crunch and various other reasons, their number has come down to 15. It would be difficult for the hospital authorities to provide services to the patients with the reduced staff strength, especially when their medical staff on Covid duty are supposed to take a break after a week-long duty." Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said the bill placed by Paras hospital has been forwarded to the health department. "It is for the health department to settle the dues," he said. In the tribal-dominated district of Simdega, Shanti Bhavan Hospital located in Biru was the only designated centre to handle Covid patients as the district hospital was in a shambles. "The private hospital worked efficiently in managing the patients, but it hasn’t been paid a single penny in the last four months," Gambhir said. The district has 141 active cases as on Saturday morning. The same situation prevails in Bokaro where BSL-owned Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and privately owned Kem Hospital were designated as Covid centres. Kem Hospital director Dr Vikas Pandey said, "We keep 15 beds ready for Covid patients, but the administration has not sent us any infected person.” As of Saturday morning, Bokaro has 239 active cases and BGH has only 90 beds. The district administration has recently set up a 200-bed Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/govt-yet-to-pay-single-paisa-to-pvt-hosps-to-fight-covid/articleshow/77442190.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal eyes 5 logistics hubs||KOLKATA: The Bengal government is working on an integrated logistics sector development policy and expects to roll it out in the next few months. It will be among very few states to have such a policy and the government feels this will be a sunrise sector for Bengal, which shares three international borders and has 10 landlocked states as its neighbours. During the 13th CII Logistics Colloquium, state finance and industries minister Amit Mitra said the logistics sector in Bengal was worth $20 billion. He said the draft policy had been prepared and the government had sought suggestions from stakeholders. According to Mitra, the WBIDC is now actively focusing on the logistics sector. Kolkata alone has 14 million (1.4 crore) consumers besides over 46 million (4.6 crore) from the northeast, and this makes Bengal an attractive market. The minister said Siliguri, Durgapur, Dankuni, Malda and Tajpur had been identified as logistics hubs. “We are looking at a tea logistics hub in Siliguri. Durgapur can be the same for chemicals and fertilis-ers. Tajpur, where a port wi-ll come up, may be a hub for petrochemicals while Dankuni can be a logistics hub for perishable products such as vegetables and processed food,” he added. Mitra said the state had attracted big investments in logistics. “Flipkart is investing in logistics in Kalyani. There is major investment by ESR in Sankrail too,” he said, urging CII to join the logistics hub initiative. “We have land ready in Haldia and North Bengal. Apex chambers such as CII should come forward with proposals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-eyes-5-logistics-hubs/articleshow/77439708.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Surjya Kanta Mishra files complaint against ‘fake news’ on portal||KOLKATA: A Facebook post in Bengali on a web portal has prompted CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra to lodge a complaint with the cybercrime cell of Kolkata Police. The portal, in its ‘West Bengal’ section, has allegedly attributed to CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury some incendiary remarks against Hindus, following the foundation ceremony of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “An image of our party general secretary is being circulated on social media... in which some malicious statements have been attributed to Yechury that might lead to communal discord,” Mishra said in his complaint, urging steps against persons spreading such fake news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surjya-files-plaint-against-fake-news-on-portal/articleshow/77439823.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jharia Master Plan: An ever-changing rehabilitation blueprint||Justice delayed is justice denied — and such is the condition of the lakhs of families staying in the underground fire-affected areas of Jharia who are waiting for the promise of a “better life” to come true. After the fire raged for almost a hundred years, a blueprint — Jharia Master Plan — was drawn in 2004 to rehabilitate the affected families to a safer location post which an Australian company would work to douse the flames. However, just like other massive government programmes, the Master Plan till date could only see around 4,000 families been shifted to Belgaria Township, 6km from Jharia. While the initial batch is grappling with issues such as lack of liveable accommodations at the township amid falling ceilings and overflowing drains, a new set of families will soon be taken there, TOI was informed by Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA), the implementing authority of the Master Plan. Though the residents of Jharia continue to live amid constant fear of being engulfed by the ever raging fire beneath their feet, the Jharia Master Plan, approved by the Centre in 2009, kept changing its course with the last such taking place in 2018. All this amid a lack of coordination between the various stakeholders of the rehabilitation programme which increased the woes of the people manifold. Another major problem that ails the rehabilitation plan is an increase in the number of beneficiaries over the years and more delay will only push the figure up. Of the 1.04 lakh affected families of Jharia, around 76,000 are encroachers and only 28,000 are legal land holders. Initial planIn 2009, when the Master Plan was approved by the Centre, JRDA and the Union coal ministry had decided that only those with bonafide proof of settlement before 2004 will be rehabilitated to Belgaria. However, this gave rise to a problem. Between 2004 and 2009, there were several who got married and their spouses and children were falling outside the ambit of the rehabilitation programme. Change in planThe difficulty in implementing the plan forced JRDA and the Dhanbad district administration to suggest the Union ministry of coal to include all those who had settled in the fire-affected areas till 2009. Despite the issue of including those who settled till 2009 was discussed several times during the JRDA managing committee meetings, executive board meetings and even during the review meetings of the Master Plan by successive coal secretaries including Susheel Kumar (2017-18), Indrajit Singh (2018) and Sumanta Chaudhuri (2019), a final decision in this regard could not be taken even as the coal ministry officials theoretically agreed to the difficulties in execution of the Master Plan if 2004 is the cut-off year. However, there could be found no way out. More changesIn 2018, when a survey to assess the total number of families living in the 595 fire-affected areas was being carried out, it was decided in principle that all the families that appear in the survey will be rehabilitated. Later, when the survey ended, around 1.04 families saw being mentioned in the report. Confusion prevailsThough it was decided that all the families will be rehabilitated, in one of review meetings of the Jharia Rehabilitation plan held under the chairmanship of the coal secretary in 2018, it was decided that while a grand majority will be rehabilitated under the Jharia Master Plan, others will be shifted under schemes like the Prime Minister Sahri Awas Yojna and Prime Minister Gramin Awas Yojna. It was also decided to involve the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and District Rural Development Authority in execution of the two central schemes. However, a final decision could not be taken because of the presence of multiple layers of decision makers as after the issue was discussed at the managing committee meeting, it went to the High Powered Committee of the Ministry of Coal on Fire, Subsidence and Rehabilitation and finally, the decision was to be approved by the Union Cabinet. Effects of delayWhile incidents of land subsidence continued unabated since 1930, among the recent cases, on May 24, 2017, a welder and his son died after the ground below their house collapsed due to the fire. On August 19, 2017, yet another incident of land subsidence was recorded at the Mohribandh area of Jharia and the problem still persists while authorities continue to showcase a perfect example of collective apathy. JRDA’s Rehabilitation and Resettlement in-charge Kumar Bandhu Kachhap said, “At present, our priority is to shift the new batch of 2,008 families living in fire zones and only those families whose documents are cleared and verified by the authorities of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) that they have been living in the fire affected sites from before 2004 will be provided quarters in Belgaria.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharia-master-plan-an-ever-changing-rehabilitation-blueprint/articleshow/77438644.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt yet to pay private hosps for chipping in as Covid centres||RANCHI: Jharkhand government had proactively acquired 12 private hospitals in April, under the guidelines of the Centre, and designated them as Covid centres to fight the pandemic in the state. Four months down the line when the state’s cumulative caseload has crossed the 16,000-mark and the death toll is over 150, the government has not released a single paisa to the hospitals so far. The government said the process for payment is on but there is a lack of clarity on which department — the disaster management or the health — will clear the bills. These healthcare centres said they are not in a position to support the operational costs anymore, but they are reluctant to make their financial crunch public. On average, a private hospital has pending bills of around Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh per month. Meanwhile, overburdened by the bills, the government seemed to have quietly pulled out some of these centres from the fight against the pandemic which may not augur well in the face of rising number of cases. Currently, East Singhbhum has the highest number of active cases at 1,851 on Saturday morning followed by Ranchi at 1,767. Principal secretary health Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the private hospitals were acquired under the Disaster Management Act and hence their claims for payment have to be handled by the disaster management department. "They are reviewing the matter to release payment," he said. Though the disaster management department is apparently looking into the matter, there is no clarity yet. During the acquisition of the private hospitals, different district administrations adopted different methods and in most cases, there was no written agreement about the payment structure. In April, when the pandemic reached the state (the first case was detected in the state on March 31), the health department issued an order to create exclusive hospitals for infected patients and set up two dedicated hospitals at the state level and 14 such hospitals in the districts. Apart from government and private hospitals, those acquired included the ones owned by PSUs. A subsequent notification on April 23 said there were 19 hospitals, including 12 privately owned with 1,521 non-ICU beds, 363 ICU beds and 189 ventilators to cater to the needs of the patients across all 24 districts. In the same notification, patients from Ranchi, Latehar, Gumla and Lohardaga are assigned to one hospital — Paras HEC Hospital, Ranchi — which has only 10 non-ICU and 12 ICU beds. While the private hospitals abstained from making their financial crisis public because of the Disaster Management Act, the Jharkhand chapter of the Association of Health Care Providers (India) said most of these hospitals are struggling for survival. Jogesh Gambhir, president of the association’s state unit, said, "We have written letters to the state health minister twice on behalf of these private health care providers so that their outstanding bills are cleared but to no avail." He said, "Paras HEC Hospital had 50 nurses but due to the financial crunch and various other reasons, their number has come down to 15. It would be difficult for the hospital authorities to provide services to the patients with the reduced staff strength, especially when their medical staff on Covid duty are supposed to take a break after a week-long duty." Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said the bill placed by Paras hospital has been forwarded to the health department. "It is for the health department to settle the dues," he said. In the tribal-dominated district of Simdega, Shanti Bhavan Hospital located in Biru was the only designated centre to handle Covid patients as the district hospital was in a shambles. "The private hospital worked efficiently in managing the patients, but it hasn’t been paid a single penny in the last four months," Gambhir said. The district has 141 active cases as on Saturday morning. The same situation prevails in Bokaro where BSL-owned Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and privately owned Kem Hospital were designated as Covid centres. Kem Hospital director Dr Vikas Pandey said, "We keep 15 beds ready for Covid patients, but the administration has not sent us any infected person.” As of Saturday morning, Bokaro has 239 active cases and BGH has only 90 beds. The district administration has recently set up a 200-bed Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-yet-to-pay-single-paisa-to-pvt-hosps-to-fight-covid/articleshow/77438513.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Rising infection among docs, nurses a worry in E Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: With medical practitioners across government and private hospitals contracting Covid-19, East Singhbhum district is facing a severe crisis in providing healthcare services, conceded officials of the administration and the medical fraternity here. The district has so far recorded 2,724 cases of which around 220 are frontline health workers, including doctors, ANMs and paramedical staff. Of the total, 1,851 cases are still active and 56 have died of the virus. As a result of medical practitioners testing positive, several hospitals and nursing homes have either shut down to sanitize their premises or are refusing to admit patients due to lack of beds. In the last one week, at least five cases of refusal came in from Brahmananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital (BNMH), Mercy Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital and Medica Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Though BNMH, Mercy Hospital and Lifeline Nursing Home have resumed operations three days after a few of their doctors and nurses tested positive, Seva Sadan Nursing Home was shut after their staff contracted the virus. Sources in the hospital sector said the threat of co-morbidity among patients carrying coronavirus is driving private hospitals and nursing homes to be selective in giving admission to patients. However, with private healthcare facilities either turning away patients or remaining shut, the load on government hospitals, which are already battling overcapacity, is increasing. District civil surgeon R N Jha said, “The issue relating to hospitals refusing to admit non-Covid patients has come to our knowledge and we are looking into it.” He also said, “Several hospitals and nursing homes are paralysed due to the shortage of beds and lack of staff, but we will ensure that patients are treated under any circumstance.” The civil surgeon added, “The sadar hospital shuts down for two hours to carry out sanitization whenever a patient, who arrives for treatment of some non-Covid ailment, tests positive. Closing down hospitals or refusing patients suspecting the person to be a carrier of the virus is no solution.” The president of the Jamshedpur chapter of Indian Medical Association, Umesh Khan, said the shortage of beds is a genuine issue with the private hospitals. “When doctors and assisting staff go on quarantine, how will the hospital administer diagnosis and treatment to a patient? Hence, hospitals that have smaller staff strength are refusing admission,” Khan justified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/rising-infection-among-docs-nurses-a-worry-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/77442566.cms||B Sridhar
August 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Rising infection among docs, nurses a worry in E Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: With medical practitioners across government and private hospitals contracting Covid-19, East Singhbhum district is facing a severe crisis in providing healthcare services, conceded officials of the administration and the medical fraternity here. The district has so far recorded 2,724 cases of which around 220 are frontline health workers, including doctors, ANMs and paramedical staff. Of the total, 1,851 cases are still active and 56 have died of the virus. As a result of medical practitioners testing positive, several hospitals and nursing homes have either shut down to sanitize their premises or are refusing to admit patients due to lack of beds. In the last one week, at least five cases of refusal came in from Brahmananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital (BNMH), Mercy Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital and Medica Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Though BNMH, Mercy Hospital and Lifeline Nursing Home have resumed operations three days after a few of their doctors and nurses tested positive, Seva Sadan Nursing Home was shut after their staff contracted the virus. Sources in the hospital sector said the threat of co-morbidity among patients carrying coronavirus is driving private hospitals and nursing homes to be selective in giving admission to patients. However, with private healthcare facilities either turning away patients or remaining shut, the load on government hospitals, which are already battling overcapacity, is increasing. District civil surgeon R N Jha said, “The issue relating to hospitals refusing to admit non-Covid patients has come to our knowledge and we are looking into it.” He also said, “Several hospitals and nursing homes are paralysed due to the shortage of beds and lack of staff, but we will ensure that patients are treated under any circumstance.” The civil surgeon added, “The sadar hospital shuts down for two hours to carry out sanitization whenever a patient, who arrives for treatment of some non-Covid ailment, tests positive. Closing down hospitals or refusing patients suspecting the person to be a carrier of the virus is no solution.” The president of the Jamshedpur chapter of Indian Medical Association, Umesh Khan, said the shortage of beds is a genuine issue with the private hospitals. “When doctors and assisting staff go on quarantine, how will the hospital administer diagnosis and treatment to a patient? Hence, hospitals that have smaller staff strength are refusing admission,” Khan justified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rising-infection-among-docs-nurses-a-worry-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/77438537.cms||B Sridhar
August 9, 2020||Kolkata||Improvised rifle, silencer seized near Bangladesh border||KOLKATA: The recovery of an improvised rifle, along with a silencer, near the India-Bangladesh border in Murshidabad district of Bengal has raised serious security concerns. The 141st Battalion of BSF found the firearm in a bag hidden under banana leaves and bamboo stalks near Bousmari border outpost on Frid-ay. “Around 8.40am, a depth patroll-ing party led by inspector Prem Ram recovered the bag. It contained an improvised 11.7mm-calibre rifle and a silencer. Nothing like this has ever been found near the international border. The area is extremely sensitive, as there are regular smuggling attempts,” a senior BSF officer said. There is routine scuffle in the area between BSF and gangs over attempts to smuggle cattle or contraband into Bangladesh. Troops patrol the border in inhospitable conditions and taking down one of them in the dark with a muffled shot can result in a major security breach. “At night, troops have to primarily rely on their instincts. A muffled shot, fired from a rifle with a silencer, may not alert everyone. The calibre of the gun is enough to kill a person from a considerable distance. Recovery of such a weapon is a cause of major concern,” said S S Guleria, BSF DIG (South Bengal Frontier). The rifle and silencer have been handed over to Hogolberia police. In another raid during the day, the BSF seized two country-made pistols, ammunition and other items near Nimtita in Malda. The haul comprised four crude bombs, the likes of which are used by smugglers against BSF troops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/improvised-rifle-silencer-seized-near-bdesh-border/articleshow/77439719.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 9, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching: Maharashtra CID’s final report holds 2 minors guilty of murder, rioting offences||MUMBAI: The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday filed a final report against two of 11 minors for involvement in the April 16 lynching of two seers and their driver in a Kasa village in Palghar district. Police ruled out a communal angle in the lynching and said in its two chargesheets filed last month that the murders were a fallout of rumours of a child-lifting gang operating in the area. The report filed before the juvenile justice board, Bhiwandi, held two minors guilty of offences of murder, attempt to murder, rioting, public mischief (for circulating rumours) among others. Eleven minors from Gadchinchale village in Kasa, where the lynching took place, were arrested. They are at the Bhiwandi remand home and are aged 12-17. Their advocate, Amrut Adhikari, said the minors have been in the remand home for over 90 days. “Those who have no case against them cannot hold back them in the remand home for so long. They should be sent home,” Adhikari said. CID also filed the third charge-sheet before Dahanu sessions magistrate M V Jawale. It deals with mob violence and ruled out a communal angle. The third charge-sheet named 47 accused, including 18 of 28 tribals not named in earlier charge-sheets. All 47 accused have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307 (attempt to murder), voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant in discharge of duty and rioting among other Indian Penal Code sections. The CID had on July 15 filed two charge-sheets, running into around 10,000 pages, against 126 accused. The adults arrested is 154, of which 28 were not charged earlier. A total of 226 witnesses have been examined and 808 suspects were detained. The Supreme Court had on Thursday decided to scrutinize lynching case chargesheets and sought a report on action taken against policemen in whose presence the lynching took place. Six cops were suspended and 35 from Kasa police station transferred. The superintendent of police, when the lynching took place, Gaurav Singh, was also sent on compulsory leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-lynching-cids-final-report-holds-2-minors-guilty-of-murder-rioting-offences/articleshow/77440371.cms||Sandhya Nair
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Slowdown & lockdown? Rs 5 crore to Rs 12 crore luxury homes fly off the shelf in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as Hyderabad's realty market bled in the initial days of the lockdown, high-end residential properties provided a silver lining. Right through the Covid-19-induced lockdown, while most buyers shied away from the property market, luxury villas - with price tags of between Rs 5 crore and Rs 12 crore - flew off the shelves in the city. Most of the buyers were a clutch of doctors, NRIs, businessmen and senior executives. Hyderabad sold about 100 premier units between April and June, while the overall residential sales dropped to a decadal low during this period - to a dismal 974 units, as per latest market reports. In 2019, the city sold over 4,000 houses during the April to June period. While duplex villas dotting the city's outskirts - Gopanpally, Narsingi, Gandipet - with price tags of Rs 5 crore to Rs 9 crore saw maximum traction, super-luxury apartments in the heart of Financial District too found many takers. The cost: 10 crore to 12 crore. "I was on the lookout for a property for some time. With the pandemic, I realised it would be better to live a little away from the city. So, we zeroed in on this G+2 villa," said a surgeon with a popular corporate hospital. The family will soon move into a Rs 6 crore customised-home in Narsingi - about 20 km away from the city centre. The house is spread over 5,500 square feet. An NRI, based in the US, also invested in a Rs 9-crore property in Gopanpally along with eight others, last month. She plans to settle there once she moves back to India. "Each of these centrally air-conditioned villas have a private swimming pool, fully-equipped dry kitchen and other top-end fixtures," said Praveen Guniganti, dealing with the luxury project. He added: "The response has been tremendous. We have three more deals in the pipeline." ‘Increase in demand for larger homes’Hyderabad realtor Sumanth Reddy, who is president of the National Association of Realtors, agrees there is an increase in demand for larger homes. “Buyers who can afford them, want their families to be safe and comfortable post the pandemic. Also, this segment (of buyers) is never driven by the current market sentiment.” In fact, deluxe apartments between Rs 3 crore and Rs 5 crore, too did brisk business. Particularly those that are either ready-to-move or nearing completion. “Some 65 of the total 154 units we sold in June were high-end. That’s a great number, in such times of slowdown,” said D S Prasad, director, Aparna Constructions – a leading real estate firm of Hyderabad. Watch Hyderabad: Rs 5 crore to Rs 12 crore luxury homes fly off the shelf in city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slowdown-lockdown-rs-5-crore-to-rs-12-crore-luxury-homes-fly-off-the-shelf-in-hyderabad/articleshow/77440388.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
August 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pregnant teen's body found near Himayatsagar||HYDERABAD: The body of a pregnant minor who was reported missing four days ago was found near Himayatsagar on Saturday. RGI Airport police have registered a case against the man who allegedly impregnated her. RGIA police said that the 17-year-old girl had been in relationship with the man, who was already married. On August 4, she went missing and her parents lodged a complaint. They alleged that the man had got her pregnant. On Saturday, locals informed the police about a body floating in the Himayathsagar. Police reached the spot and brought the body to the shore. Since the girl had been missing, the police contacted her parents, who identified the body and confirmed it was their daughter. "The girl did not leave any suicide note. Family members suspect that she may have committed suicide as the family of the man whom she was in relationship with, refused to accept her,'' RGIA police said. The two were from different castes. The accused has been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-pregnant-teens-body-found-near-himayatsagar/articleshow/77440413.cms||---
August 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||23 doctors in Gujarat succumb to coronavirus, all private practitioners||AHMEDABAD: The death of Dr Sandip Dave, a 66-year-old senior general physician and president of Ahmedabad Family Physicians’ Association, due to Covid-19 has come as a shocker to the local medical fraternity. Merely days before he succumbed, a video of Dr Dave in the ICU was shared where he is seen assuring all that he is recuperating well, did not need oxygen and will meet them soon. Dr Dave is one of the 23 doctor members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Gujarat, who have succumbed to Covid-19 infection so far, according to Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA’s Gujarat chapter. According to latest figures issued by IMA, 196 doctors – members of IMA – have lost lives due to Covid-19 in India. Tamil Nadu tops the tally with 43 deaths whereas Gujarat and Maharashtra were jointly at the second position with 23 each. The three states – having some of the highest Covid-19 concentration – were followed by Bihar (19 deaths), West Bengal (16), and Karnataka (15). “Primary analysis of deaths reveals that about 50% of them were general practitioners and about 70% of them were 50 years or older,” said Dr Jardosh. “We have already made representation to state government to treat private doctors at par with government doctors as Covid Warriors and provide ex gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh.” Rethink brews on deploying seniorsNone of these 23 doctors were employees of the designated Covid public or private hospitals,” said Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA’s Gujarat chapter. The state medical fraternity however pointed out that the number of doctors who died due to Covid-19 could be higher in the state as several of the deceased doctors were not affiliated with major organizations such as IMA. While a big number of doctors in designated Covidhospitals acquired Corona infection, less mortality may be due to stringent safety protocols and comparatively younger workforce of doctors in Covid wards, believe experts. A few of the doctors are still battling it out in city hospitals. The irony is not lost on the medical fraternity which feels that it is time senior doctors should be advised not to practise in Corona times. Dr Pragnesh Vaccharajani, secretary of the AFPA said doctors have become one of the most vulnerable communities in Covid-19. “Infection could come from non-medical settings also, but exposure of doctors to infection is higher compared to the general population. Extra precautions are needed for the hour,” said Dr Vaccharajani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/23-doctors-in-gujarat-succumb-to-coronavirus-all-private-practitioners/articleshow/77440404.cms||Parth Shastri
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cyber crooks among 663 new Covid-19 cases||LUCKNOW: There was no let-up in the Covid-19 crisis in the city with 663 more people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. This takes the city’s caseload since the outbreak to 12,074. About 6,923 people have also recovered so far. The new cases included three of the nine arrested members of ‘Jamtara gang’ arrested recently for cyber fraud. Subsequently, the Lucknow cybercell on the first-floor of Hazratganj police station was closed for 48 hours for sanitization. ACP cybercell Vivek Ranjan Rai said all the cops involved in the operation have been asked to home quarantine themselves and are being tested. Health department sources said four employees in the office of DRM Northern Railway had tested positive during a routine checking drive. Office premises have been sanitized by LMC. Four asymptomatic nurses at SPM Civil Hospital tested positive during random sampling. Alambagh reported 32 cases followed by Chowk with 26 cases, Mahanagar (24), Gomtinagar and Hazratganj (23 each), Indiranagar and Bazarkhala (19 each), Jankipuram (18), Aashiana (17) and Chinhat (13). CMO Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said aggressive testing of 5,000 people per day had led to detection of more cases witnessed in the form of spike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-cyber-crooks-among-663-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77440439.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 9, 2020||Business||2 banks allege Rs 1,200cr fraud by travel firm, probe begins||MUMBAI: A probe has been initiated into two complaints of alleged fraud to the tune of Rs 1,204 crore against travel company Cox & Kings Ltd. The complaints, which have been lodged by two banks — Kotak Mahindra and Axis Bank — are being investigated by the economic offences wing of the Mumbai police. Director and group chief executive officer of Cox & Kings, Ajay Peter Kerkar, said: “It’s an inquiry.” Already, a preliminary enquiry has been registered against the travel company on the basis of a complaint lodged by IndusInd Bank, which has alleged a default in payment of Rs 239 crore. Now, Kotak Bank has stated that it has been extending financial facilities to the travel firm since 2012, and on June 24, 2019 the outstanding amount stood at Rs 174.3 crore. One of the allegations is that the travel firm, through its subsidiaries and offshore companies, indulged in manifold transactions and siphoned off huge sums belonging to banks, financial institutions and public investors. After default, the banks appointed M/s PriceWaterhouse-Coopers to do a forensic audit. Its two draft reports mentioned irregularities and fraudulent practices of some of officebearers of the travel company. The first draft interim report also said that there was receivable Rs 449 crore from 15 parties and the bank had all reason to believe they were fictitious. These 15 parties had common addresses and were created on the same day in the travel firm’s system, police said. On a visit to the addresses, it was found that the parties were not located there. As for Axis Bank, it has submitted a complaint that some office-bears of the travel firm and its sister concerns had availed loan facilities to the tune of Rs 1,030 crore and cheated the bank by not repaying. In both cases, FIRs are yet to be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/2-banks-allege-rs-1200cr-fraud-by-travel-firm-probe-begins/articleshow/77440453.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Worried about safety, many aspirants to skip UP BEd exam||LUCKNOW: Despite preparing for UP BEd Joint Entrance Examination for months, many students have decided to skip the test in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The candidates said it would be unsafe to appear for the examination at a time when Covid-19 cases in the city are spiralling. “I chose to wait for a year than to take the risk of coronavirus infection. No matter what the authorities claim on social distancing norms but when over a thousand candidates would assemble at a centre, it would be tough to implement safety guidelines. When people are not able to maintain distance at grocery stores, how would they do so at an examination centre where everyone will be in a hurry,” said Ravi Kumar, a candidate. “My centre is at LU (second campus) where there will be over 1,000 candidates. Safety is more important to me than examination. This is not civil services examination where the number of attempts is limited. I will appear next year,” said Divya Malhotra. “On the one hand, the government is asking people not to venture out, on the other, it is conducting examination for lakhs of candidates,” she said. “I have a three-month-old daughter and I won’t risk my life for an examination. Hiring a private cab used by may people and going to a crowded examination centre is nothing but inviting trouble,” said Anvita Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-worried-about-safety-many-aspirants-to-skip-up-bed-exam/articleshow/77440478.cms||---
August 9, 2020||India||Soon to be dad, first officer was about to go on leave||AGRA: When the first Vande Bharat flight took off on May 8, Captain Akhilesh Kumar was the first officer on the flight. Three months later, flying the same route, co-pilot Akhilesh died hours after the crash at the Calicut International Airport in Kozhikode on Friday. His family had been preparing for his homecoming when they got the news — his wife is due for delivery in less than a month and, till now, does not know she has lost her husband. “Bhai had received a hearty welcome when he brought our people back home that day,” his cousin Yatendra Sharma said, recalling the first flight to bring back Indians stranded abroad. The pandemic was at its peak and airline staff working ceaselessly were taking a big risk. But for Akhilesh, this had always been more than a job. His father, Tulasi Ram Sharma, runs a small business in Mathura. Home was a bustling space — he had two brothers and a sister. When he was pursuing his graduation, he started preparing for commercial pilot training. “He dropped out of graduation when he cleared his flying exams,” said Lokesh, his youngest brother, who also wants to become a commercial pilot. In 2017, Akhilesh realised his childhood dream — he joined Air India Express as a pilot. His family had seen him last on June 8, when he came home to drop his wife, Megha. They had been married for just over a year and a half and she is due for delivery on September 1. He was going to be home for that. “His leave had just been approved,” Lokesh said. A family member said his mortal remains will reach Mathura on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soon-to-be-dad-first-officer-was-about-to-go-on-leave/articleshow/77440499.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Goodbye to receipts, check property tax details online||CHANDIGARH: A one-year exercise of the civic body has allowed a majority of residents to find details of their properties online after logging in their ID numbers in a computerisation project that has phased out the manual system of payment of tax. The system has details of each property within the tax ambit, like its area, covered area, open area, floors, taxable area, details of filing property tax, amount and vacant plots. The move is crucial as missing tax amount receipts and documents had earlier led to fights between the municipal corporation (MC) and property owners over the amount and related details. Now, all payment details will be online. “We have computerised around 75% files of taxable properties. The number of residential properties is more than 90%. Most owners of residential properties have deposited their amount and pending arrears too. People who are not depositing their dues on time, their record is going to the system. We will issue notices to those who have not paid the tax,” said an official of the MC. Issues like lost tax receipts, ambiguity in the amount and flaws in documentation had surfaced in the manual system. Councillors had raised the matter a number of times, pointing out that people had paid the tax but their receipts were lost due to some reasons, which forced them to pay the tax again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-goodbye-to-receipts-check-property-tax-details-online/articleshow/77440511.cms||Deepak Yadav
